5 I loved this book.  It has a  very interesting historical p[eriod as the backround, and a great perspective.  This girl learns so much, from the master of the house about art, but also about life in some families, and the secrets that people keep.  A book I had a hard time putting down, but took some absorbing too aat times.  Very worth the read.  Great author!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The author was adept at allowing the reader to know the main character by developing her personality, fears, and inhibitions through her thoughts and actions. I found it a gentle. well-paced book that contained not only an intriguing story, but also an inside look at life and artistry in the 1600's.
5 It took me a day to read "Girl with a Pearl Earring". I could not put it down. What a fascinating concept of telling a story- to describe a painting in progress. From the outset we are drawn into the world of Vermeer and get an insight into the lives of the serving class. Griet has little choice but to stay on as a servant for her master but manages to maintain her moral standards despite pressure from the master's sponsor and also from the master himself. Her solution at the end of the novel is realistic and inspiring. Well worth a read.
4 I had this book on my shelf to read for a long time.  I liked Vermeer as an artist and was curious to read an imaging of the history behind one of his famous works.  This was a good book, it does a good job of transporting you back to that era and of giving you a glimpse into the life of Vermeer.The story focuses around Griet, who is a girl hired into Vermeer's household as a maid.  Things are tough for Griet at first and she misses her family.  Her love of color and presentation interest Vermeer and suddenly she finds herself being more than a maid, she is assisting Vermeer with his art supplies and his paints.  The household Griet has been shoved into is not a happy one; Vermeer's wife is constantly pregnant and exhaused, his mother difficult, and his children somewhat evil at times.Chevalier does an excellent job of painting beautiful pictures in the reader's mind.  She has created characters that are very human; they have human problems and lead somewhat normal lives.  These characters are seamlessly woven into to this historical setting making for a realistic story that's a bit fanciful at times.I enjoyed reading about Griet's life and how Griet navigated the tensions in the household.  As a character Griet possessed a sort of grace that makes her endearing to the reader.  Vermeer is portrayed as somewhat mysterious, although the reader is given occasional glimpses into his character through Griet's eyes.This was an engaging read and an interesting look into what things may have been like in Vermeer's household.  I loved reading about how the paints were made.  The ending of the book is well done, with a surprising little twist of irony.Overall a decent read.  I enjoyed Chevalier's writing style and how she blended her fictional ideas seemlessly into this historical setting. Griet is a wonderful character that readers can't help but love and cheer for.  At points some of the things seem a bit fanciful, but that is part of what makes the book interesting.  The ironic twist at the end was wonderful too.
4 Tracy Chevalier unpacks the mystery behind the Vermeer painting "Girl with a Pearl Earring" in her novel of the same title. Griet, the 16-year-old girl in the painting, is a maid in the Vermeer household. Her father was a dutch tile painter who was blinded when his kiln exploded in front of him. In order to feed her family, Griet becomes a maid in the Vermeer house. From the moment young Griet meets the mysterious painter, there is a connection between them; a connection of veiled sensuality and vague longing. A wealthy client of Vermeer's is equally taken with Griet and demands that Vermeer paint her. Resistant at first, Vermeer finally paints Griet in a fashion he had never done before. However, this simple role of model threatens to ruin Griet forever.Tracy Chevalier did a tremendous job with this novel. It was captivating and beautiful, intelligent and entertaining. It was not a terribly deep work, but that is just fine. The reader does feel a strong connection to the narrator, Griet, and her struggle with family, sexuality, and her place in the world of 1664.  Chevalier draws in the reader with her beautiful details and rich setting. This is an elegant and intriguing novel that I highly recommend.
5 I must admit that I love period pieces, so I fully expected to enjoy this story.  I was not disappointed.This story about Griet who must become the maid to a painter and his family so that she can feed her family is compelling and makes me happy I did not live in that time frame.  Griet is treated very poorly by everybody in the house, even the other maid.  Only one or two of the many children are civil to her, yet she holds her tongue and plods through her day.The master of the house is a painter and she is to clean his studio without moving anything out of place.  A task that Griet takes on and is rather proud of.  It turns out she has an eye for the arts and is helpful to the painter.  SPOLIER ALERT - eventually he paints her for a pervert patron of his (who has manhandled her several times and reminds her that she is worth nothing).  The mistress of the house becomes enraged after seeing the painting of Griet with her pearl earring and Griet runs away.  She marries the young butcher boy who is in love with her and does not see the family for some 10 years or so, until the master dies.My only problem with this book is that Griet is almost too perfect.  She doesn't complain, she flatters others, she keeps quiet, she is humble, she gives her very hard earned money to her parents, etc. etc.  I would have liked to see her be more of a teenage girl, but then again, maybe that was how teenage girls were back then, especially the poor ones.Give this a try - I don't think you will be disappointed.
5 As an author with my debut novel in its initial release, I was quite impressed by Tracy Chevalier's novel GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING.  Using the famous Vermeer painting as a launch pad, Ms. Chevalier invents a life for the historically unknown subject of this portrait.  Along the way, she provides convincing character portraits for Griet, Vermeer, and numerous other people encircling their lives.  Ms. Chevalier also captures the essence of their time and creates a realistic setting for her novel.  Great book.  Read it soon.
2 There should have been a warning on the cover.  This is not an Amadeus-like work, which creates a lively back story for some artist's magnum opus.  No...this is more like those books that teen girls are supposed to read that tell them what is was like "for a girl your age" back in "Colonial times" or whatever.  The truly boring aspects of late 17th century Dutch life are described in amazing detail (you boiled your cap in potato peelings? Wow!), but about Vermeer we learn next to nothing.  The "muse" maid, Griet, impresses the Master because she segregates chopped vegetables by color and can be taught how to grind pigments.  Pages and pages are devoted to Griet's skillful navigation of the matriarchal politics of the Vermeer household, while Herr Vermeer has had the good sense to get out of the house (and out of the narrative).  The obsession with domestic drudgery and female power plays will tend to alienate the male reader, subtly reinforcing the stereotype that women like pretty things but have no sophistication when it comes to the visual arts.  Perhaps the film made from this book was a better bet.  Even a tedious story set in a recreated 17th century Dutch world should be fun to watch.
3 it was an easy read but not a thrilling story but yet it gives a book group many things to ponder
3 It's rare that the movie is just as good or better than the book.  I am particulary interested in true accounts such as this book. It has been fictionally embellished for entertainment purposes.  Yet its not over the top.The narrative is very desriptive and honest without dragging out into unessary detail.I felt like I was in 1600 Netherlands watching events unfold in my mind. She provides just enough insight to comprehend the moods and attitudes.
5 Chevalier is a genius...I was forced to read this for AP English but ended up loving it. A masterpiece I would add to everyone's must-read list.
5 Tracy Chevalier brings 17th-century Delft to life in this immersive novel. Although Vermeer remains elusive, Griet the maid leaps out from the canvas and onto the page in living color. Chevalier's  book is quietly insistent  and thoroughly addictive; her language maintains a taut, lyrical precision  and she revels in the lists and catalogues of daily life. Like a Vermeer  painting, Chevalier creates a seductively textured world that radiates  mystery and captivates the reader. She has done her art historical  homework, too, which creates a convincing and satisfying product.
4 Tracy Chevalier does a beautiful job bringing the main character to life, to such an extent that by the end of the book, you can almost see Griet stepping down out of the painting in full, vibrant, three dimensionality.  While telling a rich and detailed story, Chevalier weaves in complex social issues that create a commen thread between Griet and today's women.  Just like the time-intensive oil portraits which are painstakingly created layer by layer, Chevalier has created, word by word,  a sensitive and touching picture of a girl with heart, morals, and determination.  Don't pick this book up if you crave action packed excitement.  But if you want to immerse your senses in a world long-past, Chavalier will captivate you.
5 Griet is sent to work as a maid to the Vermeer family when her father's ill health means her family has no regular source of income.  She finds a life of very hard work, subtle home tensions, innate and unthinking cruelty and a fascination with her Masters beautiful paintings.Like Vermeers work, this book is not something to be rushed through.  Its full of beautiful small details and a gradual rising tension that explodes towards the end.  Its a slice of Dutch urban life that shows us some of the dangers for the lowly when those above them take an interest in them.If you are after an action novel or a book of great events this would not suit you.  If you like a book that has beautiful writing and interesting characters as its main appeal this may be a book you'll enjoy.
4 The fictional story behind Vermeer's famous painting revolves around sixteen-year old Griet, who becomes a maid in the artist's home to help her struggling family.  She is a quiet, intelligent girl, fully aware of her rather helpless situation:  She must do the hardest work from morning til night without sympathy or kindness in the cold house.  She does, however, greatly admire the elusive Vermeer, and to her shock and secret joy, he asks her one day to be his model for a painting.Since the uneducated Griet is the story's narrator, author Chevalier has written in a very simple, uncluttered style:  There are virtually no compound sentences, few adjectives, and even fewer words describing emotions.  This is because Griet's lot in life is to serve; it makes no difference how she feels about people, events, or tasks, so she doesn't dwell on them.Griet never refers to Vermeer by name; he is always "The Master," or simply "Him."  While a bit of an affectation on the part of the author, it reflects Griet's view of him as bigger than life; godlike.  She never puts into words her feelings for him and we learn little about Vermeer, except that he took scant notice of his homelife, which was rife with domestic conflict.  The book is a leisurely-paced picture of life in 17th century Delft.  The last chapter was the most intense and was a satisfying end to Griet's quiet story.
5 At first I wasn't sure about this book, I mean, who wants to read about 17th century Holland??  I'm glad I picked it up because it was a great book!  One thing that I love in a book is the author's ability to paint a picture, so to speak, in my head.  This was definitely the case here.  You can even picture the exotic mixture of colors that the painter uses.  It's a wonderful book!
4 Ms. Chevalier has done it again taking a historic work of art and creating a believable story to how this painting came about.Ms. Chevalier has a very lyrical way of writing that is not only vividly descriptive, but also draws you into 17th century Delft.  I managed to read this book in one sitting since the story of Griet and her sensual awakening which is triggered by her going to work as a maid for an artist and his family was totally captivating.For a fast read that is truly a work of art in it's own write you can't go wrong with anything written by Ms. Chevalier!
5 This book is one of my top ten favorites. Once you start reading, you won't be able to put it down.
5 This was a vivid and beautifully written tale that immerses you in the life of 17th century Delft. The well imagined story of the Girl With a Pearl Earring painted by Vermeer had me captivated from the very first page.  The sense of tension grew page by, incident by incident.  I came to feel so much sympathy for the main character Griet, the young maid. Although the ending was not what I would have wished, it was perfectly suited to the storyline, with a satisfactory conclusion.  I found myself looking up Vermeer paintings, to compare them to those described in the book.  It was fun to read the author's depictions of the stories behind the paintings.  A very enjoyable read.
3 What an interesting idea for a novel: Tracy Chevalier has taken a painting of an unknown woman by a painter about whom we know almost nothing &amp; written the story behind it's creation as seen thru the eyes of it's subject. &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot; is the result, &amp; an  impressive novel it is.However, it impresses in terms of craft, of  technique. As I read it, I couldn't help comparing it to the marvelous  &quot;Memoirs of A Geisha&quot; which also takes us into the mind of a  young girl in a world very foreign to most readers. Where  &quot;Memoirs...&quot; fully involved the reader both in descriptions of  daily life in a vanished world &amp; in the people populating it,  &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot; exists more as a set piece. There are  exquisite sketches of the dour, plodding life of the average Delft citizen  in the 17th century, but they never breath. I never felt I understood why  the main characters acted as they did, I never felt in sympathy with the  dilemmas that formed the core of the book &amp; the resolution felt forced  somehow. Also, viewing the painting that inspired the book, I simply didn't  feel this was a plausible &quot;back-story&quot;.Vermeer's paintings are  quiet, frozen moments of daily life that seem forever trapped in amber.  &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot; gives a similar feel to the reader.  If you prefer a quiet, contemplative book that is primarily focused on  thought rather than action, you will probably enjoy this novel more than I  did. I guess I'll just never appreciate literature....
5 Tracy Chevalier weaves a terrific fictional story based on the real painting by the real painter, Johannes Vermeer. All 35 of Vermeer's paintings are transcendent and evocative, but the work upon which this book is based is by far his masterpiece. Chevalier's story follows the young maid, Griet, who works for the Vermeer family and is drawn into the reclusive painter's studio. The story is subtle and sweet and heartbreaking and honest. Chevalier's writing is a brilliant example of how a writer can balance a heady story with a rich setting, never sacrificing her story to overindulge herself in her gift for description - and she truly has a gift. The book is like literary chocolate, easy to devour and fondly remembered. If you haven't read it, I heartily recommend it; it's the perfect by-the-fireside book for winter.
5 The subject of this story of the late 1600's is the girl who eventually poses for a famous Dutch artist, but the axis is art itself, how it elevates us, and, to some degree, how it can destroy us. Author Tracy Chevalier cleverly capitalizes on the scant information we have on the artist and the absence of any information on the girl herself. In this story, the subject of the portrait turns out to be an unfortunate young girl who is forced by circumstances to work as a maid in the artist's household. It is an era of class consciousness, where a lowly maid has to work hard, tolerate most anything, and watch her words carefully. To make matters worse, a hateful nemesis forms in one of the artist's young daughters. When the maid is drawn into the artist's world, tension builds as she first becomes a kind of muse, helping the artist with his art, then increases as she becomes an object of art herself. Though she's desired by the artist and by a proprietor, both with different kinds of lusts, it is the handsome butcher with permanently bloody fingernails who offers her genuine love and hope. Once she has posed for Vermeer, alienating what few alliances she has, will the act enrich her, or destroy her? The latter seems most likely. There are no dead bodies here, no shootouts, and no car chases (or even coach chases), but there is plenty of conflict and drama. In the mold of Remains of the Day, class struggles and their inevitable dangerous role-playing keep the reader tense and involved. Personal destruction waits only a word, a movement, a slip-up away. As Vermeer in another painting gave us the town of Delft in near perfect brush strokes, Tracy Chevalier has given us a plausible and enchanting version of the girl with a pearl earring in near perfect keystrokes.
5 GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is simply one of the most stunningly beautiful pieces of writing I've come across in some time.  Chevalier's prose falls onto the page lightly, with a grace that makes it seem effortless.  Like Vermeer's colors, light and shadows, it is lovingly and carefully constructed, built up in layers, each shining through with its own invaluable contribution to the whole.The girl in the painting is possessed of a natural, unassuming beauty -- there are none of the haughty airs affected by the 'high-born' ladies she serves, by the wives of her master's (Vermeer's) patrons, present in her expression.  Her lovely face is a refreshing respite from the ones so often found in the paintings of the day -- her eyes are deep, honest and wide, taking in the world around her quietly and gently, missing very little.These perceived characteristics in Vermeer's subject are brought to life vividly by Chevalier in this novel.  Griet -- brought into service to Vermeer's family as a kindness, after her father, a tile painter, loses his trade after being blinded in a kiln accident -- is instantly likable.  She has a good soul, and loves her family dearly.  She is modest and unpretentious -- when she feels desires welling up within her, whether material or emotional in nature, she is discomforted by them.When Vermeer and his wife come to the home of Griet and her parents to meet her for the first time, she is in the kitchen preparing food for her family.  The eye of the artist is immediately drawn to her work on the counter -- she is cutting vegetables, and she has arranged them, without thinking about the reasons, by colors, arrayed like wedges cut from a wheel.  Vermeer senses an innate artistic sensibility within her -- it is an image that will remain with him.When Griet comes to stay at Vermeer's house, living among his family, she quickly slips into the eddys and currents of 17th century Dutch family politics -- once again, without having to stop for more than a moment and consider, she intuitively knows whom she can count on to be fair, jealous, powerful, scheming, &amp;c.  She sees that the real power of the household rests not with Catharina, Vermeer's wife, but in his mother-in-law, Maria Thins.  At the same time, the older woman sees in Griet something special -- this young woman (only 16 when she arrives) is no ordinary girl.Griet is entrusted with cleaning the master's studio on a daily basis -- with the explicit instructions that, other than leaving the area cleaner, she must never leave a sign that she has been there.  She must be especially careful of the objects arranged in the area that Vermeer is painting -- they must never be moved.  She undertakes this task cleverly, devising a system of her own whereby she can lift the objects and clean under them, replacing them exactly where she found them.  Her work is careful and thorough and sensitive to Vermeer's wishes -- and she finds him more and more appreciative of her efforts.There is one particularly moving scene (among many in this novel) wherein Vermeer takes a moment to explain to Griet how seemingly pure colors contain within them other shades that are more subtle.  He asks her what color the clouds are that she sees out the window -- she replies that they are white.  He asks her to look again -- and she begins to see shades of blues and greys and pinks in them.  She begins to understand how difficult it is for a painting to be born, for the effect to be such that it deeply touches and moves the viewer.One of Vermeer's patrons takes a licentious interest in Griet -- she resists his advances and attempts to avoid him when he comes to the house.  Eventually, he persuades Vermeer to do a portrait of Griet for him -- a task that must be undertaken without the knowledge of Vermeer's wife, and, indeed, most of his family.  Only the artist's mother-in-law, Maria Thins, knows about the portrait.  As he works on it over a period of several months, it becomes more and more apparent to Griet that the completion of the painting will very likely signal her departure from the household.  Along with other emotional events in her life during this period, it places a very real strain on her.  She must come to terms with her situation, her view of herself, and her future -- within or without the artist's household.The book gives the reader an exceptionally clear of what life must have been like in 17th century Delft -- not only among the more privileged classes, but among the working people as well.  Without coming across as patronizing in any way, Chevalier gives a sensitive rendering of these people and their times -- and in the process gives the reader a moving, entertaining experience that will not soon be forgotten.It's probably a bad habit on my part, but I normally steer clear of 'best sellers', preferring to stick to lesser-known authors and first novels -- I find, as a rule, that they tend to take more chances than someone attempting to write something for mass consumption.  I have to admit that I avoided this novel for a while, knowing how well it has sold -- and I'll admit that that was a mistake.  This is a book that well deserves all of the praise that it has received -- I can well understand how it has moved so many people.  It's a wonderful thing to see something so well-written and uncompromising at the same time to be so widely appreciated.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this story! The contrasts depicted in this story were true...there WAS an invisible divide between master and servant, there WAS a cultural division between Protestant and Catholic, and the cultural riches of the upper class vs. the mundane life of the lower class.  The character of Griet, the  quiet composure and discretion in her eyes that seem to hide guarded secrets seems to describe the girl in the painting! I loved the way Griet and her brother escape from their humdrum, quasi-abusive lives. The piercing of Griet's ear symbolized the loss of innocence and the gain of wisdom. Nice job, Ms Chevalier!
5 I read &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; because I was so enthralled by the 2003 film adaptation directed by Peter Webber from a script by Olivia Hetreed.  When I saw the movie I was impressed by its visual elements but now that I have real Tracy Chevalier's novel I am really impressed by Hetreed's screenplay.  Usually when I am inspired to read a novel after I see a film it is to get more of the story, thinking that less than half of what is in the book has made it to the screen.  That is most decidedly not the case with &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring.&quot;Johannes Vermeer's 1665 oil on canvas painting, which hangs in The Royal Cabinet of Paintings Mauritshuis in The Hague, is considered one of his masterworks.  It is a portrait of a young girl, wearing a turban and a pearl earring, looking over her shoulder, her lips parted slightly, set against a black background.  But if you are familiar with Vermeer's body of work, most of which represented the corner of his studio in which he worked, then clearly &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is an atypical work.  This painting has raised a series of questions ever since it was rediscovered in 1882: Was the pearl real?  What is she wearing a turban?  Was the painting intended to be a portrait?  Nothing is known about whom Vermeer used as his model, so the biggest question of all is Who was the girl in the painting?Chevalier answers all of these questions, and more, by creating a young girl named Griet.  After her father, a tile maker, is blinded in a kiln accident Griet is sent to work cleaning in the house of Vermeer in the Dutch city of Delft.  She is Protestant and the Vermeers are Catholic, which adds another element of strangeness to the young girl when she moves into the house.  Vermeer's wife, Catharina, is about to deliver another baby, and Griet is to help with the household work.  But she is also given the job of cleaning the master's studio, where she faces the daunting task of cleaning the objects on display without moving them from their position.Griet is a smart girl, which for some may well be the Achilles heel in the conceit spun by Chevalier since they may well conclude that neither Greit's education nor her experiences would allow her to come up with the deep thoughts she has at critical points in the narrative.  But that intelligence is necessary to the story Chevalier wants to tell and the foundation for everything that follows is Griet's common sense conclusion that cleaning the widow's in Vermeer's studio will change the light that falls on his subjects.&quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is about the art of painting and we learn, through Griet's eyes, something of Vermeer's technique, especially with his use of the camera obscura.  But it is also something of a love story, in that Griet cannot help but be smitten with the man who ends up painting her portrait, even if the thought that something might actually happen between them never really enters her mind.  For a time, in Chevalier's story, Griet serves as a muse of inspiration for a great painter who produced a true masterpiece.This is not a true story.  Most of the characters really lived and you can travel to the Netherlands and see the actual painting, but Chevalier's answer to all of the questions swirling around Vermeer's &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; are only creative speculations.  Yet in the final analysis Chevalier achieves the ultimate level that author's aspire to when they tell such tales in that we wish that this was indeed a true story.  Chevalier makes Griet as memorable as the painting she inspires in this 2000 novel.On the back of the my copy of this novel author Deborah Moggach, author of &quot;Tulip Fever,&quot; says that she read Chevalier's story with a book of Vermeer's paintings beside me.  I read &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; after not only seeing the movie but after checking out all of Vermeer's paintings online, so that when Chevalier talks about the paintings &quot;Woman with a Pearl Necklace&quot; and &quot;The Concert&quot; I was able to visualize them.  I wish that reproductions of those paintings had been included in this novel as well as the cover picture of the titular artwork, the same way I wish that I could see the paintings and architecture that matter in Dan Brown's novels.  Since you can easily find a couple of excellent websites with Vermeer's artwork I would strong recommend that even if you have also seen the movie, that you be able to have the same advantage as Griet and be able to study these great paintings.
5 This gifted author weaves a mesmerizing tale around  Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, creating an incandescent and luminous work of her own. His painting is a simple, though enigmatic, portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, about which little is known. The author,  however, a born storyteller, creates a living, breathing story around it, using a singular, first person narrative. Told in spare,  elegant prose, the author leaps into literary renown with this book.The events in the book are viewed through the eyes of Griet, a  sixteen year old  Dutch girl, whose changed family circumstances force her into taking a position as a maid in the home of a renowned painter, the taciturn Johannes Vermeer. There, the painter resides with his tempestuous wife, Catharina, their brood of unruly children, his commanding and shrewd mother-in-law, Maria Thins, and their loyal housekeeper and cook, Tanneke. The author lovingly details seventeenth century life in the Dutch city of Delft. It is here that Griet's story unfolds.Sensitive and perceptive, Griet is attuned to the under currents in the Vermeer household and, at first, takes care not to draw attention to herself. Still, she, the daughter of a tile painter, is curious about Vermeer's artistry and is drawn to his work and his methods. Vermeer, sensing a kindred artistic spirit in Griet, draws her into his world of paint, color, light, and beauty, creating an intimacy of the spirit between the two.Still, Griet, a girl on the brink of becoming a woman, finds herself confused and breathlessly desiring more than she may have. Her longing for more than a communion of the spirit with Vermeer is palpable.  It is, therefore, not surprising that  the undercurrents in the Vermeer household should come bubbling to the surface and engulf Griet, much to her consternation.This is a stunning literary work that fully realizes the promise that the author showed in her debut novel, "The Virgin Blue". She is an author that understands the less is often more, and she makes every word count. Deliberate and spare, her prose is lyrical in its simplicity, weaving a tale that will keep the reader spellbound. This is historical fiction at its finest. Bravo!
5 This is a very good book to read.  I found it very enjoyable.  I have read all three of this authors books because I enjoyed this book so much.
3 I kept looking at the lovely cover photo of the painting of the title character and found it far more interesting than the book.  The tale itself was so less rich and complete that I  could not find it in any way beguiling.  The story's one fact that has been bandied about is  the question of the use of an early camera by the painter.  The plot, however, the maid's ascendency and the reaction of Vermeer's oft-pregnant wife, failed, I felt, to speak to  the innocence and the enormous warmth of the painter and the subject.The relative lack of historical details that would seem 'different' than our own styles of talking and thinking, was, for my purposes, too vast.  After all, it was the 1600's,  and yet the incidental aspects of life seemed as though they were all too modern.  Not, something I would recommend.
5 I dont know why it took me so long to come across this book because it is fabulous.  I picked it up to read and I could not put it down until I read the last page.  I love the authors easy style of writing, I love the story and I love the characters.  I cant wait to read more from Tracy Chevalier.
5 Finishing this book is like eating a gourmet meal. You didn't need it, but it sure was enjoyable. Girl With a Pearl Earring is fine storytelling; at the close, you'll wish it were a true account of Vermeer's masterpiece. Told in first person by teenage maid, Griet, this novel creates a passionate tension like in all those great Merchant Ivory films. Repressed sensuality, religious differences, conniving women, dastardly rich folks - it's all here. This book is an excellent choice for Book Clubs everywhere!
5 I cannot describe how much I loved this book.  I have read it late into the night, over my lunch hour, to and from work, just to finish it.I used to live in Holland and the evocation of the Netherlands and 17th century Dutch life is marvellous.  But what is truly wonderful is the 20th century voice of Griet, the maidservant, who evolves and matures under the watchful eye of her master, the great painter Vermeer.  You read this book with your heart in your mouth, greedy for the next page, and to find out how the story of these fascinating characters will end.  This story of the maidservant and the painter is not formulaic, Vermeer does not seduce Griet on page 1, and it is not predictable.  This story is far, far more complex and interesting, and sensual, as a result.I am so sad this book had to come to an end.  Read it, you will love it.
4 Rich with visual imagery and a arresting plot, this book draws the reader into a world of 17th century Dutch art, class relations, love and hate.&quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is a beautifully crafted work of fiction based around the painting of the same name by artist Johannes Vermeer. Griet, the 16-year-old narrator, becomes a servant of the Vermeer household after her family is unable to support her. Her innate sense of composition, colour and orderliness is recogised by the aritst, and their relationship blossoms under the eye of his watchful mother-in-law and jealous wife.I enjoyed this simple story for the way in which the words seemed to step out off the page and form detailed pictures in my mind. It was fascinating to see a story constructed around this famous painting which was believable yet unpredictable. Beautifully told, this book would be enjoyed by those who liked Chevalier's &quot;The Virgin Blue&quot; or simply those who like a good read!
5 I read this book right after I visited Delft and walked the same streets, visited the Delft Ceramic factory right on the outskirts of this lovely town, stood at the spot that Vermeer stood when he painted his view of Delft.  I spent lovely hours at the Vermeer museum established on the site of the Guild he led, studying copies of the 39 known paintings he left.  (And no originals remain in Delft).This little book gives a plausible account of what might be a possible back-story of his beautiful painting - Girl with a Pear Earring, and I found it totally enjoyable.Highly recommendedwith the caveat on the next reader walking those beautiful streets of this historic Netherlandish town.
4 I found this book a very pleasant way to pass time.  Not a heavy read, more like a beach book.  I tend to enjoy historical fiction and this fit the bill.
4 This novel, by Tracy Chevalier, is a fictional story about the young lady in the famous Vermeer painting from the mid 17th century.  There are just a few facts known about his life, and nobody knows who the girl actually was, but the author did the best she could to stay true to the world of Vermeer and the Dutch masters of the time.  She obviously did extensive research into his art, as well as daily life in Holland at that time.  The result is this small gem of a book.The writing is simple, told in first person narrative, by Griet, who, at 16 years old, became a maid in Vermeer's household.  Life in the 17th century comes alive as she describes the details of her daily tasks as well as the tensions between the various people living in the house.  The writer uses excellent character tags and paces the books so the reader just wants to keep turning pages.  Along the way, we learn about art and the specific techniques that the painter used for mixing colors.It is a nice story and everything falls into place. Griet is wide eyed and innocent but just a little too perfect for my taste, however.  The other characters seem to have more depth. Vermeer is the most complex.  And so is the butcher's son who courts Griet with blood under his fingernails as well as Griet's brother who is apprenticed to a Delft tile maker.  Sometimes it felt like I was reading a romance novel based on just a few scanty facts and I was annoyed at those times, well aware that what I was reading was not necessarily the truth, but just a figment of the author's imagination.  At other times I felt I was right there in Vermeer's studio, noticing how the light caught the face of his subjects, sensing the smell of linseed oil and viewing the world through the painter's eyes.I cannot make the book what it is not however, and do applaud the author for bringing this work of art to the public by means of this novel.
5 This is a novel about fascination: fascination with colors, fascination with painting, but above all fascination with the painter.Griet is a young girl in Delft in the middle of the 17th century. Because her father has gone blind due to a working accident, she has to start working as a maid. She is hired by the family of Johannes Vermeer, the famous Dutch painter. From the beginning she is fascinated by the paintings, the process of the painting, but above all by Vermeer himself. Her life at the Vermeer family is not exactly easy: Vermeers wife hates her, as does one of his daughters and the senior maid sees her as a threat. Moreover, Vermeers patron, the wealthy merchant Van Ruijven has taken a more-than-modest interest in her.Even though Griet is at times a little unrealistically virtuous and her obsession with Vermeer is irritating at times, the descriptions of a lonely, intelligent girl trying to find a place in the world and of everyday life in 17th century Holland make this book definitely worth reading.
5 This is a delightful book which uses this famous painting as a starting point for speculation of the identity of the young woman in thisportrait. Not only does this make you mindful that this might have been a young lady in similar circumstances, but it also fills us in to the sights, smells and customs of the era in a far away time and place. I had seen the painting and was drawn to the book because of that, but it is still a great read if you have no knowledge of the work of art.
5 ...this book will completely mesmerize you!  I read it once and I'm ready to read it again.  Chevalier has the gift of taking you into Vermeer's studio so that you believe you are there.  I HIGHLY recommend this book.
5 This story is very much like a Cinderella story set in the 1600's. The story line is simple but has a intersting flare to it.Having never know much about Vermeer paintings or a lot about the time the book I was very satsifyed with the book and the story about Griet.The only thing that bothered me with the book was the ending. It seem to short for me and didn't get into what had happen to Griet besides her marrying Pieter and having children.
3 OK, It was a quick read.  Slow in some areas but the charters in the story were believable.Not for teens.
4 "Girl with a Pearl Earring" takes place in Delft, Holland at the home of 17th century Dutch painter, Johannes Vermeer. It is the imagined tale of the subject of the painting with the same name, the story of a maid in Vermeer's house.I didn't think I was going to like this book. I've heard people rave about it, but it didn't sound particularly interesting to me. I was surprised to find myself drawn into the story immediately. The characters and setting are vivid and instantly familiar. I couldn't put it down! Don't miss this one; it's a wonderful, quick read.
2 I heard a lot about this book, and it was a bestseller, so the reading group I'm in decided to read Girl With a Pearl Earring. We were all pretty disappointed...The young girl Grit becomes a maid in the household of Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. We hear about her life and passions, and her family, but she is a very unrealistic character, and you really feel that she is being written by a much older woman.The writer shows none of Grit's emotions, just tells you what they are, in a very unconvincing and detached way.It seems unlikely, that a girl so young should be as confident, unimpressed by life and manipulating as Grit is! It hardly affects her leave her family, to fall in love or loose her virginity, nothing really surprises her, and she apparently can do everything better than everyone else: this uneducated young maid is even able to tell the master painter how to paint better!Appart from a cliched fascination with her MASTER Vermeer(that seems more like a badly formulated erotic fantasy of the author's than anything realistic) Grit shows no emotion, and the plot is unbalanced and boring. You never develop any sympathy for any of the characters, and the symbolism is MUCH to heavy.The book left me cold an bored. The only reason why it gets 2 stars, is the description and information about Vermeers paintings, which were interesting. Chevalier completely fails to make a credible portrait of a young girl (Grit is more like a 40 year old woman), and the historcal descriptions aren't very good either.
5 If you have been entranced by Vermeer's paintings, and like to imagine a story behind them, this novel creates a fascinating but subtle story about the young woman with the pearl earrings. Who could she be? How did Vermeer know her? What is she thinking?Author Tracy Chevalier makes her the servant girl in Vermeer's large household. In addition to her household duties, the artist Vermeer asks her to help him with his work. Grinding the powder to make paint, sixteen-year-old Griet, becomes enamored of the creative process and Vermeer's craft. The book deftly juxtaposes the magical and mysterious world of art with the messy reality of caring for a large family with limited funds. And Griet has her own life to contend with.The book is written in language which complements the art; there's a sparseness but luminosity about the writing. We felt as if we were in 17th century Holland. You could feel the bleakness and the color. I once wondered if Vermeer's paintings really were that special compared to other art of the period. I visited an exhibition at the Metropolitan Art Museum in New York on art from the Netherlands, in which Vermeer's paintings were hung on the walls with other artists from this area and time period. Vermeer's works stood out in comparison. The detail, lines, light, color and radiance. You really saw they were exceptional. It's too bad Vermeer painted so few. This book will explain, in part, why. I loved it.
5 Loved this book and all it's detail and hidden meanings. While reading it I felt very close to the character as if I was standing beside her watching her help her master make the colors for the portraits. I almost felt like  I could envision the painting in my mind. I loved how the paintings and her life were simultaneously told. I feel like I was reading about art and a person's life and how they blended.
5 I read this a while back and enjoyed it very much. I have since passed it on to my wife and she also enjoyed it very much. It is interesting to read someone's fanciful account of a well respected piece of art emerged.
5 Chevalier paints her own literary masterpiece in the fictional love story behind the famous Dutch painting "Girl with a Pearl Earring". Everything comes alive in this masterful narration filled with an economy of words that propel the story forward. This is both a love story about a subject, and a political and historical commentary of Holland. The tale is like a time capsule opened up after several centuries and a deep yearning that can only be satisfied by a painter's brush. The movie does not do it justice. Chevalier certainly knows how to choose her words carefully without losing the rich meaning in the stolen moments, character descriptions, and dialogue. A mandatory text for High School and Universities literature classes. This is bonafide literary genious!
5 This book arrived promptly and in excellent condition. I ordered this book for our book club read and would recommend it to other book clubs.
5 Awesome book. You will get completely swept up into the story. After reading the book you will also enjoy the well-done movie. Book arrived as described (gently used, moderate wear)
5 Tracy Chavalier is a master at having art history come alive and incorporate within it a beautiful story.
5 this the sexiest book i have ever read. this is one of those books that just lets your fantasy fly. if you have ADD it will take you years to finish because you will think of ever sexy stranger who has ever accidently brush againist you in a crowd. this book is a fantasy starter ever page
5 I have read this for the second time since it was published, I loved it even more.  One of my favorite authors
3 Up until the last 50 or so pages, I didn't see much in this book.  The suspense before the ending somewhat covered for the beginning and middle parts.  I wouldn't have finished it were it not recommended by a friend.The characters slowly reveal themselves, and fully show themselves at the end, but they are they are not fully believable.  For instance, Griet, who cannot read or write, has an incredible sensibility for art and the insight to create this first person narrative.  If Maria Thins is the head of this household, why does she not stand up for Griet?  The same question applies to Vermeer, if it is he who has the power.The plot is not fully believable either.  Posing for Vermeer took long hours, time, which seem to be unnoticed and not missed in the running of the household.  Greit's "bedroom" seems to be way out of bounds for the time and the situation.  Greit's relationship with Pieter is alternatingly prudish and erotic.One thing that stands out is how few choices young people had in 17th century Delft. They live where they work long hours and are paid less than a living wage.  Given the small town, and their roles in service, they rub shoulders with the powerful.  They must walk a narrow line as the wealthy flirt with them.I appreciate the difficult work of writing this novel.  There is a parallel novel on the Mona LisaLeonardo's Swans: A Novelwhere the author has the benefit of characters that participate in well know historical events.
4 Only 232 pages, I looked this book over carefully before beginning. I was trying to go to a place in my mind, the kind of place where I am drawn to, say, a small but powerful painting in a museum. So I did go there and experience a moment in time with the author as she passed through the home and family of the painter Vermeer in the Netherlands, circa 1660's. My guide was a young maid, Griet, who worked hard and caught the eye of the great painter. She fell in love in a simple romantic way, as she yearned to mix the palette colors of the Master, Vermeer, to be close to his aura of genius, and to him. She began to notice the simplest detail as he painted, viewing his compositions in her own eye. The story takes this young maid to the brink of fate, when she becomes one of his paintings. He adds one final touch, his wife's pearl earring, a touch that will perfect this work. But it is the end, for once the wife sees the painting she will know about her husband and the young maid. It matters not that the &quot;affair&quot; was never consummated. Such things weren't done in a society so rigidly structured. Griet realizes that she must leave this unhappy home before she disappears into the vision of the painter and his lust for images.
5 Very sensual and descriptive writing! I enjoyed the quietness of the story line which drew me in to feel the emotion of each character and enjoy the artisan background of the characters!
5 If words are like brushstrokes, then Girl With a Pearl Earring produces just the right touch to the canvas of Vermeer's city, its imagined inhabitants, and finally to the enigmatic Vermeer and his portraits.  A  story based on the imaginary servant girl in Vermeer's household and in the  portrait who is unwittingly caught between the contrary whims of that  household, the expectations of her society, and allowing a small space for  her soul to flourish.  If you only have time to read one book right now,  make it this one.
3 I purchased this book just a few weeks after seeing the movie, hoping to find more insight into the life of Vermeer and his time.  I am disappointed.  The novel is not greatly written.  With a few exceptions, the story describes the life of this girl, but not much more.  Her simple thoughts are, well, simple and her inner life consists in simple emotions (sadness, jealousy, obedience).  Some paragraphs are poetic and gives a life to the page, but, sadly, most of the book is bed to bed story.I understand we don't know much about Vermeer, but then, I would think it is the novelist's job to make up for it.  Vermeer's time was not middle age and although survival was the primary goal of the working class, there must have been more to the story than what we are given here.  Was the book a movie script?  Most definitely.  That I saw Colin Firth acting in this book is a nice plus, that I could easily imagine Scarlett Johansen as the Girl, great!, but it somehow left me with wanting to know more.  The only thing I can say now is that I read it.  Next!
5 "Girl with a Pearl Earring" interested me after seeing the movie of the same name.  Their titles are about the only thing they have in common, but each is good in their own respect.  The book is very interesting in that it uses the first person, and it was refreshing to read that.  The only thing that bothered me was the time span; it confused me, as I didn't really see a change in anyone or the circumstances.  I greatly enjoyed the descriptions and emotions that author Tracy Chevalier conveyed, and it helped me understand the movie better - Griet's motivation was presented to us in this book. A lovely, sensual story. I recommend.
3 This well-written novel is good historical fiction.  It places the reader in the time of Vermeer, and one believes that the speech, atmosphere and rituals of that time have been accurately rendered.  The characters are interesting, but they lack fire and resolve.  I had the gnawing feeling that I was reading a Dutch travelogue.  Not at all compelling.
4 I was a bit confused by reading some of the reviews on this book and thought I would write one of my own.  This was an excellent book for me because I could identify with the artist and with the female charcter.  It hadn't occurred to me until I read some of the other reviews, that if you do not do artwork in some form or another, or if you are not a woman, there are certain aspects of this book which could be disregarded.  This was easy to read, not overly desciptive, which was a relief.  It did remind me of a book one might read in school, focusing on the use of symbolism, which was evident throughout.  Something which was sadly lost on one of the reviewers, and something which I thought was essential to understanding the novel and the main character Griet, was the submission, the violation of Griet, the girl with the pearl earring, by the painter Vermeer as he forced her to wear them, even putting them in her ears, painfully, himself.  This act would destroy Griet's position in the household, and change her world.  It mattered not whether she let another man take her after that, for she was already violated, permanently by the painter.  I realize this might be a confusing review.  But like the painting itself, which appears simple, a portrait of a woman against a black background, it has many intriguing details if you take the time to look.
5 I enjoyed this story because there was a story line to which one can relate.  I have been to Delft and have seen the places described in the book.  It delights me to recall things I have seen when they are mentioned in books or shown in movies.  Also the existence of a full spectrum of life emotions was there, not just &#34;skits of sexplay&#34; whith a main character who is beautiful, unbelieveable lucky and always ends up materially rich, which I find so unreal.  Life seems so much more interesting when problems are worked through instead of &#34;zapped&#34; to perfection.
5 Awesome! the static between the girl and the man was so much you can feel it. This painting on the book cover is real and the storey is about that girl.I just saw the movie and I wish I read the book first.
3 This book was neither here nor there.A young woman named Griet arrives at Vermeer's house to be a new servant.  She had some tragedy in her family and so ended up a maid.  As she gets to be part of the family, Vermeer allows her to help him, due to her artistic eye.  Eventually she poses for the famous "girl with a pearl earring" painting, which ends up being her undoing.The story seems like an episode of the old British drama "Upstairs Downstairs" set in Holland with a coming of age story neatly tucked in it as well. The plot is somewhat interesting with one well developed character (Griet) and none others I cared about.However, the descriptions of 17th Century Holland, the class system and mercantile society were excellent, which by itself was worth finishing the book. The descriptions of how the paintings were painted were amusing as well and since I had the "Deluxe Edition" with 9 full color paintings I could flip back and forth, reading the descriptions and seeing what they pertained to.
3 I'd heard the hype.  I'd seen the title on the best seller list for ages.  I took the bait and started to read.And I was disappointed.The story has so much potential, but the author left too many loose ends and in many respects was far too superficial for my tastes.  I did not think that the character of Griet was fully developed, and I was left scratching my head about Vermeer.  What prompted him to paint?  Why did he see things diferently than normal folk?  What made him a great artist?All this being said, if you want a four star mindless beach read, this book suits the bill.
1 I read this on the recommendation of several friends and, even a passerby who saw me reading it, all of whom were very enthusiastic about it.  So, I was extremely disappointed to discover that it wasn't very good.I found the central character, Griet, to be a pompous, priggish young woman with an overinflated sense of her own position in society and far too calculating for the persona she is supposed to be.  Nearly everyone else was without any substance.  Vermeer is very cold, almost mute and there is no clue to his thoughts at all.  He just comes and goes as if he's in a trance.  His wife is one-dimensionally nasty.  The children, Griet's family and the other maid are stock characters (the bully, the good child, the baby, the threatened co-worker, the poor but proud parents, etc.).  About the only real personalities are Vermeer's mother-in-law and the butcher's son who eventually marries Griet.  I actually liked the mother in law best.  She seemed to have some three dimensionality.However, I did think the description of the housework they had to do was interesting.  Presumably, this is due to the influence of Simon Schama's excellent book "The Embarrassment of Riches: An Interpretaion of Dutch Culture in the Golden Age".On the other hand, I found her description of the camera obscura almost unintelligible, even though, as an art historian, I've had the opportunity to see the view through one. (I'm a 17th century specialist, altough my area of specialization is Italian and French art, not Dutch).  A great opportunity for a good scene was missed there.  Ms. Chevalier's Vermeer could have explained how he used the projected image in preparing and painting his pictures, but this wasn't done.If you want to know something about 17th Century Holland, read Schama's book and there are many excellent art historical studies of Vermeer.  Don't waste your money on this book.
3 The story is well written, easy to read. Something that I disliked was Vermeer asking Griet to "drill"her ears, use the earrings, then playing dumb when his wife confronted him. Griet as a maid, suffers in her mistress hands AND her master's hands. He orders, then do not assume the responsability to explain to his wife that she, giving birth incessantly, forces him to make a living even painting the maid because his boss or patron wants that. What is the big fuss about the earrings anyway? Why this little detail "ruin" Griet's reputation ? And why Maria Thins just keep her mouth shut? Can't somebody tell the "highness" Catharina that she birthing a mouth an year is going to require money to keep the family going? Does she work anyway? In this story, her husband is not even interested in the maid as a woman but as a painting model. He just keep his mouth shut and does not explain, talk or lecture his wife.What a coward. Griet discovered that on time and made the right choice in getting married to a guy really into her.
4 I enjoyed the  story and meeting the girl with a pearl earring. It's hard to think of living conditions of that time.  We take so much for granted. Well written book.
5 Griet, a 16 year old girl, narrates her two years as maid and assistant to Johannes Vermeer, Dutch 'Golden Age' Master.  During her tumultuous experience in his household, Griet becomes the subject of his most famous portrait, &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring.&quot;Author Tracy Chevalier is also a Master, painting the emotions of Griet with soft sensuous strokes mixed with bold brushes of self-discovery.  Chevalier develops vivid characters, especially the artist's wife and mother-in-law.  Vermeer, is a quiet genius, but the short spurts of his voice and the movement of his eyes provide the canvas for Griet's emotions.This novel is moderate in length, but I gladly would have enjoyed twice as many pages.  Chevalier leaves us staring at the painting, wondering -- as she did -- what further adventures awaited the &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot;.
4 I enjoyed this novel. It's a simple story, almost juvenile at the start, but it feels like the narrator is truly from 17th century Europe, and this novel grew on me. The main character came alive to me, and did her world. I think that teenage girls will especially relate to this story and the main character, but it can be enjoyed by anyone. I recommend it!
4 rating the book I'd give it 4 stars.  Since I saw the original painting in Belgium a couple of years ago, I was impressed by the girl's narration of her life as a servant in the household of Vemeer the painter.  She mentioned the old church, and the meat market and other locations which I saw when I was there.  I liked the book so well that I ordered the Movie and was terribly disappointed in it.  It followed the story line, but the narration could have been much better.  Martha
3 When Griet, a young lady, had to work as a maid in the Vermeer's household, she didn't know what a drastic change would occur. From an evil mistress (who is eternally pregnant), a jealous coworker, children who like making trouble for Griet, and the butcher's son who has set his eyes on her, Griet's only consolations are from her Master, Vermeer, and his paintings. Chosen as an art apprentice, by the master himself, Griet strives for her master's attention. The master is a strange, distant man who spends most of his time in his art room preparing for a painting. As Vermeer has a good reputation, he tries to keep it by working for perfection at his paintings. When his reputation and his career are almost ruined by a request demeaning to Griet, the master calls upon Griet to make a decision that may get her booted out of the Vermeer household. --Though this novel certainly was captivating, many points were not explained properly, leaving a reader a bit confused. The most confusing of these points would probably have been those of Griet's emotions, and of the Master's decisions. So little is given of the Master's character, that a reader must make guesses for many of his decisions. Also, Griet's emotions were a bit strange, and also were not explained clearly. She seemed a bit distant throughout the novel, making her seem shallow. As a reader I didn't like her character very much because of that aspect.
5 I very much love historical fiction.  A fun way to get a feeling of something &#34;historical&#34; and feel like &#34;a fly on the wall&#34;; listening and observing what could have been true.  Tracy Chevalier is an excellent writer to be able to make this feeling come across.  There is always a fascination with the famous artists of that time period and earlier as well.  I have recommended this book to several of my friends.
5 This was a wonderful read.  Chevalier transports the reader to 17th century Holland, and brings a work of art to life.  I had to keep reminding myself that this was fiction, rather than a historical biography.Girl With a Pearl Earring is the story of the young Griet, who becomes a servant in the home of the famous Johannes Vermeer. While Griet is championed, readers will also sympathize with each of the other characters, among them her impoverished parents, Mrs.Vermeer and her children, Griet's brother, and Vermeer himself.  Chevalier's research of the geography and time period of which she writes is thorough. The story is realistic, helping readers to understand the setting in which Vermeer worked.When the book is finished, there is the feeling that the story is not.  As in many great books, readers feel that although they are privy to much, there is so much more that could have been written.  This was a novel (no pun intended) way in which to further the cause of appreciating art, both painted and written.
4 Written in the spare style typical of 17th century fiction, this little book answers the question, &quot;Who is the girl in the painting?&quot;  So often a painter conveys a world to us in a glance, as Vermeer accomplished so effectively in his &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring.&quot;  In her novel, Chevalier provides the canvas of life in the Netherlands at the time, and shows us the master artist through the eyes of a typical, if particularly observant, young woman.  Her innate appreciation of the fundamentals of art shine like the pearl against the dross of her existence.
5 Girl With a Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier was the most heartbreakingly beautiful book I have ever read. The writing is so descriptive of life in Holland at Vermeer's time that you feel like you are there. You think, "Surely this story must have happened this way!" Griet is sent to live in the painter Vermeer's home as a maid and falls in love with him. This has repercussions and makes her act out in her grief. The writer really did her research on the life of Vermeer and his family and her vivid imagination paints a true picture of life at that time for a middle-class families, working-class families, and a simple maid. I read this book two times.
5 Loved everything about this book - the characters, the description, and the plot.  The book led me to investigate Vermeer's paintings.  Would recommend this book to anyone who likes historical fiction.  Also would point them to &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; - another wonderful Vermeer story
4 I think I liked this book even more than  I would have if I had not seen the movie first.  I know that's backwards, but it really worked for me this time. It's fun to think that there MIGHT be a story like this behind the painting. It certainly felt like it may have been true!
4 Art lovers, and particularly Vermeer lovers, have had two "Vermeer novels" available for the past few years, Girl with a Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier and Girl in Hyacinth Blue by Susan Vreeland.  Both are short, both are well written, both involve a hypnotizingly seductive Vermeer painting, and both tell of the influence of the painting on the lives of the main characters.  As for which is better, that may be a matter of taste, though Girl with the Pearl Earring has had the lion's share of publicity, especially after the production of the film.  Many readers will be interested in reading both novels.In Girl With A Pearl Earring, author Chevalier focuses her literary microscope on Griet, a maid in the Vermeer household who becomes an assistant to the painter. Griet is a young woman who maintains her integrity despite the turbulence and social pressures to which she is subjected in the household. Life in Delft and in this family during the time of the painting is replete with petty jealousies, economic pressures, class distinctions, religious differences, and political and social uncertainty, and Griet has to navigate her way through this milieu. It is through her character and domestic situation that one comes to know Vermeer and his painting.The second Vermeer novel, Girl in Hyacinth Blue, on the other hand, is not a "character novel." Here the author does not concentrate on one character or even the painting as an end in itself. Instead, Vreeland takes a broader, more global view, using the history of a hitherto undiscovered Vermeer painting to work backward from the present to the painting's inception in Delft. The "story" here is a careful tracing of themes--the relationship between personal love and responsibility to mankind in general, the role of art in the lives of ordinary people, and what constitutes lasting value both in art and in human interactions. In seven or eight chapters we see how the painting has affected the lives of its various owners.Ultimately, comparing these beautifully wrought novels is like comparing pearl earrings to hyacinths. Both are gorgeous; each is unique. Girl with the Pearl Earring is more accessible and more popular, while Girl in Hyacinth Blue is more complex and literary.  Lovers of Vermeer are encouraged to read both--and enjoy.  Mary Whipple
5 This is a stunningly beautiful book, one of the best I have read in a long while.  Chevalier has created a heroine who is at once a hopeless underdog and a certain champion.  Griet is both an engaging narrator and a loveable character.  Vermeer's character is drawn less descriptively but nonetheless equally fascinating.  He is shown as a masterful artist and also as a human being.The novel builds with a steady, powerful tension despite the fact that we all can guess what is going to happen.  I loved the descriptions of Vermeer's painting process.  The scenes in which he is studying and drawing Griet are sensual and smartly written.  I found myself flipping back to the front cover of the book to study the painting as I read about its creation.  Everything is there, exactly as Chevalier describes it in her story.  The folds and shadows of the cloth in her hair, the wetness of her lips, the expression on her face as she turns to look over her shoulder, the faint glow in her eye as it catches the light of the earring, and of course the pearl earring itself.  With each element that is added in the story, the painting on the cover becomes more and more real.
5 Short but very sweet story about an iconic painting and painter. Very enjoyable.story  about a young girl who goes to work for a famous Dutch painter.
5 I started to read it and could not put it down.Some authors will spend pages describing a scene or a person, making a book drag out. This author, with a few words, made you feel like you where standing next to the character.
4 I enjoyed this unusual historical novel. The portrait &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot; by the famous Dutch painter, Vermeer, apparently is considered &quot;the Dutch Mona Lisa&quot; because of the girl's enigmatic  look as she gazes at the painter.  This book tells a possible story  explaining the painting.  It revolves around a young maid who worked at the  painter's house, and who was enthralled with his work (and him). The story  takes place in the highly stratified and puritanical Dutch culture of the  mid 17th century. When I finished the book, I felt that I has just read a  beautiful fable.
4 I got the DVD & the book for Christmas, and it took me a while to actually get around to watching the film, but when I did, I wanted to read the book, and was glad to have it there, rather than hunting for it in shops/online. I read the book in a couple of hours (leaving myself with nothing to do on my lunch break at work, apart from send nonsense texts), and thoroughly enjoyed it. I was expecting the film to differ a lot from the book, but was pleased to discover that the film stuck really closely to the book, apart from the odd addition here & then, which was welcome.I actually lost myself in the book. I got that engrossed in it, that when I was reading it when I was waiting for my hair dye to settle in, I got a fright when I heard a noise. I was completely oblivious to everything around me, as I was transferred back to the 17th century.Apart from the fact it was an excellent story (kinda about unrequited love, wouldn't you say?), I also learned a few things about that century. The women covered their hair, and the curious thing that when women had a baby, they hired a nursemaid to breastfeed their babies!!! So much for bonding with your child. Apparently, at that time, it was believed that if you breastfed your own child, then you wouldn't be able to have anymore. Thank God that's not true.Right the way through reading this, I could totally imagine Scarlett in the role. To me, it's a big thing for me to be able to 'see' what's happening in a book, rather than just read it. I was able to play out the scenes in my head, and make up what didn't appear in the film. For example, some stuff that was left out of the film, was her sister dying from the plague, her brother appearing, why it affected her so much to see her tile being broken in half and the ending. The ending in the film was only slightly touched upon, and was expanded on in the book. There was actually a 10 year gap between Griet walking out of the house, and actually getting the pearl earrings, which I didn't feel was shown in the film. It certainly wasn't made obvious there was meant to be 10 years since her walking out. The film glossed over this bit slightly, and the ending was so much better in the book, and heartbreaking.Definitely one of my favourite books that I have read this year so far, and one I would definitely recommend & read again.
1 When we meet the protagonist, her family has lost its livlihood because her father was disfigured in a horrible accident.  With an opening like that, you'd think you'd feel some sort of emotion about the family: it would be hard for an author to make it so that you DON'T care.  Well, Chevalier manages.There was no character that was multi-dimensional.  No one grew or learned anything.  The ending was a cop-out and random.  I had no sympathy for anyone, except perhaps Vermeer's shrew of a wife: I'd be pretty sick of looking after all those kids with such a pathetic husband too.  Somehow, I don't think that's what Chevalier intended.The Dorothy Dunnett books provide a MUCH better insight into merchant life in the early Rennaissance.  Skip this simplistic, poorly written book and check them out instead.
4 If you're familiar with Vermeer's art and the world of 17th century Holland this is definitely a fun book.  I found the main storyline a little hard to believe, but who cares?
2 This book entered my house at the same time as The Red Tent. Like The Red Tent, it is a modern telling of a historically significant woman's point of view. Unlike many many many authors (Thomas Hardy and William Makepeace Thackery come to mind), neither the author of Girl with the Pearl Earring nor The Red Tent manage to convince us that they have any grasp at all of the era of which they write, nor do they, either of them, allow their greatly elevated heroines to experience the pitfalls of normal human beings. Oh, so noble, so talented, so clever, so circumspect.Mostly, this book seems constrained and constipated. I for one really dislike the modern writing advice of continually paring down one's prose until it's practically a novella--you know, making each word count. Who the hell cares if a book is a 800 pages long? Give me some good social critique and a boat load of characters who have some depth and I'll read an encyclopediadic series. Viewed through that lens, Girl With a Pearl Earring is just the briefest sketch of what may or may not be an interesting novel. As it stands, it holds one's attention for, oh, about the life span of a may-fly.Oh, alright. Read it for the lovely descriptions of Vermeer's paintings, as told to a blind father by his dutiful daughter. Read it for a little bit of sexual tension, and I mean just a little. No bodice-ripper here. The best thing about this book, honestly and truly, is the cover, and Chavalier can't take any credit for that.My very best advice is to check this book out from the library. If you spend your hard-earned moola on it you'll only get gratification from saving one of your friends from spending money, since you will surely pass it on rather than hoarding it jealously on your bookshelf.
5 "Girl With a Pearl Earring" is based on the Johannes Vermeer painting with the same name. Sixteen-year-old Griet is forced to leave home and go to work as a maid for a painter and his family in order to provide for her family. Although she faces numerous challenges with most members of the Vermeer household, Griet slowly begins to bond with her master, who commissions her to help him in his studio and eventually has her sit for one of his paintings.This book is interesting on many different levels.  For one thing, creating this fictitious tale based on such a famous piece of art is intriguing, and Tracy Chevalier's characters are all very believable. Having the story narrated from Griet's point of view was also an excellent choice. The reader is treated to a description of how life was for a young woman living in poverty during the 17th century. Griet is forced into so much during the course of this novel, and all her options seem vert limited: there could be serious consequences if she continues to work for the Vermeer family, but her family will starve if she chooses to leave. There is also the potential of romance with a young suitor, but Griet is torn between a "sensible" relationship with Pieter and the growing feeling she has for her master.The relationship between Griet and Vermeer is very mysterious and still leaves a lot of questions until the very end. We become aware of Griet's feelings for her master, but how does Vermeer really feel about her?  Griet's interaction with the other women is also interesting to follow...Vermeer's wife sees her as a threat, Tanneke sees her as a rival, and Cornelia sees her as someone to destroy. The relationships between all of the women in her life escalate as the story progresses, which makes the final confrontation in the last few pages of the book even more powerful.I would recommend "Girl With a Pearl Earring" to anyone. Now that I've read the novel, I am very eager to see the movie version...hopefully Hollywood didn't butcher it beyond repair. :)
3 I will confess that I watched the film before reading the book, and I will also admit that I did enjoy the film version a bit more.  I am a fan of the artist Vermeer, and was more interested in his character in "Girl With a Pearl Earring," than I was with the character of Griet.  Not a bad read, though.  The back drop of 1600s Holland saved the chick-lit plot line of the book.  I will recommend this book to those who like fairy tale stories.  Griet is a kind of Dutch Cinderella who goes from simple servant, to muse, to wife.
4 There certainly is divided opinion on this novel!  I really enjoyed the recreation of life in Vermeer's household.  The author does a credible job of keeping close to the period history with her detailed descriptions of 17th century Delft life.  Though some readers have complained about the writing, the book is presented from the point of view of the young girl who is forced to be a maid for Vermeer due to her father's disability (he can't practice his trade because his eyes were burned by the kiln's explosion).  The writing then is that of a young girl recounting the daily chores and petty politics of the Vermeer household, trips to market, and her infatuation with Vermeer.  In some ways, it's a love story (quite repressed) complete with jealousy, intrigue and lecherous gropings (not on Vermeer's part!).  Though no one knows for sure the mysteries behind Vermeer's limited output, the author gives us a compelling version of his exacting standards and family situation which did not lend themselves to factory produced paintings.  I found the passages about painting well done and thought-provoking.  Parts of this short novel are positively luminous.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction and is even remotely interested in Dutch painting.  Perhaps diehard historians won't enjoy it, but the rest should find something to please them here.
4 Tracy Chevalier's  depiction of societal abnormalities(at least in contrast to post-Marxist Soviet Union or post revolutionary France and America) richly delivers a tender story about a tender girl whose portrait has been named the Dutch Mona Lisa.Embellishing stories into modern novels has been a successful and fun twist for many writers - perhaps with Maguire leading the 21st century on such with his wonderful twists to the "Wizard of Oz" and other classics.  But to embellish upon the unwritten - rather to transform painted art into  written art - makes the embellishment seemingly more complex and more  impressive.  This author looked at a painting and made a story of what happened before, during and after it was painted.The plot has social injustice placed upon the 16-year old shoulders of  Griet, the narrator and protagonist.  Forced into becoming a maid because of her father's misfortune of being near a tile kiln when it exploded, from which he lost his sight and career, Griet's "involuntary servitude" offers the family its only chance of survival.From there we learn she works for Johannes Vermeer--the famous Dutch painter of today.  Vermeer came from the Dutch school that veered away from painting only religious relics, and focused instead upon persons and nature. "Is not painting God's creatures equally valuable?" Vermeer asks Griet when she is questioned about her asking him if all Catholics paint only crucifixes and biblical images.But, even though the story is about a girl and an artist's family, the major theme is about social 17th century inequality in Holland. Social inequality of that time is worse than our 21st century minds can think.  Children on Vermeer's house control Griet.  Maria Thins, Vermeer's mother, controls the house. But, money controls them all.  As Vermeer plodded slowly in his painting, the bills piled high and often unpaid. Behind the satin sheets and cloth drapes were the Vermeers who cowtowed to those who paid them, in a manner Griet did of her master in the Vermeer household.Sadness resounds in the book.  Joyful interludes exist, but are rare. Details about daily accounts at the backbreaking daily labours of the maid and others make one only agree how lucky they are not living then, there and in her shoes.  And when we read a few hundred pages of the detailed travails of the teenage maid, we understand why the painting does not include a smile, does not include a twinkle in the eye, and does not include but a tiny hint of her hair color or length.  Instead the eyes show obedience and hidden emotion. The outfit is totally unrevealing, unlike the busty aristocratic portraits. And, by such untold statements of her eyes and mouth and clothing, the portrait - especially after reading this book - tells us so much about the pains and misfortunes experienced by someone so young and otherwise innocent.
5 very good read  the story seems to mesh with what her expressioon in the painting tells me. very ambigous expression on her face matches rhe events in the book
5 This book was a glimpse into a time when things were so different.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It's ending was a nice surprise.  I didn't see it coming.
3 BUT NOTHING HAPPENED.I WAS SO EXCITED AND AFRAID FOR THIS FAMAZING AFAIR THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN BETWEEN GRIET AND VERMIER.AND NOTHING HAPPENED.LITERALLY.NOBODY SHOULD READ THIS BOOK IF THEY EXPECTED SOMETHING TO HAPPEN.I'M NOT JOKING.ALL HE DID WAS STARE AT HER, PAINT HER, AND *OMFG SHOCKS, DIES, THE WORLD SHOULD SHATTER* HE TOUCHES HER FACE.im not kidding if you value your sanity you shuldn't read this book because as beautiful as it was it was amazingly frustrating.... just saying.
5 In a thrilling emulation of Jan Vermeer's artistic style, Tracy Chevalier uses scenes drawn from everyday life and painstaking attention to detail to tell the story of Griet, a 16-year-old girl who is required by her family's  misfortunes to become a maid in the Vermeer household.I devoured the  book the first time through, then read it again to savor the starkly  beautiful language and the highly sensual account of 17th century life in a  busy Dutch household.  On both forays, I drank in the vivid descriptions of  Vermeer's paintings and his creative process, from the positioning of his  models to the grinding of bone and lead, massicot, madder and ochre, to  make his pigments.To those who complained that nothing happened or  that the book was predictable, let me say, this was never meant to be a  suspense story in the conventional sense.  That an event could be foreseen  doesn't render it improperly drawn.  The magnetism of this tale is not its  ability to surprise us with plot twists but to show the complex and  fascinating interplay among people of different stations and sensibilities.  Chevalier demonstrates her considerable skill in presenting Griet to be at  the same time naive and intelligent, hemmed in by her lack of status and  strong of spirit.  Her resigned frustration over the many slights and  unfair situations she must deal with strikes me as the only sensible option  for one who must continue in employment for the sake of those she supports.  Though I can't imagine Griet describing herself as anything but ordinary,  her attention to detail--as keen in its own way as Vermeer's--and her  understanding of the personalities and motives of those around her show her  to be a remarkable young woman.  The other main characters--sometimes as  bound by their elevation as Griet is by her lack of it--behave with  annoying reality.  Maria Thins, Vermeer's mother-in-law and  behind-the-scenes overseer of the household and finances, almost always  knows the score.  She comes to Griet's aid or not, based on what will best  serve her daughter's interests and yet she comes across, not as scheming,  but as practical.Comparable to Vermeer's intricate landscapes are  Chevalier's long views of the Delft streets.  She has a knack for picking  the right detail to convey a mood, a cultural insight, a social contrast.Vermeer had the extraordinary capability to endow his figures and  landscapes with a luminescence that gave his paintings lasting impact.  Chevalier imbues this simple story with a similar light from within.  For  those who can set aside the desire to be entertained with broadly drawn  action, there is glowing subtext and delicious tension throughout.  Chevalier lets the characters be real--noble at times, disappointing at  others--and though she doesn't tie up every loose end, she provides a  resolution that is both satisfying and credible.  My only complaint was  that the ending came too soon as it tends to do with good fiction.In  addition to a good story well told, Girl With  Pearl Earring is a  remarkable intertwining of the historical with the fanciful.  Chevalier's  tale is exquisitely believable and lives in the yearning face of this most  appealing model.  I will never again look at the painting without feeling  the marvelous resonance and possibilty of Griet's story.
4 Most of us know the painting, if not by name, but by sight at least. You might have even watched the movie starring Colin Firth (!!) and Scarlett Johanssen. Many of us might have heard of Johannes Vermeer, the artist behind this painting. But have you ever wondered, who is the girl in the painting? What is her story? What lies behind that indecipherable expression?Ever since I read The Birth of Venus by Sarah Dunant, I have loved books which involve art and artists. I don't claim to have much knowledge about art, but as a layperson I can say that the book, Girl With a Pearl Earring is evocative and mesmerizing.Johannes, Jan or Johan Vermeer (1632-1675) was a Dutch painter who specialized in exquisite, domestic interior scenes of middle class life.The painting Girl with a Pearl Earring is one of Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer's masterworks and as the name implies, uses a pearl earring for a focal point. Today the painting is kept in the Mauritshuis gallery in the Hague. It is sometimes referred to as "the Mona Lisa of the North" or "the Dutch Mona Lisa". (Source: Wikipedia)Girl with a Pearl Earing by Tracy Chevalier is the story of Griet, a young girl who is sent to work at Vermeer's house as a maid. Her father is no longer able to support the family, following an accident that leaves him blind. As a result, Griet is uprooted from all that she has known to a completely unfamiliar environment.Griet is in charge of cleaning Vermeer's studio, a place where hardly anyone, not even his wife Catharina, is allowed to enter. For Griet, the studio is like a mysterious and enchanted land. Even before she has met him, she is drawn to Vermeer and his paintings. Soon, Vermeer is enamored by this quiet and scared young girl. Thus, starts the journey towards Vermeer's most celebrated painting.Girl with a Pearl Earring is a fascinating portrayal of the mystery behind the painting. Somehow, reading this book, makes the painting more magical and beautiful in my eyes. Perhaps, the actual story will forever remain unknown but Tracy Chevalier's take is enough to satisfy one's curiosity about the painting.I felt for Griet right from the start. Griet, in her innocence, unknowingly causes conflict within Vermeer's family as the artist's obsession with her grows. At the same time, she's as captivated by him, as he by her."He saw things in a way that others did not, so that a city I had lived in all my life seemed a different place, so that a woman became beautiful with the light on her face."One of my only problems with the book is that the author fails to create a very vivid portrayal of 17th century Delft. However, there's so much eloquence and passion in the way the author describes Vermeer, his paintings and his relationship with Griet, that it's easy to overlook any flaws. The book's premise is what won me over and kept me engaged throughout.One of the best parts about the book are the diverse characters. There's the mysterious Vermeer, his jealous bitter wife, Catharina and his powerful, controlling mother-in-law, Maria. The author has depicted the power-play, class system, poverty, the terrible conditions of the poor, religious prejudices and women's position in 17th century Holland. It may seem like a simple story, but it has so many complexities.There's so much left unsaid between Griet and Vermeer that it breaks your heart. Till the end I kept on asking myself - What is it between the two of them? It did not seem like love to me, but more like an intense longing and desire. I think everyone will have their own take on this.The movie, I think, captures the beauty and sensuality of the book. It's not perfect, but it's much better than most book-to-movie adaptations. According to the author :"I love the film. It is like and yet not like the book, rather in the way sisters resemble each other yet also have distinctive personalities.As you would expect of a film about Vermeer, it is ravishing to look at - each scene beautifully lit and composed, almost like a succession of would-be Vermeer paintings, with some Rembrandts and de Hoochs thrown in for fun. Colin Firth is excellent as Vermeer, managing to retain the painter's mystery even as we get to know him. But the film belongs to Scarlett Johannson, who is only 18 and has maybe 60 words of dialogue, yet packs so much into her luminous face that I couldn't take my eyes off her."(Source: Tracy Chevalier's Website)Overall:An entrancing take on the story of the girl in Vermeer's most famous paintingRecommended:Yes! Historical Fiction fans will enjoy this.
5 Chevalier brings 1600s Holland to life in this great novel. Her characters are for the most part vivid and true while her prose is honest and sometimes breathtaking. Although one suspects early in the novel that Vermeer would eventually paint his somewhat repressed maid, Griet, Chevalier brings the smallest of details of this event to life. The novel ends of course with Griet's triumph over her many obstacles, including Vermeer's wife. A original and well written novel.
5 I quickly found myself absorbed into 17th century Holland.  The story is about a young girl named Griet who went to work for the master artist Vermeer.  We doubt that the girl was a real person, but it seems to be entirely plausible.Tracy Chevalier's writing is tangible, colorful, expressive.  The explanations of how a great artist must have painted were fascinating.I was sad to finish this book.  I wanted the experience to continue!  This is one of the few books that I would read again.
5 Reminiscent of the Girl in Hyacinth Blue, the story of another Vermeer painting, this is the tale of a young maid in the Vermeer household who becomes the subject of one of his paintings.Griet is a young girl from the family of a tile painter in Delft who for financial reasons is forced to find work in the house of Vermeer. At first working in the household solely as a maid and admiring his paintings Griet comes to assist the painter in producing his paintings from the grinding of materials which produce luscious sounding colors to becoming the subject of one of his 35 paintings.Written from the point of view of a young girl growing up in a working environment filled with the family of Vermeer including his many children, difficult wife and fascinating mother-in-law to the painter himself this book follows Griet's life for the several years that she stays with the family and becomes an integral part in the course of several paintings' completion.The author conveys well 17th century life from a young person's point of view but what is particularly well done is Griet's concept of her master's work. Developing a keen eye for color and crucial to the subtle work required in such gifted artistry she provides us with a view to works in progress from blank canvas to completed painting.An excellent book which is quite different from anything I've ever read.
3 I don't get what all the fuss is about.  This is a middling story at best, though decently written.I appreciated the look into Dutch life 300 years ago, but little else.  I didn't come away with much after reading it.  I found a few of the characters interesting but they were for the most part flat.  No secrets were revealed, no one changed or grew.  I didn't become emotionally attached to any of them.  The plot was dull and predictable with little bright spots that offered potential, but were left unexplored by the author.Read this when you haven't much else to read, but don't go out of your way to get your hands on it.
5 This book is absolutely gorgeous. Chevalier paints with words as Vermeer painted with paint. Her prose and descriptions actually take on the same quality as Vermeer's paintings, luminous, quiet, and very strikingly beautiful. The character Griet is complex and interesting. The descriptions in this book are breath taking. Read this!!! Oh, and I am a teenager. Teenagers will love it too.
5 I LOVED this book! I finished it in three days and I?m a slow reader. I was surprised that a novel set during the 1660s in Holland could hold any interest for me, but I couldn?t put it down.What I like most is how the story exemplifies the modus operandi of a true artist: His greatest passion is his art, which can be difficult for regular people to fully comprehend. For that artistic passion to be more important than anything else, can be heartbreaking for a young girl such as Griet. Maybe it?s because I?m an artist myself, went to art school, have been surrounded by artists for so many years, that I could appreciate this novel, because so much of it is true when applied to real life. However, I think anyone will fall in love with this book.I also loved the way Chevalier described the way Vermeer saw the world, what set his vision apart from the people around him. The way he taught his vision to Griet was beautiful. It was wonderful to see how Griet slowly understood the complexities in the colors of our world?she seemed perceptive beyond her years, or just one of the few people in town who could understand, and Vermeer saw this in her from the beginning.Of course the love triangle in the novel was terrific. All the drama within the Vermeer family, their patrons and friends, and the local butcher?s son, was completely irresistible! However, it wasn?t like a soap opera by any means. Every character was complicated, everyone had their assets and flaws, which made this story all the more emotional. I was just sucked in!There were so many aspects to this story, so many interesting issues going on: Such as Cornelia, one of the Vermeer children who was determined to bring Griet to shame. The unwavering love that Pietre the son had for Griet, Maria Thins who masterminded the business, and of course, Griet?s own transformation from an innocent child to a young woman, with all the confusion, frustration, discoveries and heartbreaks that came with it. Simply written, but filled with forshadowing and symbolic acts, this book, to me, is a work of art to be remembered.
5 This book is a gem, like any and all of Tracy's novels, it is superbly well written and carefully researched.  The characters are engaging and the story compelling.  You will be instantly transported in time.  Are you ready to spend a few hours with Vermeer?  Well, just step inside...
5 Tracy has caught the breath and scope of the artist and those who suffer because and for them and others.A love affair without sex yet sexual in nature. A great read.
4 I read this book for school and loved it. While it was slow in places, the beauty of the story is umistakable. I could truly relate to Griet, and everything she went through. I could see her life clearly. the book showed her as a person and her as a model. The two were in many ways very seperate people. Her hardships with van Ruijven made her a like to maids evrywhere, but she was differnt. Her descriptions of Vermeer were by far the most interesting. His character while not imposing, has such a definite personality. The painting itself is beautiful, but after reading the book I looked at it in a new light. The description of Vermeer readying Griet to be painted, made me constantly turn to the cover to ook at the face of the girl and compare. This is the first good book I have read in a long time and I advise everyone to read it. It's not a long book, but it is powerful.
1 What a loser! The most boring book I have ever read. The story is trite. The characters are  totally forgettable.
5 My husband and I both loved this book!!
3 I thought the author could have researched the period a little more.  I felt that Greit could have just as easily lived in the early days of America from the few details given of &quot;Delft&quot; life.  Other than Vermeer and Greit making eyes at each other, I didn't see the attraction between them and by the end I really didn't care much what happened to either.
3 The cover of the book, Girl with the Pearl Earring, was what initially caught my eye.  I am not one to judge a book by its cover, so I opened it and began to read.  The book flows very easily.  I enjoyed the concept the author went for;  she chose a famous painting by Johannes Vermeer (the cover portrait) and proceded to weave an intriguing and interesting fictional tale about the young woman painted in the portrait and what her life may have been like during that time period.Griet, the featured young woman, leaves home to be a servant for a famous painter after her ailing/aging father is no longer able to make his living with his tile making trade.  She is sent to live in the house of a famous painter and his family of formidable characters to act as a servant girl, nurse-maid, and muse.  Through a series of overly predictable events, Griet eventually goes back to her parent's home in a (what I believe to be and the book does not detail) disgraced state.Once the decision was made to return to her parent's home, her life and fate take yet another turn.  Chevalier almost makes her character, Griet, the poster girl for the limited options girls/women had during that era.  The book is an easy read, completely predictable, certainly not profound, but not a complete waste of reading time.
5 Be prepared for a wonderful journey as you read along and learn about long ago Delft, the artist Vermeer and his servant Grit.  This book is so well written that you feel as though you know the characters and are a guest in  Vermeer's home and studio. And as you read along also fully expect to seek  out a book with Vermeer's paintings so you can identify the ones you've  read about.I closed this book with a sigh, wishing it would  never end  and now I am eagerly anticipating the the next book by the author Tracy  Chevalier.
4 The book opens with our heroine, Griet, being hired as a servant for the rich Vermeer family. Gradually her beauty attracts the attention of painter Johannes Vermeer and he becomes so enamoured with her that he permits her to help him in his studio, where not even his wife, Catharine, is allowed.The development of Griet's and Johanne's relationship is at once captivating and unnatural; captivating, as it holds the allure of forbidden love; and unnatural, because Johannes' interest in Griet is obsession mistaken for love. An interesting observation is that whenever Griet was with Vermeer, the atmosphere has a stillness and bleakness to it, lacerated with dark color and tone. On the other hand while she's with her other love interest her surroundings are open, jovial and welcoming, showing that a union with him is the natural and right one; or, as society would put it, the most conventional one.I also found it very curious that Johannes Vermeer's first name is mentioned only once in the entire book. Instead, Griet refers to him only as her "master". As well as adding to the mystery and potency that surrounds him, this device reinforces the idea that ultimately she is subservient to him, and in a time when young uneducated girls were little more than possessions, the place where the power to decide her future lay was with her master.Every detail in this book is meticulously researched. From the architexture of houses Dutch peasants lived in to the delicate process of preparing paints from grinding stone, it all rings true and draws the reader in to the wonderful worldbuilding.What struck me the most is that although this is fiction, I could almost believe Girl with a Pearl Earring was written in the era it's based on. The writing style is unfurnished and simple, but it resonates with the culture and tradition of the Dutch.One limiting factor of writing in first person is that the reader in confined to the protagonist's mind at all times, so when another character does something that seems unfair in their eyes, there is no certain way to see the reasons behind the action. For example, one particular character, eight-year-old Cornelia is as obnoxious as a poisoned-tipped dart throughout the entire book. I find it hard to believe that an eight-year-old can be as conniving and cruel as Cornelia was shown to be and would have preferred reading multiple POVs to understand the way she acted the way she did.Other than that criticism, I believe this book deserves the recognition it has received and more. If you have read it, I strongly reocmmend to watch the film adaptation because it gives a wonderful new angle to the masterpiece that Girl with a Pearl Earring is.
4 This book was very good, and it is a very fast read (it took me two evenings).  A friend recommended it to me, knowing my interest in art; and at first I was a bit apprehensive because the book is more description than plot.  However, it was wonderful; and even though the book was very descriptive, Chevalier doesn't get too lost in her own words.  The book is told in the first person, which I think was a wise decision on the author's part.  It is the thoughts of the main character that make the story worth reading, watching her take in the world around her and respond to it.  The only thing I was disappointed in was that the conflict in the book was a bit anticlimatic -- I think that the description on the back of the book makes it seem that there is more going on in the story than there actually is.  But, beyond that (and my disappointment was really just the result of my own expectations), the book was wonderful.  I highly recommend it.
4 The unabridged audiobook had it's good and bad points.  The bad points being the depiction of all men in the book being cruel and/or selfish, and basically unaware and unconcerned of the feelings and dignity of a woman.  Every major male character abused Griet in some way.  Vermeer, by causing her pain, physical and emotional, the future husband, by illicit sex, the patron, by groping and fondling her.The good points were - showing the total obliviousness artists and creative people have towards their surroundings, and the people around them, when deep in the creative process.  The other good point was:  showing the main character, Griet, to be tough, and to get past disappointments, and on with her life.
5 This book was a delight to read. The criticism that it is offensive because Griet offers several insightful comments to Vermeer is laughable. While reading, I thought I could tell that Mrs. Chevalier graduated from a Creative Writing program, but that is neither here nor there. The writing was crisp, direct and engaging, as were both her characters and the world they inhabitied. I would have been very proud to write this book. I especially enjoyed the last fify or so pages.
5 I have long been a fan of Vermeer, and his mystery is intriguing - now that I have read this book, I not only know him, but i know Delft, I know the life and times of the 1600s, and I know some of his models.  Anyone who  has ever seen a Vermeer will love this book, or anyone who read The Agony  and The Ecstasy will love it.  Chevalier's descriptions are like paintings  in themselves.  What a talent she has.  I am recommending this book to all  my artist friends.
5 This novel is wonderful for anyone, but especially appealing for those of us who are in book discussion clubs. The novel is open for personal interpretation on many levels. Ms. Chevalier's presentation of life in a very difficult time is tempered with one girl's strong sense of identity even as she responds to duty imposed by family hardship. There are many levels to this story, and while Griet is the main focus, the fear of Vermeer's wife and her insecurities about her place in her husband's priorities are very interesting, as is the character Vermeer himself. A wonderful novel!
4 I somehow never got around to Girl with a Pearl Earring back when it became popular, and then again when the film came out. I kept having friends whose opinions I respect speak highly of it, even after years had gone by, and I figured that it must be better than the normal best-selling fair, that is forgotten weeks after its appearance and left by the dozens to yellow on used-bookstore shelves. As it happens, it was quite a good, striking and certainly memorable.Plot-wise, I guess not much happens. Griet, the well-grounded daughter of a tile-maker who has recently been blinded in an accident, must take work as a maid in the home of a local artist. Griet's life is consumed by the tensions and dramas of her tiny world--jealousy between staff, the clueless mistress of the house, power-struggles with the spoiled children, romance with a local boy, fear and sadness caused by poverty and the plague, etc. But, sort of like Vermeer's paintings, there are details in the midst of her life that just shine, that are simply sublime. Griet, an artist's daughter, possesses an aesthetic sense that the master of the house recognizes, and so she begins to help Vermeer to produce his masterpieces, an enviable possession that is threatened when the artist's wealthy patron begins to take interest in the girl.The key strength of the book is in the writing itself. The novel is told in Griet's voice which reflects her keen and artistic observations. The novel is also subtle, and psychologically astute. A lot happens between the lines, as Griet begins to grow up and to learn how to look at and appreciate herself and the world around her. Certainly, it is a quiet novel, and brief. But again, the analogy of Vermeer's paintings comes to mind; even if one offers just a glimpse of a simple scene at a brief moment in time, there are many small beauties to enjoy and levels to discover. Girl with a Pearl Earring the novel is like that, a finely drawn and artistic tale.
4 I chose this book because I had seen the excellent movie with Colin Firth and Scarlett Johanssen.The story revolves around a young serving girl in an artist's household in the age of the great masters in Holland. The historical era is so different, the mores, the daily way of life, the economics, are all revealed within a fascinating story.I wish all history lessons could be written in such a compelling structure!
3 I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy the two nights it took me to read Tracy Chevalier's Girl With a Pearl Earring; certainly I never lost interest in the story.  But on the other hand, neither did it thrill me in the way it seems to have done for other readers here.Chevalier uses a tactic familiar in historical novels--the story of the commoner who fills in for the reader as an observer of her age and its &quot;great&quot; historical figures--to imagine how Vermeer's most stunning portrait might have come to be painted.  This method works best when Chevalier lets Griet out of the master's studio and into the bustle of the town.  Her depiction of the marketplace, of the tensions within Griet's family, of the hard labor with which Griet fills her days, of the age-old divide between artists and artisans, of the peculiar smells at the apothecary's, of the tension between Vermeer's Catholicism and the &quot;new&quot; church, of the strange mix of terror and resignation that must have been common during an age of plagues--these are the details that make the book worth reading.  If Chevalier had been able to drop the Vermeer hook and just write about Griet's life and times, I think this may have been a much better novel.  (In fact, I liked the ending for the very reason that we get to see Griet the villager moving in her element.)Unfortunately, the sections focusing on Vermeer and his large family do not come off so well.  Each family member plays into a type calculated to serve the needs of the author's story:  the whiny &amp; neglected wife, the salt-of-the-earth mother-in-law, the &quot;good&quot; first daughter, the &quot;bad&quot; second daughter (whose villainous behavior towards Griet strains credibility), and even Vermeer himself, the &quot;genius&quot; artist and stock romantic hero who says little but looks at the world through blazing eyes of gray.  The resulting scenes feel as though they were written with a two-hour made-for-TV movie in mind rather than a novel.  The scene where Vermeer himself, in classic TV melodrama fashion, plunges the pearl earring through Griet's swollen earlobe, is particularly turgid.In short, I recommend this book for those who want a quick, pleasant read; those who like historical romances; and those who want to get some of the flavor of one corner of 17th century Europe.  For those wanting something meatier, I suggest Susan Vreeland's Girl In Hyacinth Blue, which lacks some of Chevalier's strengths (it is a very different sort of book), but leaves the reader with a much more nuanced portrait of the artist and his family, and much more to think about in general.
3 Tracy Chevalier's novel is a fictitious background story for Johannes Vermeer's famous painting.  The tale is plausible enough, told from the perspective of the girl in the painting.  Griet is a teenager in 1664 who becomes a maid in the service of Vermeer's family, but the artist recognizes when he meets her that she is a good observer of color.  She has placed her chopped vegetables in the shape of pie wedges, so that adjacent colors in the wheel are not similar.  The prose is unpretentious and straightforward, evocative of the well-mannered Griet, making this book a quick read.  I thought it rather predictable, especially with regard to the hurtful mischief that Vermeer's daughter Cornelia stirs up and the eventual role that Griet earns as Vermeer's assistant.  Of course, we know from the outset that he will paint her, and it was handy to have a photo of the painting on the cover as a reference.
5 This is a wonderful book for a long relaxing weekend.  The writing style flows for an easy read.  The author crafted a great piece of historical fiction and beautifully describes the time to bring you back there.  It was nice to learn a little about this artist that I otherwise would have overlooked.  The story leaves you wanting to investigate his other works especially when they are referred to throughout the story.
3 I chose the book because I am anticipating the arrival of Girl With a Pearl Earring in Atlanta, and I thought reading the book might enhance the experience of seeing the lovely painting.  I was close to putting the book down by the time I was half way through it, because it was so boring. But boring was the life of a maid in those times, and so I continued reading.  It is well written for Young Adult or Middle School students in the later grade levels, but not for anyone who enjoys enriched vocabulary or a plot that requires concentration.
5 The opening scene of this book is masterly: a girl, chopping vegetables in her home, arranges them by color and texture and tint, listening as her parents arrange for her to leave the only home she's ever known and go to work for the painter Vermeer. She becomes his helper and the subject of his painting. This wonderful, multi-layered book is historical fiction that rises many notches above other books in the genre.Vermeer's prosperous household is full of tensions: servents who have their own heirarchy, his domineering and perpetually-pregnant wife, the many resulting children, and his incredibly powerful mother-in-law. An exquisite  and painstakingly- researched portrayal of life in 16th century Delft through all levels of society - giving a vivid understanding of how small a sphere of life the characters were able to experience.Masterful and memorable book.
5 I thought to myself I can't read this boring book just by looking at the cover...I can honestly say shame on me because this book was great :-)!
5 It has been a long time since I read this book, I picked it up at the airport on a flight out of the US.  I guess I didn't stop reading since when we landed 10 hrs later I was just finishing and hadn't realized we had arrived at our destination.  I thoroughly enjoyed the book and it is one of my top 5 favorites.  I also enjoyed the Lady and the Unicorn.
4 This book is truly inspiring, to look at a piece of art then write a story about it makes you look at fine art in a different light.  The author's descriptive narratives on Vemeer's use of light and colors in his paintings was most interesting.
5 The book was like new and shipped promptly...as good as Amazon.com.
5 I've had this one on the shelf since it came out and finally came to it.  Wow!  Such a stunningly envisioned work!  The first-person narrative is so strong in point of view that you can picture Griet completely in your mind, see the choices she makes, and understand her.GwaPE so vividly portrays 17th Century Delft that you begin to think in their terms and understand why the people act as they do within the social constructs of the time.  By the end of the novel, you are completely wrapped in the time.  The explanations of clothing, adornment, household objects, jobs, lifestyles are as vivid as a Vermeer painting.Chevalier gets it just right!  Vermeer's amazing genius in his work is juat that: the portrayal of people as they were... and Chevalier mimics his genius beautifully.I was in the Met Store this afternoon after finishing this one, and I picked up an artbook with all the Vermeers in it (all 35), and when I turned the page to Girl with a Pearl Earring, it had so much more power for me.  The whole novel blossomed for me in the eyes of the girl.Truly amazing.
5 Little is known about the life of Johannes Vermeer. With 35 paintings to his credit he's a bit of an enigma. Perhaps it is that enigmatic persona  that lends itself so well to the genre of speculative fiction. Dutch  Renaissance fiction, and specifically Vermeer, is the dernier cri right now  and the newest contributer is Tracy Chevalier with her novel, Girl With a  Pearl Earring.Chevalier's novel centers around Vermeer's chaotic  seventeenth century Delft household. Enter sixteen year old Griet, forced  to work after her father is blinded in an accident. She is hired as a maid,  but her quiet steady manner and artistic inclination soon have her secretly  working with Vermeer; first cleaning his studio, then grinding pigments,  and finally posing secretly for the painting known as the &quot;Dutch Mona  Lisa.&quot; We watch Griet's transformation as an attractive young woman  who is already aware of her effect on men, to something more complex and  cunning. We listen to her efforts to de-feminize herself to deflect  unwanted attention, her rationalizations in her trading of dispassionate  minor sexual favors to achieve her goals, however vague they may  seem.The beauty of Girl With a Pearl Earring, like a Vermeer itself,  lies in it's deceptive simplicity. The use of sparse, matter of fact  language belies the novel's depth and sophistication. Chevalier magically  weaves fact and fiction. She brilliantly explains the nuances of Vermeer's  masterpiece; the girl's odd expression, its mixture of innocence, guilt,  desire, and fear. This is a poignant bitter sweet story, part coming of age  novel, and part art history lesson, and too wonderful to miss.
5 Girl With a Pearl Earring is the fictionalized story behind the girl in Johannes Vermeer's famous painting with the same title. Very little is known about Vermeer's real life and no one knows who the real Girl With a Pearl Earring is so most all of the plot is from Tracy Chevalier's imagination.Sixteen year old Griet is from a poor Protestant family living in 1660s Holland. She goes to work as a housekeeper for the Vermeer family so she can help contribute to her family's dire financial situation. The work is hard and the days are long. Because of her attention to detail, Griet is given the job of cleaning Vermeer's studio and leaving everything in exactly the same place it was before she cleaned. This makes Vermeer's wife jealous - she's not even allowed in the studio because she is so clumsy.I could not put this book down. Griet is a great character. She is strong but recognizes the limitations of being a woman in the 17th century. She's smart enough to work with the social confines of her situation to survive and thrive. The relationship between Vermeer and Griet was complex, at times it seemed like a parent/child dynamic and other times it seemed to have more romantic tension. The author did a great job of putting the reader right in the middle of Delft, the town in Holland where the story takes place. I highly recommend this book.
5 This book......it is delicious! It gave me the good book hangover for a full week!  I actually read this book after "The Lady And the Unicorn" and it did not dissapoint!  Well worth the read, it will not dissapoint!  The movie doesn't begin to do this book justice!
4 Griet was a subtle, quiet and sometimes submissive girl.  You will follow her as she tries to bring honor and money to her family.  While blessed with a strange beauty that men take to she still seems unaware of her power as a women, perhaps because the women she lives with as servant are so demanding and cruel.  This book is a very subtle read.  I read it with a book club and the different points we picked up on were amazing.  If you're looking for a book to discuss, this one will fit the bill.  Never offensive, always touching, sometimes even leaving you begging for soemthing more to happen between this girl and the people in her life, paticularily her master Vermeer, this is a great story.  Much detail is given to the paintings and the manner in which they were painted, so I recommend you read with a book on Vermeer close by. You will learn something about art, human nature, and even a bit on the historical class structure.
5 I think to truly enjoy this story is to read it through Griet's eyes and heart ... to look at things from the point of view of a teenage girl .. still innocent and inexperienced .. poor and unpriviledged .. She takes you with her on her daily duties as a maid ... she describes the way she looks at her master and the unspoken magic she feels between them ... her description of her mistress ... her feelings towards her Pieter and his bloody nails .. it is the way those wide eyes looked on life and people around them!Chevalier's style is original, simple and stunning! The meaning behind the title... the purity of Griet's emotions... I felt like I lived in that house and could imagine the kitchen , the attic .. even standing infront of the studio's window over looking the New Church... a very sentimental experience!The ending is unexpected and romantic just like when Griet pierced her ear .. I thought he would give her the portrait .. although she says that she would never see it again .. it tells a lot about the way he felt towards her and about the kind of person he is even though he is not fully_exposed as a character.. I believe that Chevalier did this on purpose just to show us Vermeer the artist ... The Griet we see at the end is a mature young woman ...protective of her family ... thankful for her new life!A beautiful story where fact and imagination intertwine to create an atmosphere filled with tension and love, and a better understanding of life!
5 Girl with a Pearl Earring by Tracy ChevalierInspired by a painting by Dutch artist Vermeer, GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is a fictional account of how this famous painting came to be.  Just as Johannes Vermeer painted this anonymous girl back in the 1660's, author Tracy Chevalier painted a beautiful picture of the world of 17th century Holland and the world of this young girl who eventually becomes the subject of one of his paintings.Ms Chevalier's story starts with the introduction of Griet, a young teenage girl who lives with her parents and younger sister in a very humble home in the town of Delft.  She is helping chop vegetables in their kitchen when her parents receive a visit from two stately looking guests.  Griet finds out soon enough that this couple is Johannes Vermeer the painter, and his lovely wife Catharina.  Johannes notices how Griet is separating the vegetables by color and his observation does not go unnoticed by Griet.  This first brief encounter between them is the spark that starts their new "relationship".Griet learns then that she is expected in a few days to start working for the Vermeers as their maid.  Griet's father is no longer able to work due to an accident he had on the job, and now it is up to Griet to help the family out.  Her older brother has already left home, and is learning to make a living at what their father used to do: Make tiles.A few days later, Griet is living with the Vermeer's and their children and servants.  They live lavishly for these times, and Griet soon becomes accustomed to her new life.  She returns on weekends to visit her family, but she has to stay with the Vermeers during the workweek.Griet has many duties as a maid, including doing the laundry and helping out with the children.  She slowly bonds with the children, all except Cornelia, who seems to be a trouble maker and tries her best to get Griet into trouble with her parents.  This becomes especially evident when, for some reason, Johannes decides to make Griet his assistant, on top of all the duties Griet has to perform as their maid.  Because of Catharina's jealousies, his wife is not to know about this special role that Griet was about to play in the house.  With the help of Catharina's mother, Griet finds ways to secretly help Johannes "grind" his colors and do other necessary things to help him prepare for painting, in the hopes that Catharina doesn't find out.Griet falls in love with his paintings, and with him.  And soon, all she can think about is him.  Since she is now his special assistant, she is privy to his private world of painting, a world that even Catharina is not allowed to trespass.  Through the eyes of Griet the reader sees how Vermeer created his beautiful works of art, using a creation that was the forerunner of today's camera.  A new world opens up for Griet. Because of this, Griet also knows that she is headed towards danger of losing her job.GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING in my opinion was a literary work of art.  Maybe I was heavily influenced by the cover, which depicts the actual painting of this girl that Vermeer made famous back in the 17th century.  Regardless of the reason, I personally enjoyed this fictional tale of the creation of one of Holland's most famous paintings of the renaissance era.
3 I have to say, this book has stayed with me, though I can't explain why. As it pertains to Vermeer, it is largely invention, and yet I did come away feeling like I identified with him a little. I appreciated the subtleties in the relationship between the heroine and the artist, the complexities of a girl in her position and during her time. I felt Chevalier painted the setting well, though I found Griet a bit difficult to sympathize with. Overall, I felt it a bit over-hyped. It is, in some ways, very well painted, a story well told, but it lacks complexity, and drive. I did feel, however, that it was a far greater accomplishment artistically than was Burning Bright.
1 I can not understand all the hallaballoo about this work. I kept waiting for the story to unfold. OK, the principal character is 16, but must the writing style be of a 16 year old. If this book had not been give the promotional spin it recieved, it would have been relagated to the fiction section of the local supermarket.Perhaps it would make a good Hollywood movie.
4 This book was a well-written insight into Medieval Netherlands and into the mind and genius of one of the all-time great art masters, Vermeer.But it was more than that: it was a peek into the ambient world recorded in his paintings. The beauty, order, and perspectives of his paintings, however, were much more fanciful than the hard reality of that world.I've always been impressed by how tiny the people seem in Medieval paintings. I'm sure the level of nutrition and medicine contributed to this. But after reading this book, I'm impressed how small so many of the people were in character. The so-called upper-class was automatically right in whatever they said or did, solely on the basis of who they were. The lower-class were subjected to systematic, small-time insulting daily, like having to stand in the presence of their masters, not speaking unless spoken to, being spoken about instead of spoken to, etc, etc. The children of the wealthy learned from their parents - one of the children in this story was like a Rosemary's Baby! Vermeer was a little better than some others in this story, but not great; when push came to shove, he abandoned the falsely accused maid, who was the subject of one of his most famous paintings, the focus of this book. It's too bad that the other characters in this book did not rise to something close to that level.This book reminded me of `The Lost Quilt', `Uncle Tom's Cabin', and the PBS series, `Downton Abbey.'  In all these stories, there was a sharp class separation between the haves and the have-nots.  The haves seemed to get spiritually smaller by their pettiness, vanity, judgementalism, and I-am-always-right attitudes. These attitudes seemed to migrate to their subordinates who also were well-aware of where they stood in their `sub' society. The best character in all these stories, by the way, I think was Uncle Tom. Contrary to the negative epithet associated with his name, he was actually a picture of a suffering Christ in the most treacherous of circumstances, and admirable in every way! His greatness of character drove that story.It reminds me of a biblical command that is maybe the hardest to live up to: `Judge not lest you be judged.' I remind myself daily that we simply don't have enough information to judge others. I don't think the people in this book understood this at all! That's what made them so small!
5 I really enjoyed reading this book. What a wonderful story. Can't wait to read the next ones. I thought it was well written...BEcky Bradshaw
5 What is it about this quiet novel about an Old Master painting that has appealed to so many readers in its decade-plus in print? Have so many people "discovered" the great painter Vermeer that they're attracted to anything that can reveal more about him or his renowned painting, Girl With a Pearl Earring? Clearly the Scarlet Johanssen movie has boosted its long shelf life, a favor it deserves.Chevalier set herself the ambitious task of imagining a life for the anonymous young woman in the painting, a work she must have been in love with. I know the feeling: a large framed print of it hangs above our piano, and I never tire of looking at it.Much like the Mona Lisa, the Meisje met de Parel is captivating. You view the young woman in it with wonder: Who is she, and what is she thinking? What is her relationship to Johannes Vermeer, who, with Rembrandt and Frans Hals, was one of the most important artists of the Dutch Golden Age.At the time of the novel, the 17th century, the Netherlands was at its apex of power and wealth, wallowing in profits from shipping, slaving, fishing, and war profiteering. Girl With a Pearl Earring takes place in Delft, famed for its blue and white ceramics.Sixteen-year-old Griet is forced into service with the Vermeer household when a kiln explosion blinds her father. Soon she's grinding the master's paints, and eventually she poses for a painting.The bare bones of the plot sound ominously dull, but the story lies in the flesh. The pleasures of the flesh include domestic intrigue, unrequited love and depictions of the artist's life. Also, sexual jealousy, grief and ambition, all conveyed through the voice of a complex and unforgettable character, young Griet.Vermeer's trust in the new maid catapults the rest of the household into a frenzy of resentment. Griet must get her work done in an atmosphere of relentless manipulation and persecution. Despite her simple background, she is absorbed by the ingredients and process of making art. She understands the degree of Vermeer's artistry and feels the power of his vision.The character of Vermeer remains somewhat vague, a man of few words and limited interactions. His pregnant and crabby wife Catharina--Griet's worst foe--is more vividly portrayed. An imperious social climber, she's tormented by the arrangement between her husband and the maid, as who wouldn't be.Fortunately Griet's modesty is no match for her Dutch hardheadedness. She knows the volatile situation requires a back-up plan and keeps the butcher boy's interest at a boil.In the end Vermeer asks too much of her. Girl With a Pearl Earring is a subtler, more artful variation of the classic maid's story. Here, at least, Griet is repaid with immortality.Reviewed by Rebecca BurkeAuthor of When I Am Singing to You
4 I really enjoy these types of novels about an actual person or historical event and what may have occurred surrounding him or it.  This particular novel is about an actual painter (Vermeer) and an actual painting (Girl with a Pearl Earring).  The artist creates a beautiful fantasy about who the girl in the painting might have been and what her relationship to Vermeer might have been.It is beautifully written and I fully enjoyed it.  Highly recommended.
4 The Girl with a Pearl Earring, offered me a view into a period and place in history about which I knew almost nothing.  the story is engaging and the characters well drawn.  I am sure it is romanticised, despite much about the story that is quite un-romantic. the ending seemed rather pat.  It reflects one possibility for the haunting quality of Vermeer's painting.  Seeing the painting at the deYoung Museum in San Francisco shortly after reading the novel, brought several other possibiblities to mind.
5 I didn't realize how much I had enjoyed reading *Girl with a Pearl Earring* until I had finished the last page, closed the book, and saw that there wasn't any more of it to read. It seduced my attention in such small steps that I hadn't noticed what Tracy Chevalier had accomplished: this is not just an interesting story about a painting, it is a stunning portrait in itself. To borrow a phrase from a high school teacher of mine, Tracy Chevalier could write about opening a box of cereal, and it would still be the most interesting thing you have read in a month.I read in a review on this website that *Pearl Earring* was a "surprisingly good read" despite its lack of plot and abundance of "uninteresting" and "unpleasant" characters. This description also suggests what the reviewer thinks would comprise an UNsurprisingly good book - lots of plot and pleasant characters? What fun would that be?The reason this reviewer thought the book was good _anyway_ is because Chevalier managed to break through his or her preconception that "good" means "a lot of cool stuff is going on."In Griet, Griet's family, and Griet's employers, Chevalier has created a wonderfully detailed and intelligent possible world where works of art may be created.  After reading this book (in two days flat, by the way - I did not want to stop reading), I wanted to thank Chevalier for changing the way I could admire a painting. Vermeer was in the book, yes. All the little facts were correct, and historic Delft was presented plague, market, art patrons and all.But in the end, I only really cared about the girl - the girl who could read the people around her with only a glance, who knew that respectable women did not appear  open-mouthed in portraits, who could see without being told what is missing in a small, dark spot of canvas, and who could find comfort in a small square of Delft tile made by her poor father when forced to live apart from him.If you are interested in this sort of an exercise in historical fiction, I highly recommend this book.  And if you're wondering how a slow, quiet story without a plot can be enjoyable, read it and let Chevalier surprise you.
4 What an enjoyable story about the artist Vermeer from a young girl's viewpoint.  Tracy Chevalier's novel was such a pleasantly surprising adaptation of what might have happened between an artist and his muse.  I added this book to my list of recommendations, especially for teen readers.
5 I absolutely loved this book! It ia beautifully written and the author breathes life into her characters! This novel has all the elememts that make up a great novel. This book is a true classic not to be forgotten. I would like to thank the author for giving us this creative masterpiece!
5 This is one of the best films of a painters life I have ever seen and of course it helps that I happen to love Vermeer and Delft.And the Deluxe Edition is worth every penny.
5 This book was great. The author told the story as if she'd lived in that time period herself. Although this was a work of fiction, fact was intermixed. Once I finished reading this I had to learn more about the painter Vermeer. Then I had to go get her other books, all of which have fact and fiction combined. A great historian.
5 This story had a fascinating premise of a young servant girl working for Vermeer, the Dutch painter, who has a famous painting of a young woman with a pearl earing. The description of the period was excellent. The girl, Griet, was well thought out and although poor had a artist's understanding. I thoroughly enjoyed the book.
3 A good book, not a great one.  Chevalier has created a fictional life for the girl with a pearl earring in Vermeer's luminous painting.  This artifice is effective, and there is ample detail about 17th century Holland to support the plot.  Yet the book is a light read.  An account of the girl's budding love life and the gossipy goings-on in Vermeer's household.  This will certainly appeal to those who prefer linear pop novels to deeper explorations of human or historical topics.  It's a book to be read in a weekend.
5 A slim offering of historical fiction about Johannes Vermeer's enigmatic portrait of an unknown young girl, circa 1665.It's a breathtaking, tantalizing love story....tantalizing because Vermeer and the maid, Griet, almost embrace their passion, each stepping over the line without transgression, but not without hurt:Vermeer, the worldly one, the master, tempted to the edge of the precipice...Griet, the child innocent, heedless of her woman's heat, trespassing unaware and ever nearer to the mystery that she barely understands in the beginning....She feels the lush weight of the earring, his fingertip sears her skin, she inclines toward his touch, trembles with a disembodied, virginal start of pain....Quickly stilled, she sits for him.He trembles--a long moment--with the rush of desire, masters it, and steps back to his easel, granting her a little more time in the childhood she is leaving behind, giving her a peace that will become a bereavement, a keening memory....They look at each other, mute, apart yet bound, in flagrante delicto, withering, without joy....Read more on my blog:  Barley Literate by Rick
5 I found this novel by chance and was enchanted. The author not only captures a world so far removed from our own as to nearly be science fiction..but she paints it with broad strokes and dark shadows.Lovely Griet is a contradiction of traits. Proud yet humble, sly yet innocent. She stumbles throughout her teen years trying always to find and keep her place. She knows her responsibilities and the expectations placed upon her as daughter, woman and household maid. She errs often and pays a heavy price for her mistakes. Vermeer seemed to me,  an unsympathetic milquetoast of a character willing to let the women around him bear his burdens as he escapes into his art, painting a world he probably wished he himself inhabited. The author's words are beautiful, her style is much like the painting itself, lit from within.  My only complaint was that the book was much too short.  I was left wanting more.
5 Enjoyed it throughout!  Good historical fiction.  A good book that kept me engrossed & up at night wondering what happens next  got me interested in wearing my pearl earring which I thought out of date
5 Captivating writing and tale of young servent Griet who become enamored and engaged in her duties to assist the great painter Vermeer.  This book intertwines some historical art history perspective with a slant of suduction of artistry.  Griet, only having become a servant, when her father, an artist himself of sorts in tile painting, becomes disabled.  She then must grow up almost immediately once she enters the Vermeer household.  She is not a well liked servent but catches the eye of the master, Vermeer himself.  An undercurrent of sexual tension in the book is often present and adds a strange twist to the ending.  If you appreciate good writing, good art and a good story, I can guarantee that you will absolutely enjoy this tale.
4 Or at least one possible version. While no one knows the real story, the author did an imaginative job based on what research was available. I have one quibble with the movie. The first ten seconds of the novel sets the stage for everything that follows. By omitting this, the script did a huge disservice to the author's work....the tension of those first ten seconds wove throughout the novel. Omitting it made the movie less logical and definitely less impactful in my mind. If you're going to watch it, I highly recommend reading the novel first.
4 Tracy Chevalier, Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutton, 1999)To date, I've read only one bad review of this slight novel, and a whole lot of excellent ones. I'm casting my vote on the excellent side. Chevalier took one of Vermeer's best-known and most enigmatic paintings and built a story around it (there are a series of these novels; Joyce Carol Oates' I Lock My Door Upon Myself is the only other one I've read, and it is similarly excellent). Griet, a sixteen-year-old from the Protestant side of the tracks, becomes the maidservant of the Vermeers after a kiln accident forces her father out of a job, and the story alternately skips between the variouis tensions within the Vermeer household and Griet's courting by a somewhat ham-handed, if well-meaning, butcher. It's subject matter that could have (and has) been screwed up in too many ways to imagine, but Chevalier pulls it off by keeping the prose spare and letting the silences speak most of the necessary lines. ****
3 This is a fairly interesting novel from the standpoint of portraying what it was like for a great artist to work in 17C Holland, that is, Vermeer. The frame of the story is from the point of view of a maid, whose family has fallen from relative affluence and hence she was forced into degrading labor in spite of her considerable intelligence.The sensibility is extremely delicate and prosaic, in that what the maid worries incessantly about are everyday battles for status within the household with children, another maid, and Vermeer's spoilt and narrow-minded spouse. Indeed, the maid's world, while complete in all its distressing detail, is petty to the point of boredom for the reader, or at least for me. Because her personal freedom and possibility were so sadly limited, I could not identify beyond a certain point with her anxieties and hopes as she was forced into a succession of servitudes and humiliations. Moreover, there is not a single jot of humor. Nonetheless, late in the book, her relationship with Vermeer becomes very interesting indeed, as he puts her into a painting as a model for a rich patron - the psychology is subtle and far-reaching. The reader also gets some perspective on the tensions between Catholic and Protestant groups that persisted even in the tolerant cities of Holland.Recommended, but tepidly.
4 Finally,a writer who doesn't overwrite! Ok,I actually wanted MORE detail as the subject was so interesting. Having been a fan of Vermeer's work,even before reading this book.I felt the&quot;story&quot; behind this painting,although fictionalized,seemed very plausible. Griet is both naive and very intelligent at the same time for she recognises Vermeer's genius. The day-to-day life of the household was also very authentic-feeling; Ms. Chevailer  captures the drudgery of being a maid in a realistic,matter-of-fact way. You can see why this girl was willing to pierce her own ears so she could be in the painting,if only to escape her dreary,monotonous life for a brief while. A fine portrait about a famous portrait.
5 One of the best books I've read in a long time.  Read it in a couple of days.  Beautifully written.  The story is subtle yet beckons to be read so it can unravel itself to a perfect ending.  I would highly recommend it.  I felt like I was wandering the streets of Delft.  The descriptions were amazing.  Chevalier did another great job.  I also recommend The Lady and the Unicorn.
4 This book has been popular for years and after seeing the trailer for the upcoming movie, I decided I had to read this book. And I'm glad I did. The story is not a complicated one nor a lengthy one that drags on and on. Instead it is a story of one girl, Griet, who simply works at a maid at the Vermeer house in Delft, and turns the household upside down.The daughter of a now blind tilemaker, Griet is to work at the Vermeer's to take in money for the household. Every Sunday she may come home. But no one expects the damage that Griet will bring to the Vermeers. Because of her the house is divided. Because of her they are forced to constantly take care of her, A MAID, because of lust-hungry men. Because of her they have to put her before their more skilled maid and keep her secrets safe. And because of her Vermeer painted his most famous peice that entrances people today.The book, as a whole, was very good. All of the characters came to life. Even each of the many Vermeer children had their characteristics from the mischevious and cruel Cornelia to the more sympathetic and sweet Maertge. Catharina was the huffy wife, always pregnant and always in a bad mood when Griet was around. Maria Thins had two sides to her. At one time she too was cruel and unjust but after she is to keep the secret that Griet is helping Vermeer in his studio with his paintings and mixing his paints, she realizes Griet may be an asset to the household and turns into a more sweet woman. Outside of the Vermeer house there was Griet's family: her mother, father, sister and brother. Her sister was a likeable character, that is until she died of the plague. Her brother on the other hand just seemed like a whiny teenager, overworked and doing things he should not be doing with girls. And then there was Griet's suitor: Pieter (the son), who worked along his father, Pieter (the butcher). I didn't really like either of them. Pieter (the son) would never leave Griet alone and constantly tried to take control of her. He wouldn't let her go and wouldn't stop chasing her. And it wasn't just that but his attitude just wasn't nice at all. His father was similiar, trying to push Griet into marriage with his son.The story was very well-written. The descriptions of everything from the Meat Hall to even Griet's descriptions of mixing the paints all brought beauty to the story. The dialogue was good and nothing ever dragged on.But many stories have sad endings. I didn't expect the ending to turn out the way it did but in the last few pages I liked it afterall.I recommend this book for all. A delightful read.
4 The Girl with a Pearl Earring was an enjoyable read, but as a lover of sophisticated and surprising endings, I thought the book lacked a great  conclusion.  Up to the resolution, the story was well-written: the  characters were vividly described through the eyes of the protagonist,  Griet, with clear similes and her private thoughts about them.  It was easy  to imagine Catharina (Vermeer's wife) with her capricious, selfish ways,  strong, level-headed Maria Thins (Catharina's mother) and her business  senses, Tanneke ( the other servant)and her fickle-minded mouth,  mean-spirited Cornelia and her hatred towards Griet, and Vermeer's quiet,  lonely, alienated lifestyle.  Almost like an arist herself, Griet leaves no  details and events untold in the story, taking the reader through the first  encounter with the Vermeers to the harsh life of a maid, and the beginning  of a special bond between Griet and Vermeer, always remembering to voice  her opinions and thoughts.  The ending, though, was lacking, predictably  drab, and anticlamatic.  It was too realistic and harsh, when in fiction  you can idealize and romanticize a bit to make.  Still, this is only my  opinion.  For those down-to-earth, practical people who don't mind some  dullness, the Girl with a Pearl Earring will suit you.Also, this novel  was a lot like I, Juan de Pareja, which is a story about a slave named Juan  working for another big artist, Valezquez.  Both books talk about how a  painting got to be like it is in the present.  Juan, like Griet, narrates  the story and uses a lot of details to create intense images, but he later  on has a happy ending.
5 Tracy Chevalier's most famous novel is about the intriguing Vermeer painting of the title. Chevalier gives her an identity- she is of the lower working class, a maid in the household of Johaness Vermeer. Through her eyes, we see the striking world of the Dutch Delft and the varying societies of arists, craftsmen, domestics and nobility. Through language that is not excessively florid, Chevalier describes scenes that are as precise and realistic as Vermeer's paintings themselves. Griet, a quiet but wise young girl, becomes the object of Vermeer's interest, though it is far from sexual. His jealous wife, who births children every year it seems, becomes increasingly jealous of the pretty Griet and the long hours she spends with Vermeer. The decadent, lusty old nobleman, a patron of Vermeer lusts after Griet and is reduced to the dirty old man villain type. The jealous wife too is another stock character. The master and servant relationship is also a bit outdated. While much of this can succumb to good old fashioned historical melodrama, it's really well-written and engaging.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I noticed that some reviewers complained about the so-called lack of plot development, however, I think these reviewers have missed the point.  The novel lovingly and carefully uses the every day life of Griet, a girl who is thoroughly average in many ways, to provide insight into the age of Vermeer.  Moreover, the plot is not only about the creation of the painting, but about the coming of age of Griet.  Instead of finding the plot lacking, I found that it was full of the sort of suspense and intrigue that is contained in the mundane details of all of our lives.  I also especially liked that Chevalier did not attempt to give her characters a modern sensibility.  Griet's practicality and sense of her own reality anchored the book for me because they seemed consistent with the ideas of her time.  In perfect keeping with Vermeer's work, the book provides us with a main character who appears to be ordinary, yet possesses a glimmer of light.  In this case, Griet's &quot;light&quot; is her eye for detail and her strong ability to intuit the moods and thoughts of others around her.  My only critique of the novel is that Chevalier wrapped the novel up too hastily.  While it seemed correct that our knowledge about Griet would end as abruptly as it began (after all, a painting is but a glimpse), I was disappointed in the lack of a sense of who the adult Griet really was. Still a very enjoyable read.
3 I did enjoy Girl with a Pearl Earing.  I thought the characters were well written and true to life.  However, if you were looking for a story of scandal (a painter having an affair with his young maid) you won't find it.  This is that classic tale of first love, one-way-street love, and love that can never be.  It's a story about settling for second best, being trapped by your class, and the grass-is-always-greener feeling.  Though the Girl in question has a strong backbone, she too suffers from the imobilization that love, lust, and infatuation give us.I did enjoy reading the book, but the hype and descriptions written about it mislead my expectations.
1 This book presents nothing to keep a listener interested: no intrigue, no mystery, no PLOT, no character development. I must've trudged through 7/8 of the story, and then I was sidetracked by something more urgent. Two days later, I could not care less what would happen in the story and so I have not finished it. (I lasted through 7/8 from mild curiosity, and I was on a cruise with a lot of time for just listening as the oceans sailed by.)
5 Due to family misfortunes, 16 year old Griet becomes a maid in the house  of Johannes Vermeer.  Through her eyes we see all the different people in  this family with their different agendas.Through time Griet becomes, not  just a maid, but Vermeer's assistant, mixing colours for his paintings, and  eventually his model.I disagree that the ending was sad, yes it was  easily predictable, as it was shown throughout the book.  Simply Griet  needed an exit, and there was only one logical answer.I loved the  descriptions of the paintings, and found myself turning back to the front  cover of the book and studying it, time and time again.
3 I picked this up as I have become interested in historical fiction; it is my first Chevalier novel.  I thought the writing was pretty; it pulled me into the time period.  However, the story was simple and seemed a little overplayed.  The book was full of the maid's daily chores and understated infatuation with her master.There is nothing wrong with book it just will not be a challenging read.
5 Greit's father is blinded by a kiln explosion, leaving her family without an income. Consequently, at the age of sixteen, her mother hires Greit out as a maid for the great painter, Vermeer, and his family. Greit works hard at the difficult work, becoming victim of the eldest child's cruelty and of the other maids' jealousy. One of her chores is to clean the master painter's studio, without moving a thing. She does her chore carefully, while becoming more and more fascinated by the master's work. Little by little, Greit begins to take on more responsibilities in aiding the great painter.This book is awesome! Through Greit's eyes, we get an inside glimpse of Vermeer's techniques. This is a tender look at one lowly maid's visions of great art.
5 If I hadn't been involved in a reading group I never would have known about and would have missed reading one of the best books I've ever read. The author creates the story behind one of Vermeer's most celebrated paintings, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot;. Griet is that girl. She is from a simple upbringing and due to her father's accident on the job he is unable to work.  She must work to earn money to help the family and is sent to work for an upper class family as a servant. The family is that of the famous painter, Johannes Vermeer. She has a sense of color and organization that captures the painter's interest from the moment he meets her. With Griet in their home there is lots of tension, which is ruled over by the Vermeer's jealous, clumsy, eternally pregnant wife and his mother-in-law. Griet is quiet but strong. As the story continues Griet finds that she is falling in love with Vermeer.  I also believe that Vermeer respects and loves Griet as much as a self-absorbed person can love. But this love can never be fulfilled.  For not standing up for Griet I feel that Vermeer tried to apologize in the end.  The author captures life in 1660s Delft, Holland beautifully. The book was a pleasure to read from beginning to end.
5 This on-the-edge, "almost a love story", is exquisite to me. The intensity of Griet's feelings, despite her apparent calm, is apparent on every page and vividly brought to life for the reader. Just like the painting itself which, so still and calm on the surface, speaks volumes through the ardent eyes and questioning mouth of the "girl with the pearl earring," Griet's inner life is revealed to us through the magic of Chevalier's words.That Chevalier could spin such a gripping tale from a single painting is a testimony to the inherent power of art. As they say, a picture is worth a thousand words--in this case, many thousands!Sarah Bruce KellyAuthor of THE RED PRIEST'S ANNINA
3 28/1 - Read it for year 12 English. Probably would have enjoyed it more if we hadn't been forced to read the whole book out loud as a class - some of the scenes were not the kind to be read out loud with idiotic teenage boys jeering at the sex scenes (well, I thought they were sex scenes when I was 17). Despite that horribly embarrassing experience I enjoyed the story and should probably read again now that it's 10 years down the track.
5 What a lovely story surrounded by the story of the painter Vermeer and his enchanting Dutch "Mona Lisa".  I found this story particularly enjoyable because of my love of all things Dutch.  The author is able to perfectly blend a lovely fictional character coming-of-age with factual history from the life and town of Johannes Vermeer.  The author did an amazing job exploring the rift between the catholics and protestants within the community.Also, see the movie after you read the book...Colin Firth and Scarlett Johansson portray Vermeer and Griet well, and the scenery of Delft, Netherlands is breathtaking.
3 I was attracted to this book because of the original concept; also because I am a teen myself, much interested in art and art history.  But perhaps my expectations were too high, because I was disappointed in it.  I didn't feel I could relate to the main character, and I felt the &quot;girl against the world&quot; theme was overdone.  Overall, I just felt the characters and storyline were too unbelievable.I would recommend this book for a rainy day, but rent it from the library.  Don't waste your money on it.
5 It's been a while since I read a novel within 24 hours but Chevalier's &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; had me enthralled.  This imaginary title inspired by the Dutch Vermeer's 17th century piece of the same name left me with such an echoic presence that I could read it again, just as I could stare at the mysterious painting for hours.  The fascination of the parallels of religious families, the unquestioned oppressive role of females and the cleanliness of this novel's dialogue (no flowery prose about sunsets or night skies to lengthen it) made it worthy of a reader's time.  Griet's vivid descriptions of her sister, of Pieter the son and of the market square star left me feeling as though I were still in that not-quite-there age of seventeen myself. &quot;I knew before he did.  When I saw what was needed - that point of brightness he had used to catch the eye in other paintings - I shivered.  This will be the end, I thought.  I was right&quot; Beautiful.
5 Very interesting book that married the historical with the personal story of Griet, the maid to the arist Vermeer and her exeprience with his family and her own family.  A page-turner and is very well written
4 The Girl in Vermeer's painting truly comes to life in this book.  She is not anyone famous; just a simple Dutch Protestant girl who finds herself in service as a maid in Vermeer's Catholic household.  The girl, Griet, is only there out of financial necessity, and with inexperienced innocence and cautious skepticism she observes differences in Catholic customs and art.  For her, all those paintings in the Catholic church are unnecessary...Protestants are content with how they imagine God to be.Gradually she becomes more comfortable, and comes to secretly love Vermeer, rejecting the butcher's son's proposals for marriage, though she allows his physical advances.  She realizes she must be foolish rejecting the security the butcher can offer, but she can't resist being close to Vermeer and helping him in his studio.She is amazed when Vermeer decides to paint her, but he insists she pierce her ears and sneak his wife's pearl earrings for the painting.  Questioning the morality of this, Griet does it for him, which eventually brings distress to the household, and changes in Griet's life.Generally I like real historical personages brought into historical fiction, but I felt a little embarrassed for Vermeer, for his suggested character flaws: dishonest with his wife; being too engrossed in his work to care much about his family; demanding that Griet succumb to his wishes.  Who knows, maybe he was even worse than that, but it seemed a little unfair to portray him that way.Nevertheless, it is a well-told story, simple, yet rich in detail.  In the taped version, Ruth Ann Phimister's voice and intonation is very believable, as if Griet herself is telling the story.
5 In 17th century Holland, 16-year-old Griet is involuntary sent to work as a maid due to her father's occupational accident that left him blind and unemployed. Strings were pulled and she went to live in the Vermeer residence. Griet's beauty and grace catches the eye of Mr. Vermeer, the famous painter, and she eventually becomes his assistant against the wishes of her mistress. As the narrative unfolds Griet must balance her work obligations to her mistress and her fascination with her master and his craft. She is successful in her deceit until her master asks her to pose for the infamous painting that is displayed on this book's cover. After the painting is finished Griet's secret becomes common knowledge in the household and she will have to pay the consequences.I remained fully enchanted while reading THE GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING. It is written in such a fantastic and splendid manner that I felt drawn into the pages. The life of a maid during these times was very interesting. In addition, I was captivated by the procedure for extracting the colors for painting that Griet assisted in. It's amazing how times have changed! I am giving a copy of this book to my mother as a gift as I'm sure she will enjoy it as much as I have.
5 Tracy Chevalier's inspiration for writing this novel came in the form of a Dutch painting entitled &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring.&quot;  The painting, portraying a girl in a blue and yellow turban wearing a pearl earring, was painted by the famous Johannes Vermeer.  Chevalier's &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is a creative and imaginative look inside the life of Vermeer's subject, the girl with a peal earring - Griet.At sixteen, Griet is sent off to work as a maid after her father has an accident and can no longer work in his trade.  Her tasks at her new master's home are to clean his studio while managing to make it look as if it had not been touched and help with the normal housework.  Her master, of course, is the painter Vermeer.  &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is an account of Griet's time in the Vermeer household - her problems with the children, her brush with the plague, and, finally, the growing friendship between herself and her master and the trouble it brings.&quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is a wonderfully written piece of literature that captures the reader's imagination.  From the very first page, Chevalier had me hooked - I read the entire novel in one sitting!  An extraordinary  novel that manages to weave together fiction with fact, &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is a book to be read by all.
3 I've finished, not being able to put this down. Does that make it a good book?Somehow, there wasn't enough there to make me appreciate Griet, the female lead, as a person. Her outlook struck me as arificial, her decision formalised, like a 'Candide' character, always out to comment, illustrate, educate. It's the narrative voice that annoys me, which is meant to be that of a 16 year old girl in Vermeer's Holland. But, even accounting for having to grow up early in those times, her thinking and tone is too much that of a shrewd, middle aged woman, and it grates on me. It reads like one of those historical `young adult' novels which try to educate without anybody noticing. I'm enjoying it, though, in a kind of this-may-grate-but-I-don't-want-to-stop-reading-it kind of way.The ending was a disappointment to me, even though it's had its rationale in Griet's previous decisions. I expected more, something less abrupt, some growth into an unusual direction, rather than doing 'the expected'. I wanted to be surprised, pleasantly or unpleasantly, and the conclusion of the story didn't do that.What saved the novel for me were Vermeer's paintings, the beautiful conjecture on their conception, the artists eye through which Chevalier looks at the past.
4 Tracy Chevalier writes an outstanding novel, Girl with a Pearl Earring. The main character is Griet, a young girl from Holland who is devastated when she discovers that her father has become blind. With her family unable to pay for living expenses, Griet must become a maid to the famous artist Vermeer and his family. The author does a marvelous job describing the portraits Vermeer paints. It is almost as if the portraits come alive in the story. The story does not have any boring points and keeps readers on their toes as Griet struggles with growing up and is torn when deciding who or what to love.Teenagers, myself included, can relate to Griet as she searches for herself and realizes her responsibilities as she grows up. Griet understands that she must support her family. Living with the painter forces her to grow in many aspects. All teenagers should read this book because of the life's lessons it portrays. Readers do not have to like art to appreciate this book. The appreciation comes with the author's beautifully written novel that causes readers to be anxious for the end throughout the whole story.
5 This book just told the story behind the the famous portrait painted by Vermeer, one of the best painter of Holland in 17th century.The roles in this novel were very real. I could picture their daily life, sensed their emotions, their struggles and understood their own ways when facing situations or difficulties of life. Each one thought and acted in a different logic according to their personalities, making this fiction very vivid. I could even felt the feature and the sound of Tanneke, Maria Thins, Catharina, Vermeer, Pieter, etc. And I want to slap Cornelia too.(In fact, at the end Griet slap her again, I was very happy and laugh out)Unlike some books with deliberately contrived or hidden plots, Chevalier's were naturally put between pages, and her excellent writing skill was well and neatly placed here and there and gradually emerged before readers. Readers could comprehend and understand these skill, not to felt too contrived. For example, the eight-point-star square. At first it seemed unimportant, but when I read Griet standing on the center to choose a point, each point led to a different life, I was deeply moved. Just mention some another examples: the two slaps given to Cornelia (the welcome and good-bye to this family), the first sight of bloody finger of the butcher(and at last she become his wife); the pearl ring given back to Griet, combined with the debt Vermeer owed to them; the day when Agnes died followed by Fran's birth. Such designs and metaphors prevailed the whole book, making this book a joy to read.Usually many books have good beginning and loose ends, But this book is different. At first it seemed a bit slow and cold, even a bit detached. But page after page readers would know that's because this book just followed the tone of the protagonist, Griet, maid and muse of Vermeer. It's tranquil but always affirmative. Gradually clues and scenes combined into a full bloom and it was quite wonderful.This book is a pearl. Highly recommendend.
5 There's a great deal to appreciate about this novel by Chevalier. Though the novel's scenario is obviously speculative (little is known about Vermeer's private life), I still feel quite comfortable calling it "historical fiction" because the author clearly took such pains to recreate everything as accurately as possible. I quite easily transportd myself to a 17th century Delft town, where I could see the people going about their daily chores. The imagery in this book is intense but not forced--and that is a clear demonstation of the writer's talent. Chevalier vividly conjures images of every detail, from the clothing styles to the prevailing sense of servitude that enveloped the novel's heroine. The way she managed to verbally describe Vermeer's attention to light, texture, and shadows amazes me.The characters in this novel, I feel, are beautifully developed. Griet emerges at the end with a clear sense of survival, when she could have succumbed to defeat and humiliation. The tension betweend Catholics and protestants is yet another detail that makes Chevalier's imagined world seem real.Vermeer eluded historians for centuries. Tracy Chevalier has given him a life that may be as close to the "truth" as anyone will ever be. I'll never look at a Vermeer painting the same way again.
4 Tracy Chevalier creates a convincing, enthralling portrait of fictitious Griet, a sixteen-year-old poor protestant maid who works for the affluent catholic family of celebrated painter Johannes Vermeer in order to sustain her poverty-stricken family. Griet progressively metamorphoses herself economically and socially into a well-balanced woman who does the best with the little (power) she has in the male, stratified Dutch society of the seventeenth century. Girl with a Pearl Earring is perhaps more importantly an invitation to (re) discover the city of Delft that has preserved both its charm and cachet despite the torments of time and the artistic genie of one of her most famous sons.
5 I didn't want this book to end. I don't usually read fiction, but this was such a sweet, intense story. If you like art and are familiar with Vermeer, I think you'll enjoy the book. Chevalier takes us right into the life of a girl in the Netherlands in the 1660's. Religion, class structure and art make up the protagonist's existence.  She learns how to mix paints in a rather clandestine situation and then sits as a model for Vermeer. She learns about the cruelties of social divisions and the pain of love.  Great little book.
5 This was a throughly enjoyable book club choice. This is a delightful European period piece and well worth the read.
5 Sixteen year old, Griet, becomes the servant at the Vermeers' as her parents need her to earn money seeing her father could no longer work.  Griet's responsibilities are to clean the master's studio.  The novel traces Griet's life at the Vermeer's and how she becomes engrossed in her masters work, leading to the painting of Griet as the girl with the pearl earring.The novel is loosely based on Vermeer's painting, Girl with a Pearl Earring.  It portrays a picture of Dutch life in the 17th century and what life inside Vermeer's house may have been like.  I have seen many mixed reviews on this novel however, I would certainly recommend it to others who enjoy a fictional story based on a historic periods.
3 The great strength of the novel for me was the painstaking recreation of Vemeer's household and his method of working. (I must go and look at some of his paintings again!) It's an undemanding and fairly enjoyable read, although I found the characterisation thin and the plot slow moving at times. The domestic details become tedious after a while, and there is a real lack of dramatic tension in the novel, even in the scenes between Vermeer and Griet.  I wonder if we would feel so much for Griet without Vermeer's wonderful painting on the cover of the book? Perhaps the book would appeal much more to young readers.
5 Girl With a Pearl Earring is a fascinatingly sensual yet honest portrayal of 17th century Holland.  While the novel doesn't focus closely on the life of the artist Vermeer, it focuses on the muse that Chevalier creates- a girl who is forced to leave her family to be a maid in a stranger's home.  It depicts scenes of such wrenching heartache but also a peculiar and intense sensuality that seems to ruminate on its pages without even trying to.  It's an incredible novel and one that blends both historical aspects and the fictional character that inspired the unknowingly controversial portrait of the Girl With a Pearl Earring.
4 This book is set in the 1600's in Delft. A family is is on the verge of poverty so they send their daughter Griet to be a maid at the Vermeer household. She is not greatly liked by anyone is the home. Griet becomes Vermeer's assistant. As his assistant she falls in love with him. He does not show the same affection towards her. A very rich man wants a painting of Griet. She doesn't want to do it. The rich man wants to be in the picture with her and this angers Vermeer. The rich man want Griet to himself. This book is full of death, love, and Hate. It's a wonderful read.
3 It was a quick read but kind of ended flat.
5 See the movie...then read the book.  Brilliant storytelling and excellent historical fiction.  If you know absolutely nothing about art or Holland...as I do...you'll still love this book.  If I can shelve a book I've finished for a year or two, and enjoy it just as much the second or third time around, it becomes a classic in our house.There are several very subtle undertones and references to modern day sex-power struggles that are hard to catch during the first read..Again, just as wonderful during the 'encore' read.
5 I have been intrigued by Vermeer's works, particulary his attention to detail and &quot;picture within a picture&quot;. While little is known of his life, Chevalier weaves a fascinating tale told by Griet, a 17 year old girl pressed into service as a maid for the Vermeer family to aid Griet's starving family. Through Griet's eyes we see what daily life might have been like in 17th century Holland. What is particularly fascinating is the exposition of how Vermeer painted--his vision, his treatment of colors and his use of a new instrument to get a different perspective on his subjects.Griet is a very appealing heroine. We identify with her fears in leaving home and living in a &quot;Papist&quot; house; her sorrows from the woes of her family, and her curiosity and intelligence when she is asked to help the artist. As is obvious from the title, Griet also serves as the model for one of Vermeer's most haunting masterpieces.  All of these elements add to the pleasure of this book. I was totally engrossed with this story and finished reading it in one day.
3 Note: This review is probably too harsh, but someone has to...If you want to learn about Vermeer, Dutch life in 17th century, really good writing, or interesting plot twists -- this is not the best book. If you want a 200 page something to while the time on the train or on a plane -- you are welcome to read this short novel. Overall, there is not all that much to critique, except that I found the heroine too all-knowing and self-aware to exist anywhere outside of Dawson's Creek or a feminist study program. She does everything better than anyone, teaches Vermeer a few painting tricks, and clearly would be a superior painter had she been allowed to study. All of that is a bit hard to swallow, at least for me. Studies of domestic life are interesting, if somewhat rushed and biased towards the main character. This is probably a worthwhile read for 2 or 3 train rides, but unlikely to find a place on your bookshelf for a very long time. I do not usually buy paperbacks because they get ruined too fast, but in this case I am glad to have done so. Personally, I would recommend &quot;Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister&quot; for a much more interesting read on similar people at the same time in Netherlands or &quot;Headlong&quot; for a much better fictional &quot;painter&quot; book.
5 A captivating story of a young girl named Griet who worked in the household of famous painter Vermeer. The fictional story takes place in 17th century Holland. The story begins when 16 year old Griet's father is unable to work because of his failing eyesight. Griet must go out to work to support her family by being a maid. Because she is delicate and meticulious she is chosen to clean the studio of her master. She must not move any of the objects that are set out for his portraits. Her talents become obvious to him and she is soon chosen to become his secret assistant and then later a model for one of his most famous paintings. His wife and family do not know what is going on and when they do disaster strikes...
2 I'm always a bit concerned when I read something that uses a lot of creative license on actual history.  I have to wonder how the descendants of Vermeer feel about his family being portrayed in such an unpleasant light.  Though it is a work of fiction, it still seems cruel to saddle someone's name with traits that are not necessarily theirs (true, they could have been horrid people, but we don't know).  I think the experience with the movie A Perfect Storm has soured me completely on that.  The secondary characters (the man with the two girls on the boat) were real-life people.  I saw the TLC special where they interviewed them.  The man was a perfectly competent sailor, the girls complete freaked-out ditzes.  And yet, the movie shows them as the calm, competent ones and him as a drunken sod. That sort of cavalier treatment of the truth rankles.  Granted, in this case, the truth is not known, but that does not give anyone the right to make it whatever they want.That nagging point aside, the book was slow and plodding, but rich in detail.  She tied a lot of tangential points into the storyline that made it a wonderfully rich and complex story that was pleasant to listen to.  It wasn't overwritten and the only character I had problems with was Griet herself.  She seemed a bundle of contradictions - she wouldn't show anyone her hair, because that wasn't proper, but she let Peter have his way with her in the alley?  I couldn't wrap my head around her inconsistencies.  The rest of the characters seemed plausible, if not all likeable.My last criticism is with the ending.  I think it would have been far better to leave us with her standing at the compass, having made her decision where she had to go - but not telling us.  The last chapter was a big let-down, and felt like it was thrown in just to tie up loose ends.  But considering the nature of the book, I think I would have rather let the ends dangle.
4 I picked this book up at a library book sale and what a bargain. I lost two nights sleep to finish it. The story is of the girl in the famous 17th century painting "Girl with a Pearl Earring" by Johannes Vermeer.  We meet Griet when she goes to work in Vermeer's home at the age of 16, resulting from hardship in her own family. She works through unimaginable heartache for two years, all while struggling to maintain order in her newly complicated life.I noted elements of Jane Eyre, Rebecca & other coming-of-age Victorian heroin novels - hints at insanity in the house, an older master to a sensual young girl, evil lurking in every corner, etc. - and all very well done.Chevalier has managed to reproduce the mysterious ambiance of the painting - its depth, rich colors and haunting glow of the girls' face, all while weaving a fascinating story. Like Griet, the reader is innocently ensnared by Vermeer and his extended family.  It is as if you are studying the actual portrait. I was bewitched by Griet's complexity and timeless beauty, but also Vermeer's grey eyes. The overall effect is mesmerizing!  I only gave it 4 stars because I didn't like the ending that much; otherwise, the book is absolutely PERFECT.I will now look for more of Chevalier's books. As for the bad reviews below, I honestly don't get it. This is not a trite distraction. Buy the book and give it your full attention! Enjoy!
4 i love a story...as long as it is relatively well written i'll give it at least a three....this story was about a 3and a half...it could have been fleshed out and there could have been so much more flavor given to this story...i love the painting of the "girl...earring"...her eyes seems to be on the verge of telling a deep and compelling story...the telling of the tale was adequate...but not at all as complelling as the look in the eyes of the girl...unless a novel is an absolute horror...i hesitate in negatively judging the hard work of an author...but i cannot recommend it unless the reader will be satisfied with just... okay
4 Simplicity and depth: two attributes of this wonderful book... that describe the pearl itself.
4 In general, I find women to be very complex creatures. Sometimes they are capable of enormous sacrifices and other times ruthlessly selfish. They appear completely rational, but, at the same time, emotionally charged. They seem helpless but decisive in making difficult choices and committing to them.Griett is everything above and more. And I cant stop admiring her. Maybe it is those qualities that are captured in the painting and that is why we are so attracted to it. 18 year-old wide-eyed maid in brown clothes. Her head wrapped in blue and yellow cloth that is coming undone, showing a few strands of her brown hair. Her indecent open mouth, pierced ear lobe with a sparkling pearl. Her eyes reflecting sadness as well as noble integrity. Captured in a painting that Griett never saw.The author transformed a mundane love story into a study of women's heart. That mysterious but wonderful side of women that is just beyond our grasp and understanding but engulfs our lives regardless. Forever preserved, if not in a painting, then in our brain.
5 The book was cheaper to buy from Amazon and ship to Australia rather than paying the high prices for school text books that we pay for here in Australia. This was a great deal from a great vendor with a great price and service.Thanks again.
4 This was a very quick read for me, though it didn't lack in luster from its pint-size. This book is not full of gripping peaks and on-the-edge-of -your-seat plot developments; it is full of vivid descriptions, subtleties, and wonderful character development. The book is about Griet, a sixteen-year-old girl who comes to work for the famous artist, Vermeer. Though she is of lower class and a maid she still puts people in their place and doesn't allow them to walk all over her due to her status in society. She has an acute understanding of human nature which helps her in her struggles with this family. The `love story' that ensues is extremely subtle; a brush of the hair, a breath on the neck, a glace from the corner of the eye. I just love how the author took the painting and created this amazing and believable story behind it.
5 I read The Lady and the Unicorn by Chevalier back in September and I didn&#8217;t like it. I mentioned it to one of my friends and he convinced me that I should read Girl with a Pearl Earring. And boy am I glad I did.First of all, I liked it because it was nothing like the other books I&#8217;ve recently read. Seriously. It was different in many aspects and at this moment, when the choice of books out there is truly overwhelming I&#8217;m really glad I decided to read it. Points for Chevalier here.downloadThe book mentions Vermeer - one of my favorite painters. Funny thing is that my sister brought me a bookmark from her trip to the Netherlands on the same day I started reading this book. Guess what&#8217;s on the bookmark??? The Milkmaid painting by Vermeer. Coincidence or not, that bookmark is now my favorite and this book has made it to my Top Reads in 2013 list. Two points here.This books also gets points for the ending. I loved that part. I won&#8217;t say much more. I don&#8217;t want to ruin the book for you if you haven&#8217;t read it already. The story is wonderful. Definitely a must read!There is pretty much nothing I disliked about this book. Scroll down to see my rating.Rating - 5 starsWho would I recommend it to - Tracy Chevalier fans, Vermeer fans
5 Tracy Chevalier's style relaxes the mind as you read. I found this book to be a very good addition to my mental library.
4 I really enjoyed this book, and finished it pretty quickly. The characters were lovely and really had their own individual personalities, and Chevalier really takes you to the 1660's in this book. I am now looking foward to reading more from her
4 Using a famous yet enigmatic painting as the basis for a well-imagined story, the author writes in elegant and brilliantly understated prose that perfectly evokes the period she so effortlessly describes. The story in question is that of Griet, the daughter of a family fallen on hard times, who enters the service of the painter Vermeer as a maid, in order to supplement her parent's meagre income. Almost at once she disturbs the equilibrium of the household simply by being there and, in turn, is herself disturbed by the essence of its master who, though not very often physically present at first, dominates the lives of his large and ever-growing family. When she joins Vermeer's household Griet is on the cusp of womanhood and the growing yet unacknowledged bond between them is, nevertheless, sensed by Catharina, his wife, who treats Griet harshly. Unexpectedly Griet finds an ally in Catharina's mother who in subtle yet effective ways makes Griet's life more comfortable than it might otherwise have been.Chevalier's book enables us to see the almost non-person status of women at that time, particularly those who were also servants. Indeed, in the person of Catharina we have a figure who is almost literally, little more than a baby-making machine. Yet, in the person of Griet, she also gives us an admirable heroin with an integrity that is unmatched by the men who seek to control her.
3 The book, as one could easily imagine, was displayed in the window of every bookshop in Holland. I fell victim to this blatant propaganda.Not that I regretted. It was a nice peaceful read, and the author evidently did her recearch. The storyline seemed a little too obvious; there was no feeling of mystery, of strange tingling light, which one can really feel in any of Vermeer's paintings. And the approach to the "woman's view" seemed a little simplistic to me.On the other hand, when I went to see the picture in Mauritshuis in The Hague (and it looks nothing like the reproductions, nothing at all - same is true for the view of Delft, also on the cover, also in Mauritshuis), I greeted Griet as an old acquaintance.
5 Girl with a Pearl Earring is one of my all time favorite reads.  I haven't been able to read as much as I used to or would like to and I am so glad I made the time to get into this book.  This is by far one of the most beautiful love stories I've ever read.Griet is wise beyond her years before becoming a maid for Vermeer's family and transforms into even more of a woman before our eyes.  This is not a book for someone who likes a fast moving plot, but it is for someone who appreciates sensuality - which requires time.
3 The plot has been told. These are my thoughts.Chevalier writes a touching story and writes it well. There is hopelessness in Griet's yearning for Vermeer; and yet, a sense of quiet, inner fulfillment, if only partial, is achieved by the simple meeting of their eyes and in his desire to paint her portrait. Though there is some question as to his feelings for her, a long awaited consummation occurs when he, in the end, bequeaths the pearl earrings to her.Griet's relationship with Pieter is the plight of a woman's married life during the 17th century. Love is secondary. Love may not even exist. Pieter is smitten by Griet, but Griet's acceptance of marriage to him is less of love, more of necessity. Pieter is the economic safety for Griet and her family. A woman must do as she's expected, like it or not. (Griet never expresses like or dislike.)Van Ruijven's lascivious acts, openly displayed and tolerated by those observing, is more evidence of the subjugation - to the point of humiliation - of women in centuries past.Chevalier, without personal commentary or injection of political and social bias, has clearly portrayed the social and economic injustices of that era.Like a painter, Chevalier has created a sensitive love story by skillful weaving of subtleties and nuances; and just as the painter's intentions and meanings of his finished product may be discerned only by careful viewing, Chevalier's intentions must be similarly revealed.
5 Tracy Chevalier reminds me of Pearl Buck, an author I grew up reading and cherishing. Chevalier's book is so beautiful; I treasure it! I sent a copy to my mom, who also loved it. What's beautiful about it? Her characters-  with wonderful names, especially Griet. The setting, both physical and  historical. The story, too- understated and poignant. Like other readers, I  bought a book about Vermeer and looked at it while reading this. Get a nice  cup of tea or whatever you enjoy drinking, and immerse yourself in this  fabulous book that may become a classic.
4 If you enjoy historical fiction, or fictionalized biographies, you will enjoy this book. It's a short, quick read, very engaging, really because of the insight it gives into Vermeer's working style and technique. This book will inspire me to read a biography of Vermeer. I also look forward to reading more books by this author.
3 Young pretty girl forced to toll unmercifully as a maid to support her destitute family in the home of a brooding artist.  There's the jealous wife, bossy mother in law, nasty servants, lots of bratty kids, lecherous art patron, a little dilly dally with the butcher boy.  This book was not  as dark as some of the works of Vermeer and the writing extremely well  done.  Except for the little twist at the end, predictable but enjoyable to  read.
5 The book is well written and engaging and I felt as if I was reading a diary.  I like the author's combination of history and fiction in her writing.  I would recommend this book.
1 SO BORING BEYOND BELIEF.  I HATED THIS MOVIE.  IT WAS WAY TOO SLOW AND UNCAPTIVATING BY ALL MEANS.
5 I could hear rich carpets in their voices, books and pearls and fur&quot;. When you come across that sentence on page 1 paragraph 2 the stage is set,  and on it is the treasure that is this book, by Ms. Tracy Chevalier. The  protagonist Griet speaks the words, and they set the tone for a beautifully  crafted piece of literature. The writing is elegant, there is no pretense,  and in one instant at the end, the Author had Griet doing something that I  was hoping would happen from early in the book. It was a bonus, as the book  in its entirety was excellent.Whether or not you are familiar with the  work of Vermeer will not hamper the reading of the book. I took the advice  of another reviewer, but I chose to view the paintings after the book was  read. I was familiar with certain of his pieces, but I enjoyed viewing  those discussed in the book after Ms. Chevalier had painted them in my  mind's eye. It was like a visual sequel to the book. This is the type of  book I would happily have read were it 2 or 3 times its length. However the  Authoress delivers a wonderful story with the words she needs, no more, no  less. The illusion of having read a much longer work is a tribute to her as  a writer.Buy it, no regrets here.
3 I didn't realize that the film was based on a book. The story follows a young girl who goes into service in the house of Johannes Vermeer and has her head turned by the trappings of wealth (or at least the appearance of wealth). The film followed the storyline of the novel almost verbatim but did provide some follow up on a few of the lesser characters.
5 &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is a magnificent little story about one of Veneer's most famous paintings. Although the events are made up, I found myself really believing the story Chevalier spins about the model of the painting, her being forced to work for the Veneer family, the turmoils she endures in that home and her own, the conflicting emotions she has for the painter and for Pieter, the butcher's son. The setting is real, the descriptions clear but not too cluttering, and the characters' motivations clear. Heaven knows I wanted to slap Cornelia several times in the book! I highly recommend this book, especially for book clubs. Much can be discussed about this work, not the least of which are the symbolism of the earrings and the ways in which men in the book treat women.
5 A classy tale of the classes and their egos.  A must read.  Shows the subservient nature of the classes and the innocence of their character.
5 A sad story about life.  Child having to support parents, losing a sibling to illness. To be alone at such a young age. A girl wantingto learn from a famous painter. Women viewed only as mothers.
2 What a great concept--taking a breathtakingly beautiful painting and giving it life!  I couldn't wait to read about this lovely girl with the pearl earring.  What a disappointment, what a bore!Much has been written about the author's portayal of a 17th century Dutch household.  True, there's historical information that's interesting, but it was like reading non-fiction, not a novel with well-developed characters and an intriquing story.  The prose was tedious, the style undistinguished.Nothing about the book really drew me in, except the cover--I found myself looking back often, gazing upon that beautiful face and wondering what really was behind the pearl earring.  Maybe there's a book in it.
5 Oh, wow, folks, this is a great one. This tale of two families, one of emotional poverty the other merely poor, drew me in as fast as I could read. I chose the book because of its combination of artist and historical atmosphere, but got an engrossing, touching, and well-plotted story as well. It feels as if Chevalier has truthfully captured the sad, proud tale of an anonymous, enigmatic girl painted by Vermeer (the real Painter of Light). Reviwers seem deeply split: yes, it is slow, because scenes and characters are fully developed, not always enviable human beings, and little overt action takes place, in this intimate look at family lives and the ties that bind (as in rub). Who knows what Vermeer's family life was really like? Chevalier imagines a great deal from the details of one painting, and convincingly so in at least the novelistic sense.Appropriately in a story that concerns (but is not exactly about) a great painter, Chevalier wonderfully expresses the play of color and light in her descriptions. Chevalier's writing style is expert, smooth and observant, and produces a richly evocative sense of place and social condition in one corner of Delft, Holland, in 1664. I found far more than I had sought in this memorable novel. A quality paperback, too. The only improvement would be an edition with more vignettes of the paintings mentioned.
4 Everyone has been talking about this book. My co-workers, my family, and my friends all said this book is a must-read. I was skeptical, but took it along on a long car trip. I read the whole thing in one setting. It was charming.The fictional account of the Vermeer family made me like the artist even more. Adding the feelings and life of one of their maids made it even better. Consider me charmed.
5 Tracy Chevalier has brought to life the works and the working experiences of Vermeer. It is not difficult to lose oneself to the point of feeling one were there, on the scene, as these events are happening, actually feeling present in Vermeer's life and all that surrounds him in his day, even things that he cannot actually observe himself. Yet at times I feel that I am observing this life through the servant girl who was present in Vermeer's life.Never mind scholarship. This woman obviously knows much about Vermeer. Did she study specifically for this book? I don't think so. I think that she was not making an effort to be scholarly. The book is not about scholarship - it is an inside view of Vermeer's life.As a former writing tutor I developed a keen eye for those draft papers that I was editing for students. I cannot help but bring that lifetime of experience into my reading of this novel. The important thing is that I was not left fussing over any small details of style or grammar or anything of the sort. I could let go of all that and just be passively dazzled to the point that I was in the book and in these lives.Anyone who would like to share this experience is heartily recommended to purchase a copy, and what better place to do that than on Amazon?
5 Interesting book.  Love information about Vermeer.  I just wish I knew more.  Thank you!!!!  There is never enough. Great book!!!!
4 I did like the writing style used. It was clear, simple and it seemed to me as if it was really clean, if that makes any sense. It was an easy, almost straight to the point story that kept me entertained. I think there were some deep metaphors that passed me by though. I liked most of the characters but would have liked it better if they were given some more depth.However, I can see how some people would not like this book. Not alot really happens and I imagin (though I haven't seen it) that the film version is rather slow and boring. As I read it in a day I dont think I had time to get bored with it. The characters are not particluary memerable and some seem very flat at times. It's supposed to be a book about passion but I didn't feel much between any of the characters. Although Griet may have felt it for her master, until he left her the earrings at the end I don't think I felt anything at all from him though out the whole book, and as a result I didn't care about this character. I don't know anything about the real Vermeer so I have no idea if he acted anything like he did in the story.Despite it's faults I did really enjoy this book and as long as your someone who can relex and read something that's not packed full of action I think you'll probably enjoy it too.
5 A 16-year-old girl in 17th century Holland has to go to work as a maid when her father is blinded in an accident. In this small community everything is reached on foot and everyone knows everyone else's business. Catholics and Protestants regard each other with suspicion. Standards of behavior and dress are rigid.The girl goes to work in the home of a painter. He is in debt, but keeps three servants for a family of seven.The painter spends months on each work. Their effect on viewers is electric.Social status is rigidly defined by wealth and occupation. Those with wealth and power do not hesitate to exploit those below, especially for sex. The web of relationships is intricate.The girl breaks out by marrying a local trademan.Fascinating and credible.
3 not that good; the historical novel should be more accurate in its historical facts and the story is not very believable; being a fan of vermeer's paintings, i am not an admirer of the way he was rendered in this book
4 I have to admit that I was very skeptical about this book.  I had heard a lot of people in various book clubs saying that they had really enjoyed it.  When I found it in my library I decided to give it a try even though it is not usually the genre that I try.It did take me a little while to get into, but once I got into it I could hardly put it down.  Griet is an unforgettable character.  She is mature in some ways, but very naive in others.  She is strong, but at the same time very weak.  I felt that she was a well-defined character and very complex.The setting and descriptions were unforgettable.  Chevalier used so many ways to decribe ordinary things that I could just picture everything in my head.  The scenery and paintings were exquisite.The only problem that I have is the character of Vermeer.  He just wasn't as drawn out as I felt that he could be.  I knew nothing of him before I read this book, so that could be just based on his personality, I don't know.  There is just not enough background information on him to really make the reader appreciate his talent.  Maybe you as the reader weren't supposed to, I don't know.Overall, I was really impressed with this book.  The images are some that I will remember for a long time to come.  Chevalier weaved a wonderful story and I will definitely try her again!
4 I thought before I started this book, that it might be a little boring and that I wouldn't like it.  But, it wasn't boring and I liked it a lot.  I liked the time period.  I liked the art.
2 This was neither deep nor meaningful, but it was entertaining. The author did a good job of taking you into the character and setting - it felt like you were there. In short, the main character and setting were well done, the plot was thin. Still, a worthwhile beach book.
4 Most of the interest in this book focuses on Vermeer, that mysterious painter about whom we know so little. But he is by far not the principal subject of this book.The book (as all who have seen the film know), is about the trials and frustrations of an uneducated but exceptionally gifted 16-year-old girl who was born into a time and station of life for which she was not suited.Her intelligence is portrayed at first by her observations about people's behavior and how she can control it (Vermeer's daughters, his mother-in-law and her maid), and only later by her sensitivity to artistic color and composition.Her frustration seems to me the main theme of the book. Although I am by no means an expert, I have read a fair amount about life in northern Europe in the 17th century, and Tracy Chevalier captures this exceptionally well. The closedness of the society in which the servant girl who winds up having to wear a pearl earring lives is excruciatingly portrayed, and her ambivalence about her role is almost too painful to read.The ending is exactly appropriate (it was not conveyed well in the film).
1 I didn't like it at all.  I was able to finish it but I credit that to an extremely boring day at work.It never ceases to amaze me that people will grasp onto a book like this and sing its praises.  This is not &quot;literature&quot;.  It is a trite story written for 6th graders.  There is no mystery, nothing left for the imagination, nothing to build toward.  From the moment you meet the main characters you realize where you're being led and how it will all turn out.I closed the book and am left with nothing a few characters that will leave my memory as soon as I begin my next book.  How disappointing!
5 This classic work of art shines in the readers eye.  The multi-layered story of a maid hired by the famous painter lingers in memory.The realistic portrait of 15th century life illustrates the human condition:  chance, fate, tragedy, social norms, power, pettiness, economic necessity, cold relations, disappointments, abuse, greed and expectations shape this teen's experience.Yet, there is hope, depth and a luminous quality to her experience as a maid and artist's model.  Though semi-literate, this "girl" grows, yearns, observes and understands her life and the lives around her.  She leverages her limited assets to live a fulfilling life and become wise.  Mostly, she learns to "see".  Life, people, objects, paint, work, relations, history and culture have many things to share once they are understood.  The intense focus on the daily life and growth of someone just 16-17 years old reflects an everyman experience.  Those are the days we remember most intensely, when we were learning and growing every day, beyond what we knew.A maid, like every person, is priceless.  After reading this moving work, you'll agree.
2 This book was to my taste disappointing. It is a period novel and it deals with a young woman who as a 16 year old works for a few years for a great artist. The book describes the tensions which arise in household as a result of her employment and growing relationship with the artist.In some ways the book is a strange one having almost no plot and it deals with the reaction of its characters to minor incidents and the various power shifts in the household. The dramatic highpoint is when the heroin has to have her ears pierced. The period detail is sketchy and one does not really develop a sense of the period.The portrait of Vermeer the artist is at best sparing. This is no real surprise as historical records say little about him. The portrait of his family is very sparse and they come across not really as characters but as focal points to move the plot along. The writer has a conception of art which he/she tries to develop through the novel. It is the notion of art as a vision as opposed to being a craft. The heroin has this vision and it is the basis of her relationship with Vermeer. In reality their relationship makes little sense as they do not talk and never even really touch. A strange and disappointing book, however one that seems much loved.
4 As has been noted by other reviewers, this is not a book that is going to be well-loved by scholars of Vermeer.  It is purely a fictional tale.  But it is a quite delightful fictional tale that I found to be a very pleasant and quite interesting read.  It is the story of an impoverished girl who is sent to be a lowly maid in the Vermeer household in the mid 1600s.  Her interaction with the master, whilst quite innocent, is a catalyst for suspicion and jealousy amongst other members of the household, both above and below stairs.  Much of her time is spent treading carefully as rumours of her relationship with Vermeer spread throughout the house and the entire town.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I am sure others will too so long as they don't try to make it into anything more serious.
3 I bought this book to read during vacation a few years ago, when it first was published, i.e., before all the hype. I enjoyed the book. Fine work from a first-time novelist. I recommend the book, if not just to get a good look at society in Vermeer's day. It's not a life-changing novel, but not every book has to be to be worth reading. Just read it and enjoy the story.I give it a high "3 stars" because it is worth reading and well-written.One more note: yes, this is a good read, but why does Hollywood find it necessary to make a movie out of every so-so book that sells well?  No, I didn't see the movie because the book just didn't "move" me enough to bother.
5 Although a novel, I am always fascinated by how people lived in the past. A young girl who leaves her home to work for a family in order to help her mother survive is a life I can't imagine having to live. I loved this book!
3 You know, I found this well written, but it left me wondering, what was the point?Also, why all the secrecy that she was helping the artist with his colors? You would expect the servants in that era to help with this task. Didn't get that part at all.However, liked the milieu depicted and overall enjoyed the book.
3 I so wanted this book to be good! Unforunatelly, I was mildly dissapointed. I am even not sure if the author conducted a serious research on the topic. She stated that she read two books on Vermeer and used the catalogue from an exhibition. Is that all?! I sincerely hope she did go to Holland though. I say the story is &quot;flat&quot; because there are no layers, there are no changes in pace, it's (almost) monotonous, the characters are not defined well... The only character in the book that was more developed is that of Maria Thins. And the only &quot;intense&quot; moment was when Griet was left without her cap. The relationship between the master and his maid is strange. They are in love but he behaves like he doesn't care about her a bit.(?!) One more thing that caught my attention. Near the end, Griet talks about her second venture to the house saying:&quot;...two girls, lined up as their older sisters had been ten years before when I first arrived.&quot; Well, she says that in the year 1676. She first arrived in the house in 1664. Little more than ten years I think?It could have been a great book. I hope the author will read these comments and think about what she can do to improve her storytelling.
5 After reading this book I can understand why they would want to make a movie from these pages.  I did not see the movie, but I am satisfied with what I read, did not want to put it down at night when my eyes were tired.
5 In this beautiful story, Tracy Chevalier, masterfully incoporates depictions of many of Vermeer's works, which enhance the depth and mystery the novel. It captivates the reader from the very first page.
5 Like many of the books I have read in my life, I picked up "Girl with a Pearl Earring" after seeing the movie.  Unlike most people, I tend to like movie versions better (cf. "In the Cut", the film version is far superior).  But as for GWAPE, the movie, book, and painting are all works of sheer artistry.  After reading the book, I am even more impressed with the faithfulness (and also innovativeness) of the film version.  However, the book is certainly every bit as good.Chevalier creates one of the sharpest, most endearing, and unforgettable portraits (no pun intended) of a literary heroine I have ever encountered.  Griet, the main character, is a complex and fascinating character coming-of-age in the Dutch Golden Age.  We see the stifling, gilded world of her master Vermeer's household through her young, undeniably female eyes, the eyes of a servant girl.  Lucky for us, Griet is observant, unusually clever narrator, and also simmering with a nascent, suppressed sensuality that makes the world through her eyes irresistibly fascinating, and perhaps a little voyueristic.Of course the interaction between Griet and the mysterious painter Vermeer is the centrepiece of the story.  In the book version of the story, Vermeer's attitude towards Griet, as well as his motives, are far more ambiguous and nuanced (whereas in the movie he clearly returned Griet's affections and was a "good guy").  Is Vermeer merely "using" Griet as coal to fuel his artistic fire, intending to throw her away after drive has been quenched, or does Vermeer truly "like" Griet more than just as a subject?  In a way, Griet's attitude towards his master is equally complex.  Is it love, lust, or a kind of awe/admiration, as an apprentice would have for his/her master?  Perhaps a mix of all three?  As the book is delightfully vague, we are left to ponder these questions on our own.Chevalier is a minimalist when it comes to writing, and it works fantastically for her.  The author pays exquisite attention to plot-significant detail without deluding the reader with unneccessary descriptions.  Much of the novel is written between the lines, clevery and subtly alluded to in a roundabout way.  Yet the language is simple and immensely readable.  It is modern, yet it fully succeeds in creating the illusion of 1600's Holland.  From a technical POV, Chevalier's skill as a writer is quite impressive.Girl with a Pearl Earring is a modern literary masterpiece that will absorb you into a seductive world of intrigue, hidden motives, and desire.  Although spanning neither continents nor centuries, this modest little "domestic thriller" is not to be taken lightly.
3 I found this book to be hard to get into at first, I'm not sure why. However, after, I felt the author really took us into the life of Griet, who goes to be a maid in the artist Vermeer's household, and what life was like in 1660s Holland. We see Griet grow from a wide-eyed innocent into a woman who learns who handle Vermeer's wife, his children (including one who is always out to get her), his mother-in-law, and the other maid in the house, along with attention from men! I found the descriptions of the paintings by Griet, someone who was not supposed to be used to viewing such fine pieces of art, to be extremely pleasing.
4 Tracy Chevalier has written a beautiful novel of Dutch life in the 1600's blended with the art of the renowned painter Vermeer.The story revolves around a young Dutch girl named Griet who is employed by a mistress and her husband (Vermeer) to work as a maid in their household. Griet comes from a poor family who struggles to survive after an accident takes the sight of her father and leaves him unable to provide for his family. As a young maid Griet tries to fit in with the large family and tangled webs they weave. She is fascinated by the art of Vermeer and becomes an unofficial assistant to the great man. But the story lies in the subtle nuances and splendid metaphors that Chevalier creates to guide her characters along. Through her beautiful writing you will fall in love with the period, the art and with young Griet.I recommend having a Vermeer art book near by as you read so that you can reference the many paintings as Chevalier leads you through their creation. Along with the assistance of her character Griet we are able to imagine how Vermeer used moments in time, the camera obscura and objects placed just so to create his art. All of the fiction could easily be something that actually occurred because little is known of Vermeer's life behind the scenes. Chevalier manages to paint her own masterpiece with this lovely novel. Once you begin to see life through Griet's eyes you won't be able to put it down and love will seem so harsh in our own time period as compared to the subtle innocence of the 1600's when a touch on the lips or a look into a sparkling eye would produce shockwaves of emotion. Find out how a little pearl earring can produce so much elegance yet hold the most complicated of truths.
5 Don't plan on accomplishing much for a few days, as your nose will be in this book right up to the end. Gorgeous writing, sweeping word pictures that transport you, and poignant characters that will draw you into their lives. Tremendous book!
5 Having walked the streets of Delft, this story felt like it took place right there. Although it's fiction, constructing the "girl" with the pearl earring, it goes a long way to bring Vermeer to life in his time, in his town and in his own home.One of my favorite quotes from the book is:"There is a difference between Catholic and Protestant attitudes toward painting," he [Vermeer] explained as he worked, "but it is not necessarily as great as you may think. Paintings may serve a spiritual purpose for Catholics, but remember too that Protestants see God everywhere, in everything. By painting everyday things--tables and chairs, bowls and pitchers, soldiers and maids--are they not celebrating God's creation as well?"The story makes it clear that Vermeer converted from Protestantism to Catholicism, and it is reflected in his work. But this is far from being a theological work. However it piqued my interested to learn more about Vermeer and his views on art and faith.I saw this film many years ago, and plan to see it again. I'm glad that I finally got around to reading this novel, so I can appreciate the film even more next time around.
5 Girl with a Pearl EarringThis novel is reminiscent of the equally popular "Memoirs of a Geisha".  The theme of both books is that beautiful women, especially of an earlier age, are not in control of their destiny with regards to men.  Henry James said exactly that in "Portrait of a Lady".In the case of "The Girl with the Pearl Earring", the maid Griet, her beauty attracts the interest of powerful men-in this case the painter Vermeer and his patron.  Tracy Chevalier, the author, gives us clues that their interest is dangerous and could lead to tragedy.  When a gentleman fondles a maid in 1665 the maid cannot offer much resistance owing to her low status in life.  More likely than not, as with Fantine in "Les Miserables", it is the maiden who is cast into trouble.The beauty of this novel, for a male reader like myself, is that is draws you into the perilous existence inhabited by young women. Prior to this I always thought young women like Griet were just glittering beauties sailing easily through life on their good looks.  It's kind of like reading the diary of a teenage girl-highly guarded and something to which one would not normally be privvy.This novel is erotic too, but in a 17th century demure sort of way.  Griet, we learn, is loath to let her full head of hair be seen by any man and she would never been seen with her lips held open.  When she is intruded upon with her long mane of hair freely unfurled the reader's heart flutters and it must have for the young girl.  And when she moistens her lips and holds them open at the request of the portrait painter Vermeer we are absolutely aghast and tingling with erotic excitement.The other theme of this novel is the brutality of being poor and female in earlier ages.  This is much like "Memoirs of a Geisha" where the two sisters are pushed into the business of entertaining men by their impoverished family.  Griet is pushed into working as a maid because her family is poor as well.  The women who work as maids of geishas have a brutal pecking order and are quite cruel to one another.  An unattractive woman in the Geisha household is call "Pumpkin" because that is the shape of her head.  Griet undergoes similar cruelty by Vermeer's children and the other maids in the large house.For me, the most thrilling parts of the novel are where the young maid Griet is allowed to go into Vermeer's studio.  This creates much jealously in the Vermeer household--not even the painter's wife is allowed into the room where the master creates his masterpieces.  This is what is meant by the book jacket blurb that she is "drawn into an artistic wakening".  Griet learns the subtlety of light, how to grind various potions from the apotheracy into vivid blues and reds, and the way a painting is made.  It is assembled not by drawing an initial outline as one would imagine.  Rather layer upon layer of color blotches are laid down until the final form takes place.
3 I purchased this book because my friend, an English teacher, recommended it.  It was ok, but I don't understand all the hype about it.  At times I was shaking my head because the plot was so &#34;off&#34;.
5 This historical novel smoothly weaves fact and fiction into a fascinating tale about 17th-century Delft, Jan Vermeer and a young woman's coming of age. It's a rich story that should be read slowly and savored, and at that,  it ends too soon.Midway through, I went to the library and checked out a  Time-Life book about Vermeer in order to have copies of his paintings  beside me as I read about them in The Girl With a Pearl Earring. It doubled  my reading pleasure.
5 I simply love this book - it's one of the best I have read in the past few years!!!Great plot, terrific characters, gloomy Belgium - wonderfuuuuullll!!!
4 I read this book in 2 days and really had a hard time putting it down.  I found the character of Griet interesting.  It was a nice insight to the life in Holland in the 1660's.  Vermeer was a talented artist and this story takes a look of the possibility behind the identity of the girl in the portrait.  However, I did wish more time was actually spent with the artist than in the laundry room.The pregnant wife of Vermeer was nasty and if she was truly like that, I wonder if he would have gotten her pregnant so often. (They had 11 children.)  She didn't seem to understand her own husband and the pairing was unbelievable, especially when the story indicated at the underlying attraction between the maid Griet and the artist.It will be interesting to see this book turned into a movie with Colin Firth as Johannes Vermeer.  I just hope they give him more screentime than the book indicated.
2 I read this book in two days. While it was appealing to me as a person interested in art and gave me a renewed appreciation of Vermeer, it has little more to offer than that. The writing is cut and dry and the characters are just generic, paper-doll types (the humble maid, her witch of a mistress, the more understanding elderly lady). Chevalier seems afraid to develop too much the character of Jan Vermeer lest her description strays too far from historical accuracy. This is a bland novel with an anticlimatic, yet realistic, ending.
1 As an undergraduate, I wrote my senior (art history) thesis on Vermeer's masterpiece entitled "The Love Letter," and became well versed on what little information exists on the Dutch master.  While I understand that "Girl With Pearl Earring" is a work of historical fiction, I feel that the many of the author's elaborations border on the ridiculous (I particularly have problems with the portrayal of Vermeer's wife, who is depicted as an evil, jealous shrew).  In general, I found this small story about a poor girl forced to serve as a maid in the home of Delft artist Johannes Vermeer boring and slow-paced.  Laborious descriptions of the girl's workday and contemptuous relationships with other servants and the painter's family are tedious.  Chevalier has failed to do her homework and has taken too many liberties with history, resulting in a story that is flawed and silly.  Girl With Pearl Earring was a great disappointment that definitely falls far short of the genius Vermeer's name implies.  With all the false attributions made over the years to Vermeer, I am sure that this book would be the one association that would make him roll in his grave
5 You always wonder about the &#34;behind&#34; of any fabulous painting.  Although this is a work of fiction, I was wrapped into the story because it felt so real.  Definitely a must read for those who love art.
5 A talented but lazy portrait painter in 17th century Holland realizes he needs a helper but is reluctant to hire anyone, lest his secret color formulas be discovered.  His ambitious mother-in-law, who lives with his ever-growing family, decides his wife could use another maid/laundress.  So the painter, a local known as Vermeer, hires a young girl of 14. The daughter of a blinded unemployed tile painter, she brings a treasure trove of skills with her.  Only no one may know she helps the master.The painter's struggles of getting a painting right, coupled with his daily distractions of his ever pregnant jealous wife, sneaky mother-in-law and nearly a dozen children  provide the reader with a glimpse of how life was conducted in a Dutch manor house of the 1600's.  Told from the maid's point of view, a young girl is sent away from her family to live her life in servitude to the painter.  She proves herself in more ways than one.  Love, deceit, art history and romance make this book a keeper.I wish it was another two hundred pages!
3 I took the e-book with me to Holland when I went this fall, and I thought it evoked the lives of people in the 17th century when Vermeer painted. In Delft, I could imagine this girl in the streets, running her errands, making out with the butcher's son, visiting her family, etc. But I wish I'd gone to the Hague and seen the painting.
5 Having been born with a love for an era previous to my own along with a yearning to paint like an "Old Master", it did not take much insistence to purchase a copy of "Girl With The Pearl Earring"Tracy Chevalier presents her heroine, Griet, as a shy but wonderfully inciteful housemaid with a quiet wisdom beyond her years, forced into a life of virtual doom knowing full well her parents had no option but to send her unwillingly out into the world with a cleaning rag constantly in her hand.Griet's life working for the Vermeers in the affluent Delft, left little to be desired until her master found a intelligent curiosity lying deep within this frightened lackey.Chevalier has written a beautiful, descriptive, colorful, magical account of the daily workings in a busy artist's household.Oh, how I wish I could have spent just one day there!If you have an enormous appetite for the artworks of yesteryear, do not hesitate to devour this book.It is one not to be forgotten.-Yvonne Bornstein, Author, Eleven Days Of Hell- My True Story Of Kidnapping, Terror, Torture and Historic FBI and KGB Rescue
5 I will definitely read this again, as it drew me into the protagonists world. Well written & researched. Made me cry.
5 Nothing big or important happens in the book.  It is not great literature.  But it had me laughing out loud many times, and that doesn't happen very often.
4 Anyone who has been reading her blog would find this book to be a bit of a retread, and the entries that appear in this book seem a million miles away from what she has been writing about more recently (mainly, her daughter Nora). But to someone who has never heard of mimi smartypants and has yet to experience her incredibly smart and funny meanderings -- they are in for a real treat.Like her online entries, this book is probably best savored in small bites, not read straight through. It is pretty dense and sometimes repetative with its themes-- as most peoples lives tend to be! This is not a smack against the book, but rather an observation.Overall, whether or not you're a fan (yet)... its definitely worth a read.
5 This book is wonderful! Wit, energy and observations that will knock your socks off. It is a truly funny offering of a Chicago woman as she processes her day in a head that has more going on in it than should be allowed. This is a compilation of blog entries, the blog continues and I hope for more to be published.
5 The history of grocery lists hails back to the ancient Babylonians who would jot down the necessary items on a glistening tablet of clay. Mimi Smartypants has no time for messing about with cuniform inscriptions and records her various grocery needs in smart modern html. This is up to date Chicago purchasing whimsy you get here with handy hints on how to deal with raving lunacy on public transit, thrown in absolutely free of charge. No connoisseur of fine literate grocery lists should consider his or her collection complete without this volume.** Note to readers hoping to see Blues Clues items on these lists: the publishing industry is a slow lumbering dinosaur compared to the frantic caffeine laced world of the blogmonger. Blues Clues Be Tappin It's Narcoleptic Toes in Publisher's Anteroom. (maybe)
5 This sharp new book reads like it was written by the witty, imperfect, cooler older sister you wish you had; the one who walks around with a dryer sheet unknowingly stuck to her back but manages to give the most spot on advice for any of those twenty something angst moments we all have had. She is down to earth, funny, and writes about things all of us twenty somethings have experienced.This was great bathtime reading; the wisdom and humor have been pared down into pithy little essays and vignettes, which makes it great for on the go or beach reading. You can sit down and read the whole book at once or stretch it out and enjoy it bit by bit. Either way, this was a real hit with me and I will be recommending it to my friends.
5 She is license-less so she rides the train in her morning Chicago commute. Thirty year old Mimi Smartypants decides to keep a journal of her thoughts on any topic.  Mimi might type on her web blog a tirade about her family or friends, especially those Y carriers, raves on the latest punk rock group, or just how well her pension plan and other investments are doing.  Nothing is sacred to Mimi except perhaps Browned Eyed Girl Van Morrison at least before he became famous.  Mimi Smartypants sees the world from her 5'1 towering height as medicine chests worth exploring or her take on home d&eacute;cor (aside to Mimi: try being a book reviewer - worse on the home than rugrats or terriers).Ms. Smartypants amusing reflections on life are fun to follow (easier to read in book form when riding the C-TRAN than using a computer on the Clayton County public bus system) as she pulls no punches when she knocks an icon down, but does so with humor.  Readers will be amused by her observations and those who want more can do so at her bloggering site Smartypants.Diaryland.com which is filled with droll musings on the world according to Mimi Smartypants.Harriet Klausner
2 Please people, this book is quite and mildly amusing, but 5 stars?  Please... It was OK, semi funny, but 'Mimi' is too weird in order to be able to relate to, and the little quips get a dull after a while.  I finished this a couple of weeks ago and would be hard-pressed to remember any of it.
4 I can't count how many times I was laughing out loud while reading this book. The things that run through this womans mind will never cease to shock you! She really is hilarious!
5 This is a great book with a sympathetic and intelligent main character. Though the first chapter didn't really fit with the rest of the book, in my opinion, the rest of the book flowed really smoothly and had page after page of absolutely beautiful imagery. While this is the first book I've read by this author, it certainly won't be the last.
5 Sun at Midnight was Fantastically descriptive, thought I was there whilst reading  the description of the scientist work was amazing
4 I had read it before and it was even better the second time.  It's a chilly read and very good in the hot weather to cool down.  Also, it's a real romance.
5 The author has a gift for evocative language. The descriptions of Antarctica were very effective in conveying both a sense of the alien landscape and also experience of it described very authenticall and vividly. Characters were well developed. I found the descriptions of the geology were interesting and well integrated in the story. Images created e.g. of the difficulties of flying a helicopter, felt real and, regardles of the storyline, were absorbing.  I enjoyed the book. It would make a good movie?!
4 I really enjoyed this book - the descriptions of Antarctica and the tensions that develop between people put in close proximity were excellent. The love part of the story was a bit contrived especially at the end. The typical Rose Thomas theme of mother-daughter relationships and past-present connections was interesting as always.
5 What a book.  It kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish, had me sitting up until all hours reading to see what happened next.  Inbetween, the descriptions of Antarctic weather, scenery, sunsets and sunrises were breathtaking, the author must have done real time research on that continent to be able to write so lyrically about it.  A variety of characters make up the research team, each one meticulously described and true to life throughout the book. I can strongly recommend this book, yet another well written one by Rosie thomas.
3 I haven't had a chance to read this book....but I love Rosie Thomas's books. When I have time to take a deep breath,this book will come off the top of the pile.
5 How could you not love this novel with such glorious descriptions of the Antarctic.  It was spellbinding!  The interplay of characters was so well done and with a narrative that just flowed along, it was very hard to put down.
5 Rosie Thomas is not only an author but a keen traveller and mountaineer which has provided her with excellent and well researched material for her novels. To research the Antarctic background for Sun at Midnight Rosie spent a month living with the scientists on a Bulgarian research station on Livingstone Island, off the Antarctic Peninsula.I am a long time fan of her writing although I still have to catch up with her most recent novels. With Sun at Midnight I was immediately engrossed in this adventure and love story that is set in Antarctica and gave me a rare glimpse of an amazing world. The author's personal research pays off as it shows in her writing as I really felt transported to the location from page one. In fact to quote from her website ' she believes that her travelling and writing are interdependent, and that one informs and enables the other.'Having raved over the atmospheric setting of the novel I had better give you a brief outline of the story without spoilers of course. The theme is a familiar one for Rosie Thomas that of love and loss but it works as it is the stronger background settings that for me personally make her novels so readable.The female protagonist is Alice Peel a geologist and daughter of a famous scientist who had worked in Antartica. It is due to her mothers failing health that Alice is herself given the opportunity to take part in a research programme herself. In sharp contrast to her normal life in Oxford she finds herself on-board a ship in a desolate landscape about to enter the realm of the unknown and unpredictable. Nothing has prepared Alice for the stark beauty of this place or for the realities of living in close confinement with a small group of people, just one other woman besides herself. It is with James Rooker, a man on the run his entire life and another member of the expedition, that she finds she has a spark with, like she has never felt with anyone before. The characters are all realistic with well portrayed personalities. As the claustrophobic tension builds amongst the people living and working together in this isolated research station, it is the present moment and survival that matters most. Their behaviour and reactions to the environment and situations they find themselves in may be a little implausible, it is their personal reactions that are more believable. Alice discovers something about herself in Antarctica that may change her life for ever if she survives the experience. Whilst saying that the human reactions were more believable, it does not mean you will necessarily agree with them, but I think you will understand them.I recommend Rosie Thomas to women that are looking for more than romance in their reading. She is a writer whose style of writing is now appealing to a new generation of young women as well as those of us that have been reading her novels since the early eighties.
3 I loved sun at midnight.  It was one of the most interesting stories that I have read for a long while.  It kept me totally captured and waiting for the following chapters.  Love the way Rosie Thomas researches so much before writing and it shows.
3 The storyline is predictable and far-fetched, and has a film script feel to it, but it is just about worthwhile reading for the wonderfully written descriptions of Antarctica which really seem to capture the essence and wild spirit of the place.
5 Somehow this book manages to convey the sense of bleakness as well as the grandeur of the Antarctic stations. The isolation, the danger constantly lived with, the human struggles. In the midst of this backdrop are a group of people whom you son become involved with. The crises gradually build, then escalate so much that you can't put the book down. Very exciting story.
3 Sun at MidnightA good light read with breathtaking descriptions of the unique and beautiful place Antarctica must be.
5 Really enjoyed this story. Being a mother of many teenagers... some now grown, and some still growing, and some taking the scenic route to adulthood, I appreciated reading Ruby's progression from adolescent angst to insight and understanding. Rosie Thomas writes really well and in a captivating way.
5 A great story and I was sorry when it ended.  I felt that I really knew Iris and Ruby and to see how their relationship developed was a joy.  I wanted more!
5 Loved this book , couldn't put it down , highly recommend it .Have gone on to read other books by same writer as loved this book so much
5 I can't remember reading and enjoying a book nearly as much as I did &#34;Iris and Ruby&#34;  The beautifully descriptive  passages  convey the author's  obvious affection for Cairo and its history, its inhabitants and its culture. But above all, the developing relationship between Iris and her wilful granddaughter Ruby, is an absolute joy to feel a part of.Ms Thomas, your characters are so magnificently drawn, so flawed, so sympathetic, in fact so much like many of us, that I just didn't want it to end. Can't wait to get cracking on your next book on my list....The Kashmir Shawl!
4 The author delicately balances the intricate relationships between mother, daughter and granddaughter in a beautifully sensitive way. Egypt comes alive in the writing of this fascinating novel
5 What a fantastic story of the bond between grandmother and grandaughter. Bridging the generation  gap with easy insight. Set against the backdrop of Egypt and its exotic culture. Another unputdownable read for me. Loved it!
3 I did not htink this book created the same sense of place as Sun at Midnight. The prose is still excellent. I found the characters less believable and consequently enjoyed the book less.
5 Rosie Thomas has done it again.  Another first class novel with characters richly portrayed, well defined and very life like.  The settings along with the relevant cultures and foods are fascinating and vivid.  Spanning two separate generations it flows seamlessly providing a really interesting and refreshing read.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this story - the teenage angst and issues are spot on and the relationships being built are beautifully rendered. The bustle of Cairo comes alive and the details of each setting are so strong ones feels like we are walking the streets with the characters. A lovely book.
4 Rosie Thomas turned out another wonderful story.this one not to be missed, have to admit to shedding a few tears.Just love this Ladies Stories. Another Author who has lived for a time in the Country she writes about and does plenty of research.
5 Found on a bookcrosser's wishlist.  Ordered it to read first, before passing along. And I'm glad I did!Ruby is a 19 yo British girl, not getting along with her family.  So, she spontaneously flies to Cairo to live with her 82 yo grandmother Iris.  The story vacillates between Ruby learning about modern day Cairo and falling in love with the Egyptian taxi driver's brother, Ash.  And Iris' memories of her great love of a soldier during WWII and the German's push through Africa, which was part of the war that isn't written about very often.  The descriptions of the area were vivid and quite well interwoven with the story.  You could visualize the upper-class Cairo that Iris was born into, the parties that the expat's gave, the lesser areas where the poor lived and the desert sands that drew Xan and his Bedouin guide to show Iris.
5 I found this book while we were wandering in Canada. What an outstanding piece of writing. You are transported to Cairo and dance between World War II and today. This is some of the best writing I have experienced about life in Egypt.Iris and Ruby
4 Iris & Ruby was a very enjoyable light read.  Set in Egypt, there were many descriptions of what life is really like there today.  There were also the memories of the British service men and women during WWII.  Can be recommended.
5 I have read several of Rosie Thomas books and really enjoyed this one. Rosie always writes a good story with realistic characters and the books are in all different parts of the world. This one is situated in Cairo and because Rosie has travelled exstensively her books give you a good discription of the place. Most enjoyable.
5 My 19 month old son loves to "read" this book during his bath. He loves books and is learning his colors. This book is a great diversion from soap in the eyes, and since most parents know it by heart, you can read along while still scrubbing dirty fingernails!! I wish I had one of these when I was a kid!
5 One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish reminds me of another book by Dr. Seuss, Green Eggs and Ham, because it rhymes and it was written with good style.  If your baby is crying you could calm them down with the fun pictures and read the funny words.  Even though it's a fun book, you can learn a lesson from it.  "From here to there, from there to here, funny things are everywhere!" Fun things aren't just in one place, you can find it anywhere if you just try.  We are fourth graders, and trust us, this book is good for kids, parents, teachers, and families!
5 I had this book as a child, and my sister gave it to my daughter when she was born. It is a wonderful silly book that helps with colors, counting, and rhyming. It is a favorite at our house. It is a little long, but my 18 month old can sit through the whole thing - I can't say that about a lot of books!
5 an excellent beginning reading book for children who are just now starting to show an interest in reading books. This book will help any child who has an interest in reading
5 This is one of our favorite Seuss creations, along with Fox In Socks.  My son lvoes to finish every sentence for us.  We love this book and the funny creatures in it!  ("From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere!"
5 What can you say about Dr. Seuss, all of his books are great.  Of course everyone has their favorite from childhood.
3 I love just about all things Dr. Suess.  This book, however, was all over the place.  No consistent story line.  Doesn't hold a candle to Green Eggs & Ham or Oh, the places you'll go.  Not a huge fan.
5 "One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish. Black fish, blue fish, old fish, new fish. This one has a little car. This one has a little star. Say, what a lot of fish there are!" I still recall those opening lines after all these years. How I loved this book as a child, with it's silly, irreverant characters and all the funny things they do. When I had a daughter of my own, she loved it, too. Children love the colorful characters and the wonderful antics they pull. The Suessian world is a wonderful one, always filled with the unexpected, and this book is that world at it's zany best. I can't imagine a child not wanting to get lost in this wonderful, whacky world!
5 As always, Dr. Seuss doesn't disappoint.  Very enjoyable.  Kids of every culture can understand and enjoy the Cats' crazy antics.
4 ISBN 0394800133 - Not my favorite Dr. Seuss, if only because it's a little long.A Dr. Seuss that's long is wrong -My child falls asleep too fast!Too many pages, he can't last.Yeah, Dr. Seuss is always a favorite, but this one was one my kid always fell asleep during. He didn't hear the end of the book for years! As a storytime title, rather than a NAPtime choice, though, it's a great book for little ones. You might get tongue-tied reading it, but that's okay, too - you'll laugh together, reading will be fun and everything will work out perfectly!- AnnaLovesBooks
5 A wonderful Dr. Suess book. The illustrations are a bit wacky, but always match the text and always show a sence of humor. The text is fun. The rhyming and rythm make reading this book 20 times a day (as we have been doing lately) a joy.The words that repeat make this a book that is good for beginning readers. However, the tongue twister text makes this a fun book for the more advanced reader as well. The illustrations only add to the text making reading comprehension easier.A wonderful book that is fun to read.Enjoy
5 It came wrapped in plastic and was shiney and had a new book smell. My son loves it.Every child should have the classic Dr. Seuss books.
5 In 1960, Dr. Seuss wrote the words One fish two fish red fish blue fish for the book of the same name. In 2009, I wrote "One bear, two bear. Bite bear, chew bear" in one of my books. Coincidence? Not at all. Call it imitative flattery. Call it a tribute.I grew up on Dr. Seuss. His wonderful, ridiculous stories brightened my childhood as much as they brightened the antique, polished pine bookcase in the otherwise formal family room in the house where I grew up. Don't get me wrong, I loved that house. My grandfather designed it and my mother painstakingly decorated it. The family room just wasn't used as an every day place. It was unofficially reserved for holidays, special guests, the occasional family meeting, and for my collection of colorful Dr. Seuss books. Even a decade and more after the books moved from my bedroom to the old bookcase in the family room, they remained there. Had my parents not boxed their belongings and moved after I reached adulthood, I suspect Dr. Seuss would still be lining those shelves.That's the effect Dr. Seuss can have on his readers: enduring fondness. The words "One fish two fish red fish blue fish" still line my mental bookshelves. I have not forgotten and I am unwilling to seek to discard them. I similarly doubt my ability to do so were I to try!
5 I bought this book for my grand-baby's first birthday. Dr. Seuss books keep kids interested with the bright pictures and rhyming stories.  This was my daughter's favorite Dr. Seuss book when she was young.
5 You can not go wrong with Dr. Seuss.  It is a win-win for everyone.  Good pics, good book, good deal.
3 I bought this book for my almost-2 year old daughter because I remember reading the text "One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish....." and loving the fish illustrations when I was a little girl.  She loves some of the other Seuss classics like Cat in the Hat, Green Eggs and Ham, Hop on Pop, Seuss ABC book, etc.  But I had forgotten something since childhood.  The first few pages (which comprise the "fish part") are really engaging and cute.  And then the book "gets weird", as my husband puts it (he remembered this from childhood, expressing surprise that I didn't).  My daughter let me get about 2/3 through the book before she just declared that she wanted to go back to the "fishie" part.  She kept wanting to hear more about the fishies.  I felt bad because, when she saw the cover, she thought it was a book about fishies, and she loved the beginning... so I think she's disappointed.  I am, too.  We'll keep reading it to her, but it is not as good as Seuss' other works, in my opinion.
5 My two year old really loves this book.  It is a rhyming book that introduces smaller words for younger children.  I like this book and best of all my child likes it.
5 My daughter is a huge Dr. Seuss fan. As a kid, my husband and I read many Dr. Seuss books and we bought a lot when I was pregnant to read to our daughter. Now that she has finally stopped chewing her books and tearing out pages, we have started reading hardcover books with paper pages instead of just board books. Usually she gets bored with any story more than 6-10 pages long, and anything that has more than a couple of sentences per page. Each page of this book has at least 6-7 short lines of text and there are nearly 70 pages. She sits and listens to each and every one. The first time she sat still for the whole book I was amazed. Each time I turned the page I could barely read the words because I was so surprised.She loves rhyming text, such as nursery rhymes, so I think that's why she likes Dr. Seuss so much. The illustrations are also very interesting to her since high contrast colors are used. When I read to her I use different voices and make sound effects so its more fun for her. I bounce her in my lap during the bumps on the page about the Wump. We have read this book so many times that my husband and I can recite it almost perfectly. She also has it nearly memorized and she likes to point to the characters on each page and name them.Like some reviewers have stated, the book at first does not seem to have a storyline. But it definitely does. If you pay attention to the illustrations, there is a boy and a girl on almost every page, pointing out different creatures and "pets" that exist in their world. At the beginning of the book they meet some little creatures that look like seals or manatees, and something called a Nook. Further on in the story you meet the pets they own, such as a Ying, a Zans, and a blue haired thing like a dog. They bring home a big sea creature that they name Clark. It ends with the boy and girl falling asleep cuddled next to their enormous pet Zeep. At various intervals, different creatures are introduced without the boy and girl, such as Ned who has a little bed. Basically the point of the story to show that our differences are what make us special. Each creature has something unique about them which stands out and the boy and girl are pointing that out to us. It is also about looking around you and using your imagination to discover interesting things about the world.
5 This book would be it! It is not so tongue-twister like a lot of Dr. Suess' books. My children love the bright colors of the characters in this book and I enjoy reading it to them. I am able to inflect different meanings to different things every time I read this book to them. It's a fun and great book on words. I read it to my nephew 10 years ago and I am still enthralled with this book.If you are looking for a book that will keep your children's attention while you're reading ~~ this book is it. It has more of a rhyming to it than his others. It's fun and sassy and bold. Perfect for kids learning to read too! This will help them find words that sound a like as well as rhyme a like.It's a definite addition to this mom's library!10-13-03
5 Every one grew up with these classic books :) bought 1 as a gift for my little nephew and it was cool seeing him read a book I once did :)
5 This was my favorite book over fifty years ago.  When I saw it available for Kindle for only $4 I had to ignore the budget and get it.  The pictures are great on my Fire 8.9, and the rhymes are still just as fascinating.  I can't wait for my little great-nephew's visit on Monday.  I know he'll love it too!
5 Who doesn't love a classic Dr Seuss? and who doesn't love this sing, songy rhyming book? It was a book that my daughter learned to read by and I hope her daughter does too. It brought back lots of memories when we were reading it to her daughter. Remembering the old rhymes as we would ride bicycles throughout the neighborhood as we had this book memorized from so many times reading it. We all got a huge laugh and we hope baby  understands what the humor is all about some day.
5 The copy I had as a child wore out when I was in college (A friend borrowed it to memorize and perform as an acting class assignment.)  I have part of the book memorized myself just from having my Mom read it to me 37 years ago.  Having just aquired a 5-year old nephew I had of course to buy him several of my favorite Dr. Seuss books and this was one of them.  I may have to buy my own copy though.  In fact, I may buy two because I am extremely tempted to frame my favorite piece, "Look what we found in the dark in the park.  We will take it home.  We will name it Clark."I have no clue whatsoever how young a child can safely be shown the wonderful but really wierd illustrations of Dr. Seuss.  I'm still scared of Flying Monkeys but never had a problem with Dr. Seuss at all.
5 Don't skip this one, please.  You just have to have these tongue-twister books to read to your child.  It's a blast to read fast too.  My little one keeps saying, "faster, faster mommy!"  Good thing I can speed read!  It's a fabulous book and one that every child should own.  It inspires tons of imagination and fun and really makes reading exciting for little ones.  It's weird to run into someone as an adult who hasn't read these classic Seuss books.  It makes you feel sorry for them and wonder what other great things of childhood they've missed.
5 Thanks for  excellent service  and  products (book and cd).  Since I ordered this as a gift to a young child, the condition was important.
5 Got it for my granddaughters, They love it as much as my boys and as much as I did when I was little.
5 I gave this children's book by Dr. Seuss five stars for its classic, timelessness. I read this book to my own children who are now grown.  To read it so many years later gave me the same pleasure as it did then. The illustrations are hilarious and the writing is laugh out loud funny. The kindle version I read is well formatted and easy to read.
5 This book, as is the case with all of Dr. Seuss' books, is a delight. I have warm memories of these books being read to me by my parents as a child. It was wonderful to follow along by watching the inspired illustrations.This book might just turn your child into a poet. Even if it doesn't do that, it will teach your child to rhyme. The rhymes are magically witty and whimsical. Be forewarned. Both you and your child may be reciting rhymes in your sleep.Dr. Seuss stimulated my imagination as a child. As an author with a gift for humor, he has undoubtedly molded me as an author of humorous adult books. For that, I am grateful.Davis Aujourd'hui, author of "The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude"
5 The book "One Fish Two Fish" written by Dr.Suess is very good. There is not a lot of text in it, but it does teach kids about colors, and rhyme. It also has a message about accepting everybody as different.This book would be suggested for ages 2-100 because I'm twelve and I am still in love with this book. I bet everybody alive has read a Dr. Suess book. They are classics and just flat out amazing.You can get One Fish Two Fish in pop up version and hardback but I have never seen it in paperback. I think that you should get it. You can buy it at any of your local bookstores or you can just buy it on this website for $8.99. It is well worth the price.- Melina Jansen]
4 I read all the Dr. Suess books to my four month old baby boy.  He loves them.  They are great books for children.  However, this particular book is a little long for him.
5 This is one of the longest of all Dr. Seuss's books.  It is filled with terrific Rhymes and Pictures and is an absolute gem to read aloud to children.  This is one really long book that will mesmerize our twin boys.  You will find yourself repeating his rhymes all day long, in your mind.  For example,"Look what we found in the park -- in the dark -- we will take it home -- we will call it Clark -- it will GROW AND GROW -- Will our Mommy like it ?? -- we don't know !!!"And we named our third dog "Clark" after this wonderful rhyme from Dr. Seuss's "One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish !!!"  This is among the Top-3 Dr Seuss Books of all time, right up there with "The Cat in the Hat" and "Happy Birthday To You!".
5 Researchers constantly find that reading to children is valuable in a variety of ways, not least of which are instilling a love of reading and improved reading skills. With better parent-child bonding from reading,  your child will also be more emotionally secure and able to relate better  to others. Intellectual performance will expand as well. Spending time  together watching television fails as a substitute.To help other  parents apply this advice, as a parent of four I consulted an expert, our  youngest child, and asked her to share with me her favorite books that were  read to her as a young child. One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish was her  pick as the best of the books by Dr. Seuss.One of the appeals of this  book is that it is relatively easy to learn to read, yet has much more  variety than most other early readers.  So your child will feel like she or  he has accomplished a lot with reading this book, which is correct.The  title gives the key to why this book works well as an early reader.  One  word is changed at a time, with a clear illustration next to it.  Most  children will read the illustrations like a rebus and later associate the  words with the sounds of the name for the pictures.  At some point, they  begin reading from the words.  Very nice!Here's another sequence:  &quot;black fish blue fish old fish new fish.&quot;Then, when he moves  on, he uses simple rhymes:  &quot;This one has a little star.  This one has  a little car.&quot;Next, he progresses to substituting &quot;some&quot;  for &quot;fish&quot; and adding a single verb to make a sentence as in  &quot;Some are read . . . . Some are old.&quot;So almost any child can  soon begin to read along with few errors in the first 2 or 3 pages.  Whenever the child can go no more, you can just keep going.  With  repetition, more of the book becomes memorized and the process continues.There is another reward for you and your child:  The book also previews  many of the wonderful characters and rhyming schemes that appear in other  Dr. Seuss books.  As a result, it will be easier to get started reading  those books.  You will feel like you are seeing an old friend again.You can also use each rhyme to take off on your own speculations.  Our  daughter used to love to come up with alternative rhymes that fit the  pictures.Books like this one make it great fun to be either a parent  or a child.  In some cases, this book will be there for you in both roles  over 20 to 40 years!Overcome your mistaken beliefs about how children  can start to learn to read by seeing your child start naturally by  associating the words with the pictures as you read this wonderful book to  him or her!
5 Wonderful book to read to your toddlers to teach colors. This is one of those books that they will enjoy reading themselves very early on as well.
5 My son is learning how to read, and just can't get enough of this book!  It's great for beginners.  It's fun, and colorful and just Dr. Seuss.  We love it.
5 "Cat in the Hat" and "Green Eggs and Ham" get all the fame and glory, and I actually don't remember ever reading "One Fish Two Fish" as a child.  But I've discovered this book now that I have a three year-old of my own, and it has become our favorites.  Dr. Seuss is exceptionally skilled at playing with words and rhymes and coming up with hilarious, fun, well-crafted sentences.  This book contains some of his best work.  The books make learning language great fun.  I was amazed last night when my daughter started rattling off the sentences in the book from memory as I read it to her, and she had great fun doing it.  A children's book that both children and adults can appreciate and one that inspires in children a love of learning language:  what more could a parent want?And one other editorial comment...now that I've spent much time scouring the library shelves for good books for my child, I have come to have tremendous appreciation for Dr. Seuss's talent and wit.  Almost all children's book authors fall far short of the standard Dr. Seuss set decades ago.  Give me "One Fish Two Fish" or "The Lorax" over "The Polar Express" any day!
3 One of my first-grade students pointed out the truth to me: this story does not stay "on the trail", so to speak, of keeping with a connected story. (Ironically, this fit very well with a lesson). And yet there is something incredibly fun about the random creatures trotting themselves out in all their quirky Suessian glory. So no, there is no logical plot, but we get fun pictures and dazzling rhymes that we love.
5 Who can honestly say they don't like Dr. Seuss?? (Okay - maybe a few can...). But, every kid I have ever known, big or small, loves this book ~ and I am one of them. It's fun, colorful, goofy and can be read over and over again without getting stale.
4 This is a great book to read to children to teach them how to pay attention to the books you're reading. You can point out colors and count the fish, and then have them do the same.
5 This is a great story with beautiful illustrations. I purchased this as a gift/decor for a friends baby shower and it was a big hit! It definitely brought back tons of memories for moms and a few inner kids as well.
5 I used this book as an author study, and it was a lot of fun! Now I read it to my little person, she loves the words and she also tells me the color of the fish on each page.
1 Hearing of Dr. Seuss' reputation, I got this book from the store (supposedly a must-ready for young children according to an online forum). However, my 4-year-old quickly lost interest. She is an intent listeners, and really enjoys books that tell a story, and have colorful illustrations. This one just lost it. It starts with fish, and after a couple pages, goes on to really random unconnected things. They are not even categorized, so you would know that one section is over, and the new section is not connected to the earlier one. The illustrations are rather bland, and not fun to look at. There is no flow of thought, just a bunch of rhyming words. Complete BLAH!I personally think that stories in rhymes (unless they are poems) are not very well-suited for young children. The authors tend to use difficult words just to make it rhyme, but young kids don't understand their meaning, and therefore the story falls apart. I would go for books with simple illustrations and straightforward language. I liek Mo Willems and Keiko Kazsa books a lot.
5 Luckily and happily I will report that my daughter did not get confused. I did, but that's another story. She won't admit it, but I think this was her favorite Dr. Seuss book. It was the one I remember reading to her the most. I remember picking it up from the bookcase. The cover attracted me. I flipped through it and then purchased it. I read it to her every night for some time. Those were good days. I would have to say that these books made a difference in her ability to learn and want to read. Green Eggs and Ham also stands next to this book as I remember.
5 Easy to read and entertaining for my regular visitors that are nearly 2 and 4.  They enjoy all of the Seuss books.  I used to read this to my brother YEARS ago.
5 My granddaughter has this book at home and asked me to buy a copy for her to keep at my house. She has read it to me a couple of times and like most Dr. Seuss books, it's very clever.
5 This book was read by my husband, &#34;Unco Dick: to our great grandneice.  She loved it and needless to say Unco Dick had the book memorized before she wanted him to quit.
3 The book's content will always be wonderful, but this reprint--the physical book (1988)--is a disappointment. It's smaller than the edition I grew up with; smaller than the ones my kids had.The picture shown is deceiving This edition has a big red jagged permanent thing just under the "blue fish" of the title, nearly as long as the title words "red fish" and as wide as the space between "red fish" and "blue fish". In the red splotch it says, in white, "Look inside if you wish for a FREE gift!" Boo! Yuck!
4 Although the book and CD are nice, the mother of the child for whom I purchased this gift, indicated that her four-year boy did not have the attention span for the CD.  He is used to DVDs.The boy is an ESL preschooler and has an arm disability, resulting in lack of scissor and printing skills. He is very bright and talkative in his native tongue.  He is leaning to speak English using complete sentences.
5 All young readers of this book will enjoy it.It is like a learning book because it sort of helps you learn to count.Best for 4 yr old kid.
5 .At least two generations of parents and their children have now been immersed in the wonderful world of Dr Suess. The fun filled fantasy world of Dr Suess has lost none of its charm. &quot;One Fish Two Fish&quot; is one of his best.The theme of this book is &quot;funny things are everywhere&quot;. Dr Suess goes on to prove this by introducing a long list of fantastic but friendly characters. The creatures are at times outrageous looking but they are never frightening. There is no chance of monster-phobia developing in children after reading these books.Anything is possible in this book. You have to love the seven hump Wump with its eight legs. It bears an uncanny resemblance to a camel.Children will get to love the rhyme and rhythms of the words in this book. Children will be encouraged to make their own word play.  It is possible new skills in creative thinking and even musical aptitude may emerge in children after having fun in the Suess world. On thing is for sure, a love of reading will certainly be encouraged.Spatial thinking is encouraged with humorous signposts to Near and Far, and Here and There. Young minds will adore taking the advice  &quot;if you wish to wish a wish&quot;.&quot;One fish two fish&quot; makes a great bedtime book. It is long enough and exhausting enough to pacify the most agile young mind. They can go off to dream land pondering &quot;did you ever fly a kite in bed&quot; and then &quot;curl up with your Pet Zeep&quot;.
5 Great illustrations, full of imagination, and witty rhymes, in the style of Dr Seuss. Children always love it, and adults do too sometimes.
5 Although its not as great as The Cat in the Hat, One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish is certainly one of my children's favorites, and they especially love trying to read some of the rhymes outloud. Certainly a great choice for a book for your young ones.
3 I mean I have to say this is a very good childerns book and it has a cute ending that is in every chiderns book.
5 You can read iton a train.You can read itin the rain.You can read itwhere you wish.But can you read itto a fish?Do you havea child there?Do you have onein your care?If you dothen listen close.This book has morethan just a doseof fun and charmand rhyming wordscreatures morethan fish and birds.Of course it hasboth of those thingsbut better still,it has a Ying who sings.A Zans, a Gox,a Gack, a Wump,tall or shortor with a hump!Some are nearsome are farone even hasa little car.Wonders fillyour child's headas she snugglesinto bed.I cannot thinkof better timesthan those we've sharedwith Seuss's rhymes.So curl upand read aboutthe funny thingsthat bump and shout.To each and every childI saycount along with methis way.One fish, two fish,three fish, fourDr. Seussfor ever more.
5 A must-have for every child.  I learned to read this book with my dad, and we both still know lots of it by heart.  Now I'm enjoying reading it to my child.
5 This is one of our first bedtime books for our sons along with "Hop on Pop" and "The Foot Book". This beginner's book provides simple rhymes that are easy to learn and repeat.We don't read this book as much anymore. We later graduated to "Fox in Socks." My oldest has returned to this book as an early reader. (I have to mix up the pages because my boys have much of the book memorized).
5 I mainly bought this book to read to my 2 year old grandson and then I saw on Martha Stewart they had a fishing game to go with it. So I made my grandson the fishing game and boy he sure likes it. He doesn't quite get that he is supposed to fish for a certain color of fish but he will when he's bigger. Glad I bought the book and great transaction with amazon!!
1 Awful, awful, awful! I would have given it zero stars, but that wasn't an option.  The book is read MUCH TOO FAST for a child to follow along and turn the pages.  The page turn signal is a tiny bell that is hard to hear and so short it gives no time to separate the pages and turn them.  By the time a child gets the page turned, the reader is 4 or 5 pages ahead because they are also reading SO FAST! This could have been a really good book for an audio read along because the print is large and the words are simple and rhyming, but it is read so quickly a child just learning to read doesn't even have the chance to determine which word is being read.  My 4 year old loves read along books but became so frustrated with this book he didn't want to ever read it again.  Extremely disappointing as a parent and discouraging for a beginning reader.  The Curious George read along series is so much better, although it doesn't have the large text or simple words.  Curious George is read with interesting inflections and gives children sufficient time to follow along and turn the pages themselves.  Save your money and don't buy this Dr. Seuss series.
4 Since my 7-month-old still thinks books are for putting in your mouth, I've been buying him bath books. I bought this one sight unseen from Amazon, and as much as I love the classic "One Fish, Two Fish," I was a little disappointed. First, the book is small, even for a bath book (about 4x6 inches -- the "8.3 x 4.8" dimensions in the Amazon description are just plain WRONG). Second, the book was shorter than I expected. It consists only of the first 8 pages of the original "One Fish." Of course, the baby doesn't know how abridged the book is, so he enjoys it. And the colors are bright, the printing is sharp, and the overall package is high-quality and holds up to lots of handling. But there's not much there to read to him.Overall, if you're looking for a durable "One Fish" edition that's good for mealtimes, or bath time, or for taking in the stroller, this is an excellent buy. Just be aware that it's no substitute for the real thing.
5 This is a classic Dr. Seuss book.  This book not only teaches youngsters counting concepts, but also colors and antonyms.  In addition, this is not one of those books that will leave you tongue tied and frustrated, instead it will leave a smile on both your and the child's face!
5 The thing I like most about this book is it survives the perpetual-reading test, that is, neither my daughter nor I am tired of reading it after two years.&quot;One Fish...&quot; is really composed of several  &quot;short&quot; sections that can be read in any order, so for a toddler,  it's perfectly fine to skip around. In fact, this is conducive to a  toddler's randomness - one day it's &quot;Hop hop hop, I am a Yop&quot;;  another day it's &quot;From there to here.&quot;
5 This was my favorite when I was a child, and I can happily recall my mother so sick and tired of reading this book to me, that she actually tried skipping a page or two.  But I always caught her, and made her go back and read it!!Now, I read it to my kids... it doesn't help get them to sleep though.  In fact, it only gets them more and more excited and silly.  But it's a family favorite, and I'm sure it will be a family favorite for your child.  What educational value does it have for children??  Well, it does help teach children to rhyme.  The silly rhymes of the story, encourage the children to start making up their own.  And it's all in fun!!
5 I love this book, read it when I was younger, read it to my children and younger sister as well as they've gotten older. Love Dr Seuss books , always have and always will.
4 Seeing how I never had kids I don't have much experience picking out kid's books, so I talked to my cousin who gave mea list of them.  I trust her taste 100%.  This is to be a baby shower gift.
5 This is my first book I learned to read on my own. I am 56 years old and had to have it on my kindle. :)
5 Both of my sons love when I read this story to him.  I recommend this book to other parents of children.
5 My almost three year old loves this book.. I bought it as a follow up after the cat in the hat which we love!! Im glad I bought it! The price is good and we enjoy reading it!! My son loves to finish the sentences for me and thus is building his vocabulary!! Will look into more Dr. Seuss Books for sure!!
5 One Fish Two Fish Read Fish Blue Fish doesn't read like a story, but is more of a collection of child-length short stories.  Each page is a new adventure as we explore everything from the fish to a Wump, a Zans, a Yink, a Nook, a Ying, a Yop and many other silly things.  Not only does this book hold the attention of the kids all the way through, but it makes the reader giggle from beginning to end.  "From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere."
4 This is a fun read full of clever rhymes and illustrations and definitely a treat for adults and older kids.But at 60+ pages it's not a great bedtime read for our 9-month olds.  Which is not a criticism of it but just means One Fish Two Fish will be spending some time on the shelf until the girls are ready for it.
5 This company is very reliable and ships fast. Once I had a book that got damaged in the mail and they returned the funds very responsibly. They have a lot of good children's books and all the books are classics, really great children's books. Dr. Seuss will never go out of style. What's not to like? I trust this company.
5 This book should be on every child's bookshelf.  I purchased this one for my grand daughter and enjoy reading it to her.
5 My grandson just turned 3 and is really loving having stories read to him as he learns to read himself.  Can you ever go wrong with Dr. Suess??  I don't think so.  Dr. Suess has a great way of &#34;speaking&#34; to imaginations.  Highly recommend all.
5 Reading this book is like taking a stroll down a Seussian zoo. It's one of my favorites, with its silly, clever rhymes, funny dialogues and interesting creatures. I like it more than "If I ran the zoo" (also by Dr. Seuss). Like all Seuss books, this one is great for introducing children to the love of reading.
5 If you can get the child down to read and get interested, it's a free flowing, in the style of a man that can get down to the simplicity of capturing the free-flowing rhyme without-reason style that makes his individuality so captivating.  Whether for a child or an adult, his books are always a classic.  LLO'C
5 Dr. Seuss has been adequately reviewed by multiple generations.  The latest reviewers are my two 6-yr-old grandsons who love the series and are improving their reading skills.  Who can say anything better?
5 You might think that &quot;One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish&quot; is a Dr. Seuss book about counting or colors (or counting and colors or even counting colors), but that would simply be the hook for something much larger.  The thesis of this Beginner Book appears opposite the first page, where we are informed by a small creature with a giant mustache and a yellow star for a belly button that &quot;From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere.&quot;  If anything this Dr. Seuss book has bits and pieces from lots of other Dr. Seuss books.  You have a series of opposite because fish are not only red and blue but old and new, you have Ned who does not like his bed, there is Yop who only likes to hop from finger top to finger top, and all sorts of strange looking animals.  There is even a creature that looks like the Cat in the Hat except he is completely yellow, including his hat, has a polka dot bow tie, and eleven fingers.Consequently, if &quot;One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish&quot; is one of the first Dr. Seuss books that a beginning reader begins reading they should go back and read it again after they have gone through the rest of the good doctor's books because they will then be better able to appreciate some of the familiar faces in this book.  However, since this is not a book for early beginning readers, most kids will get to this one after they have covered the basic Dr. Seuss books and become well accustomed to his delightful volumes of rhymed absurdity.  This particular book has been inspiring the imagination of beginning readers since 1960 and there is no reason for it to stop with that endeavor at this point in time.
4 We read this often. It is somewhat educational and it's a classic. It stars simple and can be a little complicated to understand for a younger child, but buy it! It really is a classic!
5 One of the best books ever written! Can not go wrong having this book in a child's library!
5 Unlike most Dr. Seuss books, this book has no real plot. For the most part it is made up of unconnected pages that flow nicely into one another. The lack of plot is not something that harms the book in my eyes, I like the chance encounters with the strange creatures, and I think the lack of a plot helps to make this story special.Throughout this book we are introduced to a number of cute creatures from fish to Wumps to Zeds. Like all Dr. Seuss creations they are very cute, bold, colorful and expressive. Another characteristic of a Dr. Seuss book is how the words flow wonderful and manage to rhyme well in a manner completely unforced and effortless. This is one of my favorite Dr. Seuss books.Loggie-log-log-log
4 Well every child must learn counting and their colors.  This book delivers just that, Dr Seuss had the right idea when this book was written, he combined rhyming with counting and incorporated colors, any child is sure to have fun and learn all at the same time with this clever little book.I read it to my children when they were small, and i will read it to my grandchildren someday, its a classic that will go down in history.Lori Ann LibbyAuthor ofThe Adventures of Henry Hamper and the Flying Fish
5 This is one of my all time favorite books since childhood. Sure, it's educational and helps kids learn to read and holds their attention with silly rhymes and absurd pictures, but the greatest thing about One Fish, Two Fish is the sheer fun of it. Dr. Seuss takes you to imaginative places that open the mind to new possibilities! The world around you is an incredible place, especially with Dr. Seuss as your tour guide. The creative characters are thrilling to see as you turn from page to page. They invite you in to experience their silly, joyful activities as they go about their absurd daily lives. Its simply the best!
5 Just as Seuss covered anti-intellectualism in Green Eggs and Ham, and alternate lifestyles in Hop on Pop, the Fish book is a trenchant political analysis.  Foreseeing the red vs. blue state deadlock back in the idealistic  better-living-through-chemistry early 1960s, Suess contrasts the red (as in communist) fish with the all-American blue fish.  This motif weaves through the book, teaching little ones the red vs. blue tension of multiculturalism (in the form of strange animals) and isolationism of Ned in his too-small bed.  While most younger children will miss the allusion to Procrustes, they may remember the literary echo in Hop on Pop: Ned joins Red, Ted, and Ed in a more appropriately sized bed, and Seuss shows his support for the UN, or at least the International Monetary Fund.The tension is palpable when the young boy and girl bring home a large, walrus-like pet and wonder how their mother will feel about their deed; no preschooler could miss this reference to the Teapot Dome scandal.  Similarly, their advice to get a pet Yink simply because of its fondness for pale red india writing product is a sardonic commentary on rampant consumerism.  And the camel-like Wump shows his prophetic realization that our demand for oil would force us to deal with the Saudis on a regular basis.Seuss warns us of the coming divide in these United States in the introduction: "From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere."  It starts with the fish, red, blue, and black (but not white, showing where Geisel's sympathies lie), young and old, then proceeds up the evolutionary chain to large land mammals, eventually including the aforementioned school-aged boy and girl.  They serve as the Adam and Eve as well as the Joe and Joan Sixpak of the book.  They espouse embracing what is different while they reinforce doing the same.Seuss knew where we were headed in both 2000 and 2004, and this book shows the way out.  The US has plenty of (pale) red ink, so we should get a Yink.  I think.
5 This book represents so much from my children's childhood. When I did child-care at our home, my daughter so impressed her little friend that she could read this book ALL BY HERSELF!  of course, it was by memory, but so enjoyable, Now I want to keep the book to reminde yself how we react and share with others.
5 One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish by Dr. Seuss gives young children an excellent way to start reading independently. The book helps children learn to count to eleven and it increases their vocabulary as you read it along with them the first few times. Young children just learning to read will be able to read this book as one of their first books that they can read by themselves; and the cute illustrations will delight children and even adults everywhere.The book's plot is not entirely deep--nor should it be for this exceptionally young, tender age group. The book helps kids to learn how to count to eleven and recognize the words for those numbers; it also uses pictures to introduce words for basic colors including red, blue, black, yellow and pink. Children also explore the concepts of old and new; fast and slow; high and low; thin and fat as well as here and there. Excellent! The book also introduces the telephone and how two people can communicate by phone. Your child will love that--they'll think that the phone is a toy!The book is nicely bound and the strength of the hardcover binding makes the book tolerate the bending and occasional carelessness of a young child who is learning to read partly by using this book. Great!I highly recommend One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish for younger kids who are just learning to read. This book will increase their vocabulary by introducing words, comparisons and pictures. The child also gets a heightened awareness of the world around them; and the adorable illustrations will delight children everywhere.Great job, Dr. Seuss!
3 This is a good book for the youngsters.  Good Suess style story although I have liked some of his other books better.
3 Like all Dr. Seuss stuffs, it's plenty engaging for young children and their parents. Simple words and colorful drawings make it a hit with learning readers.
5 Another good book for my 6 yr. old granddaughter to read. Would be good to read to younger children too. Lots of pictures too.
3 I thought this book starts off great, one fish two fish, red fish blue fish,etc etc, but then it ends the fish part and goes on in random mini short stories.  For this reason, i think it's just OK.  Confusing to my toddler I suppose, it doesn't keep his attention...since it skips around a lot.  wish the fish part was longer or the entire book. wasn't impressed. thought it would be better based on reviews
5 Dr. Seuss's extraordinary body of work is a collective treasure, but from that group of books a few stand out as his best. &quot;One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish&quot; certainly belongs in the category of Seuss's finest. Rich in clever rhymes and memorable images, this book scores a literary home run on nearly every page.Directed towards early readers, &quot;One Fish&quot; uses simple language in its funny rhymes. Seuss mixes his own created words together with standard vocabulary, resulting in such memorable lines as &quot;just jump on the hump of the Wump of Gump.&quot; And these rhymes are accompanied by a rich variety of images that can only be described as &quot;Seussian&quot;: A mother fish pushing her offspring in a baby carriage, a bed being commandeered by a menagerie of animals, and more.Futhermore, in &quot;One Fish&quot; Dr. Seuss introduces us to a wonderful assortment of Seussian creatures: the singing Ying, the hopping Yop, a truly bizarre creature known simply as &quot;Clark,&quot; and many more. These images are sure to energize the imaginations of both children and adults.Seuss's images range from the joyful to the eerie, from the baroque to the earthy. I give &quot;One Fish&quot; my most enthusiastic recommendation.
3 I bought this based on memory instead of a quick re-read. I probably wouldn't have bought it, otherwise. The rhymes are OK, and there's a lot of silliness that seems like it is just in there to get things to rhyme. It doesn't really have a story. My daughter doesn't get engaged by it, and would rather flip through the pages to look at the pictures rather than actually read through it. Among the Seuss books, she prefers Sneetches and Yertle the most.
5 This little book can serve two functions.  It's a great book to read to very small children and it can be broken up into little sections to suit short attention spans.  There's counting, color recognition and loads of funny illustrations and wacky, wacky rhymes.  It's lively enough that parents and kids can play together as they work their way through the silly stories--each just a page or two long.And as kids get older, this is a great book for them to read by themselves.  Suess throws in made-up words so you have a book on a hook and on the book is "How to Cook" and the whole contraption hangs off the head of a creature called a Nook, who can't read so he can't cook.I love this book, which was published in 1960, the year in which I was first learning to read.  I still find the plight of the Nook funny, and am delighted to gift this and a couple of other Suess stories to some youngsters who are just the age for encountering great literature.  The words of this little gem may be simple but the arrangement is sublime!
5 1 fish2 fishred fishblue fish...this book is great for anold fishor anew fish!This classic Dr. Seuss book is a collection of silly rhymes that will make adults smile and children giggle.  Bizarrely-wonderful characters like yops hop, yinks drink pink ink, yings sing and wumps bump!  Come and ring the gak out back, box a gox and open some cans with a zans!As always, with Dr. Seuss's books, children learn to read by rhyme and repetition.  Your child will ask you to read this book to her over and over and soon she'll be reading along with you.  Learning through fun is Dr. Seuss's specialty.If you've never read this book you should.This book is fun...and fun is good!
5 It was purely by accident that I found myself with a copy of Dr Seuss's "One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish" in my hands and actually reading it. The nostalgia trip lasted about 3.5 seconds before I started enjoying the book in its own right as an adult. It is just plain linguistic fun. And, yeah, it will appeal to kids as well.The story itself is nonsensical fun, and the use of sounds to create that sense of fun is very creative. As only Dr Seuss can do, he makes reading the book not only fun at a mental level, but the rhythm and sounds also have the ability to make reading it fun. I found myself captivated in anticipation of what Seuss would do next with the words. The names of various creatures are also just plain fun and really appeal to the child in us all.The illustrations are what one would expect from Dr Seuss: gaudy colours and not too much detail. They are fantastic pictures, even though they are quite simple. They do not distract from the text, but there is enough there to keep younger kids focused. Of course, that should not stop us older "kids" enjoying them.This is a true classic of a book, and is among my favourites of Dr Seuss books. I have to confess to still enjoying it and know that kids do too. It is a great book and well-written. Kids everywhere should have at least one Dr Seuss book.Oh yeah, this book is great for pronunciation classes, as well, with foreign students! It targets some common sounds that are problematic for some nationalities.
5 This book is great for the under five set. My 3 year old cousin loves it, as did my younger brother when he was a child. The book is funny and Seuss's use of rhyme helps children with word recognition. It's a terrific book for a beginning reader. My cousin has it memorized now. She's never gotten tired of it. I have found that even children who are in school will like the book if they are still a beginning reader, because it is so colorful, easy to memorize, and the rhymes are great. If your youngster doesn't have this book already, I highly reccommend that you pick it up for him/her.
5 This is another book by Dr. Suess that my Great Granddaughter loves me to read to her.  I have already bought Green Eggs & Ham and The Cat in the Hat.  She is almost 2 years old and asks for me to read her One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish.  I had forgotten what it was like to read to her and it brought back memories of reading to my own children when they were her age. Thank you Amazon for letting me be able to download these books that give her such pleasure at this early age.
5 Grandson loves the rhythm of this book and will sit long enough for me to get through it.  Good buy.
4 This one was not as much fun for my grandson as Green Eggs and Ham or I can read with my eyes shut never the less he had fun with it  I'd recommend it for any beginning reader.
5 This book was almost not published.  The publisher did not think this book would sell because it was so simple.  What a genious Dr. Seuss turned out to be because of it's simplicity.  One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish is a true children's classic because children never become tired of the book.  They will actually wear it out from use.  Older children will smile when they see the book years later and make comments along the lines "I loved this".Like all of Dr. Suess' books, it is both colorfull and whimsical.  The book teaches children to read by using nonsensical animals and ryhmes.  A child can read one little section and not become bored or lost because the book is not connected with a story.  That is the beauty of this book.  It is a childrens book written for children and their thinking.  No heavy messages here, just plain fun.  The colors catch the eye, the rhymes catch the ears, and the shear silliness cathes the imagination.  It is truly a wonderfull gift to give a parent of younger children.  Highley recommended.
5 Even fun to read to my two and a half year old. A Dr. Suess classic. Older one reads it to younger one.
5 You can never go wrong with giving Dr Seuss. Love him. Taught my kids to read with him; giving him to my grandchildren.  He is entertaining, captivating, and fascinating.  I still know the books and I don't even have to open the covers.
5 Dr. Seuss books are always good to have at home. I read this particular book several times in school and will definetely continue using it.
5 I bought this for a Christmas present for my granddaughter and I know she will love it as much as I do.
5 THis book is a great series and perfect for my child.  Very interesting story.  Thank you for your writing these.
5 I used to read and love this when I was a kid and now that i have a 17-month-old child I love reading it to my son. He enjoys the drawings and the sound of the words. It is fun for me to read and give voices too. The weird thing is that I remember some of the drawings line for line from when I was younger. This really must have made a strong impression on me. I hope it does the same for my son.
5 Reading Dr. Suess' One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, I can't help but wonder if that's how we got rap and hip hop music.  These poems can be read just like rap and is it any wonder that this type of music is so appealing to kids.  If only the messages in today's music were as positive as Dr. Suess.Kids love rhymes, and parents love reading them to kids.  It's like we're all hard-wired to enjoy rhythm which is almost spelled the same as rhyme.  All, enough with the deep thinking, I recommend all of Dr. Suess' work to parents to read to kids of all ages.  They are all a joy and this book is no exception.  The illustrations are original, whimsical and so much fun that knowing how kids like the same books read over and over to them, this book works for me.  The book asks questions, encourages observation, counting, and most importantly imagination.If school were this much fun we'd all have PHDs.When I Dream
5 I LOVE this book! I tried to use the title as my nickname, but it didn't all fit! I have memorized the WHOLE thing! It is a REALLY GREAT book! You should buy it!  One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish, black fish, blue fish, old fish, new fish...
3 (This review is in response to a request as to why I have only given One Fish, Two Fish... three stars)Firmly ensconced in the middle tier of the Dr Seuss canon, One Fish, Two Fish... is many people's favorite for its light humor, catchy, Moliere-esque couplets, and clever use of repetition as well as surprise, as in the title, where the rhyming word comes at the beginning of a repeated syllable, rather than at the end of the phrase.It earns its place as one of the most quotable (possibly only Green Eggs and Ham is more often quoted) and fun to read aloud (after only Fox in Socks), but it stays firmly in the middle tier because it lacks three things:1) The classic Dr Seuss creations. That book doesn't introduce a Who, a Cat in the Hat, Mulberry Street, Green Eggs, Grinches, or other new element to our culture is not a criticism. It does, however, set those books apart as critical pieces that added to our society in some way; they rise above this book.2) Giesel's overt moralizing. Whether teaching is about size versus importance, making your own fun and cleaning up after it, the futility of war, or even a covert (and possibly unintentional) lesson on ambiguous modifiers, Seuss' classics do what the greatest children's literature does; they remind us as adults of lessons we needed to grow up and need now not to forget.3) Covert study of a philosophical principle. This may be all in interpretation (no one suggests that Giessel intended these), but many readers for decades have found the Seuss books' repetition and variation of a theme to serve as a metaphor or direct example of something universal. Whether it's a question of imagination in play and its social consequence (The Cat in the Hat), ontological questions about Platonic ideals (Green Eggs and Ham, which rejects the notion that the environment is relevant to the enjoyment of the food), the Freudian question of experience and its ability to drive all future behavior (How the Grinch Stole Christmas), or a more complex example such as To Think That I Saw it on Mulberry Street, which combines all of the above in various ways), the very best of Seuss takes a universal question and circles it, showing us various views in fanciful ways while using childlike tropes to strip the question down to its abstract base. It doesn't do this because Giessel intended to be a philosopher, but because he though about children and learning in deep ways inherent to the essence of experiencing humanity.In this context, One Fish, Two Fish... is a fine and enjoyable book, and one that I will enjoy reading many times; its three-star rating is only because it is a relative trifle in the Seuss canon when seen next to his many masterpieces. It isn't one you'll go back to over decades for inspiration, when teaching your children, or as an example to understand or explain a principle implicit to Giessel's thinking and vital to us all.It's a great book. Get it. Read it. But it earns an "I Liked It" on the Goodreads scale. Don't think of passing up Fox in Socks, Horton Hears a Who, The Cat in the Hat, or other of his classics in favor of this one.
4 A rhythmic, rhyming book of real and imaginary creatures, illustrated in Seuss's delightfully engaging style.  It is composed of short, funny scenes that are strung together to form a certain coherency as the creatures named become sillier and sillier.  After nine or ten read-alouds it starts to feel a bit long for adults, but the short scenes make it a good fit both for rambunctious toddlers with short attention spans, and early readers who will benefit from the achievement of finishing each scene.  It also comes in an audio version.
2 So this book must have been styled similar to Go Dog Go. I can't seem to get past the completely random nature of the book. I feel like I am suffering from ADD when I try to read this to my daughter. I personnally prefer stories, especially kids books, with a either clear or underlying story.
5 As with every book that Dr.Suess wrote this one is yet another pleasure for young and old.  Being a  little bit longer than the norm just gives more pages of giggles and time to share with your little one.Illustrations are bright and colorful helping to bring every word to life.  Lots of fun for everyone.
5 Excellent repeated pattern for child who is beginning to read. Illustrations support beginning reader who may need assistance to complete decode sentence pattern.
5 It doesn't get better than this book - has been his #1 favorite since he was a small infant.  One of his first words was "fishy".  I have tried board books with flaps and touch-and-feel but he will push those aside in favor of a Dr.Seuss book.  Also loves Horton, the Foot Book and Green Eggs and Ham.  Totally baffling but awesome!  These books are not obnoxious to read over and over again, which is HUGE plus for me.
1 Just don't understand why Dr.Seuss's books are so popular! The illustrations are pathetic (all animals look more or less similar, it is hard to distinguish them), there is hardly any story line, just a sequence of non-sensical rhyming words.I would stick with P.D. Eastman or Alison Jay any time
4 I found that my favorite website[...] recommended this book as Top10 counting book. I'd rather said that there're only few places in this book saying about number. The concept of counting is not clear. Anyway, it's my sons' favorite book. They love the rhyme and fell fast sleep before I read the last page every time. But I don't like the weird names of animals in this book.
2 The more Dr. Seuss books I read, the more I wonder why people love his books so much.  The original books are WAY to long (buy the board books!) and remind me of the study that shows that kids these days have a shorter attention span than in the past--15-30 seconds, the length of time of a commercial on TV.  Maybe it's not the commercials that did it, but rather Dr. Seuss.  After about the third page, this book switches from fish to other creatures.  This really confused me.  From the title, I expected the whole book to be about fish, and opposites, or at least different descriptors.  But not only is it not just fish, after the third page, the whole thing falls apart.  Each page has nothing to do with the following page.  Why were these pages put together to form one book?  Who knows.  To the reviewer who says he can read it in any order--this isn't Choose Your Own Adventure.  It's _supposed_ to be a sequential book.
5 its a good book and its not just about fish.  its filled with all sorts of rhymes and silliness.  its has some teachable moments.  "what is that fish doing that makes him bad?"  another great book from dr. suess.
5 Bought this for my daughters they Loved it!! I have always loved Dr. Seuss and I hope they will grow to them just as much!
5 A Classic that still entertains adults and children, so you don't mind so much when they want you to read it over and over
4 This is another good Dr. Seuss book.  My son just loved reading this one.  It was rather simplistic in style; its pacing draws you in and makes it easier to read, especially for early readers.  Probably not one of his more memorable books, but still a good book.  I recommend it for any early readers.T.S. CharlesAuthor of young adult book, &#34;Consumed.&#34; Available on Amazon.
4 Dr. Seuss was a master at introducing children to reading. This book is a classic example. The simple rhyming pattern combined with the wild and fantastical illustrations, provide for a great introductory book to reading. The only drawback to this book (as is the case with about half of the good doctor's works) is that there is no story; the book is basically a collection of random rhyming phrases paired with complimentary drawings. Of course, there is amusement to this type of writing and younger children find it highly entertaining. Still, other Dr. Suess stories (such as THE CAT IN THE HAT) are just as fantastical, but include a story as well. Nevertheless, one cannot go wrong with a book by Dr. Seuss; both children and adults love his books.
4 Please note that it is a bit long - definitely not a great readaloud for any child with a short attention span.It also does jump around a lot. That's an asset in an early reader - it means that the kids can stop reading when they get frustrated and pick it up again when they're ready. They don't have to worry about remembering plot points for more than two pages.I like this book, my nieces like it (when they're willing to sit through it), that's what matters.I will note that some people might object to a picture depicting some violence and calling another (sentient?) creature "bad". I don't, but if you do, please read before buying.
5 Classic Dr Seuss, what more can I say. A favorite of my children and always on my list as a gift for a new baby.
3 My son loves this book and it arrived quickly. However, although it was marked as being in good condition it has writing on the pages, a child's name written on the cover, very worn, and pages are creased.
5 Great book I got as a gift for a friend. Good job and is been around for ever. Enjoy it
5 I use this often to make some of my repairs and or projects. It is fairly light and zips through wood in no time.At first I did not notice that it was capable of making angled cuts, once I found out that it does I have bee going crazy making much better cuts on my wood.Great item and the cord is fairly long so it really does not get in the way, I prefer the corded one because it has more power.I love the Dr. Seuss line of beginner books.  I used to read them to my children almost every night. That is how they learned how to read, if you let your child sit next to you and listen to how many times Dr. Seuss would repeat the same word in his books.  It drove me crazy but it worked to teach my children how to read at a very young age.As I read the stories we looked at the silly pictures and then eras the same words again in a short time they were correcting me, I made mistakes on purpose to see how much they were paying attention.Sitting with a child and reading to them is both a benefit to them and to you it is relaxing and fun to share such moments together.
5 On the surface One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish, the third Beginner Book that Dr. Suss (Ted Geisel) wrote, might appear to be a book of merely counting, colours, opposites and other concepts. The book revolves around the motto of "funny things are everywhere", and the fish in different guises are but the welcome mat to this wild, weird world. The creatures and crazy situations in the book (Yink, Yop, Ying, Gack, Zans, etc) are designed to encourage readers to embrace the world in all its quirkiness and diversity, and there are small sentiments peppered throughout the book such as "These things are fun, and fun is good" and "If you wish to make a wish". This book may be plotless, but the theme of funny things and embracing the world help to anchor it and make it a Seuss masterpiece.
5 This book is just like the one I bought for my children years ago. It is well- bound and attractive.  This is a terrific children's book.
3 As usual, historical novelist Barbara Erskine does a fine job of crafting a tight little fascination with a fine plot line, weaving the past with the present.  In her hard-to-duplicate trademark style, she involves believable open-minded modern characters that cannot help but channel disgruntled personages from Britain's darker age.  In "Daughters of Fire", Erskine hones the fast paced, easy to get into technique for which she is noted, creating historical personalities that ring with an authenticity that reminds one of the well-thought-out sequences in Marion Zimmer Bradley's "Mists of Avalon" that transport the reader to another time and place while providing a convincing and plausible glimpse into an ancient culture primed with rituals, traditions and a completely alien manner of looking at life and its forces.Erskine presents her players with skill and panache; Viv, an historian with Edinburgh University has finished a historical novel about Cartimandua, Celtic queen of the Brigantes tribe during the Roman invasion of Britain.  Hugh, the newly widowed head of the Viv's department, senses that Viv's information regarding the details of Cartimandua's life has been reworked by Viv's vivid imagination causing compromise to cast an unscholarly shadow on the university's credibility.  Until he receives supernatural communication from Venutios, Cartimandua;s long ago husband and power rival, he cannot fathom the uncanny source of Viv's font of knowledge regarding this little known period of the Celts---through visions Cartimandua relates her story to Viv in the form of dreams and fugue states.  As Viv's novel becomes increasingly popular, Hugh's self-righteousness gathers strength and together with a cursed artifact from the time period restructures a vortex of unsettled emotions leftover from the Celtic world, seeding Viv, Hugh and their acquaintances with the scattergun effects of love, revenge, misspent power, and retribution.While remaining true to her earlier successes in "Lady of Hay" and "Kingdom of Shadows", unfortunately Erskine follows her own popular formula resulting in a story that after about 100 pages smarts with a disappointing predictability.  Like her more recent bestsellers, "On the Edge of Darkness", "Whispers in the Sand" and "Hiding from the Light", she overdoes the danger element emanating from the past, in this case conducted by the artifact which allows one of Cartimandua's rivals to realize her ancient and unfulfilled grudge against the queen.The actual historical tale of Cartimandua and the reconstruction of the world of wise Druids, battle worn warriors and deceitful Roman emissaries, fascinates as well as urges the reader to turn those pages just a little faster to learn more of this strong and aggressive female leader.  However, the modern day story of supernatural possession and the settling of misunderstood scores becomes redundant----reminiscent of the tired technique utilized in Erskine's more recent works.Regardless of the obviousness of her plotline, Erskine emulates Scheherazade in her ability to convey the reader to another time and place that is unfamiliar to our modern sensibilities.  Rather than employing the timeworn evil construct of a tainted brooch or other artifact, I implore Ms. Erskine to concentrate on the churning emotions of all the characters with more insight and subtlety and conjure up more twists to the rather linear storyline that will surprise and uplift even her most jaded readers.Recommended for new readers of Erskine or diehard fans with the following caveat:  be prepared for foreseeable and banal happenstances.  Those most familiar with Erskine's other novels will anticipate the outcome within the first 100 pages. Newer readers will perhaps enjoy Erskine's considerable talent in telling this type of a tale.  As this tome is over 550 pages, all reader's pleasure will rapidly diminish on an inverse proportionate basis as the obvious conclusion comes to its anticlimactic and frustratingly humdrum ending and the players seem too familiar to others fashioned in her other books.
5 I've read most of Barbara Erskine's books and have thoroughly enjoyed each one of them.  Daughters of Fire was one I had not read and again I found it very well written and enjoyable to read.
5 A perfect read. All characters very alive and a wonderful plot.I just love her stories and can't wait for more.
5 Barbara Erskine is a history graduate and no doubt this has helped her a great deal in her writing of historical novels. She has several best selling internationally acclaimed novels and these help to demonstrate her love of history and also her interest in the supernatural. She lives with her family in an ancient manor house near Colchester, a place that is, itself steeped in history, particularly around the time of the Roman occupation.Much to my shame I always used to think that good historical novels were always written by men, which of course is complete nonsense and Barbara Erskine is one of those female authors who prove the point. This book switches between the past, Roman Britain and the present day, where history impacts quite dramatically on the lives of three women.The novel features Cartiimandua, a young woman destined to become the ruler of one of the greatest British tribes, the Brigantes. As her power grows her life becomes ever more complicated. She knows that she enemies on all sides, not only from the Roman invaders but people much closer to her. She has to make a choice that will change the future forever . . .In the present day, Viv Lloyd Rees a historian has specialized in the tales that abound about the Celtic queen. She becomes so immersed in her work that she starts to have visions of Cartimandua herself. Viv's obsession with the subject becomes even greater when she takes possession of an ancient brooch. A piece of jewellery that provides a link with the past. Then suddenly without warning the past intertwines with the present and Viv finds herself in danger of her life.
3 If you enjoy historical fiction with elements of the paranormal, you will probably enjoy this novel.Starting in the present, Edinburgh based historian, Viv Lloyd Rees, has immersed herself in the legends surrounding the Celtic queen Cartimandua. She has written a book about Cartimandua and is a working on a dramatisation of her life. Viv 'borrows' a brooch which is considered to have ties to Cartimandua and increasingly becomes caught up in what appears to be the life and times of Cartimandua.This experience is not confined to Viv: others associated with her also become caught up in what appears to be a reliving of key events from the life and times of Cartimandua.The switches between the present and the past, and the points of view of different characters, are both intensely irritating and an important part of the plot.I enjoyed those parts of the novel set in the past far more than those set in the present.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
3 There is this incredibly annoying sticker on the front of my copy of this book that says, "Find out why millions of readers love Erskine!" Now, I hate stickers on books. They mess up the covers and make them look shabby. And aside from that this book is not a particularly good example of why millions of readers love Erskine; in fact I am not sure millions of readers love Erskine, I certainly like her but it is a like born of a combination of amusement, genuine enjoyment and deep frustration. I will explain. If you are not familiar with Barbara Erskine she writes novels that combine history with the paranormal, normally by means of possession or ghosts or past lives-always with some kind of tragic romance thrown in that failed in a past incarnation/ghost history....but has hopes of succeeding in this life.This book is pretty typical Erskine, following the mold above. Like all her novels it's frustrating because of the inexplicably evil people/ghosts, the ease of fixing things in the end, the way people shift from being afraid to exultant in the situation within a matter of minutes.The story: Viv is a history professor with a penchant for married men who has written a book about Cartimandua, a Celtic queen contemporary of Boudicca, only instead of rebelling against Rome she became an ally of the hated invaders. Viv's book has pissed off her widowed superior who she's in love with, Hugh, because her sources can't be verified because....she dreamed the past! The queen has come to her in her sleep and told her the story of her life. Now her contemporaries come through as ghosts or sprit and a whole bunch of confusing stuff happens which features murder, romance and madness!! Very typical for Erskine, and very frustrating.While in the beginning this book has a tight feel and everything seems to make sense it unwinds as it goes on, until I was a little lost. Still the adrenaline of the ending makes up for some of it. And there this there issue the book brings up about history.It's very easy for me to view Cartimandua as a traitor, being of Celtic descent myself. However reading this book I have decided that it is impossible to judge history. You can observe, deduce, find evidence, make conclusions, but no matter how well informed or educated or creative you are you'll never know what was really going on, what Cartimandua was really thinking or feeling or her true motives. This of course does not apply to people like Hitler, but rather to historical people of disputed personality and morality.Anyway, this book is not a total waste of time. Its typical Erskine like I said, which is difficult but can be fun. This isn't the best book I've read by her ("House of Echoes" creepy but not overdone), but it's not the worst ("On the Edge of Darkness" which was just awful.)Three point five stars.
2 I thought it sounded like a good book, but after I sent it to my daughter for her daughters, I found out what it was really about.  Opps!  Not the best choice in my opinion either!
4 Got it for a friend as a gift. She needed it. But I understand the real theme that Seuss was preaching and I don't  agree.
5 Boy it sure points out how being nice can lead to be taken advantage of.  To me being nice is fine if you understand the cost to you unlike the moose and agree with it then it is not being taken advantage of it is a choice.  The moose's problem was that he never really decided or consented to the others using him.
5 My kindergarten aged daughter loved this book.  We purchased it because she read Dr. Suess in school and liked it so much she had to have it.
5 There is Seuss and there is SEUSS. This is the latter. Although it was a book I encountered as a child (in an office waiting room), it was not one I found often in school settings, and you will see why when you read it, as 'Thidwick' is one of the most subversive books I have seen, although it is entirely non-political and completely appropriate for children in faith-based schools.
5 This was a child's favorite book and we bought it to donate to a school in honor of the child's grandma who is retiring!
5 Perfect purchase for children especially for reading to your child and then progress to them reading on their own. They are easy and fun!
5 This wonderful book conveys the essence of Ayn Rand's "Atlas Shrugged" in a way that even pre-schoolers understand.  Of course understanding fairness is something that comes naturally to most little ones, they haven't been to School yet!
5 Thidwick's adventure begins simply enough.  He is marching along on the shores of Lake Winna-Bango, on the far northern shore, looking for moose-moss to eat with 60 other moose.  A small Bingle Bug nicely asks Thidwick for a ride &quot;for a way.&quot;  Thickwick replies, &quot;I'm happy to share!&quot;  Most of us would have said the same.But what happens when a guest overstays her or his welcome?  In Thidwick's case, his horns become a veritable zoo of wildlife.  There is a Tree-Spider spinning a web, a Zinn-a-zu Bird who gets married and builds a nest, and their uncle the woodpecker who pecks holes the squirrel family inhabits.  And so on it goes, to include a bobcat, turtle, fox, mice, fleas, a big bear . . . and 362 bees!Thidwick is like the horse in Animal Farm.  He's providing all of the work and benefit, and everyone is bossing him around.  Why, they won't even agree to let him leave with the other moose to find more moose moss.  Why is Thidwick willing to put up with this?  What are the benefits of having a big heart in this situation?How does Thidwick end up in this mess?  Well, having accepted the Bingle Bug, the subsequent guests ignore Thidwick and ask the earlier guests instead if they can move in.  Thidwick honors his first commitment, extends it in time and to the new inhabitants.As a result of Thidwick's dilemma, this book provides a good opportunity to discuss sharing with your child . . . and explain the benefits and limits of sharing.Your child will run into people who will try to take advantage.  This gives you a chance to ask your child what he or she would do in Thidwick's situation.The story's resolution is a most original and humorous one that makes good use of the mental picture of shedding your onorous burdens.This story is illustrated by Dr. Seuss, as well as written in his best rhyming way.  The drawings of the creatures in Thidwick's horns come close to matching many of Dr. Seuss's most imaginative mechanical devices.  The horns of this dilemma are funnier than those devices, because this concoction is based on animals and natural processes.The story is a pretty easy one for five to six year olds to learn to read, because many of the words are short and rhyme.  The illustrations also &quot;name&quot; many of the nouns.  The humor provides &quot;hooks&quot; for memorizing the words.I also liked the idea of introducing children to the concept of treating a guest well, even if the guest does not behave well.  Our society would be much improved if we all did a little more friendly hosting.After you finish enjoying this story, ask your child if she or he knows of anyone who is like Thidwick.  Ask your child what that person should do differently.Enjoy having a big heart . . . and hosting others!
5 This is my favorite Dr Seuss book (even though I discovered it only a few months ago).  The story and pictures are excellent and (importantly) it is particularly easy and fun to read aloud.Unfortunately, this book is advertised as being suitable for 5-8 year olds only - NOT TRUE!  This book is for ANYONE of ANY AGE who enjoys stories.
4 The book is of course fun. It is the story of a moose that is nice and kind and taken advantage of by other animals...until she breaks free and learns to take care of herself (or put herself first).it is a little dark in its message. SPOIL alert: the animals who take advantage of the moose end up dead.It gives the message that you should care for yourself first.Not a bad message by itself and certainly in the context of this story it makes sense, but some parents might not be ready to discuss such a point with their young or very children.Overall, the book is nice but the message is such that you need to know you might get more questions that you are ready to answer.
5 I bought this book 39 years ago at a church sale when I was 6 years old--yes, I used my own money!  I loved it then and I love it now.  The illustrations are a hoot--seeing one critter after another move into poor Thidwick's horns has always made me laugh.  And, I like to think of myself as a nice guy too and a moral fellow, just like poor Thidwick.  So, the lesson of seeing people take advantage of one's good nature has served me as I've gone through life.  In college I majored in Political Philosophy and I thought of this book then.  The lesson for me was--Bad people will use your morality against you while themselves being unaccountable.  Bad people will break the law all the time, but if a good person breaks the law...listen to them scream!  And of course, poor Thidwick will do anything to keep from breaking the law (in this case the law of hospitality), even starve to death or be shot by trophy hunters, rather than eject his "guests."  The law has been distorted and perverted in Thidwick's case.  His immoral guests remind Thidwick that if he's to be a good host then Thidwick must cater to their needs.  They don't / won't consider Thidwick's needs.  The ungrateful guests seem offended that they might have some responsibility for Thidwick's suffering.  Years later when I read a book by Ayn Rand, I thought of Thidwick during several passages.  But this is most importantly a children's book that children love!  My 4 year old son picks this book to have me read it to him regularly.  If he didn't like it, what would it matter that his dad likes it so much!
5 What can I say, everyone already knows all about doctor sued books.  Kids love them and they are quirky and entertaining for the parents
5 I have read this book to all my kids.  It teaches a valuable lesson -- just because a lot of people disagree with you doesn't make them right and you wrong.  The book teaches this lesson in a humorous way.  It is a lesson that all kids should learn before they face all the peer pressure that they will naturally run into during middle school and high school.  If this book was read by more parents, my guess is that we would have a few less problems in society.The couple critical reviews either focus on the condition of the book that they received or that that they were upset that there was hunting at the end of the story.  If I bought the books from Amazon and not a third party as I suspect that particular customer did, I haven't had any problems with their books.  As to the hunting, it was essentially to show that there were consequences to the actions for the animals who were taking advantage of the moose.  Indeed, those actions almost caused the demise of the moose also.  Second, I haven't had any problems discussing hunting with my kids as they have to understand anyway where our food comes from.  At some point any child has to learn that the hamburgers that they eat come from cows.  I really don't see the big deal about all this.
5 Once again...another Seuss that I couldn't remember.  Geeze, I must be getting old.  I enjoyed reading it to them.  Thumbs up!
3 I was disappointed by this book. At first I was like "yay! Dr.seuss!" At first I really liked it. It's about a big hearted moose who let's all sorts of tiny animals climb on his horns. Soon the animals take advanced of him. At the end-----------------------------------------------------spoilers!-------------------------------All the animals are killed in a incident with hunters except the moose. This is very upsetting. For better Dr. Seuss books, get the lorax or one fish two fish red fish blue fish. Those are good.
4 My oldest son memorized this book when he was 5, so it has always been a favorite. I purchased this one for my great grandson, Brennan.
5 Not much else but praise can be said for purchasing the classic Dr. Seuss books for my grandchildren. I read them as a child, I read them to my children and now I will be reading them to my grandchildren. I know they will love them as I did plus I love that they always had a moral to the story.
5 Dr Seuss comes through again. Fun to read, good morals, excellent story.Lots of fun!!
5 A good Seuss book. I love meese (I know, it's technically not meese) and this book is very cute. Love it.
5 love that this was high quality book found on registry for my grandson... love moose and love Seuss books so much!
5 This is an excellent book which I've read to my children many times. It's delightful and has a timeless message about laziness and freeloading. The characters who take advantage of Thidwick's kindheartedness and generosity in the book are really in need of a ride or a place to live. They are just greedy selfish moochers, plain and simple.These animals will sort of remind the reader of certain types of people. Currently the mentality of the people from the Occupy Movement (Occupy Wall Street, Occupy Oakland, etc.) matches that of the animals.I won't tell how the book concludes, but I will say that for the freeloading animals, it's a site worse than getting caned or teargassed. As well as more humiliating.
5 Thidwick is a moose who doesn't know how to say no. Over the course of the story he develops one hanger-on after another, each one making a home in Thidwick's big horns. Each is a taker, but when it comes time to give, the parasites become indignant. Eventually it gets to the point where it puts Thidwick's life in danger, and still the takers have no concern for Thidwick. Fortunately the hunters don't make a trophy of Thidwick, and Thidwick learns a valuable lesson.Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose belongs next to The Lorax, the Grinch, and Yertle the Turtle as one of Seuss's finest and most entertaining morality tales. Although it hasn't yet achieved the iconic status of those other Seuss tales, this is among the six or seven best from among the entire Seuss catalog.
5 A childhood favorite that I bought on Kindle as a whim.  It reads very well on the Kindle app for iPad.
5 I purchased Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose because we have a beaten-up copy we love. Thidwick learns that a big-hearted moose can be misused by animals and insects that are more than willing to take advantage of Thidwick's generosity. Adults will enjoy the story as much as the children.I bought the hardcover, hoping it will hold up as well as our original. Warning to readers who condemn hunting: Thidwick is hunted in the book, but gets the better of the hunters.
2 Ms. Hasan has tried to put a human face on Islam but,except for a few glowing reports, her own religious cohorts are unwilling to allow her to express any corralation between the ideals of a free and democratic society and Islam.  One response to her post, someone from &quot;paradise&quot; aka India-insists that only Islam will bring the world to high place of ethics and morality.  Will this be before or after we discuss the  atrocities committed by the followers of Islam in India itself, the genocide in Armenia (1898-1915) or the palestistinian bus bombers of today.Ms.Hasan should be more honest and explain why Islam is unable to stop the abuse of honor killings,child labor and poverty in such places as the peoples paradise of India.  Is it possible that Islam is a terribly flawed system of belief based upon a prophet who spoke of peace but never found it himself?
1 I guess if you are a pretty twentysomething Muslima who attended Wellesley and sees Islam as one day becoming as mainstream as the Episcopalian or Methodist Churches, you too will get your book hyped by publishers hoping to cash in on post 9/11 America's fascination for almost all things Islam --especially when your message is one that says Islam can and will accomodate moral relativity. To hear Asma tell it, if Muhammad were alive today, he would be a website moghul, loving all things American and promoting ecumenical love for all. Asma adores both her American nationality and her Muslim faith and while this is admirable, ignoring the obvious and trying to rationalise and put a spin on it all is not.Ms. Hasan would like America's freedom-worshipping, consumerist masses to believe that Islam condones everything from feminism to individual choice to the homosexual agenda. This is simply not so, nor is it necessarily a bad thing about Islam either. Islam has rigid rules and absolutes. There are things which are Right and there are things which are Wrong. Too bad that we live in a world today where a faith which has such strong values needs an apologist like Asma to let us know Islam could become as "tolerant" as a mainline Protestant church.Truly, Ms. Hasan's writing is at best basic and she simply is not knowlegeable enough in theology or history or modern-day geopolitics to write such a book as this. Ms. Hasan merely wants you, me and all her galpals from Wellesley and her present buddies at the San Francisco law firm she works for to know she is just another normal, funloving all-American girl who isn't like those hairy bad men we see nightly on the news. Guess what Asma? I believe you, because I know plenty of other patriotic, loving American Muslims similar to you. That being said, I also know that there is more to being a Muslim than just not eating pork and going to the mosque on fridays. There are some things which Islam will not --cannot-- ever accept from our over-secularized, hedonistic society. Both you and Manji (the Canadian lesbian "Muslim" feminist) need to realize this.
2 Asma is cute and that is what sells the book. It's simple as all that.Dress up a cute Pakistani girl to show the world that a girl can go out into the big bad world of the decadent West and succeed and still remain a good Muslim.Well whta I would like to know is what does Asma feel about cartoons showing Prophet Mohammad whering a bomb in his turban? What about a cartoon where the Prophet beseeches madmen who blow themselves and others up not to do it "Because there are no more virgins in Heaven?"How does Asma feel that so many of her fellow believers are going insane all over the world because of the cartoons and are burning and looting?
1 The author's intentions...??? Probably good...the outcome..??? a disaster!!!!!!  First of all the author needs to grow in every way, mentally and in islam.  My conclusion of her way of writting ..she is definitely an emptyheaded woman.  About her knowledge in Islam...she knows no more than a non muslim.  Just by stating that Muhammad (pbuh) is the founder of Islam  which is one of the main misconceptions the western world have about this religion makes me believe that she does not even know what she is writting about.  If you want to learn about Islam get a book like The Idiots Guide to Islam or The Idiots Guide to the Koran....dont waste your money on this one!!!!
2 This is a book that gives a great look into a young Muslim woman, and what it's like to be a young Muslim woman in America.  It's not a book that gives a great look at Islam.It reads like an apology for Islam.  Which is not bad- but it's not the kind of apology many Muslims would agree with.  Hasan has found an extreme liberal theological approach, and advocates this as normative for Islam.  Ironically, she speaks of the strength of Islam as it's incredible diversity.  But most of the groups within Islam wouldn't accept most of what she has to say.  In order to justify Islam for the modern American mind, she has had to reject many of the historical interpretations of Islam and the Qur'an.  Which doesn't make her approach wrong- it just makes it not the Islam that most Muslims would be talking about.  Repeatedly statements she makes would be rejected by Shi'i, conservative Muslims, militant Muslims, folk Muslims, and secular Muslims in the Middle East- groups that together comprise most of the Dar al Islam.  She has taken Islam and Christianized it- remolding it to fit into the Christian ideals of the good, so that the religion is quite palatable to the Christian mind because it suddenly upholds all the Christian values.Again, this is an apology for Islam, so those looking for a balanced view of religions should look elsewhere.  While espousing tolerance and acceptance, Hasan finds everything she can to support Islam for the liberal American mind, and anything to detract from other religions.  Even when she quotes the Bible, she will not give it credit, but instead refer to it as a "popular saying".  Her scholarship is very weak, as she will accept any Hadith or story that supports her worldview, with a grudging nod to the weakness of the Hadith.  This isn't good Islamic scholarship or solid Western scholarship.The positives of this book are that it shows the experiences of a young Muslim woman in America, and that can be helpful.  But since the vision of Islam is so inaccurate, I would suggest you look elsewhere for these experiences, such as inBint Arab.
4 As an English woman (Christian) who has lived in Saudi Arabia for many years, I found Asma Gull Hasan's presentation of her Islamic faith lucid and enlightening. It is written in a lively, conversational style, and she includes many anecdotes from her childhood and schooldays to illustrate the descriptions of Islamic belief and philosophy. As I have studied Islam intensively in both informal and academic settings, this book was a little too rudimentary for me - Ms. Hasan presents a 'short and simple' version of Islam for the benefit of the Western reader who is new to the subject.Theologically, I disagree with Ms. Hasan on several counts, and there are many fellow Muslim women who have argued against her interpretations of the Qur'an - the journalist and author Saraji Umm Zaid being one of the most prominent. Complicated theological quibbles apart, the best thing about Ms Hasan's writing is that it successfully illustrates that there are hundreds of different views and perspectives within Islam. A lot of Western readers approach Islam and the Qur'an just like the Muslim fundamentalists do: they assume that the Qur'an definitely says a certain thing that has got to be taken in a certain way, and that all Muslims must accept that thing or else they are hypocrites. This just isn't the case - Islam has its different denominations, just as Christianity does, and there are lots of possible ways of interpreting an old classical Arabic text. "Why I Am a Muslim" is one woman's personal exploration of those possibilities, not a definitive textbook on all things Islamic. It should be accepted as such. Don't condemn it just because it doesn't contain what you expected to find, as your expectations probably aren't that well-informed to start with.As for the reviewer who declares that he was upset that this book contains nothing on the cartoon controversy, I suggest that he take a look at the publication date. The cartoon controversy erupted in 2006. Ms. Hasan's book is several years old. What did he expect her to do - predict the future and write a response to it?
2 My problem with this book is that the author wants us to believe that black is white and up is down. She insists that the Koran espouses gender equality even though it's obvious to any objectively thinking person that Islamic women have second class status because of what it says in the Koran. The author's explanation is that all those verses about women were misinterpreted. However, I notice she did not address the verse about a woman's testimony in court being worth less than a man's. Surprising since she is a lawyer, or maybe not so surprising since she is trying to present Islam in a positive light. I find this book to be intellectually dishonest.I would also like to mention that the author talks extensively about the song &quot;Morning Has Broken&quot; which was recorded by Cat Stevens. From reading her book, one gets the impression that the song was written by Cat Stevens, however, let's give credit where credit is due; the song was written by Eleanor Farjeon.Kudos to Asma, however, for embracing parts of the Koran which remain relevant to modern-day society such as loving God and trying to be a loving, non-judgmental human being in this troubled &amp; violent world. I enjoyed reading about the Sufi philosophy and I think if all Muslims followed it perhaps Islam really would be seen as a religion of peace in this world.
5 I don't know, maybe it is the age, level of professional education, version of Islam one is exposed to, whatever the reason, Asma's version of Islam is the one I know and practice. I converted to Islam about 12 years ago at the age of 30 after practicing Islamic Sufism for 10 years. The Islam I know is feminist, open minded and requires no hijab from its female adherents - in fact we are expresseley taught not to veil ourselves! Good for you Asma! I hope more young professionals will speak out who have found this modern, kinder, gentler form of Islam. And, by the way, in regard to another reviewer, I do believe if the prophet were alive today he would be well versed on the internet and would have no trouble sitting in a room with Jesus, Moses and Buddha sharing a cup of tea! Archaic, fundamentalist versions of Islam will fade just as the crusades did. We will still have a few rabid adherents, like Christianity's Pat Robertson, but Islam will mature and become mainstream as it ages.
5 I just wanted to reiterate how much I enjoyed reading this book!I feel that the Publisher's Weekly Review covered its strongest points, but I wanted to speak more to the way Asma Hasan writes --- she has a special narrative quality to her writing, making what could potentially become a very boring subject, an extremely exciting oneWhen you read the book, you'll feel one of two things --- at times, you'll feel that you're right there with her, within the story, enjoying the moments and being mesmerized by the same things --- in other parts, you'll feel that you're having a conversation with her, not reading at all ----- in other words, this is a book that really caters to the reader, with its fluid and whimsical writingI was put-off by the fact that one reviewer here dismissed Asma Hasan's writing style for that of a 1st grade classroom author --- I've often felt alienated by books that I had trouble comprehending (mainly because of the exaggerated 'intellectual' styling) --- I think that authors, like Asma, who can present intellectual thought through fun, narrative ways, ought to be celebrated, not bashed..... perhaps, it would start a trend making every writer become more mindful of the reader, thus making reading, itself, more of a pleasure instead of a toil.....in conclusion, the book is a great account of one American Muslim's journey through this great country of America! Not to mention that its a great demonstration of very talented writing, that can cater to all!thank you for reading my review and happy buying!
5 It's a pretty good book... she doesn't pretend to be a scholar, she merely states the obvious. Well written, interesting to follow, and all in all informative.
5 This book may not appear scholarly to many, but it is written in a refreshingly straigtforward manner that is easy to understand and easy for young people to relate with.The author, a young American-Muslim woman, has done an excellent job at defending and explaining her faith (Islam) without using big words and boring references.This book is a breath of fresh air, and I give 5 stars.
5 I first came upon Asma's work when she was speaking about her book,&quot;American Muslims&quot;, at a university here in Denver. I monitor a great deal of right-wing talk radio, and Asma's presentation (spoken and written) has been so useful in countering all the stereotyping and fear-mongering going on. Asma certainly isn't doing the sort of work that US military propagandists, like Michael Savage, want to see. Savage and many others (like Robert Spence, the author of &quot;Onward Muslim Soldier&quot;) are spending a great deal of time on America's airwaves talking about how evil Islam is. The result has been Abu Ghraib, 17,000 dead civilians, a country littered with depleted uranium and cluster bombs, and so forth.If I had the funds, I'd ship boxes of Asma's books to soldiers in Iraq. I imagine some military personnel would think twice about dropping another 1000 lb. bomb on Fallujah, or busting down the door of some family's house. Maybe some soldiers would even go AWOL!And Asma is the sort of cultural ambassador that provides some space for hope in an era of detentions and deportations.She's very funny, too.I'm sending emails to Air America Radio to have her on as a guest. They'd be nicer to her than the hosts at Fox News, and the critics on this forum.Keep up the great work and peace be with you Asma.
3 Obviously, this book was intented, in part, as a rebuttal to Ibn Warraq's "Why I Am not a Muslim" which came out about ten years ago. Its cover shows a photograph of the author, young, attractive and smiling.  By contrast, the dust jacket to Mr. Warraq's earlier book, contained no photograph -- unusual in the publishing industry, but quite understandable, given the death threats incurred by Salmon Rushdie, author of "The Satanic Verses."  What does this tell you about Islam?  Volumes.
3 I thought the book "Why I am a Muslim" is a better read for Non-Muslims than Muslims.  Muslims already know within themselves why they have chosen to follow Islam and don't need to read her opinions, since they are probably similar in many aspects.  The book seemed to drag for me at times.The book is more important for non-Muslims to read since it may show them that there are strong woman in our culture.  Perhaps it will make them realize that not all women of Islam are oppressed and brutalized like they show in the media too often.  We also have outspoken and educated women, like Hasan, in our culture as well.  By the way, they are not rare.The book also, maybe inadvertently, gives a few lessons about Islam to non-Muslims, which could lead them to do further unbiased research about Islam.  By doing there own study of the religon, with credible sources, they themselves can learn what Islam is truly about.The only major disagreement I had with Hasan's viewpoints was the fact she seems to think that the wearing of hijabs (headcoverings) is a sign of oppression against women.  Many Muslim women I know wear it and it is not by force, but by choice.  I have seen in many cases wear the Mom does not wear it but the daughter does.  What does that tell you?As for the men who came up to her after one of her speeches and asked her why doesn't she wear it, I would tell them to back off.  What she is saying in this book or in her speeches is not diminished by what she is or isn't wearing on her head.  It's her choice and it is not your place to ask.  That was the best question you could come up with after she was done speaking?  C'mon.Overall a quick decent read.  Four stars if you are non-Muslim.  It will be more interesting for you.
5 I have always been fascinated by codes and Singh has put together a comprehensive book on the history of codes.  Having read many books on codes, Singh was still able to enthrall me with some historical stories that I had not come across.  It's not just technical stuff, but is written with the novice in mind as well.  But the book holds enough technical information to keep the enthusiast interested as well.  The version I bought has a crypt contest in the back, which I enjoyed working on - I was only able to solve the first 3 or so puzzles, but it was a lot of fun.
4 Singh has provided the reader a delightful history of encryption, beginning with 16th-century codes, proceeding with the mechanized ones, and concluding with modern computer-based systems. He points out how modern encryption is being used to thwart the counterfeiting of dollars, and rejects the so-called Bible Code.Singh also touches on the intricacies of language, and discusses the difficulty of deciphering the Egyptian hieroglyphics. This involved the decoding of a language that no one speaks today, and one which has no close relatives among modern languages. He also has a fascinating account of the Navajo Indians and their unique language, and how their conversations were used to keep the Japanese in the dark during WWII.When in comes to the German ENIGMA code of WWII, and in contrast to some English-language books on this subject, Singh gives credit squarely where it is due. He traces the Polish successes with code-breaking, beginning with the cracking of Russian codes by the Biuro Szyfrow (the Bureau of Ciphers) during the 1920 Polish-Bolshevik War (p. 144). In the years before WWII, a Polish team of mathematicians headed by Marian Rejewski recognizably solved the ENIGMA (p. 155). The Poles were ten years ahead of anyone else in this field (p. 160). The later successes of the British at Bletchley relied on Rejewski's work (p. 170), and followed the lead of the Poles (p. 243). Alan Turing followed Rejewski's strategy (p. 171).
5 The Code Book was intended for a young adult audience but also holds an ability to interest an adult readership as well. This history of cryptography provides plenty of depth and information on making and breaking codes, providing a historical background on an ongoing battle which has been waged for centuries. An intriguing look at codes and secrecy.
5 HI! aLRIGHT, LET ME GIVE IT STRAIGHT HAHA I read this book and I found it INTERESTING, witty,(he kinda winks at you..and there are some humorous parts...well, of course not in the slapstick &quot;HAHAHA!&quot; way, but u'll see) challenging (Mr. Singh does not treat us like little babies..the vocabulary is SAT-worthy :p...) -and I didn't know much at all about codes. Mr. singh takes you through everything he wants to show you clearly and adding spice- the historical part is NOT boring...it WOuld be boring without it, actually! He intertwines anecdotes and events in history (i.e. starting from the very beginning, WWI and WWII, the beheading of Mary Queen of Scotts, to the present day) with the use of codes (i.e.-Enigma machine, monoalphabetic substituion cipher -&gt; each letter in the alphabet is represented by a symbol)...This book is cozy (reading it on a dark rainy night...awooooo....), it's really like a novel- It's like you delve into it and it pulls you in...I admit there are some parts that are slightly &quot;technical&quot; but TRUST me, as I said before, he explains it so that even someone who is not math-oriented can follow along. At the end of this book I REally felt smarter and more confident...(p.s.-I even cracked the first two codes- using my brain/pencil/paper/knowledge I gained from the book...he gives at the end of the book under &quot;Reader's Challenge&quot;- I haven;t cracked the last two) Don;t be Intimidated! I recommend this book to anyone who likes mysteries,has ever been intrigued by codes/detectives, history, math, and creative people (I am an English person...and this is NOT a boring book in my opinion.)oooh..plus u can have fun w/a friend encoding secret messages ;]hellz yeah 5 STARs *****
5 The Code Book is a delightful treatment of the subject of cryptography.  It is a nice combination of history, science, warfare and politics.The author uses interesting historical events as background to narrate the different phases of what might be called the mainstream developments of cryptography and cryptanalysis.  It is a captivating presentation.The book started off with the story of Queen Mary of Scotland, and went on to cover the Caesar cipher, Vigen&egrave;re cipher, the famous Enigma, the super-secret Colossus, and the modern day computer based encryption and decryption developments.  The author also threw in a couple of interesting "sideline" stories, such as the Beale cipher, the Rosetta Stone, and the Navajo "code talkers" who played a key role in the Pacific theater during WWII.My teenage son used to complain that most of the difficult subjects he learned in school would never have any use in real life.  I gave him a copy of this book.  The book is a compelling story of how science, engineering, mathematics, computer, linguistics, psychology are all critical pieces of this all-important game.There are more technical treatises on this subject, and there are more lengthy and nuanced historical accounts on military intelligence as well.  But this book is undoubtedly the best introduction to this uniquely fascinating subject.
4 Robert Nobel is the type of kid most of us were in school, not picked first for sports, dorky, but with a sense of humor. Feather Boy by Nicky Singer is Robert's story of coming of age. Robert's class is asked to participate in a project where they are paired with an old geezer, and must connect the past with the present. Robert is pair with a woman who tells him, "You look like a boy who could fly if he wanted to." He gets fairly obsessed with the Elders project.Told in first person, Feather Boy is a quick, uplifting read. If I had sat down and read this straight through, it probably would have taken me four hours. The only problem I had with this book was how British it was, not that being British is a bad thing, it just took me a few seconds to puzzle out that crisps were potato chips and chips are actually fries. Yes, so I am "daft." Anyways, I found this story being relatable as Robert is picked on by bullies, his parents are divorced and he's a shy, quiet kid who has courage within.I feel this story would connect the most with middle-grade readers, as the protagonist is 13. Who knows, maybe even reluctant male readers might enjoy this book.
5 Not much is more cruel than the way young people may treat the one they consider to be the &quot;class nerd.&quot;  Such is the case with Robert Nobel, often called &quot;Norbert&quot; by his primary bully, Jonathan Niker.Like every other youngster Roberts wants to have friends, to be recognized as a person of value.  It seems this will not happen until he takes part in what is called the Elders Project, an endeavor in which members of his class visit the elderly residents of a rest home.  Jonathan considers these older folks &quot;vegetables,&quot; but Robert sees something more and this is a vision that changes his life.Edith, thought to be quite a bit off, becomes Robert's friend and it is through her story that he eventually finds himself.Director/actor Philip Franks invests understanding and suspense into this unforgettably moving tale.- Gail Cooke
3 I was told by a friend that this was a good read. so i bought it..plus it was a good price. it does have a touch of mystery and i could see how it would keep a childs attention...but its alittle lite for an adult. anyone under the age of 15 i think would love it.
5 Became aware of this book, because the main character in the film version is the young British actor, Thomas Brodie-Sangster.  In lieu of being able to get a copy of the film (or was it a TV series), I bought the book.  And I was not disappointed.  Robert as the main character takes us on an inter-generational journey, peer conflict, and family discord.  Nickey Singer weaves all of these into a most satisfying tapestry. The final resolution in the main characters is outstanding!
5 Reason for Reading: I was immediately drawn to the story involving a derelict house and a mystery surrounding it. Then I noted the book had been published under the Essential Modern Classics list. This is a list of books chosen by the publisher's UK house and is a collection of outstanding books for children. From looking at the titles I'd say the age range varies anywhere from 8 to 15. Four new titles are to be published in 2010 under the Essential Modern Classics list and I think the authors chosen present a unique collection for North American readers to discover. I intend to be keeping up-to-date with ESM as well as digging into their backlist.This is one of those rare and truly exceptional stories. A book that captures the heart and will live on in memory for ages. The story defies an age group, while not suitable for youngest children, it can be read and enjoyed by juveniles and adults with equal pleasure. There are both a young 13-year-old and a senior citizen character for readers to possibly choose one over the other to identify with, though the book is told from the 13-year old's point of view.As part of the Essential Modern Classics series the book starts with an informative paragraph bio. of the author followed by a short essay entitled "Why You'll Love This Book" written by a famous author, in this case David Almond. This publisher's series also sometimes end with extra material at the back of the book, but this one does not.Robert is the kid who gets picked last for sport teams, is teased relentlessly by the class smart alek and therefore everyone else, and has been nick-named Norbert by the other kids ever since he can remember. Robert joins the Elders' Project which involves working at the local senior's home and partnering with an Elder to create a visual that will sum up the group's experience of what they have learned about each other. Robert is more than surprised when a strange old lady suddenly calls out she doesn't want her partner, she wants him ... and is pointing directly at Robert. Thus begins a life and death relationship that will change who Robert is forever.Robert is directed to a creepy old derelict house where rumour has it a boy about his age once jumped to his death from the top floor apartment thinking he could fly. Robert must race against time to figure out the mystery of the house and learn himself how to truly fly.Heart-warming, funny, with characters who make you like or hate them, this is a beautifully written book. It is a coming of age story for Robert as he has a truly remarkable experience. It is a coming to terms with life story for the old lady, Mrs. Sorrel, as she finds a way to settle the anguish and self-punishment she has put herself through for the past forty years. Out of all this come life for one and death for the other, both good and wonderful things. This is an exceptional story which I am delighted to have read.
5 I enjoyed this book very much. It was a great story of a shy little boy named Robert. I'm shy too sometimes so I can relate to him. And who hasn't been bullied at school? I'm glad he finally stood up for himself. It was a sad ending but it felt right. People live, people die. That's just the way things are.
5 The Dalai Lama is such a wise man.  I appreciate just about anything he has to say and wish more could be aware of his wisdom.
4 This is one of those books which I treasure and page through on occasion. It's a nice book to have on the nightstand. I don't meditate. I pray. I guess some people would read one quotation a day and meditate on it, but this isn't my style. I enjoy reading several quotes in one session--there's so much wisdom here.
5 This is a great collection of small simple daily lessons. Very easy to read a lesson a day. Quite inspirational.
5 This little handbook gives me inspriationalDalai Lama thoughts to contemplate.I've even shared specific ones with family members.Very glad I bought this book.
3 I love the Dalai Lama's writing, have read quite a few of his books. I think that there are some insights here, but didn't come away from it as inspired from other writings.The chapters are organized into subject categories. So, if you use it as a meditation guide you'll be meditating on "living a life of plenty" or "prison and prisoners" for a few days at least.I didn't find this as useful as 365 Tao (which I've used regularly) by Deng Ming-Dao. I felt 365 Tao provided different ways to approach each topic, you could choose your meditation.365 Dalai Lama is something that you can read through, and think about the topics. I wasn't motivated to meditate on them. The one thing that I didn't like about it was the fact that some topics went on for days and days. I didn't necessarily feel I wanted to meditate on pessimism for 13 days, a day of thought about a topic provides me conscious investigation. Revisiting it helps bring up subconscious learning later.But banging my head against a topic for days and days wasn't an enjoyable task. For a monk maybe, eating rice every day. I rather enjoy the variety of reflection on different topics daily however. That quality made the book spartan, somewhat bland.Maybe it was just me, but I'd probably get his lectures, or expanded treatises on topics (i.e. The Art of Happiness) instead - I think this is where his thought processes, reasoning, and ability to convince you about quality of life choices shine.
5 Having had to pare my cookbook collection to the bone, I've become very choosy about new purchases.  This has become my new favorite.  The recipes fit my new way of life perfectly, aren't complicated to make, and I find that I don't miss wheat- or sugar-containing products at all because there's a wonderful variety of flavors in them.  I've recommended this cookbook to several friends, and we will be watching for any additional cookbooks Susan chooses to write.
5 Although there are few of them in the book I love the muffins, breads, and cakes.  They are the best gluten free/sugar free recipes I have found.  They dont use all the starches and gums that other books do and alot of them are sweetened with agave and applesauce.  The book is worth buying just for the baking recipes.  I also look forward to trying her curry chicken and polenta.  Great book!
5 This diet, Gluten-free, Sugar-free is a difficult way to live, this book really is a greathelp. There are so many choices, and all great recipes.
5 I have made about 10 of the receipes in this book and each one has turned out terrific.  This was the first cookbook I found when I found out I needed to stay away from gluten and while I was already eating sugar-free, the book has helped blend the two together.  The receipes are simple and not too many ingredients.
5 the title says why.  Gluten, and sugar free cooking for those seeking health by losing the wheat and sugar ..
5 This is another excellent cookbook for those who do not use regular flours due to having gluten/wheat problems. Gluten free/sugar free recipes are healthy for anyone even if you don't have these health issues.
1 This cookbook uses too many hard-to-find ingredients that you have to drive all over to find.  I sent the book back to Amazon to get a refund.
1 Not impressed!  This is just another gluten free cookbook - albeit with some great recipes.  I don't find recipes that contain agave nectar to be "sugar" free.  What's the purpose - anyone can use other sweeteners than plain old sugar...  While the recipes might be sugar-free, they are definitely NOT without sweeteners.  Sorry I bought the book...perhaps there are better books using NO sweeteners that satisfy the sweet tooth of a gluten-free person???
5 This book promised to be one of my favorite cook books in the future. I've recently learned that I do better without gluten in my diet, and have battled low blood sugar for years. I'll be referring to this book often.
4 Susan O'Brien has had an interest in natural foods and nutrition. She has used this interest to aid her in her own dietary needs. She had worked as a gourmet cook, cooking instructor, baker and as a consultant for food management, as well as medical education.Each recipe is labelled as to what the recipe is free of, such as no dairy, no eggs, and no nuts, as well as being sugar-free and gluten-free. The recipes are easy-to-follow and are delicious.This cookbook, also, does not have photographs or illustrations. There is a chapter on how to substitute sugar and wheat flour for other products, in an effort to increase creativity and independence. There is, also, a resource guide to help you find those hard-to-find ingredients.Some of the delicious recipes you can find in this book are: Potato Scones, Blackberry Cobbler, Prosciutto and Veggies, Quinoa and Tofu, Chai Tea and Meatballs.
3 Gluten-free, Sugar-free Cooking had great reviews so I bought it to see if I could possibly make the switch from wheat-based recipes. I tried two of the recipes the weekend I received the book. It took a lot of time making trips to my favorite grocery and two different health stores to find the required ingredients. These ingredients are expensive! I made the Banana Nut Bread recipe which turned out ok. Nothing to rave about. It wasn't very moist, so it crumbled easily. If I try again, I will difinitely add more banana than called for, and add cinnamon and canola oil. The final product was bland.The Blueberry Muffin recipe was mentioned by the author as being one that her children loved. Her children must not be very picky! These muffins were terrible. Grainy, dry, tasteless. I'm not sure I can figure out how to rescue this recipe.Overall, the information in the book is good and I am not sorry I made the purchase, but I will be sure to add more flavorful items to the next recipes I try.
4 Many people have wheat intolerance and  do not know or realize it. Trying to find food without wheat in it is hard. So this cook book is sort of a lifesaver for my daughter. Even people who do not suffer from medical problems brought on by wheat may get some benefit by reducing wheat/sugar from your diet.
4 I ordered this for my wife because of her special diet, and we were both pleased with the recipes.  I've enjoyed some great desserts because of her cooking from this book.  It's pretty nice being able to enjoy good tasting food without guilt.One word of advice:  taste everything objectively.  Some things taste and feel similar to their original unhealthy counterparts, but many taste a little different.  Don't go into this looking for recipes that taste exactly like you're used to tasting.  These recipes will taste a little different or have a slightly different texture.  But just because something doesn't taste the same as you expected doesn't mean it doesn't taste good.  Try everything with an open mind.  After all, I did, and now my wife lets me try all sorts of desserts and great tasting foods!Enjoy!
4 I was immediately attracted to this book just because of the title.  I obviously can't have flour and sugar.  I actually haven't cooked anything from the book, but will this Thanksgiving.  The hardest part I know about not being able to eat flour and white sugar for health reasons is feeling deprived of desserts and baked goods.  When you love to bake this is torture!  I seem some very edible and tasty recipes for baking.  I am however, not so impressed with the main course.  The author assumes you will eat some strange things that many people do not like or may find hard to get.  If you live in a rural area, you are going to struggle getting some of these ingredients for all the recipes in the book.  However, I'm sure you can shop online for them.  Buy it just for the baked goods, but don't expect to change your dinner menu all that much.
1 I use blue agave, and I was looking for recipes for this; for this purpose the cookbook is semi-useless. Many of the recipes call for products unavailable at a regular grocery store (a health food store is a must); the prices for many of these items are fairly expensive (I know, you want to eat well, you pay for it).  However, the couple of products I made were not great (not very tasty but probably very good for you) (Why is it if it tastes good, it is probably not good for you, and vica versa?)
5 This is a good book to help someone start to clean up their diet and start to eat right. I think you'll love it.
5 Recipes are easy to make, everything she uses can be found in your local health food store.  I have to follow a sugar and dairy free diet.  She gives substitution ideas as well.  I hope she writes another!!
5 There were many recipes in this cookbook that I am going to try out.  I've tried a few already and loved the curry chicken recipe.  It was mild which I liked.
5 Love this cookbook.  Great tasting and healthy whole foods.  I love that she doesn't replace sugar with stevia (which I don't like the taste of) or with a bunch of junk.  Most of the meals are very simple and fast to make.  They don't call for hard to find ingredients.  I use this book and her Gluten-Free Vegan cookbook several times a week.  Definitely my go-to cookbooks.
5 I've only read through the begining descriptions of ingredients in this book and I am overwhelmed with joy. The wonderful author has broken down and described all of the ingredients. This is amazing for someone who is just starting to look into GF. She describes natural sugar-free sweeteners and their characteristics as well as the GF flours and ingredients. I can't wait to get to the recipes but I already feel enlightened on what ingredients to start putting in my grocery cart.
5 great book easy to follow with all the nutritional requirements preparation times plus tips well worth the buy even if you are not gluten-free
4 Our daughter is Gluten Free, and had asked for this recipe book - she loves it - has good tasting recipes, and she is very happy to have a GF recipe book!
5 Nothing less than brilliant and inspiring.  I especially recommend this book for LAWYERS (such as myself).  Some random quotes...///Act as if failure is impossible, and your success will be assured.  Wipe out every thought of not achieving your objectives, whether they are material or spiritual.  Be brave, and set no limits on the workings of your imagination.Never be a prisoner of your past.  Become the architect of your future.You will never be the same.///We are not human beings having a spiritual experience.  We are spiritualbeings having a human experience.///The quality of your life will come down to the quality of your contribution.///The best time to plant a tree was forty years ago.  The second best time istoday.///I am an artist at living - my work of art is my life.  --- Suzuki///The average four year old laughs 300 hundred times a day.  The average adult- fifteen times.///If youth only knew, if age only could.///The universe favors the brave.  When you resolve, once and for all, to liveyour life to its highest level, the strength of your soul will guide you.///Nourish your spirit.  Do the things you fear.///
5 Are you tired of your life? Do you do things that don't bring any meaning in to your life? Are you so busy that you have never thought of these questions before? Do you own a Ferrari? You can spend couple of hours reading this book and might find the answers to your questions or you can keep on rushing and realize these things by yourself on the last day of your life!Robin Sharma is really a great story teller. The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari is a book full of wisdom, advises and lessons about life wrapped in a beautiful story of human transformation and finding a meaning in life. I liked this book, because everything is explained in a simple story way. The main line of the book is about the lawyer who had all the success and lots of money but still lost the meaning and passion in life. Author tells us simple principles which most people forget by rushing over their lives. He reminds us what it really means to live and enjoy everyday blessings. All the book consists of many insights and advises presented in a ear-catching manner.Most people these days rush to make careers, earn money and does other &#34;need to do&#34; things don't even realizing that they are quitting on their real dreams and passions in life. Most people are just doing things not even realizing that they are caught in a closed circuit and really don't go anywhere. Most people are not happy with their lives and those things they are doing are not bringing them any joy. Most people are trying their best for their family, but forgetting the most important - to spend time with the family. This book might be the answer to the question, why are they not happy yet. Happiness is a state of mind that consists of many small blessings in life and most people are just rushing for many things that don't make their lives any more happy and meaningful.  This book might open your eyes and make you see life through a different angle.As hearing some people talking about this book I also noticed one dangerous thing. And that thing is money topic. For some people it might seem that money is not an important thing, but it really is and I don't believe that Robin wants to justify poverty. Money is a tool, to make your life easier and get things you want and you don't need to misunderstand the attitude that money becomes everything in life. Believe me, if you don't have money, happiness is a lot more difficult state to understand. Even the book is called The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari, so you need to have that Ferrari at first in order to be able to sell it. This book is not a permission to make excuses why you are not rich or have not enough money. It just gives you lessons on how to be happy and live a meaningful life.So what car do you drive and which car would you really like to drive?!
5 This book makes you examine your own life, if you see similarities with the main character, and reprioritize.  We get caught up in the hustle and bustle of everyday life and forget what is important.  The main character gives up all material things in his life and discovers what lives within himself.  I have given this book to a couple of people and am now rereading it.  Easy read.
2 "The Monk Who Sold his Ferrari" has an interesting paragraph that could apply to itself: "Do not read just anything. You must be very selective what you put into the lush garden of your mind. It must be immensely nourishing". I just reached the half reading of this book and I am considering giving up.Before starting the book, I was expecting something more surprising, sharp and imaginative. But no. It's another self-help book, with a too obvious content that made me feel really bored. I understand people love hearing and reading what they need and want to hear and read. But, I expected Robin Sharma could be a little more complex and deep. At the end, nothing from this book is new and it's just the result of a clear intention to sell books as much as possible.
5 I found this book to be one of the most profound books I've read. It offers such simple yet stirring words of wisdom. This book has inspired not only myself but my friends who I've lent it to, to make the changes in our lives to become better people. To quote one of my favorite passages in the book, " We are all here for some special reason. Stop being a prisoner of your past. Become the architect of your future." It's words like that coupled with simple exercises and advice that truly gets you motivated to go out and achieve the best that life has to offer. I highly recommend this book.
5 It is one of the best books have every read. I can't read this book at any other better time. I was going through a stage where only these book could have given me hope and can ease me to go through. I give it five star because according to me it is worth. I have read this book three times and whenever I read this book I fell so relax and easy. It makes me positive towards my life. Thanks Sir Robin Sharma for writing such a wonderful book. I am sure many people will be benefited by this.
5 This fictional account is very interesting and insightful.  I really enjoyed it and I would highly recommend it if you like philosophy and self-help books.
3 I found this to be a good read and quite a fun story.  I could relate to someone changing careers (or life-path in this case), and it was nicely told in a kind of conversational manner.  It is in many ways a mindfulness guide but within the story of a lawyer turned monk.  Worth a read, but the lesson could be read elsewhere more quickly.
5 An enchanting fable, that teaches life lessons which are priceless.  Enormously entertaining as well.  Arlene Millman, author of BOOMERANG - A MIRACLE TRILOGY.
5 Robin Sharma tells his story in the style of Og Mandino.  He writes a fictional story as if it had really happened to him.  This one is so good, I wish it were really a true story.  But fiction or not, the story told herein demonstrates a remarkable way to live your life.  I bought this book a few weeks ago and following the suggestions is already changing my life.  Thanks, Robin!
5 My wife loves this book and recommends it to everyone she knows.  If you have a chance, give it a try.
5 This book covers the buddhism lessons in a unique way that is both entertaining and practical. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and will no doubt read it again in the near future.
4 I bought this book after reading the charming 'Serendipity's Secret' which also uses the fable format to good effect. I thought 'The Monk...' had some great ideas and I enjoyed reading it. Just like Serendipity's Secret, I loved the idea of a 'coach' and a 'coachee' as the central characters and the useful summaries at the end of each chapter were effective.Yes, some of it is a little cheesy and the dialogue a bit stilted at times, but this made it no less of a compulsive read which I looked forward to getting stuck into each day. I loved the use of Yogi Rahman's fable to summarise the ideas in the book, which I now refer to daily to remind me to put the book's teaching into practice. Overall, an enjoyable and practical read.
5 Robin Sharma's book literally changed the course of my life.  I left a job I hated and began my own business.  I am fulfilled in my work life and my personal life has seen significant growth as well through application of the lessons learned in this book.
4 Robin hits it on the head. I will always carry the messages of this book with me. I will also be reading all of his books now. His videos are also very powerful!!!
5 " The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari" is the story of a high profile and successful lawyer, Julian Mantle, who had practically achieved everything that a professional aspires. He had a corner office, high society life style, big and expensive cars and beautiful women. His life is out of balance and indisciplined: full of ambition but without real mental peace. He has no occasion to stand a while to enjoy his achievements and material successes. He has no time to look inside of him. A near fatal heart attack in a packed courtroom gives him a pause and a spiritual crisis. He stops back to confront the condition of his life and seek answers to life's fundamental questions. He seeks happiness and fulfillment, which his high profile lifestyle seems to have eluded him so far.He embarks on an extraordinary personal odyssey to the East, which brings him to the great Himalayan Masters of India, the repository of spiritual wisdom. His quest brings about the successful blend of spiritual knowledge of the East with the success principles of the West, which charts a course for living with greater courage, balance and abundant joy.The book is brilliant and inspiring, full of pearls of wisdom. I give below a choice of such wisdom captured in the small catchy sentences throughout the book."The average four year old laughs 300 hundred times a day. The average adult -fifteen times"." The universe favours the brave. While you resolve, once and for all, to live your life to its highest level, the strength of your soul will guide you. Nourish your spirit. Do the things you fear.""The best time to plant a tree was forty years ago......... The second best time is today.""We are not human beings having a spiritual experience,""Never be a prisoner of your past. Become the architect of your future. You will never be the same.""The quality of your life will come down to the quality of your contribution.""What lies behind you and what lies before you is nothing compared to what lies within you."The book gives so many practical advices to lower stress and help the reader feel happier. Things like breathing deeply, living in the present moment, serving others and so on. The book is told as a fable, with the noble aim of improving the reader.Chinmay HotaAuthor of 'Hits and Misses'
5 Just started it but love the concept.  Not everyone needs to be this extreme but the story gets the point across well.
5 I really loved the way this book is written. The ideas are crystal clear, at the end of each chapter there is a very precise summary, and the whole story its interwoven with a beautiful small story that it stuck on my head.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone trying to improve his/her life.
5 This is a great book.  It's been awhile since I've read it and need to read it again.  I've shared it with friends too.
5 One of the best books I have read... ever! Other books can be too clinical in their aqpproach meaning you forget what the book is trying to tell you far too quickly. This book is NOT one of those. It's story-like approach is innovative and the lessons you learn about life sink in readily and are not forgotten by the next page.Definitely a recommended title. I am going to buy every other Robin Sharma book as a result!
2 The basic ideas in this book are worthy, but it is so awkwardly written it is painful.  I finally just had to put it down.  Maybe it just boils down to the fact that books of this type either "speak to you" or they don't.  This one spoke to me, but what it said was "you wasted your money on contrived tripe."
4 This was one book I judged by its title. I found it gimmicky so resisted reading it for a long time. In retrospect, I should have read it much earlier.The book lays out its 7 principles using a silly but effective fable that is easily remembered. The principles are:1. A magnificent garden that signifies our mind.2. The lighthouse is a representation of the purpose of our life.3. The Sumo wrestler stands for Kaizen, the continuous and never ending improvement that we must bring into our lives.4. Pink wire cable denotes the discipline that's required to be successful.5. The stopwatch represents time and how it is the most important commodity.6. Fragrance of fresh yellow roses signifies the service we must do unto others.7. A bright diamond studded path represents enlightened living.Read the book to see how these 7 principles fit in a mythical funny fable. [...] has the summary of the book.
4 This is a great book if you are feeling &quot;stuck&quot; in life, and want some pointers on how fulfill your dreams. Its advice is very basic, but told in the form of a story which makes the points brought out easy to remember. Also helping to make the points easier to remember are great one-liners like &quot;The purpose of life is to have a lifes purpose&quot; or &quot;We are spiritual people having an earthly experience&quot;. The simplicity with which the story is told, will help keep the lessons fresh in your mind.I listened to the audiocassette. I took off one star from my rating, because I did not think the production was perfect. I noticed some background noise here and there. Maybe this was taped during a live talk, I don't know. The noise was noticeable but not distracting. Also, I did not feel the reading was very professionaly done. However, it is still a worthwhile tape to listen to and learn from.
4 A delightful, easy-to-read book, packed with life-giving wisdom. As it was published in 1997, and because I am in the second half of my life, I feel I am already living much of the wisdom shared. But, as wisdom is timeless, it still worth the read, and the reminder.
4 What a great read! We need more people writing about how they have left their traditional life behind and pursued their destiny. Nothing wrong with a traditional life as long as that is the life you really want to live, but most people live lives of quiet desperation feeling that there is no way out. Here is a man who shows us that it is possible, albeit a challenge. It takes courage and conviction and a vision to seek the possibilities of life that will lead us to and allow us to live our destiny.Dr Gunta Krumins-Caldwell author of On Silver Wings
4 This is truly inspiring but I am a bit disappointed to find several business ads of the author at the end.
5 This book is a for sure and yearly read....what a wonderful read and application book....I love Robin style of writing and is now reading &#34;The leader who had no title&#34;. I am excited I have crossed paths with Robin Sharma.....Many blessings
5 The author of Leadership Wisdom, Robin Sharma, provides the reader with insights into how to become a visionary leader. The objective is to help leaders transform businesses into thriving organisations, in this era of rapid changes. He has a down-to-earth way of expressing his powerful solutions for today's most pressing leadership issues. The book is devoid of jargon, which makes it easy to follow for anyone wishing to improve his or her leadership skills.Leadership Wisdom is a simple but captivating story on leadership. It teaches personal development, effectiveness and individual happiness. It teaches individuals to fulfil themselves in this hectic age. The book incorporates the tools of transformation into a simple philosophy of living.As a top executive in my organisation, I have often failed in my duty to provide leadership. The book enabled me to identify my shortcomings as a leader. I am now equipped with the knowledge and expertise that has made me a better leader, and changed my life. I am now able to inspire my subordinates to be more creative and productive. I now know how to develop a compelling future focus. I believe that my subordinates now trust me as they view me as being more compassionate and caring. I learnt how to build motivated teams, and how to adapt to change. I have improved my personal effectiveness by having the ability to concentrate on purposeful activities.The book is very informative, easy to read and extremely helpful in equipping individuals with leadership skills.
1 This book was remarkably missing the main points of Buddhism.  I was disappointed.  It was a self improvment book with no real wisdom to share about how to accomplish all the tasks that were set out.
5 A beautiful book very well narrated and written.  A great inspiring book for all those people who needs a change in life.  Sometimes our insecurities and fear of future curtails us from taking certain decisions in life.  But at the same time,  certain circumstances forces you to make the change and this is a fable of a man who had a chance to make the change.I think some of the jokes fall flat with a great topic in discussion.
3 This novel is a light and easy read, with a writing style at about a 6th grade level.There is not much in the way of a plot, and the story is the interaction between a high profile trial lawyer and his protoge.  You would expect this pair to not only be highly intelligent, but highly articulate as well.  The simple and trite dialog between the two just did not seem realistic to me.  The story and it's characters seemed shallow.In terms of enlightenment the book presents 7 steps to live a wonderful life.  I found the parable given to be silly, but the 7 steps are good stuff.  They came off as lacking depth to me though, probably because the story was not good enough to draw me in.Entertainment: 2 starsEnlightenment: 4 stars
5 At a time when I was re-evaluating my career, this book was one of the keys to making my next move. It's a parable that will strike a chord with all the people who have, in the words of Zig Ziglar, "climbed to the top of the ladder to find it's leaning against the wrong wall."Seriously, get this thing and read it. It's that good.
1 First and foremost is I lost a little respect for Paulo Coelho for giving positive review for this book or is it a "Favor Bank" Credit? Mr. Paulo? (ref your book titled "The Zahir")This book begins with the very mundane type description of the incidence which is so mundane that my 8 yrs old son will write it better (the court room scene) and then everything spirals downwards, If this book is sold  over 1 million copies I really am afraid that how many "stupids" are there in this world?I am so disgusted with this book that I will not dare to write more about this book, I think that this is one of the worst book I have read in my life.First five pages filled with the self praise!I am born in India and staying in India for last 50 yrs, I have also stayed some years in USA and understanding the world as it is, (East v/s West) I doubt if anyone in his right mind will come to India for more then 3 weeks trip to see Taj Mahal and lots of such historical places, poverty at Mumbai, pollution of Ganges, and various experiments with Indian  food and festival at the most, but I really doubt India has anything more to teach to the westerners, so the book is entirely unbelievable and peace of crap.Finally it is also full of plagiarism.  I can count many number of places where it is done but I don't think that I should waste more time on it.
5 I'm a negative person and this book is helping me a lot.  It is the story of big shot lawyer who discovers a much better, calm, fulfilling life and then tells an ex-coworker (and us) about it.It tells a fable that makes no sense originally but it's used as a reminder of the things that will help you live a better life.  Each of the main things on the fable represent an idea and the fable helps you remember all of them.To me the books is already worth it just with the first chapter.  It is helping me avoid, or at least kick the negative thoughts out of my mind.  The book explains, how our mind is like a garden and depending on your thoughts you can have a beautiful garden or one full of weed.  I have started with a pretty ugly garden but I'm already working on improving it.That's just the beginning, then it goes from there, giving more wisdom with every chapter.Please, if you are a negative person, you need to read this book.
3 It's a great reminder of purpose and searching for what is going to enrich your life. You can get caught up in the day to day hectic life and forget the important stuff
5 For those who have read other books on this area, it is a gentle reminder of what is really important in life and why it is. Those who have never delved into the meaning of life will find it eye opening. Either way I found it to be helpful and enlightening. The theme, although not a new one, remains relevant and timely.
1 I must confess ... I had significant expectations after I heard so much about it.All through, the author, Robin Sharma, borrows freely from every Indian, Chinese and Western philosopher/self-help author ... its like throwing in 20 delicious fruits and vegetables into a mixer, whipping it into shreds, boiling and cooling the resulting concoction and trying to drink it as quickly as possible ... what happens? You end up throwing up ... thats what this book is ... its a painful regurgitation.Im amazed he found a publisher!I suggest you steer clear of this book if you dont want to be sick ... I now have second thoughts on Paolo Coelho after he wrote a tribute to this book!!!However if you are completely inert on philosophy and have never done any introspection ever, this may be a good start. However I dont know if this is available in 'android print'.
4 This book is about more than living your dreams - its about living your life in the best possible way.  Its an easy read with heaps of wisdom.  A great book for those starting out on personal journeys.
5 I have bought two more of these books to give to my family. I've kept mine as I know I'll re-read it at least a couple of more times to get more out of it. I also have listen to the tape in my car, going on the 3rd time.
4 With clients like Minolta, Oracle, Microsoft, Kraft, Hershey's, Orange, FedEx, Panasonic to name a few, Robin Sharma has entered into the hearts of Indians with his latest speeches in Delhi and Bangalore and # 1 selling Book 'The Monk who sold his Ferrari' has created waves to spell genuine passion for reading esp. among Business class. The book reveals wisdom to know the real inner spiritual self rathar than the one inundated with materialistic possessions. The Himalyan guru's wis' advice on way,  to Julian Mantle, a high-profile attorney in this fable story, preaches to dig spirituality within self and conveys the message to think that what lies behind you or before you is nothing compared to what is withing your own good inner self. There is the sane advice to create a live of passion, live it purposefully and peacefully. Julian's life was out of balance and his spiritual self is nourished with wise advice on joyful living by developing joyful thoughts, follow life's mission to reach goals, develop relationships fruitfully and live to satisfaction with courage and discipline, come what may! The book has most inspirational values and is a captivating story even Ricky Martin and Jon Bon Jovi seems to be a fan of Robin Sharma. A lawyer himself, Robin's book is a gem to touch and change lives to live in spirituality. However, it is never so important like the fable to travel delights through Himalayas for the sage advice. The main concept is to look within and live peacefully with spirituality within and take time out from the drowsy, monotonous life of materialistic world. Make life more meaningful and take a pause - a break (An Osho discourse!) A good Pick for a Read to Digest.
4 Ok, the plot and the characters are cheesy - let's get that out of the way - but the underlying ideas are interesting and useful. The author provides, in a form of a parable, a collection of timeless principles to guide your personal growth: master your mind, follow your purpose, practice kaizen, live with discipline, respect your time, selflessly serve others, embrace the present.It's an easy read and one suitable for all ages - I think everyone will pick up something different from it.
2 I appreciate the underlying wisdom 'The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari' tries to articulate - develop joyful thoughts, follow our life's mission & calling, cultivate self-discipline, nourish relationship etc. On the other hand, I am disappointed by Sharma's inferior writing; the dialogue between a high profile trial lawyer & his protoge seems unrealistic & superficial, & the characters are difficult for readers to relate to.For readers who are interested in learning more about the wisdom that 'The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari' fails to articulate, I would recommend Alan Wallace's 'Genuine Happiness', and Matthieu Ricard's 'The Quantum & The Lotus'.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It is a quick read and one that I will likely read again.  I have continued to ponder many aspects of this story and realize that I need to apply them in my own life.  Looking forward to the discussion of this book at my reading group next week.
4 Self-help books seem to be a dime a dozen. This book is actually fiction with the noble aim of improving the person who is reading it like a self-help book.The book itself centers around the story of a former big-shot lawyer. The lawyer had a self-described wake-up call after a heart attack. This rude awakening led him to sell his possessions and to look for a more meaningful life from certain sages in the East. Of course, the rest of the book is him recounting what he learned.This book has a number of practical suggestions to lower stress and help you feel happier. Things like breathing deeply, living in the present moment, serving others, continually improving yourself, making the most of your time, and taking time out for self-reflection. There are many important lessons about what's really important in life. Is having a big bank account more important than peace of mind? Do fancy cars and clothes bring more happiness than spending quality time with your family and friends?I don't think there's any debate of the value of the message. Who couldn't put these admonishments to good use? I think the real challenge is practicing the techniques described. The book itself even advises that people need to stick with these techniques for at least three weeks till they become habit.One thing that knocked the book a little for me was the cliches. For instance, the cliche of emptying your cup is used in this book. I've read this story of the master who keeps pouring tea into the cup till it's overflowing at least one hundred times. There were some other cliches used that I've also heard plenty of times. This made the book at times seem a little on the cheesy side and a bit unoriginal. Even with these caveats the book still has a lot of practical benefit. For these reasons, I think a person should pick it up if they're looking for inspiration or motivation in their lives.
5 I love this book.  It in some ways changed my life.  Sounds cheesy, but it's true.  The messages in it are so true and Robin Sharma makes it so simple to make small changes in your daily life to help relieve stress, look towards a better future, and reach your potential in any area of life.  I think it will make me a better wife, mother, and help me with my career.  I bought it so I can reread it over and over.  Just amazing!JeanMoms Helping Moms Work From Home[...]
4 Robin Shama presents processes and tips in easily understandable terms demystifying what is still a difficult personal journey.  Thankfully, without the necessity of learning the Sanskrit names for the concepts and procedures.  The dialogue is amateurish but the purpose of the book, to transfer knowledge from the author to the reader, is achieved.
2 As many books of this kind, the writer thinks that because he made something and he has some advantage of what he did, everybody has to do the same to have a better life. I think that only a very few people would change everything they have to find the spiritual peace. Albeit what is written in the book could be written with some wisdom I don't think that anybody will do exactly as the book says.
5 This book is a good story that teaches the fundamentals of how to be successful Spiritually and Career wise!I've read of 40 self-help books in the last three years, and this book is by far my favorite.Enjoy.Warmly,JP Richards
4 This was a really nice read. Written in very simple and easy language , it gave the essence of what is now called work life balance. Many tips & philosophies are in the book that really can make a huge positive impat in life.
2 Most of this book is written as a dialogue between the author and his friend, an attorney turned spiritual guru &#8212; and this dialogue is so, so bad. The author wants us to believe it's a real conversation, but no two people have ever talked to each other the way this is written. It's so stilted, so fake, so chocked full of needless attributions that even novice fiction writers know to avoid, not to mention two supposed friends who repeatedly refer to each other by first name in the course of a single, that it's really difficult to get through. The ideas, however, packaged as revolutionary and known only to a group of mysterious monks that the author's friend just managed to find in the mountains of India &#8212; are really just repackaged Buddhist teachings. The story framework, about a sumo wrestler in a garden, is nice memory device, but that's about as much as one can take away.
5 great ideas without all the crap that usually comes along with books on how to get your stuff together, recommend to anyone who is trying to pull it together
5 Nothing else to say, other than you must read this. It will change your life.Stop reading this review, and get the book. Now.
3 Cute story and managed to hold my interest, but only needed to read it once. For me, a great book can be read several times. This one is another take on the &#34;finding peace within&#34; theme.
5 This is a fabulous book and very inspiring. It talks about the real things that are important in every human being's life. Love and forgiveness for one's self, finding our purpose in life,loving and helping our fellow man and many other  important aspects of human existence. The author does all of this while relating a wonderful fable that helps the reader remember the main precepts of the book. It is told in a very interesting style that keeps the reader turning the pages to get to the conclusion. Read this book, it is very positive and uplifting for the human spirit.
4 This is book is about Indian philosophy applied in a new light.  It appeals to a Western audience in a way that is remarkable in its own way.  The author teaches us how to stay motivated in a often depressing world.  It will help you through very difficult obstacles.  The author will give you a certain strength of mind to finish your goals without hesitation.  It allows you to practice very effective techniques for acheiving you full potential.
4 Very nice story and the tips and truths portrayed in the story are real,  if put into practice you can really benefit from it!
5 At first I wasn't sure about that book. Yeah! another book which tell me that poverty is a gift and that looking to be more comfortable in my life is nearly a capital sin. But no! I do found an inspiring philosophy in this book and I believe that it is a very good book to read no matter your expecting are.MarKo
3 I'm not the kind of person that reads this kind of thing, a member of my bookclub chose it. But I actually liked some things in it. For example the listening to calm music in the morning when you wake up to start your day right. Plus, all the monk practices have a practical use that's described in the book for you, so that's cool.
4 I can't really remember what this book tought after 6-7 months. I remember some of the important stuffs like embracing the precense, having purpose, meditations....etc. However, it doesn't help too much...You can find these kind of teachings on any self-help books. I would recommend books by famous authors such as Napoleon Hill, Dale Carnegie, Lao Tzu, Clement, Og mandino, Dr.Joseph murphy and David Schwartz....etc and many more. If you really feel like reading this book, it's best to borrow it from the library and read it in few days. it's not long at all.. and story telling format helps readers to read it in less than 7-8 hours. I don't have any favorite books right now but I really liked Lao Tzu's &quot;Tao Te Ching&quot; translated by Brian walker or Gia-fu Feng. Good luck with further readings.
5 The Monk who Sold His Ferrari is one of the best books I've read in 30 years. I've read Think and Grow Rich, The power of Positive Thinking, and dozens of other great books about living life to the fullest, and this was right up there with the best! The book was a gift from a dear friend and I was stunned to realize it was published 10 years ago. I've bought 5 more copies to give to my closest friends!Great book!
5 This is an amazing book. I would recommend to everyone who want to live their live wonderfully. Worth to re-read it from time to time
4 In "The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari," Robin S. Sharma clothes sound advice for spiritual and personal growth in a thin mantle of fiction that delivers much instruction but minimal entertainment. However, Sharma's fictional approach makes for an easy read and good retention of his key principles.Spiritual/metaphysical content: The narrator spends one revelation-filled night with Julian Mantle learning the fundamentals of spiritual growth. Julian imparts everything he has learned from his time with the Sivana monks, cramming a lifetime of wisdom into their short time together. Sharma structures the lessons into seven chapters based on a short fable full of symbols. Each symbol represents a key idea from the Seven Basic Principles for Enlightened Living. Each chapter ends with an action page that summarizes the symbol, what you need to remember, and techniques to try, such as the Ten Rituals for Radiant Living.My take: Sharma calls his book a "fable" in the subtitle, but it is both more and less than that. The fable part takes place in the opening chapters of the book, in which we discover that the hard-driven attorney has moved to India, become a monk, and after three years has returned to pass on his wisdom to his prot&eacute;g&eacute;. That's the extent of the story, and character development fares little better. As a work of fiction, the book leaves much to be desired.However, as a collection of easy-to-digest life strategies and pearls of wisdom, the book is quite satisfying. Sharma has organized the book around a short fable about a garden full of symbols (a fable within a fable), which makes it easy to understand and follow his 30-day plan to enlightened living. The give-and-take of dialog between Julian Mantle and his student rescues the story from the tedium of an instructional guide. If your primary goal as a reader is to quickly absorb the core of Sharma's life improvement teaching, then this book is a great place to start.
4 the art of personal effectiveness narrated through a simple easy to understand fable. it is effective and profound. Thanks Robin!
5 "When the student is ready, the teacher appears". Sounds superficial?. Not to me. This book was released 14 years ago and I saw this book in every book store, everyone told me that this book is awesome, but some how this book eluded me, even though I wanted to read it. I did not bother much then. In recent days, my life was not happening as I wanted it to happen. Everything was out of my control and I wanted to discipline my life. Viola... The book appears next to my bed. My room mate bought the book. So, I started reading...If you want me to write one line review, I would say, "One the best books that I have read so far".This is a self help book written like a novel. The story is so well written that you don't even feel like someone is teaching you something. Every tip that he gives, go to your sub-conscious mind without any effort. I even wondered how can so much of practical wisdom could be packed into a single book.Robin Sharma shares his wisdom with a mystical fable of a uber-successful lawyer Julian Mantle and his assitant John. Julian Mantle is the hot shot millionaire lawyer in the country. During his middle age, in one of the courtroom arguments, he gets a massive heart attack. He suddenly realizes that he has more life to live and there must be a reason for his existence. He leaves to Himalayas learns the tricks of life and comes back to US to spread the wisdom.Here is a gist of what he teaches in the book. I would suggest you read the complete book in Robin Sharma's words. He explains the seven virtues of life with a simple tale. Each character and object in the mystical fable has a meaning.You are sitting in the middle of a magnificient, lush, green garden. This garden is filled with the most spectacular flowers you have ever seen. The environment is supremely tranquil and silent. In the center of this garden stands a towering red light house, six stories high. Suddenly from the light house, comes out a nine-foot tall, nine-hundred pound Japanese Sumo wreslter who casually wanders into the garden.He wears nothing but a pink wire cable covering his private parts. He slips on a shily gold stopwatch, and falls to the ground with an enormous thud. The Sumo wreslter is rendered unconscious and lies there, silent and still. After a while, he awakens by the fragrance of the fresh yellow roses blooming nearby. Through the bushes at the very edge of the garden, he observes a long winding path covered by millions of sparkling diamonds. This path leads him down the road of ever lasting joy and eternal bliss.1. Master Your Mind:The garden in the fable represents your mind. Like the fresh, frangrant roses in the garden, fill your mind with pleasant, happy and positive thoughts. Good gardeners don't allow the weeds to take root in their garden. So, do not allow any negative thoughts to wander in your mind. You cannot afford the luxury of even a single thought. He gives some techniques to do that.Heart of the Rose: Pick up a fresh rose flower or a plastic one in your hand in the morning as soon as you wake. Just look at the flower, its color, its petal, its curves. Just enjoy the flower and do nothing. Initially your mind wont let you do that. It will wander into all possible directions. Do not worry. Just follow the ritual for 15 minutes or more daily. Slowly you will be able to calm down the mind. You can choose alternatives like meditation or chanting any mantras. The idea here is to spend sometime for yourself to calm down the mind in the morning.Opposition Thinking: Whenever a negative thought appears in your mind, just pause for a while and replace it with a opposite positive thoughts. For example, if you begin to think about your current debts, suddenly change your thought to something like you have more than enough money for everything you want. Initially you may feel awkward. Do not mind. Just let your imagination fly. Slowly, you will begin to notice that there are no negative thoughts and you start taking positive actions. You need to do this all the time.The Secret of the Lake: Everyone should have goals. If you dont have one in your life, sit down and think about it. One you are sure about your goals, you need to find a calm place to sit and visualize in your mind screen a movie, in which all your goals are achieved and you are experiencing eternal joy. I do it differently. As soon asI finish meditation, I close my eyes with my palms and I see nothing but darkness. I visualize my goals as a movie in that dark screen. Try !2. Follow Your Purpose:The light house in the fable represents your purpose in life. You will never be able to hit a target that you cannot see. So, figure out your goals. WRITE them down in a paper. When you do that you send a flag to your mind that these thoughts are far more important than the other 60,000 thoughts. Your mind will become acutely aware about your goals and start realizing it. This is science. You can follow the below five steps.Picturize the outcome: If you have a goal to lose weight, picturize the outcome of it. Picturize yourself being lean and fit. Do this every morning as soon as you wake up. You set the motion for the rest of your day with this visualization.Create Positive Pressure: Public pledge is one the best positive pressure for humans. Tell everyone about your goals. They will be watching you. No one wants to appear as failure among others. This positive pressure will help you to keep up with your plans for achieving your goals.Attach a timeline: To breathe life into your goals, attach a timeline to your goals. A goal that is not committed to paper is no goal at al. Buy a notebook and call that your "Dream Book". Fill tha book with your goals, desires, acheivements and the things that you want to improve. Get to know about yourself completely. Fill that book with the images of all the things that want to have or to be. Refer this book everyday.Magic Rule of 21: For a new process to install as a habit, you need to do that consequtively for 21 days. This is proven by many people over years. So, keep doing the above for 21 continous days and viola it will be a habit.Enjoy the journey: Do not fix your eyes on the destination only. Enjoy the route to your destination. Enjoy every happiness that you can while you are practizing the above.3. Practice Kaizen:The Japanese word Kaizen means constant and never ending improvement. The sumo wrestler symbolizes the constant self-improvement and personal expansion. People grow the most when they enter the Zone of the Unknown. He urges us to do the things that we fear and suggests 10 ancient rituals for radiant living. Just follow these rituals for 30 days and your life will begin to change drastically. Here are they.Ritual of Solitute: Ensure that your daily schedule includes a mandatory period of peace. Find a quiet and beautiful place to sit still in contemplation. You could do the heart of the rose technique or any other kind of meditation. The place could be a spare room inyour house, or a corner in your apartment or a natural backyard. Please make sure that you do this daily at the same time and at the same place, till it becomes a habit. Just by doing this simple ritual, your life will well balanced and you will enjoy good sleep at night. Guys - trust me. It works. I do this everyday, first thing in the morning. Please try.Ritual of Physicality: This says as you care for your body, so you care for your mind. Please take some time everyday to nourish your body with physical exercise. It could be weight training, aerobic training or yoga or simple walk around the park. Choose whichever is comfirtable for you, but persist. At least 5 hours a week is suggested.Ritual of Live Nourishment: Eat live foods. Foods that are not dead. He suggests vegetarian foods like fresh fruits, vegetables, grains etc. It may not be possible for everyone, but we could add few fruits or salads with each meal. I am finding it very difficult to eat vegetarian food, but started eating fruits after lunch. Did not see much improvement, but I could feel hungry before dinner. Otherwise, I will be full all the time.Ritual of Abundant Knowledge: This centers on the whole notion of lifelong learning and expanding your knowledge base for the benefit of yourself and those around you. Read atleast 30 minutes a day. It wil do wonders in your life. I know this very well. I read about an hour a day. Solutions to almost every problem is already in print. Just grab a good book and start reading.Ritual of Personal Reflection: Spend some time on personal introspection every evening or night. Just sit down in a silent place and write down all the actions that you did on that day and think if those activities are positive or negative. If negative, come up with an alternative course of action to correct it. Initially you may not be able to recall every event in that day. But persist. Eventually you will be able to and your behaviour would turn positive and optimistic.Ritual of Early Awakening: Rise with the sun. Taught by almost all the self help gurus. The thoughts you think, 10 minutes before you sleep and 10 minutes after you wake up have a prfound effect on your day. So, think nice and happy thoughts. Laugh even if you dont feel like. Listen to music. Watch the sun rise. Read a good book. Prepare your course of action for the rest of the day. You can achieve so much, just by this ritual.Ritual of Music: Music has the capability to soothen the raffled soul. Its one of the finest motivators. Enjoy the music you like, atleast once in a day.Ritual of Spoken Word: You can choose any mantra or positive affirmation to recite in the morning, noon and night or whenever you feel drowned in negative thoughts. Spoken affirmations are as good as written ones. You may say. "I am strong, able and calm" many times when you need to be.Ritual of Radiant Living: This ritual requires you to take daily, incremental action to build your character. You should have a set of principles/virtues to live by and take daily action to strengthen your character aligned with those principles.Ritual of Simplicity: This ritual requires you to live a simple life. Focus only on your priorities, those activities that are truly meaningful. Your life will be uncluttered, rewarding and exceptionally peaceful. This doesn't mean that you should not strive to be rich and wealthy. If that is what you want, go for it. Make sure that you spend time on actions which tops your priority list and close to your heart. Don't just chase money.4. Power of discipline:The pink wire cable which covers the private parts of the Japanese Sumo wrestler symbolizes the discipline, self control that you should have in your life. Robin says, "When you control your thoughts, you control your mind. When you control your mind, you controlyour life. Once you reach the stage of being in total control of your life, you become the master of your destiny". You slowly nurture the embryo of self discipline day by day and one day you will have enormous will power to do the things that seem impossible.Mantras: Robin stresses again on the importance of mantras/affirmations that keeps us focused on our true goals. Words have power. By repetition, you would develop self-control and indomitable will within a short period of time. The same is referred as the Ritual of Spoken Word in the previous chapter.Vow of Silence: He suggests us to go on an entire day without speaking, except for the answers to the direct questions. Whenever you feel the urge to speak, suppress it. It will help to improve your will power. Somehow, I dont buy into that concept. I am not going to try this.5. Respect Your Time:The shiny gold stopwatch symbolizes your time, the most precious commodity. "Being an excellent time manager doesnt mean that you have to become a workaholic. On the contrary, time mastery allows more time to do the things that you would love to do and the things which are meaningful to you. Time mastery leads to life mastery. Guard your time well. Remember, its a non renewable resource". Some of the things that you may do areAncient Rule of 20: The statistics say that 80% of your success comes from the 20% of the action that you take. So, prioritize the things and spend more time on the things that bring you success and happiness. Just don't be busy being busy.Learn to say NO: Many people drift from their goals or distracted by others very often. Learning to say NO to the less important things in life, allows you to spend more time on the things that trylu matters. Don't pick up all the calls. Dont respond toevery emails. Few other practical stuff.Deathbed Mentality: I have heard this from Steve Jobs as well. "What would you do, if this is your last day in your life?" Ask this question every morning and let it decide the course of action for the entire day. I am personally not into this. If today was my last day, I would spend all the time with my love, family and friends, roam around, enjoy and have fun. I would never think about work. Is that what he suggests? I don't think so. Also, I would n't prefer to think about death every morning.6. Selflessly Serve Others:The fresh yellow roses in the garden symbolizes the most essential virtue of an enlightened living - Serving others. "The quality of your life will come down to the quality of your contribution". When you work to improve the lives of others, you indirectly elevating the life of yours. He suggests few tips to start serving others.Random Acts of Kindness: Just make sure that you do few kind actions through out your day. It could be helping the old woman cross the street, helping your colleague with a small problem, simple appreciation to a friend in need or just flashing a smile across a stranger. Just keep doing it. When you do the ritual of personal reflection, these random acts of kindness will soothe your soul and in no time, you will become a kind person doing big things for the society.Give to those who Ask: How many times in your life, that someone came to you for help and you were too busy to help them?. I get the point that it is not possible to help everyone else all the time. But, whenever possible take extra few minutes to help them. They will never forget your help.Cultivate Richer Relationships: Should I even describe about this technique?. Develop richer relationship with friends and family. It doesn't matter how many friends you have in life, what matters is how many of them are true & rich relationship with whom you can have a belly-bursting laugh at some times for no reason. Go for it.7. Embrace the Present:The long winding path studded with millions of diamonds represents the final virtue of the fable. Living the Present.Happiness is the journey, not the destination. Some of the things to remember areLive your children's childhood: The best gift you could ever give your children is your love. Show them that they are far more important than anything else in your life. Within a blink of eye, they will grow up, start their own family and leave. But then, it will be too late. One of the most precious moments in anyone's life is the time they spend with their children. Don't miss it for anything.Practice Gratitude: Be grateful for all the small things that you have in life. Even if you are bankrupt, you can be grateful for being alive, being able to think and read. When you are in a grateful mood, you mind becomes very positive and optimistic and you start doing positive actions which would bring you success in whatever you desire.I felt like writing an entire book, for writing just this review. Whooh. This is not just a book review, but a book-let version - for those who doesn't have the time to read. I will come back to this blog post often to remind me all the virtues. Some books are meant to be read again and again. This is one of them. Get your copy and start reading !
5 I can understand the negative reviews of this book...but...I knew nothing of eastern philosophy before I read this book and now this book has made me aware of an area of knowledge that will probably become central in my life.  It's a very simple book but at this stage in my life it is exactly what I needed.  I don't think the book is profound but it is a stepping stone onto things that are.  Give the book a try and you may find that it is the wake-up call that you need too.  If you even think about buying this book, then you should, it means that you're at a point in your life where you're looking for answers or meaning.  This book will point you in a good and meaningful direction.
5 Power of positive thinking given in detail is wonderful. This book is capable of beng a text book.You can't afford to miss this book.
5 An easy reading book . It will give you the  guidance  you are looking for to achieve success . Before you star your journey in life  you need to have a predetermined goal. Once you  choose your goal you need a road map, that map is inside this book. Remember, same as in the business world, you can hire advisors that will advice you  how to succeed  making money, but they won't do it for you. Is for the business owner to choose the best advice, put it to work  and make it happen.This book is like those business advisors, the book will guide you but is up to you to implement and execute your plan.
5 Enormous amount of wisdom is covered here. I finished this thinking that this is one of the best books I've ever read on how to live in this world. I was shocked at the amount of principles covered in this story. I just wasn't expecting what I got from this.I initially refrained from underlining and marking up my book because I thought I might want to loan it out. So, I took notes. I've since decided that I'm gonna read it again and underline the great parts I want to revisit. Just when I thought this guy had covered most everything, he pulled out even more! This is an awesome book.Okay, the other nice thing about this is each chapter ends with an action summary. I liked how this wraps up each chapter. So, you get the chance to think about what happened in the story, the points being made, and the great thing is it gives you the techniques.I read a few reviews where people were criticizing the story. I thought the story was good, with a few weak spots. But the story isn't the main point, it was just the vehicle to deliver the goods.I loved this book! This is one that I think can definately make a difference in your life. The thing about books like this is, usually people read it once, decide that there is something to it and maybe even make a few changes in their life and a little while later they slide right back into living the way they always have. Reread it, absorb it, and make lasting changes.
5 Through an interesting story, Sharma gives us a basic guide to human and spiritual values.It's understandable if some people do not accept it. When you are guided by materialism and hedonism you will not like this book that makes you see the greatest things in life which are not necessarily money, pleasure and power.
4 Sharma's book is definitely well written and a very easy and enjoyable read.  It highlights wisdom from the EAST and WEST in a succint manner.  Its certainly worthwhile and will help you to transform your life if applied with persistence and determination.  It discusses principles such as mastering the garden of your mind, positive thinking, following your purpose, inner development, building and applying discipline, making good use of your time, helping humanity, and above all living in the moment.  Im sure you will enjoy the book and I definitely recommend it.  I believe there is wisdom to be found in all works of written art, however you must apply the knowledge to your life.  Highly recommended.
4 Since I mentioned Robin Sharma and "The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari" in my latest video on my website (August 2011), people have asked me about his book. It was one of the first books that I read and recognized as spiritual fiction. The subtitle of this book is " a fable about fulfilling your dreams and reaching your destiny", and it truly is a fable and totally fictional. Initially when I read it I thought it was a true story until some of the things that happened to the lawyer Julian just seemed impossible to believe. I was really in the infancy of my spirituality at the time, however this story did get me hooked.This fable is about a very successful lawyer named Julian Mantle who is stricken by a massive heart attack in the middle of a packed courtroom. One of his proteges, John, is there to witness the big man crumple to the ground, and the story progresses from there. The author provides you with a detailed background of the circumstances leading up to Julian's heart attack, and you are then fast-forwarded to Julian's return after several years of being away from the rat race.Not only does Julian survive the heart attack, he quits the law firm, sells all of his possessions (including his red Ferrarai) and travels to India on an "expedition" to become a monk. This explains the title of the book. When he returns he visits John and meets with him several times to explain his "transformation" and to explain the lessons that he has learned.When Julian returns, he is virtually unrecognizable to John. He is lean, tanned and calm. In fact the only evidence left of the man that he once was is a scar on his chest from the surgery he had as a result of his heart attack. Over the course of several meetings, Julian explains how he was transformed by a meeting with the "Sages of Sivanna". These "Sages" teach Julian many things and show him that life is much more than material wealth and possessions.This is a spiritual fiction book and I have found it very easy to read and to keep interested in (I have read it four times). One of the things that I found unique (for it's time) was that it also includes an "Action Summary" and "Julian's Wisdom In a Nutshell" at the end of every chapter that has provided you with one of the "7 Timeless Virtues of Enlightened Living".  Many books today include a reader's study guide or group discussion outlines, however this was one of the first books I had encountered that did this in a fiction book.Written in 1997, this book is just as relevant today as it was then. With all the hype about "The Secret" and the fiction book "The Shack", Mr. Sharma brought all of the lessons that they have been teaching into his book at least ten years before they became popular. I would recommend that you read this book, particularly if you have read similar books and you will see that learning life lessons can be enjoyable when combined with an interesting story. I also recommend "Life Lessons From The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari" and I deem it essential to own and KEEP "Who Will Cry When You Die", both by Robin Sharma. His latest book "The Leader Who Had No title" has a good message, however I was put off by the poor editing.Please contact me if you have any questions or comments - I would love to hear from you.Laughter and love,Rick Fess
2 This is terrible writing, at its best, marketed to the masses.  The dialogue is so unreal.  The characters, you can't even relate to them.  It's so hokey, and nothing original. Unrealistic practices, rose meditation, c'mon, I'm to do this for two weeks.  There are many, many other better books out there.  Trying Being Peace by TNH.Good luck, and if this book worked for you, great.  I reviewed this in a positive mood too.........
1 Utter childish nonsense. The author dosen't seem to know the first thing about the search for spiritualilty or meaning . He just rehashes often repeated sayings and makes a fantastic story about some foolish lawyer who goes off to the himalayas in search of meaning. He meets himalayan sages who live in huts built of roses!. The women gurus wear pink sarees and white flowers in their heads! What is this if not a childish construct of paradise?Its one of those instant things. Like instant coffee. It might perk up someone after a reading for a day or two. But it is no profound pool of wisdom. It dosen't come from an internal awakening that happened to an author. The kind of stories and "fast food" kind of spiritual wisdom presented here have been around for years. I fail to see what is new or original about it.I am amazed there is still a market for this kind of pop spirituality.
3 Interesting with some good shared wisdom but a far cry from Paulo Coelho's Alchemist which it was supposed to be like.
4 monk who sold his ferrari - decent read. well written, good flow, interesting. monk who sold his ferrari - decent read. well written, good flow, interesting.
4 This book tells a simple story and leaves you with a deep and profound message. This book will get you thinking.  You will find a ton of practical tools and tips to make your life more peaceful, meaningful and satisfying.It will help you achieve peak performance and find true purpose and mission in your life.Highly recommended!
5 It is a great self help book which explains certain powerful ideas in terms of a fable. These ideas are applicable to anyone's life. Following is a summary of what I learned from this book.We may not be able to control the weather or traffic or the moods of all those around us. But, we certainly can control our attitude towards these events.Chinese character for `crisis' is composed of two sub-characters: one that spells `danger' and another that spells `opportunity'. There are no mistakes in life, only lessons. There is no such a thing as a negative experience, only opportunities to grow, learn and advance along the road of self mastery. From struggle, comes strength. Even pain can be a wonderful teacher.Worry causes your precious mental energy and potential to leak, just like air leaking out of an inner tube. All of your creativity, optimism and motivation has been drained, leaving you exhausted.Saying that you don't have time to improve your thoughts and your life is like saying that you don't have time to stop for gas because you are too busy driving. Eventually it will catch up with you. 80% of the results you achieve in your life come from only 20% of the activities that occupy your time.There is a tremendous power in a ritual. Sports stars who eat the same meal or tie their shoes the same way before the big game are tapping into the power of ritual. If you insert any activity into your routine by doing it the same way at the same time every day, it quickly grows into a habit. For example, this technique can be used to incorporate health fitness into our  lifestyle. Similarly, any other good habit like reading for expanding one's horizons etc.Voluntary deep breathing is a very good exercise and is useful all the time. Sharma explains why. He says that breathing is normally an involuntary activity which goes on in the background. But, that background activity is good enough for survival purposes. It is not good enough for all the energetic tasks we want to undertake. Voluntary deep breathing helps us in stepping beyond our comfort zones, defeats fatigue etc. This is one good lesson which I found very useful.Confucius said "Good people strengthen themselves ceaselessly". Only a human being can step outside of himself and analyze what he is doing right and what he is doing wrong. Then set about making immediate improvements.If you live every day as if it was your last, your life will take on a magical quality. I would like to pluck the following summary in Sharma's own words. You sow a thought, you reap an action. Reap an action, sow a habit, Sow a habit, you reap a character. Sow your character, you reap your destiny.
3 I confess that I have somewhat mixed feelings about this book. I read it on holiday and began by expecting and hoping to read an insightful story. For the first few pages this seemed to be the case, however the book then changed direction.In many ways the author of a book designed to help people change, what are often termed `self-help' books, faces a dilemma. For the help to be successful it has to be self-help, that is it has to come from within the reader. The use of stories or parables that awaken understanding in the reader derive their power in this way. However after reading the story the reader is then left with the question of what to do with this awakened understanding; how do they actually change?The alternative approach is to provide a change instruction manual which prescribes changes in the hope that these then create change from which new understanding will follow. The danger here is that unless understanding is changed, the result is the mindless application of prescribed rituals, or the rejection of them.This book attempts to bridge these two approaches. It begins with the story of a lawyer forced to re-evaluate life following a major heart attack. However this story quickly becomes a rather simple framework for what is largely a monologue describing a set of self-change techniques.At the point where the book transitions from a story to an instruction guide I almost gave up on the book, but was later glad that I didn't. I found the pretext of the story strained almost to breaking point, but suggest that if this is overlooked the second half of the book contains some powerful advice for personal change. I did have the feeling of ideas collected together from elsewhere, but amongst them is a structure of practical changes that have the potential to profoundly change your outlook and achievements.The measure of value of any such instruction guide rests not in what the reader is instructed to do, but in what the reader does with the advice. For my part, a little surprisingly, I have taken a number of the change suggestions and am applying them. The book therefore has had a greater impact than many.
1 Started off very intruiging, kept wanting to know more ...got nothing. Very poor writing ability. I thought I was reading an elementry school kid's essay. Great ideas, should have pitched them to an actual writer who could have developed a story.Here's what you're in for: (quoted from page 90)"I still have much wisdom to share with you. Are you tired?""Not in the least. I actually feel pretty pumped up. You are quite the motivator, Julian. Have you ever thought about an infomercial?" I asked mischeviosly."I don't understand," he replied gently.Was the book written by a 10 year old, I pondered sincerely...
2 Julian works himself to a heart attack, goes to Himalayas, comes back in robes with a "supple skin", and starts lecturing on how to improve life.I could not relate to the fable. The author's writing style is too synthetic. I'd any day recommend The Alchemist.
4 I have always found Roy's writing style very very compelling. I never thought 'God Of Small Things' was much of a story but the writing style was par-excellence.In similar vein, these sets of articles / speeches by Roy are written in a very crisp and compelling language with lots of facts (referenced properly)to back them.Reading the book, one is reminded (or made aware of, depending on your ability to see-through the news) of the wrongs that are being perpetrated on the world today (US's illegal occupation of Iraq, Godhra riots in Gujarat, the `war against terror' charade, the Israel-Palestine conflict).As a soi-disant responsible and conscientious citizen of the world, I somehow feel ashamed. We are unable to do anything about them. Unable to set them right. That is because, we the people, are powerless. We are reminded, time and again, by Roy how power-less we have all acted. And in doing so, we are doing a dis-service to ourselves and our fellow brethren.Power is what the book is about. Lord Action's comment that "Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely" seems as relevant today as when it was made in the 19th C. The people who are in power carry out deeds that are, ironically, at variance with what is good for mankind and also at cross purposes with what is beneficial for the poorest of the poor. Instead their actions are meant to fill the overflowing coffers of rich corporations and empires (people like Mr. Cheney). Their actions, which we as citizens of the world should see through and protest, are all about increasing one's power. But then, you ask yourself, don't these leaders (read rulers) derive their power from us people [go back to the lesson on democracy in political science class : demos (people) + cratos (power)]. And oddly the same people who bring cratos to these rulers are cratos-less in influencing their decisions. Why then, Roy argues, would the European countries support the US occupation of Iraq when no more than 11% of their citizens support this illegal occupation? The book is littered with compelling facts like these.That is the question the book leaves us with. It asks us, why we don't stand up and point out and, in the process, somehow prevent the wrongs being done by our 'democratically' elected presidents and governments. If we all put our minds to it, we can, and should, prevent the blunders that are being made by the George W's of the world.The book asks more questions than answers them. Yet isn't that what a writer is supposed to do? Bring ideas / questions / doubts in front of others and, through healthy debate, search for answers.A must read for every citizen of the world who claims to have a conscience (yet does nothing about it).
5 Arundhati Roy is a social justice advocate with solid non-violence credentials and a lucid view of globalist corporatism. When Ordinary Persons' Guide to Empire (OPGE) came out, it was received as an anti-Bush/Cheney polemic. Given the September 2004 release date (right before mid-term elections) that may be understandable, but it is erroneous. Although much of OPGE does relate to the conflict in Iraq and Bush's "war on terror", trying to force this book into the framework of partisan politics completely misses the point. For one thing, there is no significant difference between Democrats and Republicans on these issues. More importantly, Iraq and the war on terrorism are incidental to the overarching chronicle of the Empire Roy describes. The Empire is not America, or even "the West"; it is an interlocking network of stateless predatory finance/defense/media conglomerates. If the Empire seems to have a strong American character lately, it is only because America currently holds the strongest node in the network. Before that, it was Britain (see The House of Rothschild: Volume 1: Money's Prophets: 1798-1848). In the future it may be China.In point of fact, nation-states and supranational organizations (e.g. the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and World Trade Organization) do not drive the Empire. They are merely tools to carry out a geopolitical agenda. Through lobbyists, campaign donations, and purchase of treasury notes, corporations garner great political power. Under this perverting influence, nations can be steered in unexpected directions... frequently onto paths contrary to citizens' best interests, which may violate national ethos, or contravene founding principles. John Perkins and Alan B. Jones describe the mechanisms of predation in Confessions of an Economic Hit Man and How The World Really Works, respectively.That is not the focus of this book. OPGE is about ground-level resistance, particularly in the realm of information exchange. Speaking truths is the bedrock revolutionary act from which all other forms of opposition follow. Speaking truth to power is part of this, but even more important is speaking truths to each other. Pointing out the hypocrisies, lies, and inconsistencies of Empire is an empowering act. Roy tells plenty of truths in these pages, pulling back the curtain on the coalescing corporatist global order. The challenges of rebuffing our would-be oppressors are great, but readers should be inspired. The financial and political might of the Empire cannot stand in the face of an informed civil society. Radio host Alex Jones frequently refers to the "infowar" ("there is a war on for your mind"). This includes the struggle to speak and spread truths outside the controlled mainstream media. Arundhati Roy is one of the bright shining stars in the constellation of info-warriors exposing the Empire.
5 Roy is a controversial writer.  Her insights and conclusions often make the reader, if from the west, uncomfortable about the unfolding economy and world relationships with India.  Having traveled in India a number of times, and having many Indian friends, this book highlights little understood cultural and economic issues taking place in one of the world's exploding economies.  Whether you agree with Roy's conclusions or not, a reader wanting to be more aware of the expanding global economy on the Subcontinent will find this book a starting point for reflection and informed connection with India and its complex cultural relationship with the west.
2 Arundhati Roy, celebrated Indian millionaire novelist posing as an "ordinary person," here regurgitates an unsavory stew of half-digested, fake-profound insights for her salivating brood of likeminded leftwing wannabe unfledged nestlings, who will likely swallow it whole without questioning its nonnutritive properties.One would have thought making Michael Moore look sane an impossible project, but Roy, wielding a dizzying array of florid metaphor linked to a Spockian (Dr. or Mr., it doesn't matter) pseudo-logic in service to a sledgehammer sharp wit, manages it with aplomb.  Granted, this approach can be quite amusing in the short run, say, for three or four or ten pages.  Soon, however, it begins to pale for all except true believers.  True, there's a kind of kinky intellectual frisson for the thinking impaired, but the lack of substance eventually begins to gall.Mildly interesting as a cynical deconstruction of Western democracies, the book nevertheless fails miserably as informed critique.  The author, almost completely clueless in face of true politics, economics, theology, and historiography, instead unleashes a sustained rant of wacky armchair liberal proportions seldom if ever before encountered.  Imagine an East Indian female Al Franken on steroids in possession of an occasional admittedly nice turn of phrase and, yes, considerably more functional brain cells, and you get the picture.
5 At first I wasn't sure how all the dam construction in India related to me, a U.S. citizen.  Then it hit me, and I've never been the same.
5 In this fine collection of speeches and essays, Roy stridently argues against the global injustice of imperial democracy, narrow-minded nationalism, corporate fascism, the military industrial complex, privatization, and the ideology of those who would bomb civilians as part of a war campaign with unparalleled passion, clarity and rhetorical flare. Hers is a voice confronting the powers of empire.With the accuracy of someone weilding linguistic pruning shears, Roy deftly shreds our most sacred doctrines. "Flags", she reminds us, are nothing more than "bits of coloured cloth that governments use first to shrink-wrap people's minds and then as ceremonial shrouds to bury the dead." They are the symbols of our government's imperialist ambitions.'Freedom' is the mask government wears to "murder, annihilate, and dominate other people." It is the freedom "to finance and sponsor despots and dictators across the world. The freedom to train, arm, and shelter terrorists. The freedom to topple democratically elected governments. The freedom to amass and use weapons of mass destruction - chemical, biological, and nuclear. The freedom to go to war against any country whose governments it disagrees with. And, most terrible of all, the freedom to commit these crimes against humanity in the name of 'justice', in the name of 'righteousness', in the name of 'freedom'."Another word Roy takes issue with is 'Liberal Democracy' - a word the US government and its corporate cohorts have twisted, besmirched and spread over the world like an incurable STD. Liberal Democracy is simply a codeword for the type of imperialist market the US foists upon the world. It is a product  we in the US sell to other countries, like Iraq, whether they want it or not, and death "is a small price...to pay for the privilege of sampling this new product: Instant-Mix Imperial Democracy (bring to a boil, add oil, then bomb).""Meanwhile," while we all sit around debating the fate of the biosphere, "down at the mall there's a mid-season sale. Everything's discounted - oceans, rivers, oil, gene pools, fig wasps, flowers, childhoods, aluminum, factories, phone companies, wisdom, wilderness, civil rights, ecosystems, air - all 4.6 billion years of evolution. It's packed, sealed, tagged, valued, and available off the rack (no returns). As for justice," she says, "I'm told it's on offer too."Roy also takes aim on the War on Terrorism - not for what it is, but for how it's conducted. "The underlying logic of the terrorist attacks, as well as 'retaliatory' wars against governments that 'support terrorism', is the same: both punish citizens for the actions of their governments." Neither Bush nor Osama bin Laden can face this fact, though, which speaks to their overriding similarities: "They both hold people responsible for the actions of their governments. They both believe in the doctrine of collective guilt and collective punishment. Their actions benefit each other greatly." Furthermore, they both converse with with a god who has sanctified their war against 'evil doers' - ie, each other.The only thing not for sale, it would seem, is Roy's voice. Of all her books, this is by far my favorite. And of all the great social critics - Naom Chomsky, Edward Said, Howard Zinn, Edward Herman, Amy Goodman, Michael Albert, Chalmers Johnson, William Blum, Anthony Arnove - she writes with the most urgency and passion. Her talent is unmatched, her critiques scathing, her prose sublime.j.w.k.
4 Very informative and easy to read. Arundhati Roy is a special writer with keen insight into today's world affairs.
1 Since Roy mostly preaches to the converted, most likely most people who read this review will hit the 'not helpful' button. But we're all entitled to our opinions, particularly in a democracy and the opinion of this review is not in the vein of being a fan of Roy."You are  by no means a great nation," Roy writes of the United States, "But you COULD be a great people."  If an American said the same thing about the Indian people, it would be taken as a highly offensive comment. And certainly, there is much to find by no means great about the Indians, right down to the cruelty they show one another. Especially if a nationI finds some of their own so poor that they're 'untouchable' as is the case with the Indian caste.  Roy makes many sweeping comments about the West and Americans in her books, comparing them to Indians, right down to what individuals think. How someone can blanket statement what individuals think is beyond me.  Her assessment of the US as a whole is also way off the mark. I don't think she'd educated on American in it's individual,  human truth. Too much is TV branding. If does not sound like she's been inside every community and each varying ethnic section and geographical locale, which vary greatly. How she can say an Indian's mind is a lush, wild, wilderness, which would never be found in a Westerner's mind is not only offensive, it's stupid and seeing the world with a set of wooden glasses. Besides the point that she gets so many of the facts wrong, what I think is particularly unappealing about Roy is that she is a rich and spoiled girl who has had quite a bit of opportunity, including the chance to be schooled in the US, where she married into the system, not once, but twice, thus further enjoying the priveleges, earned approximately a million dollars (which she gladly took) for her novel from a company that is tightly tied in to the 'empire' and the 'corporations' which she sneers at, and pretends to have no part at.She is lecturing us not to buy into corporations, but clearly she found a profit there. If we are really not to support the corporations, then we must not buy her books. I find Roy to be an extremely immature voice, and most of what she says on empire and government is Chomsky 101. It's been said before, and better. And if she considers herself a "citizen of the world" then what's the deal with her dual hatred of, making money off of, and continued attempts to worm her way back into the US, while pretending she's above it?  Her political holier-than-thou schtick is also a bit of a joke. Remember a few years ago when she attempted to make her Big Point , by allowing herself to be imprisoned.. saying how she was going in there for the long haul to make her point further, then spent a night in jail and got scared by the REALITY of it, and thenimmediately paid the fine, suddenly concocting a story that she didn't need to make her point further? It's this kind of speaking out of one side of her mouth, and her comfort zone really being in another that comes up all too often in this book.
5 powerThe key notions in Arundhati Roy's texts are also the key elements in the history of mankind: power and powerlessness.Power means survival, physically and morally, in the struggle for life on the political, economic, social and, of course, individual front.meansThose in power have the means to survive, to extend their hegemony or to crush the opposition: wealth, weapons (of mass destruction), armies, media monopolies, transnational corporations and national and international long arms (intelligence services and secretive institutions like the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO).policiesThrough their media monopolies the powerful create a `controlled' reality, `a lunatic asylum'.They send their hypocritical rhetoric of `free markets, justice and freedom' all over the world. But in the name of freedom and justice, they wage war and kill millions of human beings.Free markets are protecting `western markets and force developing countries to lift their trade barriers, the poor are getting poorer and the rich richer.' More, free markets undermine democracy: transnational corporations `cannot push through highly profitable deals without the active connivance of the State machinery of corrupt authoritarian governments in poorer countries.'There is no globalization of human rights, but only of money, patents, goods and services.There is erosion of freedom: civil liberties are being suspended in the name of protecting democracy under the veil of `The War on Terror.'opposition, democracyBut, (non-violent) dissent had already clear results: it forced the powerful to drop their masks. It made them stand naked.`The corporate revolution will collapse if we refuse to buy what they are selling. We are the many and they the few. They need us more than we need them.'Ultimately, the only means to break the stranglehold by those in power is true democracy (one man, one vote).We need Arundhati Roy's mighty voice.This book is a must read for all those who want to understand the world we live in.
5 Award-winning writer Arundhati Roy presents An Ordinary Person's Guide To Empire, an anthology of her lectures and essays highlighting the injustice, greed, and corruption behind the "poverty draft" of the United States (in which the military is disproportionately made of individuals of indigent backgrounds, and very, very few politicians have a child serving in Iraq), murderous pogroms against Muslims in India with atrocities that bring so-called ethnic cleansing to mind, the transformation of South Africa that ultimately only further concentrated wealth and power in the hands of a few, and more. From the obsessive nature of crisis reporting in the media that ignores underlying problems and history, or summarizes them in a backward progression if at all, to propaganda as a tool of empire-building, to the ruthlessness of the police state in so-called "democracies" that get their hands as bloody as any fascist, An Ordinary Person's Guide To Empire spares nothing in its effort to show the raw, real, and often vicious truth. Highly recommended.
5 Arundhati Roy is an accomplished writer. This much was established early in her writing career when she won the Booker Prize in 1997 for her first book, a novel called "The God of Small Things."Subsequently, she began to nurture an instinct for activism and has never looked back.Her first non-fiction piece, published in 1998 in response to India's juvenile nuclear test explosions, lambasted India's BJP-led government for acting irresponsibly toward its impoverished and illiterate citizens.Roy masterfully pointed out the sheer absurdity of aiming for the 6th slot on the list of overt nuclear powers while occupying the 127th rank on the UNDP human development index (2004).In the event, Roy had also expressed disgust at the hypocrisy evident in Western expressions of alarm at the prospect of colored peoples with WMD.In "An Ordinary Person's Guide to Empire," Roy continues in that trajectory and directs the might of her rebellious pen at America's irresponsible use of power worldwide.Contrary to John Zxerce's simplistic review (Amazon, October 25, 2004), Roy makes no blanket statements such as "Democracy is a sham."Roy's arguments have nuance, which George "War-monger" Bush supporters brought up on a strict diet of Fox News sound bites aren't competent to grasp.Arundhati Roy, trained as an architect, is a spectacular blend of Michael Moore's wit, Noam Chomsky's intellect, and Howard Zinn's hands-on approach to activism.
5 It's a new world order in which the public infrastructure, productive public assests - water, electricity, transport(roads/freeways), telecommunications(internet), health services, education, natural resources(parks) - assets the American government is supposed to hold in trust for the people it represents, assets that have been built and maintained w/public money for generations - are being sold to private corporations. To steal these away & sell them as stock in private companies is beginning. U.S.A. Pvt. Ltd. is on its way to being owned by a few corporations and major multinational$(allegiance to no country). The CEO$ of theses companies will control the country, its infrastructure and its resource$, its media & its journali$t, but will owe nothing to its people. They are completely unaccountable(Blackwater) - legally, socially, morally, & politically. Soon, democracy will be just theater.The role of government$ in the New World Order of globalization will be increasingly authoritarian, loyal, & corrupt.In Russia, they say the past is unpredictable.The U.S.A. is not far behind.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED !!!!!!!
4 Continuing where her earlier non-fiction books left off, Roy once again speaks around the world holding up a harsh light to leaders of economic and military might and power. One thing to note is Roy's wholistic view of resistance to injustice and progress by societies has evolved since her last writings. Many of her earlier speeches and essays stuck to a single issue- this book's speeches create links between economic power or powerlessness, racial or religious violence and the growing worldwide police state, and argues forcefully for a movement to stand up to these linked worldwide trends as a whole.The speeches have the eloquence Roy's fans have always looked to her for. They also name names and provide numbers for those like me who like more than generalities. An all around great book. Just wish it was longer.
3 The empire that appears in the title of the book does not pertain exclusively to US under the current Bush administration. Rather, the term empire is loosely used to refer to as various political entities as the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party -- which the author perceives as a Hinduism fundamentalist organization) of India and fundamental capitalistic multinational corporations.Each chapter is more or less an independent essay or speech. Again contrary to what the reader might expect, the book is not a guide per se (there is no unifying narration). It perhaps would be best summarized as essays/speeches calling for action.Though I found the author's deliverance powerful, her arguments did not appear particularly fresh. The observations and critiques she makes follows more or less along the lines of Noam Chomsky and the far left.The biggest disappointment however was editorial -- too many chapters contained the same message, shared the same subjects, and cited identical events for examples. This book in my opinion does not provide much value over reading Roy's essays individually over the web.
5 For a book about archeology this book surprised me in how engaging it was.  I learned a lot about the history of Britain and how opinions in history are first formed.  The section on King Arthur is just great and Francis Pryor take down of the Celts and the Angle-Saxon &#34;invasions&#34; of Britain were very satisfied if not the final words on the subjects.  The people of Britain are even more interesting in Pryor's narrative then in the scheme where they are constantly invaded and taken over and utterly replaced by new cultures.  It is also interesting to see how long beliefs can last, centuries perhaps millennium and then to vanish as a coherent belief system when confronted by strong countervailing beliefs.  The weakness of pagan beliefs when confronted by monotheism and in our day the secular surge over many historically Christian countries are cases in point.  To take one tidbit from this book it is amazing that people were throwing swords into lakes and rivers, like the Arthurian legend, for thousands of years and most likely for at least 1,000 years after everyone had forgotten the real reason they performed the ritual.  If you love history, not just British history, get this book and you will learn a lot not just about Britain but how history forms and how we put our own spin on the facts.  Brilliant.
3 The author herein declares that "I prefer my archeology, like my friends, to be human, fallible, and hard to explain." But he himself has no doubts concerning the replacement of Roman-era people with Anglo Saxon invaders after the collapse of the Roman Empire; arguing that "it goes against common sense to believe that the [archeological] changes we are witnessing here reflect the replacement of one population by another."Moreover, "It also patronizes the indigenous people, because it assumes that the post-Roman inhabitants of Britain would not have been capable of "inventing" England themselves."  The local indigenous population deserves much more credit, he argues; that the changes in language and culture and the changes in the archaeological record of eastern and south-eastern Britain over this time was not the result of new blood, so to speak, but "are better explained by `acculturation' than migration.""Acculturation," he adds---aided by the internet and other means, "is the process behind, for example, the coming together of Britain and the United States today." So, you see, it's all rather simple: The story of the `Anglo-Saxons' and their invasions is but a myth, according to Mr. Pryor, "an essential part of England's origin myth." And "the changes attributed to the arrival of Anglo-Saxons were usually caused by people changing their minds, rather than their places of residence."Well, that's food for thought, certainly, and it is intellectually stimulating to contemplate such new takes on old issues, but not meaning to patronize the inhabitants on England circa the 5th & 6th centuries I nevertheless wonder how Sussex, Middlesex and Essex (to name but a few) came to become known as such; communities (which mean) `land of the southern Saxons,' `land of the middle Saxons' and `land of the East Saxons,' bereft of a significant influx of Saxons. (14Apr)
3 I won't rehearse points made by other reviewers except to say that I agree that he is selective in his use of evidence and totally discounts the written accounts which have survived from this period. While I suspect that the Anglo-Saxon "invasions" were not quite the wholesale population replacement once pictured, I do think there were actual invaders and that they became the dominant group in the eastern, central and southern sections of the island. The evidence is just too strong that there were movements of large groups of peoples during the late Roman period (although probably not the mass "folk movements" of earlier histories)and I don't think the British Isles would have been any exception. His rejection of the Saxon Shore forts as defensive efforts by the late empire is unconvincing and he simply skips over why the language of a marginal group of coastal tribes, now represented by a tiny group of surviving people (the Frisians) would have become "fashionable" in the last days of the Romano-British period. I actually find it rather surprising that an English archaeologist would dismiss the motif of an invasive upper class given "1066 and all of that", as the saying goes. At any rate, this book really only rates about 2 1/2 stars. It's readable and there are some good passages, but his primary theme is, to put it mildly, unproven and while I totally agree that there was a lot of continuity in the British countryside, I think he undermines this part of his thesis by insisting that there was no Anglo-Saxon invasion. Invasion as we think of it, yes, there was probably nothing quite like that, but I think it is almost absurdly evident that there was a major population shift which brought about a seismic change in language and customs. Those don't happen because of "fashion". They happen when it becomes advantageous to adopt the culture of the dominant group. There's a reason why English is the lingua franca of India.
5 I love all of Professor Pryor's books. And sometimes, some days, only a good archeology book will do.  This is part of a Trio of books that starts with SEAHENGE.
4 a good read and very accessible summary of much of the archeology of a very early period in British history.  One of the more complete and commonsensical pictures of the so called dark ages.  It flies against much of the history that we were taught in grade school but is well backed up by evidence.
5 Britain AD is the third volume of what Francis Pryor refers to as an "informal trilogy on the archaeology and early history of Britain." The first two are Seahenge (which at the time of writing, I have not read) and Britain BC, which I have read.The focus of Britain AD is the so-called "Dark Ages", the period between the end of Roman rule in Britain, at the beginning of the 5th century, and the emergence of the English kingdoms (e.g. Alfred the Great) in the 8th and 9th centuries. It was during this period that King Arthur and his knights were supposedly battling to defend Romano-British civilization from the advances of the Anglo-Saxons, whose invasion of Britain from Continental Europe followed the withdrawal of the Roman legions. In fact, Pryor's main thrust is to debunk both King Arthur and the Anglo-Saxon invasion.Pryor takes issue with what he calls the "cultural-historical" process which he says has given rise to a series of myths about Arthur and the Anglo-Saxons. The proponents of this process either ignore archaeology completely, or use it selectively to support their entrenched views of history.While much of the Arthur mythology is know to originate from much later sources (Geoffrey of Monmouth 12th century, Thomas Mallory "Morte D'Arthur" 15th century), Pryor casts doubt on any historicity of Arthur. He believes that the growth and embellishment of the Arthur legend was due to a desire to promote a genuine English identity, as compared to the Germanic Anglo-Saxon one which had partially eclipsed it in the Dark Ages; he points out that the original Arthur was Welsh - representing the "Celtic twilight" of Romano-British civilization - until he was hijacked to England by Richard I in the late 11th century, with the staged "discovery" of his bones and an accompanying inscription in the grounds of Glastonbury Abbey. Pryor suggest that a similar process, designed to emphasize the Germanic origins of the English, occurred following the installation of German royalty as English monarchs in the 18th century. At this point, he says, The Anglo-Saxon "invasion" was canonised, and Alfred the Great became the original English monarch of choice.In presenting the counter-arguments -based on archaeology - Pryor does his usual thorough job. He points out that many of the characteristics of Anglo-Saxon settlement in Britain - the types of building, "pagan" burial and cremation practices, the move away from towns - in fact pre-dated the withdrawal of the Roman legions in 410 by as much as a hundred years. Informed by his intimate knowledge of landscapes, particularly in eastern England, Pryor argues that the continuity of settlement in most locations - often from pre-Roman times through the Anglo-Saxon period - refutes the idea of the violent replacement of Britains/Celts by invading Continentals. In its place, he argues for the gradual adoption of life-styles via acculturation. Pryor maintains that the people of Britain were far more mobile than we give them credit for, and that this would account - as Roman influence waned - for the the seepage -particularly into eastern and south-eastern England - of a dominant Anglo-Saxon culture.As someone who had unquestioningly accepted the conventional history of Anglo-Saxon invasion, I found my initial resistance gradually giving ground to the persuasiveness of Pryor's archaeological arguments. However, while I can accept that the acquisition of many Anglo-Saxon characteristics may have occurred via a process of gradual acculturation, I remain unconvinced that the Old English language - with its heavy Germanic influence - could have made its way to Britain without being carried by substantial numbers of its speakers. Some historians have advanced the idea that the Roman legions based in Britain consisted of many Anglo-Saxon mercenaries, who settled down among the ancient Brits and never left (this would also account for the appearance of Anglo-Saxon settlement characteristics before the end of the Roman period). Pryor does not accept this point of view, but it seems to me that this owes more to the strength of his conviction about "acculturation" rather than to actual evidence.As usual, wherever you come out in relation to Pryor's point of view, the joy of reading his books is that all is transparent. He freely admits that his theories may prove to be incorrect, and shares with the reader everything he knows that has brought him to his point of view. " If archaeologists and historians care about their subject, they will have axes to grind, and I prefer to sharpen mine in public."
5 Remember the accounts of the period 400-600AD in British History textbooks?  The Romans left in 410AD and the Britons struggled on for a few decades until the arrival of Anglo-Saxon invaders about 440 forced them to retreat to the West.  A temporary British revival ensued in the late 400s, early 500s until the Saxons eventually prevailed over virtually the whole country.This is the conventional view of the period but did it really happen?  Francis Pryor says in Britain AD that there is absolutely no archaeological evidence for a massive invasion of Britain from the continent.  One example is the situation with the Saxon shore forts, long assumed to have been built by the Romans to protect against Saxon invaders.  Excavation of these forts has shown that they are totally unlike conventional Roman forts and may have had a completely different function.  Pryor's alternative explanation is that the British adoption of Saxon customs was a cultural thing and no large scale invasion took place.  The accounts of Gildas and Bede are in the category of origin myths.Whether you swallow this or not, it is explained in an extremely readable and intelligent fashion.  Pryor's essential Britishness shows throughout but this in no way detracts from the message of the book.  This is the type of archaeology book that I applaud that makes the whole subject much more accessible than it was in the past.The remainder of the book gives a coherent account of the end of Roman rule and speculates intelligently on how the Britons developed immediately afterward, giving interesting descriptions of the evidence for trade and continued Romanised civilization at places like Wroxeter.  As with other recent books on this period it is clear that archaeology has demonstrated that the period immediately following Roman rule was definitely not a descent into savagery.I'm not sure if I buy the "no invasion" argument however.  I think that the answer to what happened was probably a mixture of cultural change and invasion rather than one or the other.  I'm not a professional archaeologist or historian though.In any case this is a very entertaining if somewhat controversial book.  I thoroughly recommend it to anyone interested in the period.
5 You don't want to argue with Francis Pryor.  Not because he's likely bigger than you, but because your array of supportive information may not be on the top line.  Pryor is a digger, for facts and artefacts, and brings fresh insight to what conditions actually prevailed in post-Roman Britain.  Pryor's approach relies heavily on those artefacts and they tell him - and us - a tale rather removed from what we learned in school.  In this finely-written and comprehensive account, Pryor effectively overturns a number of long-held assumptions to redraw the picture of the "Dark Ages".Even here in North America, the Legend of King Arthur carried a prominent role in history and literature - not to mention film.  The story rested on the underlying assumption that the withdrawal of Rome from the British Isles resulted in the collapse of "civilisation" for centuries.  Pryor hinges his account on the King Arthur legend, reminding us that a myth, no matter how many times nor in various ways, remain a myth until some form of real evidence can substantiate them.  The author is an archaeologist and a sheep farmer, and unusual as it may seem, is able to combine these two facets in analysing prehistory and produce new ideas.  While these ideas may challenge a number of dearly-held beliefs, they are firmly supported by the quantity of information that has emerged from British soil in recent years.Whatever the validity of the Arthurian legend, post-Roman Britain did not sink into chaos and barbarism with the shutting down of the Empire on these islands.  Instead, with the removal of severe tax imposts, new economic and governmental structures arose.  Pryor is thus able to view Britain A.D. as a continuum.  Change there certainly was, but "barbarism" hardly describes it.  Farms continued to produce and towns functioned, especially trade centres, both coastal and inland.  The coastal communities, which enjoyed good communication with continental Europe, went on as before.  Trade flourished, although the products exchanged varied with demand.  Foodstuffs and other supplies required by the Roman military ranks increasingly shifted instead to wine and other luxury goods.The shift in commerce reflected changes occurring in Britain's society.  Where governance had rested in the Roman administration for three centuries, it now shifted to more local centres.  Pryor notes artefacts in various digs throughout Britain demonstrate the rise of local hierarchies.  Unlike the account given us in school, the top of that hierarchy was not the result of massive invasions of the island by the "Anglo-Saxons" of history's long, repetitive account.  Instead, while Continentals assuredly did enter Britain, it was more of a steady trickle.  Those seeking opportunities not available on the mainland, found them in Britain.  In many cases those Germanic "invaders" were merely following the same routes laid down by the traders crossing Europe and the Channel.  Those traders were still bringing Mediterranean products into the Isles through the period of this book - a practice invasive waves would surely have disrupted.  Organised invasions must await the coming of the Norsemen who arrived to plunder, but remained to farm.For Pryor, the Roman legacy was the spread of new ideas.  The famous Roman roads, the bringing of writing and the flourishing trade were all beneficial to Britain.  The product of those innovations was mobility and acceptance of novel concepts.  New communities, both urban and rural resulted, and while the changes were not always for the better, such as the plagues emerging in those towns, society remained stable and economically progressive.  In short, concludes Pryor, those "Dark Ages" were essentially the time of forming "British" culture.  It is the true root of the society existing today.  [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada]
3 Dry, poorly edited and overall hard to read. Despite being a voracious reader and researcher on this topic, I was ready to put it down by chapter five.
4 Bulgaria is not a common locale for English language novels, but the verb "Balkanize" has been disseminated widely, and no longer limited in meaning to just the hostile division of the Balkans. Now, author Rana Dasgupta has given the reader an epic overview of Bulgaria's geopolitical hardships and character, acquainting us with a blemished region often overlooked.  The theme that we all go solo, either literally or spiritually, is identified here, in both the Balkanization of a region and of the soul.There is a new type of fiction written by young, talented, inventive authors, called "altermodernism," and Dasgupta is among them.  It is a term coined by Nicolas Bourriaud to describe a type of art within today's global context that is a reaction against standardization and commercialism, stressing the experience of wandering in time, space, and mediums. I mention this primarily to warn that this type of fiction is an acquired taste.Dasgupta examines the life of centenarian Ulrich, a Bulgarian from Sofia with a German name and German wanderlust. The first half, or "movement" of the novel takes us through Ulrich's difficult life.  The second half, "Daydreams," is Ulrich's re-imagined life of repressed dreams flowering into a fabricated existence.Much cross cutting of events and ideas takes place to realize the fullness of the story. Ironically, the first half, Ulrich's actual life, is more dreamily narrated.  The dream-life events of part two are more linear, with a concrete storyline occasionally interrupted by temporal shifts.  Certain characters from the first half reenter the dream world but are altered to a different relationship with Ulrich.Ulrich's desire to become a musician was cruelly arrested by his father.  Later, he studied chemistry in Berlin until he was forced to return to Sofia and care for his mother.  Ulrich's life of mediocrity and tragedy in part one was re-imagined in part two, which takes the reader to Georgian territory and eventually to the U.S., in New York.  A Gypsy musician, a quasi-narcissistic mistress of a gangster, and her bohemian poet brother seem initially disconnected to Ulrich. This is where Dasgupta's style of altermodernism comes into play and unites the two disparate halves.It took me a while to warm up to this book. The author is a skilled craftsman of descriptive language; however, it was initially too muted and cool for me to engage emotionally. There was a riot of images taunting me like a slide show, but the tale was told through a portal of politics and sociology more than felt. Dasgupta's cerebral approach held the essence of the story suspended above me, or from me.  It was educating and coldly visceral, rich in its industrial ugliness, and dryly poetical, yet I felt vaguely outside of it. But, in the last 150 pages, I was hooked, and read it in one intense sitting. The narrative was splintery, immediate, and petulant. The author also used various entry and exit points of the first half and juxtaposed them in the latter part of the story to render a measured gravity.  I don't want to say any more except that the author's insurrectionist technique is part of the journey and grip of the tale."Life seemed nothing more than a series of improbable accidents, and yet everyone had a sense--didn't they?--that there was something else, deeper and prior, to which they had to return."As you read, you will feel and anticipate that deeper sense of things, dormant but sharp. Stay. The whole is a provocative sum of its parts.
4 The fabulous breadth of Rana Dasgupta's first book of stories, Tokyo Canceled, is in full swing in his novel Solo, plus an incredible depth of history and characterisation. Ulrich is 100 years old, a failed musician and chemist and lover in Bulgaria. While I found both parts of the book (life and daydreams) gorgeously written and riotously paced, the second part appeared more like a series of linked short stories - beautiful and fascinating in themselves, but not tied to Ulrich's narrative in a way that held the book together (sometimes I even forgot that this book had been about Ulrich). Altogether, the daydreams present a background, foreground, and coincident picture of Ulrich's century on earth, but if they had somehow been interleaved or integrated with his actual life happenings, I think I might have felt them more connected and connective.That said, Solo is a marvelous book - displaying a kind of virtuoso skill that made me marvel countless times. The language alone makes it worthy, almost every sentence precise and beguiling. Take this passage describing Ulrich's first glimpse of the madness that is Times Square:"He comes in under the marvellous light, and stops to watch. Dazzling screens wrap polyp towers, which spire against the orange sky. His white hair reflects the logos, and turns harlequin."How utterly stunning and perfect. Well deserving of the Commonwealth Prize. I look forward to his next book.
3 `Solo' is a book I didn't expect.  In reading the synopsis of a man obsessed with music and chemistry, I had a feeling that in parts this would be dry and uninteresting.  In reading of the split between `Life' and `Daydreams' I had the feeling that the first section would drag with needled details and that the daydreams would reignite my interest.  I couldn't have been more wrong about this book.In Rana Dasgupta's `Solo', we are introduced to a blind elderly Bulgarian named Ulrich who reminisces, over the novel's first half, of his life growing up in a politically torn Bulgaria and the friendship he had with a young man named Boris and the tumultuous life he led with his parents; first his controlling father and second his emotionally destitute mother.  Despite Ulrich's love of music and the violin, his father's narrow-minded sense of success led him to forbid Ulrich of following his heart and instead pushing him in the way of a life of chemistry, only to have that life squandered when Ulrich was uprooted from school and forced to return home to Bulgaria to take care of his sickly father and his mother.  In the novel's second half, we enter Ulrich's daydreams, where we basically get to see Ulrich living vicariously through his friend Boris, following his dreams in a modern setting where it is more likely for a strapping young man from Bulgaria to succeed.The first half of this book is perfection.  The way that Dasgupta weaves a more historical drama with light detail and quick pacing was extraordinary.  He made all of his characters feel real and raw and you wanted to get to know them more and read more of their struggles.  The section with which I expected to have the most trouble getting into I was completely overcome by and never wanted it to end.  When it did end, that final paragraph, was the perfect closing and I found myself wishing that Rana had written a novella instead of a novel."His daydreams were a life's endeavor of sorts, and now, when everything else is cast off, they are still at hand."Just perfect.But, it doesn't end there.  Instead, Rana basically presents us with a collection of short stories circulating around a few of interwoven characters and gives us a moderday setting and a young Boris striving for musical fame as a violinist who basically takes the world by storm and leaves bodies (sort of) in the wake of his talent.  There is the story of a young woman who gets involved with a gangster and goes from destitute to blood thirsty woman of wealth and there is a music producer named Plastic and there is a struggling poet and, of course, there is Ulrich.  My complaint is that this second section feels off kilter with the novel's first half and that it lacks the punch that Rana was able to deliver with `Life'.  I wanted something more engaging and more fantastical with the `Daydream' section.  I was hoping that Ulrich would rewrite aspects of his life in his mind, reliving moments and righting them, but instead we got a story that felt untrue and completely separate from all that lead up to it.  I do understand that the closing chapter, which is a stunning piece of writing, explains why Ulrich is dreaming what he is dreaming, but at the end of the day it itself feels a little forced and doesn't ring as true to the prose as I wanted it to.Alas, that first half is just SO good.One thing that this made me realize is that they really need to make a film about the life of Albert Einstein.  His love affair with his first wife and the way he treated his children is completely engrossing and would make a tragic and intriguing film.But that is another topic altogether.At the end of the day, I recommend this with reservations.  Like I said, it is basically two completely different stories altogether, and the way they fit together is not as fluid or rewarding as I wanted it to be.  Still, Rana is a great writer and the first half is THAT good, so check it out.  I will be reading his `Tokyo Cancelled' as soon as I can, just to see if he can maintain consistency in a story with more focus.
4 Reading this book was a joy, especially the first part. The heartfelt story of an old man and his life was superbly put together. This character is magnificently displayed, with all his weaknesses. Following the pitfalls in his life we look for a silver lining and the second part sets this up. Though the second part is where the weakness of this book lies; it still should be considered better than most (the ease with which. I am not certain I appreciated what was being said (or whether I enjoyed being pulled away from the old man for so long), but whatever this author does, he does do it with skill that most people should enjoy. That alone makes me look forward to his future writing.
4 What would we like our lives to be like if we had a choice and control in situations? This book is divided into 2 parts. The first covers the life of Ulrich, 100 years old, now blind due to an accident with a jar of acid in his workshop after he retired, as he sits and listens to the world outside his apartment. His memories from his childhood in Bulgaria, his relationship with his parents, his friends through his youth, his passion for chemistry and jazz music in Berlin, and later on his life in Bulgaria under Soviet rule. His memories provide vivid descriptions of a century's worth of experiences, but what strikes the reader most is the deep loneliness that governs his life.But he is really lonely? For Ulrich spends a fair portion of his time living in his daydreams. In his daydreams, he has a different life. In his daydreams, his best friend fulfills his destiny as a famous musician instead of being executed for being a revolutionary. In his daydreams, he has a loving family and is successful. His life in daydreams covers the 2nd part of this book.Should we feel sorry for Ulrich because his fantasy life is a complete polar opposite to the harsh and drab loneliness of reality? Or do we sympathize and feel glad that he has a form of escape that is colorful and rich?Whatever the decision, what's clear is the author's ability to deliver detailed scenes and the thoughts and emotions of his characters vividly and lyrically.
5 Oh what a brilliant, brilliant novel Rana Dasgupta'sSolois!  Books like this are the reason I love to read.  I think Rana Dasgupta is a virtuoso of the first order, an author who has boldly created a real work of mastery and originality.Solohas a haunting quality that continues to stay with me. I can't seem to find the words to describe the book's impact on me.  It moved me; it repelled me; it gave me pause; it raised familiar questions concerning reality and dream, thought and mind, what dies or what remains.  It is a stunning reading experience, rich in narrative and poetic in prose. It is a novel I am eager to return to again and again because I know I will make new discoveries with each reading.Solois both a vehicle for philosophical and psychological musings and a sweeping narrative through history and culture. Literary analysis may engage the book's meaning but will fail to illuminate the spell it can cast on the willing reader. It is a novel of science, of ideas, of poetry, of music. It is written with dreamlike lyricism and emotional intensity, a novel in two movements ~ "Life" and "Daydreams.""Life" represents the story of Ulrich, a one hundred year old blind Bulgarian man, nearing the end of his life, living minimally and alone in a decaying public housing apartment in modern day Sofia. Through the care and generosity of neighbors, Ulrich has survived. His primary entertainment is his television which keeps him informed of every kind of "modern wisdom."  When not listening to his television, he reflects on his life, often wondering if his life was a failure.  Ulrich's story is intertwined in a century of Eastern European history, riotously paced from the Bulgaria of the Ottoman Empire, through World War II Nazi and Russian occupations, the post war Communist block and finally an independent Bulgaria struggling to rise from its third world status in the Balkans.  His story is one of pathos and though he has failed as a musician, as a chemist, as a lover, as a husband and as a father ~ now as a very old man considering his death, he believes failure and success are irrelevant.Ulrich's mind is particularly aware during his last days and his spirit has expanded. He "can sense the great black ocean of forgotten things, and, ignoring his beginning and end, he casts off into it.  Everything he has known has drained, over time, from the actual world into this ocean and he is blissful in the endless oblivion."  He has spent a great quantity of his time in daydreaming, an activity which rejuvenates and sustains him in the "nonsense" of the world around him. He has poured his spirit into these daydreams and while his self may be negated at his death, his dreams will remain.And this is the introduction to the second movement, "Daydreams," a metaphysical leap from a life lived to a life dreamt.  The shift is abrupt and confounding and the unsuspecting reader may be assaulted by the different, discordant edginess to the storytelling.  It took a while for me to find the narrative rhythm again and to spot Ulrich's influence, but once I did, my reading experience was heightened.  Although Ulrich disappears from the story, "Daydreams" represents the fictions he had cultivated in his mind. The story is now fierce in the telling, moving furiously through a violent post-communist Eastern Europe of gangsters, sex, drugs, crime, prostitution, power, money, fame. It is an ugly, gritty and raw world and however horrible the reading experience becomes, I found it difficult to tear my eyes away.  The characterizations are so well delienated, that each character represents a view of life that is far from stereotypical.  It is a view of the world that is at once real and imagined, from which there is no easy escape.Wheras the narrative of the first movement is precise and deliberate, the narrative of the second movement is more chaotic, becoming distant and close at the same time.  What I mean by that is that the reader watches the action from a distance without Ulrich's participation but Ulrich's presence is never the less felt.  It's smart and effective, making the denouement all the more powerful when Ulrich appears again.There are so many qualities aboutSolo~ the originality, the imagination, the intelligence, the depth ~ that its effect on me is intense and lasting.  I know this novel is not for everyone and many will disagree with my opinion but still I must give it my highest rating.
5 Solo by Rana Dasgupta is a diptych of a novel composed of two related but independent halves.  In the first half, a blind, 100-year-old Bulgarian man named Ulrich reminiscences about his life from the vantage point of his squalid apartment overlooking a train station in Sofia, the Bulgarian town in which Ulrich spent the vast majority of his life.  Though graphically limited, Ulrich's life touches many of the important moments in modern history, beginning with the last years of the Ottoman Empire and continuing through both World Wars, the Nazi and Russian occupations, post-war Communism, and eventually up to contemporary, independent Bulgaria.Ulrich's imaginative life is just as vivid as his actual life, and the second half of Solo is made up of Ulrich's daydreams.  Beginning as a series of distinct stories and characters, Ulrich's daydreams become gradually more intricate and interrelated.  Ulrich's imaginative "children" include a young, ambitious Georgian woman and her shiftless brother, a Bulgarian musical prodigy, and an American executive of a record company.  Their stories converge in contemporary New York City, where Ulrich inserts himself as a character in his own daydreams.In lush prose, Solo confronts the consequences of abandoned dreams and explores the relationship between life as it is lived in reality and as it unfolds in the imagination.  Many of Ulrich's creations stretch credulity (How does an elderly, blind Bulgarian man know about the internal politics at an American record company?), but these flights of fancy don't detract from the overall effect.  Ultimately, Solo suggests the life of the mind can be just as soul-sustaining as the life of day-to-day reality:"Thinking back, [Ulrich] is surprised at the quantity of time he spent in daydreams.  His private fictions have sustained him from one day to the next, even as the world itself has become nonsense.  It never occurred to him to consider that the greatest portion of his spirit might have been poured into this creation.  But it is not a despairing conclusion.  His daydreams were a life's endeavor of sorts, and now, when everything else is cast off, they are still at hand."
4 One of the first things that comes to mind when reading this book, is that the author is an Anglo-Indian writing about people living in Bulgaria.  This is actually two books, the first is a novella and the second is a collection of inter-related short stories tied together by the character from the first half.Ulrich is a blind 100 year-old man living out his last days in a rundown apartment building in downtown Sophia.  He has lived in Bulgaria almost all his life and been involved in almost every major European catastrophe that occurred in the twentieth century.  At the beginning of the century he got to see the middle east as his father worked on the Berlin-Baghdad railroad.  The family was called home at the beginning of the First Balkan War and the emergence of the Kingdom of Bulgaria.  His father comes home from the First World War a broken man. He destroys the violin that Ulrich had learned to play as being a frivolous hobby. They survive the inter-war years, but Ulrich who was studying chemistry in Berlin is forced to come home as the war clouds settle on Europe in 1938...and so on through the fall of communism and its' post-communist economic disaster.The second half is wrapped around fantasies that Ulrich has about how people are surviving in post-Cold War Bulgaria.  These are the children he never had (his only son was taken to America by his ex-wife and never heard from again).  Of course there is a violin player who grows up in an abandoned town with only pigs for company who becomes a world famous rock idol.What makes this an amazing story is how Dasgupta (is this a german-indian name) write about the interaction among people.  His writing of the connections between people, their inner thoughts and outer reactions are 'spot on'.  No one has the perfect life or even anything close to it, no matter how much money and power they have.  Every success is fleeting and doomed to be destroyed by a rival or to self-destruct. This is the real strength of Dasgupta's book and can be enjoyed for this reason alone.  Truly a powerful writer with a talent that should hold up for years to come.Zeb Kantrowitz
4 I really liked the first half of this book that follows an old man, now blind, through his childhood in the pre-soviet era. Horrible, but very interesting story about a time period and place I didn't think I'd be interested in. For much of his life, the man is indeed "solo" in a way that makes you really feel for him, because he's a good guy.At first, the second half of the book kind of lost me. I missed the guy we met in the first half, and though there were obvious connections I wasn't sure if they were REAL connections or just an attempt by the author to make 2 separate sets of stories (the second half follows several people) seem connected. It all eventually becomes more clear, though. I'm not totally sure if I liked the way it became clear, but I think in the very end, I did (without giving too much away).One thing I will say is that almost every night after I read it, the book left me thinking. And for this book, that's a good thing.
3 There is no doubt that Dasgupta is a gifted writer and storyteller. I just didn't love the story he tells in this novel. The first half of the book recounts the life of Ulrich, a Bulgarian scientist, during the early decades of the twentieth century. The second half of the book are comprised of Ulrich's daydreams as he sits, blindly, in his small apartment in Sofia. I kept wanting the daydream part of the story to go somewhere. But it dragged the reader to what I thought were odd twists and turns. And the ending led me wanting. In all, this book had passages and emotions that were, at times, beautifully written and captivating. I just wish I could say the same for the entire story itself.
4 Despite the title SOLO, this is a book that focuses on duality: reality versus daydreams, science versus music, communism versus oligarchy, success versus failure.  It's an audacious book, a highly imaginative one, and certainly an enigmatic one.Given its duality, it's no surprise that I'm of two minds about it:  in many places, I admired SOLO more than I loved it.  Characters are often sacrificed to themes, yet often, the themes do become transcendent.SOLO is divided into two movements.  In the first movement we meet Ulrich, an everyman, a blinded centurion who has lived his life in politically unstable Sofia, Bulgaria.  As he combs through his life, his memories are mostly linear:  he ruminates about his friend Boris who fell victim to anti-communist reprisals, his mother who was exiled to a labor camp, and his own spotted career as the handpicked factory administrator of an overly ambitious five-year plan.  For the most part, he has lived his life on a false note, subjugating his passionate love of music for the pursuit of his chosen work in chemistry.It is the experimentation of chemistry that causes so much heartache, including his blinding with acid.  Ulrich's real chemistry is with music, not with science.  In the second movement, Daydreams, there is a propulsive energy that is missing earlier on as Ulrich births a world of new characters and situations.His best friend Boris, for example, is transformed from a murdered would-be-musician to a Bulgarian prodigy, discovered by Plastic - an American music producer.  The poetic Irakli and his highly ambitious and magnificently beautiful sister Khatuna likely morph from qualities within Ulrich; like him, they survive a rough transition from communism and a hard-drinking mother.  The millennial setting and the thrillerish pace are at sharp contrast with the first movement.The brilliance of the book can be found in the way that Mr. Dasgupta weaves and reinvents characters, motifs, and themes in a subtle way.  More than once, I stopped and thought, "This rings a bell", only to realize that it had appeared in a different form earlier on in the book.There is definitely political undertones - or overtones - throughout, sometimes used seamlessly and at other times, a little jarringly.  Bulgaria under communism in the first movement is contrasted with the imagined exploration of what happens when a nation's economy is turned over to a wealthy gangsta oligarch;  it's no longer about "the people", it's about personal interest only.  Both societal models are shown to be wanting.Yet there is beauty, too, as Ulrich muses, "Life happens in a certain time.  But there is a great surplus left over, and where will we stow it but in our dreams?"  And a little later: "When I die they will put me under the ground, and I will lie with an eternity of dreamers, breeding visions that will flicker on the surface - and the children of my daydreams will roam free."  Life and daydreams, Mr. Dasgupta suggests, are fluid, one harmoniously leading from the other.  And in communicating that thought, he hits the right note. (3.75)
5 InSolo, Rana Dasgupta puts words together in a way much older than his age.  I'm not saying it's more mature, I mean he created two different stories of a one hundred year old life and he succeeded in both "movements," giving the reader line after line worthy of quoting.  I can't remember the last book I read that delivered so much punch, such provocation, with the quality of style, ultimate merging of two separate entities which left me with the solo character who began the stories.  Somewhat historical, a bit ethereal, this makes me wonder what's going on in my mother's head these days when we don't understand many of the limited words she utters.  Is she, too, now using bits and pieces of her prior reality to create an internal world of what wasn't for herself alone?  I highly recommend this book and intend to reread it soon.
4 In the capable hands of the young British author, Rana Dasgupta, we simply fall into this impressive novel, set in two movements.  The first movement, "Life" is set in Bulgaria and is the story of Ulrich, a blind centenarian eking out his years in a rundown apartment that overlooks the Sofia bus station.  He spends his days reviewing his life in his memories, recalling people, places, experiences, making lists, wondering and reflecting.  The child of a railway engineer, who sees railroads as the technology that will unite Europe and Asia, Ulrich leaves Bulgaria to study in Berlin, the intellectual and scientific hub of pre-World War I Europe.  But, a downturn in family finances forces him to return to Sofia, where he eventually marries and has a child.  The situation in Bulgaria is chaotic, with supporters of King Simeon, communists and German agents among the many factions vying to control events.  Ulrich avoids politics and tries to lead a quiet, simple life.  But, this is not the life his wife wants and she eventually emigrates to America, taking their young son with her.  Ulrich's life continues through both wars, the communist era and the transition to "democracy".  This is all told with a strong narrative drive and a captivating revelation of Ulrich's character and the life he was forced to make upon his return.The second movement, "Daydreams", represents a complete shift in the tenor and feeling of the novel, yet is clearly linked to the first. In some ways this movement is what Ulrich dreams about in his dilapidated room overlooking the bus station. The movement begins in the republic of Georgia, in the years following the fall of communism.  It is a time of violent opportunism, with the pell mell rush to take advantage of weak government and opening ties with the West.  Khatuna is avaricious and eager to escape her family's newly impecunious state.  Her story is told in a more hectic fashion, and is interlaced with other more contemporary themes, at first seemingly unrelated to the first movement.  But, are these individuals, these lives, Ulrich's daydreams?  Is this the life of the son he never knew, other children he never had?  We are led to believe so.Solo is a courageous melding of two very different literary styles and themes.  In my opinion it works and works well.  I was captivated by both movements and then ultimately touched by the finale.  In this second novel, Dasgupta has shown a literary brilliance that will have critics and readers both eagerly anticipating his next effort.
4 Rana Dasgupta's second novel is a quick read, but it has a great deal of depth.  Divided into two "movements," it begins with the story of Ulrich, a blind centenarian living in Bulgaria.  The first movement, "Life," comprises the story of Ulrich's life; several important historical events are encompassed including two World Wars and the rise of communism in Bulgaria.  Ulrich begins as a young boy with dreams--first of playing the violin, and then of being a chemist--but reality intervenes.  He is forced away from his studies in Berlin by his once-prosperous family's increasingly desperate financial situation, which leads him to return to Bulgaria and to a life far different than what he had imagined.In the second movement, "Daydreams," the tone of the novel changes drastically.  The pace becomes more urgent, and there is a decidedly more modern style to the prose.  The transition is abrupt as we move from the now-blind, elderly Ulrich's lonely world into his much more colorful daydreams.  In these daydreams he imagines children never born, and lives never lived.  This second half is rich with symbolism and themes that connect all the characters together.  There is a rich literary feel to this portion, and this is likely a book that could be read over and over, discovering something new each time.This is a novel that has a lot to say about the nature of reality.  The distinction between reality and fantasy often blurs, and Ulrich presents a compelling argument about whether reality is truly more valid or real than what we imagine.  The writing makes it quite easy to forget at times that the second part of the novel are just Ulrich's daydreams; they come to feel as real to the reader as to Ulrich.  A very gripping and thought-provoking read.
3 The first half of this book can only be characterized as "dark."  The main character's life is comprised of romantic disappointment, educational failure, disappointment with his career and the constant anxiety caused by living in communist Bulgaria, etc.  It felt like a chore reading this portion.  The second half is very different - it is the story of a brother and sister who leave Bulgaria and lead interesting lives in America.  Though their story is at times dark, it was much more interesting to me and made the book worth finishing. In reading it I could not determine if the sister and brother were actually children of the main character or were fantasies of the man at the end of his life.  However, I don't think that really matters as I found the second half of the story interesting and sometimes surprising.
5 He is pensioned.  He is nearly a hundred.  He is blind, his hearing is intact.  His pension is worthless.  His neighbors are generous.  His name is Ulrich.  He was born in Sofia.  His father was a railway engineer.  His mother's name was Elizaveta.Ulrich's father served in the war, WW I, and returned from it shattered.  Then Ulrich arranged to go to school in Berlin.  He stayed for three years, studying chemistry.In Bulgaria the agrarian government was overturned by the fascists and Ulrich had to go home.  Ulrich worked as a bookkeeper at a leather goods company.  He married Magdalena, the sister of a deceased friend.Later Magdalena left Ulrich, taking with her their three year old son.  In World War II Bulgaria found itself at war with America, England, and the Soviet Union.  Ulrich manned an observation tower.Under the Communists Ulrich was the technical director of a factory.  His mother was imprisoned.  The story is elegant, illustrating the fallacy of central planning.  Ulrich was blinded by a chemical experiment he conducted in his apartment.In the second movement of the novel the central character is Boris.  Another is named Irakli.  The tale is certainly eccentric.  Too, it is well-done.
5 Usually when I read a novel widely described as "controversial," I find myself seeing both sides of the controversy and writing about both sides when I write a review.  With this prize-winning novel, however, I was so exhilarated at the author's bold originality, his ability to juggle his characters' vibrant and creative inner lives while also examining the depressing circumstances under which they live, the sweeping historical scope which includes the entire twentieth century, and his total control of language with all its potential to amaze with its images and ideas, that I must celebrate it as one of the most innovative and enjoyable books I have read in a long time.Daringly experimental, the book has two parts, which represent the two parts of our lives, the world of reality and the world of the imagination and memory.  The imaginative second part evolves from the events of the first part, with clear parallels. Set in Bulgaria, the novel features Ulrich, a main character who is almost a hundred years old and who has lived through the major political changes of the twentieth century.  Blind, impoverished, and alone, he now lives in his memories and fantasies as his past unfolds, and the reader comes to know the pivotal events in his life and that of his country.  A lover of music who had hoped to study violin, Ulrich is forced to switch to chemistry after his father angrily destroys his instrument, going to Berlin to study science until he runs out of money.  He returns home to political unrest, and watches as student friends are arrested, the fascists take over, and the communists overthrow them ten years later. Ulrich's life revolves around his job in a steel works which pollutes the air, rivers, and land around it, and his days of music are over.More philosophical and historical than it is psychological, emotional, or exciting in the first part, the novel changes at the halfway point when Ulrich's memories and wild fantasies become the story line.  Here a young man named Boris, the same name as Ulrich's best friend in the first part, becomes the main character, a pig farmer who teaches himself to play the violin, learns from the gypsies, and enjoys his music.  Succeeding chapters introduce other characters, such as Khatuna, a beautiful and very ambitious woman, and her sensitive poet brother, Irakli, who bring the country's history and the collapse of communism up to date. The two artists, Boris and Irakli, are the vehicles through which the author eventually comments on the art world, its commercialization, and its human parasites.  Even the seemingly idyllic world of music and poetry has its down side.When Boris, "the son of [Ulrich's] daydreams," faces the death of a friend, Ulrich enters the story himself to offer advice.  In a passage of extraordinary beauty and sensitivity, one of the high points of the novel for me, Ulrich says, "[Your friend] will find his way inside you, and you'll carry him onward.  Behind your heartbeat, you'll hear another one, faint and out of step...You won't wait until people die to grieve for them; you'll give them their grief while they are still alive, for then judgment falls away, and there remains only the miracle of being."  A fine definition of love from a thoughtful and gifted author, not yet forty, in a book that I found astonishing in its depth.  Mary Whipple
4 This is a tough book to summarize, to synthesis a paragraph description that is at all useful to a potential reader. The first half of the book is, perhaps, modernism, a historical novel of late 19th and early 20th century Eastern and Central Europe. "Life." The second half of the book is postmodernism, imagined lives and fragments of life in New York and in the fall of Communism. "Daydreams." It's a rich novel which will reward the patient reader but not one (as you can see from the reviews) for those who want their stories simple.
5 The Book Report: It's very tough to reduce this book to a synopsis. Ulrich, born in the dawning years of the 20th century in Sofia, Bulgaria, is the thwarted and stunted son of a Germanophile railway engineer. His Philistine father and dreamy mother battle their lives away, not listening or hearing or caring; they end up deaf. Ulrich ends up unable to feel, to engage with life, or to make sense of the world. His wife and son vanish; his career grows ever thicker and more ungainly to fill the space; then, one day, it too vanishes. What he is left with, after a lifetime of failure and eventual blindness, is...space. He is a void encompassed by flesh. He is one hundred when we meet him. His slow, exquisite dis-integration is the resolution of the story of his life...it is the final act of a mind unable to bear frictionless, affectless existence one more second.It is beautiful.My Review: Rana Dasgupta, the author of Solo, is only now forty. I hate his skinny ass. This is the book James Joyce would've written if he'd ever found his way past the success of the tedious and pretentious Ulysses. And here this guy with a short story collection under his belt unrolls this gorgeous Caucasian carpet of a book before he's forty! Hate is so mild a term for the envious longing and shivering, ecstatic loathing that possesses me as I read his sentences, and twine myself about his fractal geometry of a story.Rather than try to make things clear to you myself, let me quote to you from pp334-335 of the book:"'He was like the other half of myself,' says Boris...Ulrich says, 'You haven't lost {him}, you know. I don't know if it helps to say that. I lost a friend once myself, and I know how it goes.'He'll find his way inside you, and you'll carry him onward. Behind your heartbeat, you'll hear another one, faint and out of step. People will say you are speaking his opinons, or your hair has turned like his.'There are no more facts about him -- that part is over. Now is the time for essential things...Gradually you'll grow older than him, and love him as your son.'You'll live astride the line that separates life from death. You'll become experienced in the wisdom of grief. You won't wait until people die to grieve for them; you'll give them their grief while they are still alive, for then judgment falls away, and there remains only the miracle of being.'"In reading that passage again, I feel like Annie Dillard's bell..."it was as though I had lived my entire life as a bell and never known it until I was struck"...and I finally unraveled the book I'd read: Meditation on failure and grief? No; not that; a more subtle and wonderful thing: Like "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock", a shout in the face of closed minds to open, to live, to exist fully if only for one gleaming moment.
3 I read all of the customer reviews before writing this review and they were all very thoughtful and insightful.Solo is a very ambitious book and has a very unique structure.  In fact, the structure is very much the focus.The novel is divided into two "movements" as is a musical composition.  This is appropriate since the love of music is a major theme.  The first movement is "Life" and the second is "Daydreams", which is basically an imaginary construction of the main character from "Life".The main character ,Ulrich, is 100 years old and blind.  He looks back at his life lived partially in Germany but mostly in Bulgaria.  He lives through the tumultuous events of the 20th century.  His life is full of regret and things not acted upon or not completed.  It is the events that surround him that make an interesting story.The second "movement" has a different set of characters from the country of Georgia.  It reads more like an action adventure novel that morphs into a modern fantasy in New York.  It references altered characters from Ulrich's life and near the end, we start to see Ulrich intervene.This book has a unique and interesting structure.  In the end, I thought it was okay.  It often felt like an experiment rather than a cohesive novel.It was well worth the time spent and I recommend it but I never felt emotionally invested in it.
3 Like a musical composition,* this novel is divided into two movements. The second of them is not bad at all. The trouble is that you have to get through the first movement to reach it, and this is dry and depressing. It is the failed life of an old Bulgarian man known only as Ulrich. Ulrich has two passions as a child: music and chemistry. The first ends when his father burns his violin. He gets far enough with the second to study in Berlin and meet Einstein, but has to abandon his degree when his parents lose their money. Thereafter, he works as a clerk, then as the manager of a chemical factory charged with impossible goals in each successive Five Year Plan. His romantic life fizzles out in failure. Now retired, blind, poor, and nearing 100, all he has are the daydreams which form his legacy.These make up the second half of the book, and restore at least some of the music that had vanished completely from the first part. But it is a savage music, a grotesque scherzo. It begins almost as a series of short stories: a feral boy living alone in an abandoned factory playing on an old fiddle, the beautiful but impoverished daughter of a former princess who marries a Georgian gangster and takes on much of his ruthlessness, and an American record producer credited with the invention of world music as a popular genre. Eventually, these strands interweave. Dasgupta has gifts as a storyteller, and there is a color, an energy, a wild poetry here that the first part lacks. But his momenta of ecstasy go over the top, and there is too much reliance on drugs, alcohol, and sex. None of these characters is entirely likeable, and this second part also reflects the wanton hardness, squandering of resources, and disregard for humanity that made the first part so distasteful. So while I tip my hat to the author's concept, I fear that the only legacy of failure is more failure still.Since writing the two paragraphs above, I have been involved in a lot of online discussion, because the book clearly has the power to intrigue other readers. So I have been thinking more about why I personally felt relatively uninvolved. I think it is because the characters lack inner life. Odd, because the point of the strange structure is presumably just that: to project the inner life of Ulrich. But in fact you find it in neither part. The characters in the second are too close to a Tarantino movie to be truly dimensional. And so much of the writing in the first part is declarative and external. You know what happened to Ulrich and what he did next, but all too little of what he felt about it; you really do not even see him as a person capable of having the fantasy life portrayed in the second part. So, to my mind, the locus of any inner life would be in the space between the two, in Dasgupta's IDEA, not in his actual writing.*I wonder whether Dasgupta's musical inspiration might not have been Bela Bartok's "Two Portraits for Violin and Orchestra" of 1908. Like this novel, this is a two-movement composition reworking the same material in two contrasted ways, the first elegiac and slow (though far more beautiful than the novel), and the second frenetic and distorted.
2 One line summary of the story/ plot: it's about the thoughts and reminiscences of a 100-yr old Bulgarian man called Ulrich, traversing his life and the world around him.I couldn't finish the book. There's nothing wrong with it: Dasgupta is a proficient writer, and knows his art, but nothing happens at all. If I could create an "average" book across all the books I've read in my life - this would be it. Middle-of-the-road, simple, and boring. The thoughts aren't new, the words aren't fresh, the narrative style is run-of-the-mill, the language is standardized - you get the drift.I don't have anything strongly against the book, but with half-a-dozen other promising books lying on my bedside, I couldn't find any compelling reason to finish it. Avoid this one.
4 Ras Dasgupta's novel "Solo," is a beautiful novel that explores the real versus the imagined. The novelist explores the life of Ulrich, a blind centurion. In the first half of the novel, Dasgupata separated into two movements (parts). The first is dedicated to the blind centurion's day to day existence and the dreams he failed to pursue. At the end of Ulrich's life, he is poor and depending on the kindness of his neighbors. Dasgupta reviews the character's life, from his childhood, his tenuous relationship with his parents, and his inability to pursue his dreams because of his father's disapproval.The second half of the novel is Ulrich's daydreams, most with the people he knew during his life. The novel is an inspiration to live our dreams to the fullest.
4 I've read the book quickly. Not an enjoyable read, as such, but often brilliant. The author is definitely among the few novelists who deserve a second read. The book is divided into two distinct parts, which come together, not all that successfully, at the end. The first part is the brilliant one. The second lowers its standard to fit in with the modern idiom of linguistic vulgarity. Pity. In part one the author proves that he can sustain interest and poetic prose without compromise. All in all, Rana Dasgupta is a talented writer. If it weren't for some aspects of part two, the book would have earned 5 stars.But that's not where the mystery lies. I've read the book in paperback, which bears the cover of the "hardcover" which,  according  to the Amazon, has not yet appeared. Well, my friends, Costco is  full of the copies I've just read. Enjoy!
3 "Solo,"by Rana Dasgupta, was awarded the U.K. Commonwealth Prize.  As almost every other reviewer has already told you, it falls into two parts - two movements, the author calls them, and considering the importance of music in the book, that's quite appropriate.First Movement is "Life."  It opens in Sofia, capital of Bulgaria, in the Balkans of Eastern Europe.  And it introduces us to the exceptionally long-lived Ulrich, he's almost 100 years old and now blind, and he's the son of a successful railway engineer who admired the Germans.  It opens early in the twentieth century, before World War I, which was begun in the Balkans.  His father comes back from that war a cripple, and then we are in the expansive 1920s.  Ulrich loves music, but his father won't tolerate that as a career choice: the boy's also interested in chemistry, and his father sends him to Berlin to study with the world's greatest chemists, such as Fritz Haber, while Albert Einstein, world's most famous mathematician, wanders the halls.  But then comes the stock market crash of 1929; Ulrich's father's holdings evaporate, and the son is called back to Sofia to support his family.  The Depression 30s are rather glum, as you might expect.  Then comes World War II and occupation of the country by the Germans, also a rather glum period, as you might expect.  The end of World War II brings the Russian invasion and occupation - this for many years.  And the situation is even glummer, as you might expect.  First thing to be said is, if Dasgupta didn't actually live in Bulgaria for a while, it must have required a considerable amount of research, and powers of imagination, to give us such a vivid take on the capital and the country, and I congratulate the author.  However, the first movement might well be described as glum, over all.Mind you, I know virtually nothing about Bulgaria, and can summarize what I do know.  In the Balkans, invaded and occupied by Germans in World War II, invaded and occupied, long time, by Russians after the war.  Didn't know the population, principal exports, raw materials and etc., and still don't.  And then I can quote CASABLANCA, a movie I nearly know by heart.  The pretty young woman, seeking help, tells Rick, the saloon owner (Humphrey Bogart) that she and her young husband Jan are from Bulgaria. Things are very bad there, she says, the devil has the people by the throat.The second movement, "Daydreams," is far more problematic to me.  It is evidently meant to be interpreted as Ulrich's daydreams, but it takes us to Georgia, of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and New York, of the good old USA, two places where the old man has never been.  It introduces us to, possibly, Ulrich's fantasy children, born in communism, but now making their way in the post-communist world. These are characters we must assume don't exist who lead complicated existences.  This movement has the blind old man driving around New York, where the roads are tough on seeing, experienced drivers.  It is, I guess, post-modern, and that's the best I can do.  Some of the other reviewers nearby are much better equipped to handle this material than am I, who reads largely mysteries, and nonfiction.  I admire the author's audacity and imagination, but I found the book disjointed, confusing, and often overwritten.Dasgupta was born in Canterbury, England.  "Solo" follows on the heels of his first novel, the highly-praisedTokyo Cancelledthat was short listed for the John Llewellyn Rhys Prize.  Perhaps he's an acquired taste.
5 Solo is a brilliant novel built around the metaphors that unite the sciences and the arts while it illuminates some of the darker corners of our recent history.The principal character of the novel is Ulrich, a Bulgarian despite his German name, who, in our time, is approaching his hundredth birthday living alone, impoverished and blind, in a shabby apartment in Sofia, Bulgaria. Ulrich reflects back on his prosperous childhood: a Bulgarian father who suppressed Ulrich's interest in music, and a Georgian mother who harbored secret ambitions, both intellectual and erotic. Ulrich discovers, in chemistry, a second love after he is forbidden that of music. After World War I he goes to school in Berlin, then the hub of the scientific world, but also a hotbed of American jazz and other racy new experiences. But Bulgaria's poverty pulls him back, and there he lives through the rise of fascism, another world war, decades of socialism, and the chaotic gangsterism that went by the name of capitalism. In his frustrated, dark, and lonely decades of retirement, Ulrich lives on dreams of what might have been or never was.&#34;...Ulrich has tried to see his emerging interest in chemistry as the revisitation of his entombed love for music. It has struck him that the two have this thing in common: that an infinite range of expression can be generated from a finite number of elements.&#34; This quote sums up the theme of the novel and, if you add &#34;fiction&#34; to music and chemistry, somewhat describes its structure as well. The title of the novel invokes, not only Ulrich's loneliness, but the metaphor of a musical composition. The novel is in the form, in fact, of a theme and variations. The first half is the theme: the &#34;facts&#34; of Ulrich's life. The second half is the variations: the daydreams that Ulrich constructs out of his memories. In his sightless solitude, Ulrich creates characters that are composites of himself, his relatives and his friends, and builds a past and a future for them out of his own experience and his imagination: A shape he knew as a water stain on a ceiling becomes a birthmark on someone's face. His revolutionary friend becomes the concert violinist that friend wanted to be. Ulrich puts part of himself in every character. A chemical reaction--a musical composition--a dream--a novel: each one is a rearrangement of basic elements.For those who don't give a fig about the aesthetic ideas just described, Solo is still an eye-opening look at the 20th century in an obscure, but not inconsequential, corner of Europe. Author Dasgupta describes how Bulgaria, only recently independent from the Ottomans, was wracked by internal dissent and economic privation during its transition from one empire's vassal state to another's. He also vividly depicts Berlin in the heady days before Hitler, and Georgia in its lawless post-Soviet days.In addition to its innovative construction, Solo is beautifully written. In describing Bulgaria's past, its passages ring with majestic solemnity; in Ulrich's daydreams they throb with poetic intimacy. Highly recommended, and I hope we see more from this young author.
5 I can't stop thinking about this book.  It is in two parts, and could actually be considered two books.  The first half, "Life" is the story of Ulrich, a 100 year old Bulgarian man who is now blind and though he lives alone is dependent on others for his daily needs.  Through his remembrances we are told of what at first seems to be a wasted life.  He was an aspiring musician, but his father quickly ended that dream.  He was a talented Chemist until the communist revolution brought him home from studying in Berlin and back home to Sofia.  He ends up spending his life as a bookkeeper and then a plant manager under the new communist regime.  The continual theme is what has been lost.  His families wealth, his father, his only love, his wife and son, his dreams and it can be depressing at times.  That said, Ulrich's relationship with his mother is quite touching and keeps me asking if doing the "right thing" trumps having the life you want.The second part, "Daydreams" is tied the the first only in that the stories are the daydreams of Ulrich.  Some character names are the same, but they are completely disconnected from the first part.  I took a day or two before reading the second part to fully digest the first, and I suggest doing the same.  In this half of the book we are introduced to Georgian mobsters, pig-farming musical virtuosos, and modern day New York.  Ulrich makes an appearance or two, but not as his literal self. The rich fantasy of Ulrich is a stark contrast to his real life, and provides even more depth to the first half once finished.This book is difficult to read, but not in an intellectual, you must think to read it way.  It is difficult in an emotional way, and I wouldn't expect everyone to have the same reaction I did... I think it will hit each reader differently on a personal level.  I loved this book, and look forward to rereading it later.My favorite sentence--and there are many-- "When I die, says Ulrich, they will put me under the ground, and I will lie with an eternity of dreamers, breeding visions that will flicker on the surface--and the children of my daydreams will roam free."
3 There is no doubt that author Rana Dasgupta can write.  There is a great deal of SOLO that is beautifully written.  My problem with the book is that it is so full of despair and a suspect second section that I'm finding it hard to recommend.There are two sections to this book.  The first section tells us the story of Ulrich, a man who is "nearing the end of his life's tenth decade", and what a downer of a life he's had.  We are treated to his whole story.  Lost friends, lost loves, lost son, lost eyesight and lost chances.  This is definitely not the kind of story you want to read if you want a "pick-me-up."  Having said that, I found this part of the story interesting, and again, beautifully written.It is the second section of the book that I really have a problem with.  We are told that what we are reading are Ulrich's daydreams.  I have a feeling what we have here is a publishers ploy.  It seems to me that Dasgupta essentially had written two separate stories and since he didn't have the makings for two complete books, these two stories were slapped together and presented to us in its current form.  What makes me even more convinced is that Ulrich hardly appears in the second section.  In the real world, when people daydream, I suspect they are the center of those daydreams. The only part of this section I found plausible was Ulrich's' seeing Clara again. That's what this section should have been.  I forced myself to finish this section and was really disappointed.I'm giving the SOLO a pretty generous three stars.  I cannot give it anymore than that.
5 This is one of my favorite books to read to my daughter.  The story is sweet and the artwork is beautiful.  She's only 2, but she loves looking at the spaceship and moon and really responds to the story.
5 Such another good book by Oliver Jeffers.  This little boy is lost and meets an Alien while trying to find his way back home.  It is delightful book and cute pictures.  They become the best of friends.  Highly recommend Oliver Jeffers books.  Good for your library.  Just by looking at the cover, you can tell it is going to be a great book.  My 7 year old grandson can read it.
4 I got this book because I loved his LOST AND FOUND.  His illustration style is very lovely for adults as well, and it is wonderful to study every detail rather than reading it and moving on to the next page.  There are little delightful details in the gestures, etc.  The penguin even makes a cameo appearance!  I loved LOST AND FOUND and HOW TO CATCH A STAR more for the story.  The boy seems less like a boy in this book, and while it was whimsically funny for him to find the plane in his closet and put on his aviator outfit and fly, I preferred the more intimate stories of the other two books mentioned.  There is more playfulness in this story, so one could say that the boy is more like a highly imaginative boy.
5 I have a massive book collection for my kids.  While it didn't entertain my 6 and 7 yr old...my 3 yr old LOVES it.  Cute illustration and leaves lots of room for parent interaction.
5 This book had both my 2.5 year old boy and his 5 year old sister mesmerized from the start.  The pictures are adorable and the story is even cuter.  I am going to have to check out more of Oliver Jeffers' books!!!
5 We love Jeffers! And this is the one of the best books from him. Funny and thoughtful all in one! Great illustrations too.
2 Not even close to the standard of other Jeffers books. As some others have noted, the story is disjointed and doesn't make sense. Even younger children question some of the logic. I recommend Lost and Found as a much better option for teaching the importance of friendship.My children's book reviews are based on the reactions of my children. 2 stars means poor, not terrible.
3 This was cute, but nowhere near as good as some of the author's other books. I would just rate this one as ok, and not one that will hold our kids' attention long term through multiple readings...we like his books, generally, and it's also a plus that he is from Northern Ireland, which is where the majority of our family is from, but I would not start with this one, necessarily...
4 Jeffers uses mixed media (but still features the watercolor paintings that I love) to bring the boy's imagination to life in this new book.  One day the boy was putting things back in his closet and he found a life sized airplane.  (I never found stuff like this in my closet... granted I never really put my things away either.)He takes it out for a spin and of course it's a perfect lift off.  The boy soars as high as he can before his place runs out of fuel.  "Now the boy was stuck on the moon.  What was he to do?"He was alone and afraid, but he didn't know that high above him somebody else was in trouble too.  Martian's engine had broken and he crash landed his flying saucer on the moon.  "The boy heard noises.  The Martian heard noises.  They both feared the worst."Eventually their eyes got used to the dark and both the boy and the Martian realized that not only had the met someone else in trouble, but they weren't alone anymore.  They worked out a plan to fix their machines and get back to their respective homes.The boy dropped down into the sea (because the Earth was closest) and he swam home.  By the time he got home he was tired, so he rested a bit.  And then his favorite TV show came on, so he rested a bit more.  All this time the poor Martian is waiting alone in the dark.  In the middle of his favorite show the boy remembered what he was supposed to be doing.  He ran off and got what he needed and climbed to higher ground.  He called out to the Martian and a rope was lowered.They fixed each other's ships, said good-bye and thank you, and wondered if they'd ever meet again.  A little while later the boy receives a walkie talkie in the mail.The Way Back Home is another lovely and whimsical picture book from Oliver Jeffers.  This one though is a bit sadder in my opinion.  I'm with the story the whole way and then at the very end the walkie talkie confuses the boy and he leaves it.  The last image on the page is the Martian calling "hello" through the walkie talkie.  It just seems sad to me, but other than that the book is fun.Way Back Home is a lovely book to read and to look at.  Humor, adventure, loneliness, and friendship are wrapped up into one glowing picture book package.Featured at An Abundance of Books, read full review here - [...]
5 amazing childrens author, we have read and love all his books. This one is great and a gift I often give to anyone expecting a child. Just a good story with cute illustrations. Jeffers should be on every kids' home library shelf.
5 A sweet story which is just right for a 4-5 year old, even younger.  Worth saving for other children.  Uncomplicated illustrations, as in Jeffer's other books.
4 We love The Way Back Home. It's a creative, funny, well written story-book. The problem I have is that I ordered a used a copy from Amazon and received the British version of the book. Normally this would be no big deal, but when I'm reading to a 3 year old it's a little confusing. Instead of a flashlight, the kid carries a "torch" and instead of gas the kid needs "petrol". These things are all explainable, but our nephew is not a normal 3 year old. He wants to know where England is, why they speak differently, why they have different books, if they look different than we do, can we go there, can we see the other book do they have aliens there, and on and on.  This happens every single time we read the book. Don't hesitate to purchase the book, but if you buy it used ask which version you're getting.
5 A fast favorite with our kiddos-- the illustrations are touching and detailed, and the story is magical. Themes of friendship and trust are discussed at a level perfect for preschool children-- with loving and warm details.
5 A continuation of the story about a boy (How To Catch a Star and The Way Back Home), his adventures continue and we learn to overcome fear, help strangers, and make friends with "people" who are different. Great illustrations too. I love the airplane in the closet!
5 I admit this is our first Oliver Jeffers book, but my preschooler and I enjoyed this book so much that I plan to get the other two, i.e. Lost and Found & The Incredible Book Eating Boy.In "The Way Back Home", a young boy finds an airplane in his closet, and promptly flies it off into space. He runs out of fuel and lands on the moon, feeling rather lonely and afraid...until he finds a friend, a bit different but who shares the same feelings. Both decide to work together to find their way home.This is such a charming story - a boy and an alien discovering the power of friendship and cooperation. Whimsically illustrated, it will touch any reader's heart, both young and old. The themes are universal in their appeal and the story is simply written yet well told. Highly recommended!
5 I have always been fascinated by Mr. Churchill, This just increased it. Have read the two succeeding ones are also great, if not quite as intriguing. Plan to read almost everything Michael Dobbs wrote. Start it when you have time,you won't want to put it down
4 This book, "Churchill's Hour," is a far better read than Dobbs' "Churchill's Triumph."  Why?  Two reasons mainly.First Dobbs does not seem so intent on being overly mean and nasty to every American on the face of the earth. Yes, the USA dithered and delayed our involvement in WWII until it was attacked in December 1941 - far too tardy as duly noted in historical records. The USA had good reasons, however, and Dobbs is relatively fair in his recounting of the politics and realities (and the disdain of the USA) of the first two years of the war in Europe in this novel. But, readers you must remember that "Churchill's Hour" is a novel. It is FICTION.Second, Dobbs draws for us a true made-for-TV soap opera cast of players and scripts with the entanglements of Americans Harriman and Wigant with female members of Churchill's family. Most of what he recounts actually happened, although Dobbs delights in putting the words in the mouths of the players, something that evaded historians. In some ways, this is the Modern English Madame Bovary with Pamela Churchill taking the starring role. (Actually, this story is far more interesting than "Bovary.") Winston, himself, plays a major part in the soap opera. As a result of various romps and romances, "Churchill's Hour" is not only a fun read, but I found its portrayal of historical events relatively accurate and I was not nearly as offended as an American by Dobbs' treatment of the USA as in "Churchill's Triumph."Of course, Dobbs takes delight in penning his version of the biggest mystery surrounding WWII that has never been solved to this day: Why did Pearl Harbor happen?  Who let it happen? Who caused it to happen? And what did Roosevelt and Churchill actually know (and when did they know) about the one event that propelled America into WWII, finally.  And why did Hitler declare war on the USA, immediately after Pearl Harbor?  In any event, Pearl Harbor and Hitler's declaration of war against the USA were both exactly what Churchill needed: America unambiguously in the war. Churchill believed, in some rather perverted way, that the war was won by the allies on 7 December 1941. Dobbs is not a mystery writer, however. His rendition of how Churchill may have discerned the imminent attack at Pearl Harbor is simplistic and not very believable. The vague espionage role played by the French maid is also a bit over the top.Some of the secondary players are quite fascinating and enjoyable, most notably Frank Sawyers, who was Churchill's butler and valet and all-purpose "man," who according to the Epilogue stayed with Churchill until 1947 upon which he vanished from all historical record. In fact, one is hard pressed to find any record at all of Sawyers existence via web searches. One must simply take Dobbs at his word that Sawyers actually existed. Pamela Churchill also takes a major part in the evolution of the story line.From this novel, a lovable portrait of Churchill does not result. Quite the opposite, as he is shown warts and all, with the negative traits far outweighing the positive ones - arrogant, conceited, selfish, volcanic and alcoholic. His son, Randolph, is also pictured as an egotistical drunk.  The whole Churchill family, apparently, was dysfunctional in the extreme.  One can only look at the subsequent generations of Churchills to find a total absence of leaders and/or worthy personages. The gene pool after Winston diminished substantially.The main flaw that I see in this book is Dobbs' overwhelming need to draw Churchill as a person with unlimited prognostication skills.  Once again (as in the poorly titled "Churchill's Triumph:), Dobbs forces an ability onto the already bigger-than-life character of Churchill the ability to foresee events that he could not possibly have imagined, let alone caused to occur.  Did Churchill figure out that the Japanese would attack Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941?  Probably not. There is no historical record that supports this view. And yet, in this book, Churchill is seen at the end tortured with the dilemma of blowing the whistle or not. He chose not to, according to Dobbs' tale, and thus, the USA was dragged into WWII.  Yes, the USA should have been involved in WWII, and Churchill did everything in his power to make it so. But was he prescient?  Doubtful.The Epilogue is very good. You might consider reading it before you read the novel.Finally, if you have a copy of the 5-volume set "The Second World War" by Winston Churchill published in 1953, you can follow along in various volumes with some of the various events and dialogue of this 1941 time period in Churchill's own words and memory.
5 The third historical novel by Michael Dobbs in the Winston Churchill series following WINSTON'S WAR and NEVER SURRENDER, CHURCHILL'S HOUR delivers a pre-Christmas present to Winston in early December 1941 - the United States is sucked into the war against Germany.Here, the time frame is Christmas Day 1940 to December 11, 1941. In that period, John Winant replaces Joseph Kennedy as U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James, Averell Harriman arrives in Britain as America's Lend-Lease administrator, London is blitzed, HMS Hood is traded for the KMS Bismarck, Churchill has his first summit with FDR, Deputy Fuehrer Rudolf Hess crash lands his plane in Scotland, Rommel debarks in North Africa, Germany assaults Russia, Japan attacks Pearl Harbor and sinks HMS Prince of Wales and HMS Repulse, and America and Britain declare war on Japan. Finally, Hitler declares war against the former and Winston can sleep more easily. All through 1940, England has barely been able to hang on and Churchill is desperate for America to enter the conflict; Roosevelt is infuriatingly elusive on the subject.Students of Churchill and his leadership role up to and during WWII will find CHURCHILL'S HOUR, and the entire series, an engrossing read; those who aren't will likely be bored to tears. While much of the narrative concerns factual events, the fictionalized filler is given commendable credence by the author's version of the Prime Minister, who stays consistent with his historical persona throughout, even when dealing with the messy marriages of his son Randolph and his daughter Sarah. Indeed, Dobbs takes the opportunity to introduce the reader to one of the more intriguing women of the twentieth century, Pamela Digby Churchill, Randolph's wife. History records that Pamela, after divorcing the wretched Randolph, went on to occupy the beds of several prominent and wealthy men, and eventually married Averell Harriman thirty years after having an affair with him in 1941. A courtesan in the most positive sense of the word, Pamela was eventually named U.S. Ambassador to France by President Bill Clinton (how apt!) in 1993. When she died in Paris in 1997, French President Jacques Chirac posthumously awarded her the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor.The humor in CHURCHILL'S HOUR is provided by Winston's loyal manservant, Frank Sawyers, a real person, apparently, who disappeared from history after leaving his master's household in 1947. The "twist" in the book comes via Winston's Machiavellian connivance (?) in the Japanese sneak attack on the U.S. Pacific Fleet and Germany's subsequent declaration of war against America by the clever dissemination of disinformation through an Axis spy. Did he, or didn't he? If he did, then he was only following Admiral Lord Nelson's famous order at Trafalgar, "England expects every man to do his duty", and the Empire's demise was postponed until another time.
5 Another great book in the series.  The book highlights how bad things were in the first years of the war. Churchill faced Hitler with spotty loyalties in his cabinet. Dunkirk is the climax of the book. Britain was close to defeat. Churchill was Britain and he carried it through
5 This is a fantastic trilogy, wonderful research and I highly recomend..having been born during WW2 I found it particully interesting.
2 If you are an uncritical Churchill worshipper, the book is great fun.If stick figures, one dimensional emotions, shallow plotting, a touch of anti-Semitism, and a kind of clunky plotting of history don't excite you, then the book may not be your favorite.
5 Whether it was all completely true or not (not knowing anything at all about Churchill or much about the British government during WWII, it didn't matter if Dobbs made it up or not, I couldn't tell), I found the thought that what Dobbs wrote might have been true absolutely fascinating. I have two more books to read in the series - Churchill's Triumph and Never Surrender. Triumph is the last in the trilogy set in 1945 and Never Surrender (actually the first in the quartet, but didn't know that at the time and so, read them out of order) is set during the Dunkirk days.
5 The author does a fabulous job in conveying the Focus, Determination, and raw will of Churchill, a true force of nature. The man led the world for more than a year as he opposed Hitler virtually alone, while at the same time pushing FDR to get the slow to react Americans to recognize the threat to the entire world that Hitler posed. This is a great read that leaves you wanting to read Dobbs next book on Churchill.
4 The third of Michael Dobbs' Churchill novels chronologically, Churchill's Hour, is set arguably in England's time of greatest danger in WWII, before Pearl Harbor.  It wisely follows history pretty closely, since in such a perilous period no added drama is necessary.  Although the well-crafted denouement veers more toward the fiction side, it is probably as plausible as many of the theories set forth concerning either Churchill's or Roosevelt's prior knowledge of the Pearl Harbor attack.Churchill's family problems with his daughter and daughter-in-law, while faithful accounts, are given perhaps more emphasis than his policy struggles, but Dobb's characterization of Sawyers the butler is marvelous.  I tired slightly of Dobbs' frequent references to Churchill's drinking and age, but overall, as with the rest of the novels in this series, it is an excellent account of an absolutely captivating time in English history, authentic and educational with just enough fiction thrown in for spice.
2 This book adequately retells the story of the Trojan war, and gives solid if traditional portrayals of the characters. It provides absolutely no historical setting and description, which was somewhat disappointing.One major problem is Paris. I have never read or seen a Paris that I liked. I am beginning to believe that it is impossible to potray his and Helen's love story in any sympathetic manner. Paris is usually just annoying. Helen is stupid for going off with him. Someone should write a retelling where Helen got abducted, just to shake things up a bit.The portrayal of Achilles as really a loving person who the world forced to become a killing machine was certainly unusual, but not well-developed enough. If Clarke had devoted a novel to Achilles instead of a few chapters, it might have worked better.I liked seeing Aeneas as a major player, not an afterthought.It seemed like Clarke couldn't make a decision about how to handle the gods in his story. Aphrodite, Athena, and Hera do appear to Paris. But Thetis, mother of Achilles, is actually a priestess and the daughter of Chiron the centaur?? Is Aeneas the son of Aphrodite or not? The unclear reality of the gods is aesthetically pleasing, but mostly it did just seem like the author was confused.I might recomend this as an introduction to the myth surrounding the Trojan War--it provides great geneology and background. But mostly, it is just one man's uninteresting retelling.
4 The War at Troy is an ambitious undertaking. That people are still fascinated by Homer's tales is a testament to how complex and exciting they remain.
5 When I was a child my father used to enthrall me with Bullfinch's Mythology, a book that brought together all the Greek myths (amongst others) and became my night-time reading stories. Heroes and Gods abounded, romance and war filled the childish imagination and it was a delight to hear. What Lindsay Duncan has done is tantamount to the same thing. She has taken the Greek and Trojan legend of Troy and, in a more prosaic style, rewritten down Homer's epic for a modern generation.Simple, but genius and I can't think why no one has done it before.As such, whilst there is nothing new in the story other than to give us more detail of the protagonists heritage, it is retold with a flowing style that breathes the kind of life into these myths that Hollywood is doing with its current round of sword and sandals films.We open with the parentage stories of the great Illiad heroes, of Peleus and Thetis, Telamon, Priam, Hesione et al before moving swiftly into the infamous Paris contest, the Golden Apple and the three vainglorious Goddesses, Athena, Hera and Aphrodite. Here, over a small contest does a cursed man (who's father Priam could not bear to see murdered on the prophecies of Cassandra) set in motion a chain of events that has resounded through history - the Trojan War.Clarke breathes real life into the Argive Princes, Odysseus, Menelaus, Palamedes, Achilles, Patroclus, Ajax - all names that echo through history - giving the reader a palpable sense of empathy with each of them. In here we have Achilles overbearing contempt for his King, Agamemmnon, Odysseus' cunning mind, Ajax's heroic directness all of which are pitted against the Trojans. Paris, a devotee to Aphrodite is given a starring role (Hector is not - in direct contrast to the latest Brad Pitt effort) and Clarke spends much of his prose giving us a real sense of destiny and fate with his stealing of Helen and their eventual fateful despair as Troy falls and Menelaus ends up sitting at his wife's bedside. The battles are majestic and epic in their scope, the intrigue crafted with skill, the characterisation deliberate, painstakingly drawn and a credit to Homer and the story is retold in a manner that honours the craft of the original.Lindsay Clarke has repainted The Illiad for a modern audience in a manner that is breaktaking at times, done with a touch of humilty and in a grandiose style. In taking on a new rendition of one literature's greatest texts, he has opened himself to failure against the higest standard and, whilst one cannot better the Iliad, he has not done himself and his audience a disservice in making the attempt.Read it.
4 Of the four books I've read that summarize the entire Trojan War saga, Lindsay Clarke's "The War at Troy" is the best written and the most detailed. As another reviewer points out, the prose can be a bit clunky at times. But Clarke has gone to great pains to present the key stories of this saga in a manner that is true to their original sources. And at times, he really rises to the occasion. His account of the sacrifice of Iphigeneia at Aulis is gripping and horrifying. And his account of King Priam's secret meeting with Achilles to claim Hector's body almost moved me to tears. It's an amazing scene that is only topped by Homer, himself. Call me a wuss, but this is what literature is all about.If you are curious, but anxious, about reading the Iliad, the Odyssey, or the Aeneid, then try reading this book first. It provides the proper context for the epic poems, and it will familiarize you with all of the key characters and events. Then, by all means, read Homer and Virgil. Nothing has topped them in the last 3000 years. They are challenging, but well worth the effort.I have two small complaints. The first is that that Clarke didn't provide much depth to the stories that come to us from Quintus of Smyrna (see "The War at Troy" ISBN 0760700974). But even then, he touches on most of the key events, and he provides enough detail that the story remains coherent. Secondly, the book ends during the destruction of Troy. Consequently, he omits a number of important events that immediately follow. But I see he has just published a sequel called, "The Return From Troy." I'm sure he covers these events there.Two other titles that cover much of the same ground (and some different ground) are "The Trojan War" by Olivia Coolidge, and "A Tale of Troy" by Roger Greene. They aren't as detailed as Clarke, but they still include excellent summaries of the key Trojan War tales.
5 Lindsay Clarke transforms Homer's epic and immortal Iliad and related stories into an easier to consume and pleasurable to read literary form in his most recent work, War at Troy. Within this transformation he removes aspects of the Iliad that did not deal specifically with the events leading up to, occurring during, or as a result of the epic conflict. This process has produced a trim, clear, satisfyingly paced, and dramatic version of the personalities and events of the most epic of conflicts. None of this pacing and literary inflection come at the expense of detail, Clarke is meticulous refreshingly intent on delivering not just an entertaining but an accurate version. He succeeds.Within the pages of War at Troy Lindsay Clarke further distills the conflict into a form focusing almost entirely on the human drama. Save for their role as instigators and agitators most of the whims and more importantly the occasional direct action of the deities of the Grecian pantheon, which featured prominently in the Iliad, are removed in favor of focusing on the events of Greeks and Trojans themselves. This ever-so-slight shift of focus delivers a story that is less fairy tale and more history.Most modern readers are unaware that the Trojan War is covered in numerous poems aside from the Iliad many of them difficult to locate and read. Lindsay Clarke has done the work for you; he has correlated this information into one concise, entertaining, and reasonably accurate depiction of the events. His writing is at times insidiously evocative and rises to the occasion of the difficult task of living up to expectations of the one of the greatest epic poems of all time..
3 Lindsay Clarke takes on a daring assingment with "The War at Troy."  By taking on Greek myths that have been the cornerstone of "Western Civ" since, well, the creation of "Western Civ," you had best be prepared for some intense criticism.From an academic perspective, Clarke has done a magnificent job of placing the Trojan War, most widely known to modern audiences through Homer's "Iliad," in a logical context.  One of the problems of "The Iliad" is that it begins in the tenth year of the war, and there's not a lot of time spent on back story.  Clarke's story of the Trojan War kicks off during the formative years of the conflict, and we get to see a lot of the world that Paris and Helen brought to the brink of destruction with passionate affair.In marked contrast to the recent summer blockbuster, "Troy," Clarke still finds room for the Gods in "The War at Troy."  Paris is forced to choose "the fairest" between Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite, and his choice of Aphrodite casts his doom.  On a personal note, I was hoping that Clarke would get deeper into how Athena, supposedly the Goddess of Wisdom, was able to be out-debated by the sexpot Aphrodite.  The Goddess of Love makes one heck of a sales pitch, but shouldn't Athena have been able to anticipate Aphrodite's tactics and trump them somehow?  Obviously not, or we'd have no story . . . but I digress.With the Gods taking generally a back seat in this story (Zeus barely factors in at all), Clarke spends a lot of time putting the Trojan War into the "real world."  We learn a lot about how the Argive spent the first nine years of the war (it wasn't all spent on the Plains of Troy), the political scheming of Odysseus that bound so many Argives to Menelaus's cause, and the young life of Achilles.  These are all strong points, and Clarke's deviations from established myths seem appropriate (for example, the Centaurs who raise Achilles are not half-men, half-horse, but instead barbarians who spend a lot of time with horses, consequently gaining an equine odor).Clarke's novel only really stumbles when he gets to the final year of the war.  Despite all the storytelling that has gone before, we still don't know that much about Hector, the most noble of the Trojans.  Instead, we know a great deal about the craven Paris, but I was hoping to have a better picture of the Trojan hero rather than the Trojan coward.  Similarly, while we spent a lot of time with Achilles as a child, we really don't know that much about him as an adult and his Myrmidons.  Clarke "tells" us that Achilles is a mighty warrior, but doesn't really give us all that much meat to digest on that front prior to the war.While Clarke drops some delicious hints of future events (Odysseus on several occasions pines for his home and wife in Ithaca, having no idea of his travails to come, Cassandra occasionally pops up with unheeded prophecies, etc.), but the novel occasionally grinds under some awkward prose.  For example, Hector offers up this tooth-grinding line, "He (meaning Paris) freely concedes that his actions is the cause of this great quarrel, and has no wish to see many good men die needlessly on his account."  Yeesh.  And I wish I could say that this was the only passage that abused the ear, but unfortunately there are more.Clarke is no Bernard Cornwell, much less Cormac McCarthy, when it comes to describing the battlefield.  He does so in a workmanlike way, but there are few passages in "The War at Troy" that set the heart to pounding.  Indeed, his romantic scenes are better, but still do not reach any fantastic heights.  This wouldn't be a huge problem (he's good, not great), but again, he's writing about one of the fundamental stories in Western literature, and the bar is set pretty high.The only emotion Clarke nails is anguish.  This is important in a story of war, loss and betrayal.  But it would have helped if Clarke's range extended to other emotions as well.All in all, "The War at Troy" is a good read if you're looking to flesh out your understanding of "The Iliad" and the Greek myths that surround it.  Clarke's scholarship is much better than his prose, and while "The War at Troy" rarely sings, it doesdoes tell a darn good story.A worthy read for fans of Greek myth, to be sure.
4 Jane's is a recognition guide, and a fine one at that. It should be noted, however, that as a recognition guide, it is not a book about tanks and other fighting vehicles, so don't expect much text covering armored vehicle tactics, operations, capabilities, weapon systems, etc.As a recognition guide, this book does provide sillouettes, line drawings, multiple color photographs, lists of key recognition figures and basic vehicle statistics in order to aid the reader in recognizing various modern armored fighting vehicles. Aslo included are lists of nations who currently use each model.Surprisingly, not included in the latest version of the book are a handful of vehicles currently seeing extensive combat action and receiving a good deal of media coverage. These vehicles include the U.S. Army's Stryker wheeled APC (based on the Mowag Piranha and LAV-25), the Israeli Achzarit tracked "heavy" APC (based on the hull of the T-54 & T-55 MBT's), Puma tracked Engineer carrier, and low-instensity conflict tracked carriers Nakpadon and Nakpachon (all based on the chasis of the Centurion MBT).All of the above are derivatives of pre-existing models which are covered by the book but, as in the case of the Israeli APC's, the modifications are so extensive as to make the resulting vehicles almost completely new in terms of components, performance, AND appearance. You've probably seen all of these vehicles quite recently on the national news but you will not be able to find them in Jane's. The omission of these almost completely new vehicles is therefore quite surprising.Furthermore,the book does include other derivitive vehicles (many Chinese and eastern European vehicle entries are little more than locally manufactured variants of Soviet/Russian designed vehicles) so the above mentioned omission are rather difficult to justify. Therefore, I've given this edition four stars instead of five. Otherwise, it is a fine reference.Aside from the omissions discussed above at length, the current edition of Janes Tank Recognition Guide is chock full of information and color photos and is a must-have reference for any "tankspotter" or military gearhead.
5 It is a good reference book.  Not a lot of information but good basic stuff.
4 Very informative and has good pictures, but the info is a little on the short side, otherwise I would say 5 stars.
3 not as good as the big book.a lot of new stuff not listed or good picture but i guess it's better then 1500. for the big book
5 Useful as a portable military companion book, or something for the military junkies, this book provides even the hardened warhawk all the vitals one would need as a reference for wartime heavy metal.
4 Controversy has seemed to follow Derek Acorah ever since he left the show Most Haunted, and doubts have been raised about the legitimacy of his psychic abilities; even by former cast members. There is a veritable smeer campaign against him on the internet, and I find myself wondering why. Simply put, he was the main reason why I watched that show, he was entertaining and compelling. I can say the same about this book. As others have noted, he writes it in such a conversational style, you can hear his voice in you're mind as you read.To all his critics, one must keep in mind that a medium is not infallible. Just because someone has psychic abilities, it does not mean they are going to get everything right 100% of the time. It blows my mind that his entire credibility is brought into question simply because he made a couple mistakes on Most Haunted. Whose to say they weren't faking all that activity to begin with? I find all those knocking sounds and table tippings a lot more suspect than his psychic readings at the locations.This is a good book. You come away from it feeling that everything he is doing is genuine. Is it? I can't say for sure, but I'm certainly willing to give him the benefit of the doubt. I reccomend this book to both his skeptics and his fans.Lastly, I would also reccomend anyone interested in Derek Acorah to download his appearance on the Darkness On the Edge of Town Radio. It offers a lot of personal insight into the man, as well as his take on the Most haunted controversy.
5 I have read all but one of the books that international Medium Derek Acorah has written so far as I am a strong fan of his.  I must mention that all of his books are available on Amazon.com.  Yes, I too am a Medium, but that does not mean that I still can't learn and enjoy reading about other gifted people.  I have seen Derek in action, and I must say he is one of the world's best.  In all of his books, including this one, Derek brings you to the mysterious world of ghosts, spirits and haunting.  He goes way beyond that and tells of his life and personal experiences which I find fascinating as will everyone who reads this.  He is so good and in demand that he has had many successful T.V. shows including "Most Haunted", Derek Acorah's Ghost Town's" and is currently the star of his new show: "Paranormal Eygpt", which I have watched and found that I wish my own abilities were as good as his.  I recommend this great book, written in a down to earth style and contain true stories.  Reading his works make me wish to some day meet & perhaps work with him.  This book for me gets five stars! David Baker, Medium: [...]The Spirit Garden: A Medium's Journey
5 Derek Acorah is the preeminent medium and psychic in Britain, if not the world, today. A former pro footballer, he now devotes his life to spirit, and "the real work of helping others through the use of my mediumistic gifts, just as my grandmother had done before me".  Mr. Acorah  is assisted by his spirit guide Sam.  In addition to conducting  his private practice he appears on the hit television documentary show Most Haunted (now viewable in the States on the Travel Channel), as well as numerous other shows in England.This book details some of  Derek's  more colorful and fascinating experiences exploring hauntings, primarily in the UK.  In a notable incident on this side of the pond he encountered the spirit of actor Michael Landon in Los Angeles, and was able to function as a medium from Mr. Landon to one of Landon's children. Derek  includes some narrative experiences of his readers, as well as tips on how to best conduct one's own ghost hunting expeditions (if you don't already know why you will want a bag of flour, you need this book). There is also a list of locations he has not yet visited, but believes would be good sites to investigateWritten in a very easy, conversational style, one feels as if one is sitting down with a friend. From viewing Derek on the telly, as well as visiting his website, and reading other of his material I know he is a sweet and fearless soul. If you are interested in spiritualism, hauntings, the paranormal, or wish to plot out a ghost hunting trip to the British Isles, you should read this book.
5 In this fascinating book, Britain's most well known psychic medium explains some of his experiences with ghost hunting and informs the reader what ghost hunting is all about. Chapter 1 talks about Preparation for ghost hunting explaining to the beginner the equipment that they need and other preparations necessary. Chapter 2 talks about the different varieties of ghosts that exist: Residual energy, Anniversary ghosts, Crisis ghosts, Ghosts who walk through walls, and Spirit People. Derek writes about the apparent ghost activity at the Tower of London there are two anniversary ghosts: The phantom of Lady Jane Grey is said reappears a as white pear shape, every February 12, the anniversary of her execution. and the horrific murder of Margaret Countess of Salibsury is said to be reenacted every 27 May. Residual energy can be explained by the the more emotional or or tragic events that have taken place at a property, the stronger the energies that are absorbed by the building.Derek talks about situations where there was no haunting at all, and it was all a hoax set up by people for one reason or another. He has a chapter discussing Ouija boards, and in Chapter discusses poltergeists who often appear at the home of a child in early puberty, who is experiencing anxiety or frustration, Derek relates one or two events of this sort that he has been called in to observe and if possible solve.He explains the different how Ghostly Communication such as Seances, Table tilting, Dowsing rods and pendulums, Scrying, Automatic writing and the Tarot.Then he describes the different locations where he has come across ghostly activity such as Haunted Hotels, the Workplace, our Homes , theatres and night clubs. There is a fascinating section of ghosts of animals. As Derek explains, animals too have spirits and pass into the spiritual realm after death and have life experiences which are reenacted.There is a really interesting chapter on Ghosts of long ago, where Derek talks about his visits to places such as Vale Royal Abbey, Smithill Hall and Pompeii, and experienced psychic reenactments of the past.A bonus of the book were the beautiful poems I discovered by a friend of the Acorah's Patricia Smith, who after reading this book has become one of my favourite poets! She writes a tragic poem about the Holocaust following Derek's visit to Ann Frank House and  heartwarming poem about the spirits of departed pets called the 'Paw on the Stair.
4 It's not a groundbreaking book, sorry. It's fun and easy to read, and it should be considered more as evening relaxation. I like it.
5 more reAl (HE IS Handsome..)mediums in the worlD.his show's tops believe you me..
3 ...about how to deal with pain and suffering as part of the human condition....but read with caution. A lot of the advice given is fairly clingy--Although she claims that she is not clinging to anything, I can see an emotional complex being built right here. Turns out that the complex is just a house o' cards. She always says not to cling to hope and fear and to welcome loneliness into your life. And that you can do this through meditation.The effect is that instead of clinging to things we normally cling to (hopes and fears--more specifically dreams, wishes, desires,____ &lt;--insert your own word or description of what you hold dear in your life, and most important of all, LOVE!) she tells us not to cling entirely. But based on the literal definition of the human condition, it's impossible not to cling to something--or rather I like to use the word 'lean'. If you've got friends, you lean on them for support. If you have loved ones, you care for them, which can also be described as a form of 'clinging'. Of course only you can make this distinction but I must warn you about falling into trap of pretending that you're not clinging when you really are: if you find yourself constantly and constantly returning to the same things, you're clinging to something, in this case, her words. By following them so closely and becoming obsessed with the truth, you're just finding someone else to cling to and [mis]representing the reasons why you are doing so.I tried meditation, and being a person who used to believe in Christianity, I can definitely tell when a complex is being formed. You know how Christians can be so good at making their religion sound like it's the only evangelical way to go? And how the religion preaches that you must spread it everywhere (reference to many places in the bible, specifically Matthew Ch. 28 is the most popular &quot;version&quot; of this idea)? The same kind of thing happens here.Go look up this word in the dictionary, and ponder why the word was invented (all words start because they're needed to describe some kind of new feeling or phenom or idea): catharsisMeditation being a large part of her teaching, I guess I should address this issue. There are many meanings to the word &quot;meditation&quot;. It is a broad word that can be used to represent all kinds of spiritual experiences. Listening to music can be meditation. Concentrating on breathing when you are not tired is also another way. Touching other people or things can be a meditative or 'spiritual' experience. I compare 'meditation' to 'Spirituality' as I would compare 'empathy' to 'Compassion'. There's a big 'C' when it comes to compassion, but empathy is a natural branch off of this main idea. Same with 'meditation' to Spirituality. However, meditation is not the only thing when it comes to spirituality. If you believe it is the only thing, you'll probably find yourself meditating too frequently because you'll be constantly searching for something that always seems to be out of reach or missing. Now, to put my point in perspective, think about 'empathy' to 'Compassion'. There is a drug called MDMA or more popularly known as Ecstasy. This drug's main effect is to create extreme feelings of empathy--note that it doesn't create compassion, but rather, empathy. This is an important point to think about when it comes to your own life, and what's acceptable for you. It's duration lasts on average from 5 minutes to an hour. At the beginning of its production, before it was made illegal by the U.S. government (it's still legal in many European countries), it was backed-up by many major psychiatrists until they discovered that it could cause permanent damage to certain brain stems in people using it (it destroys currently existing stems and regrows them in abnormal ways). Now the actual scientific facts are not that important--what's really important is to ask yourself this question: &quot;Have you ever considered empathy to be like a drug?&quot; Usually we pester ourselves and others to have more empathy. Now ask this question: &quot;Have you ever considered meditation to be like a drug?&quot;The final thing I'd have to say about this book, and all of her books for that matter, is that she never addresses sex and sexuality. Where do these fit into the spiritual world? She never talks about sensuality either. People like her never talk about these things and I doubt they EVER will. Many monks like her actually struggle with thoughts of sexuality. When the thoughts come up, they simply (here we go again) meditate and call it &quot;Thinking&quot;. They tell you, &quot;say it out loud if you need to.&quot; But by no means ever accept it.Bottom line: it's true, pain is a human condition, you can easily learn that from any of her books (as they are essentially all the same), but also keep in mind that if you plan to follow all of her advice, get ready to say &quot;Thinking&quot; a lot.8 worldly dharmas7 swans a swimming6 kinds of loneliness5 golden rings!4 maras3 french hens2 turtle dovesand a partridge in a pear tree!Borrowing from another reviewer, &quot;I couldn't resist!&quot; But otherwise, there is some very good spiritual information in this book.
5 I guess most people who pick up this book will have some aspect of their lives that is falling apart at the time. I certainly did. The title really is very captivating. In fact it was so captivating for me that I didn't realise this book espoused Buddhist philosophy until I actually started reading it. In some ways I have never been comfortable with comforting texts, but I have always tried to keep an open mind about other people's cultures and traditions. Pema Chodron walks a fine line of encouraging and stimulating, for me anyway. But the book is by no means comforting with its messages of living with hopelessness, letting things go, refraining from doing things and so on. My perspective changed in many ways as I read - perhaps not fixedly, but nevertheless I greatly value the shifts that occurred and their impact will not disappear even if I continue much as I have in the past.And, as I read, I realised that the past is the problem with its regrets but so is the future with its urges for satisfaction. The only real problem with the present is that it last for such a short time!
4 This book was recommended to me by one of my good friends who happens to be going through the same difficult times as myself. Yes this has a lot to do with the Buddhist teachings and outcomes but Pema Chodron makes remarks that tie in the teachings to real life. It's not an easy read but it is a good one. I have also purchased three of her other books.
4 Pema Chodron's &quot;When Things Fall Apart&quot; is an exploration of loss from a Buddhist perspective. Like many spiritual ideals, the advice is easy to grasp, harder to follow. Can a pleasure addicted society learn to embrace the pain that is inevitable in life, and connect with the pain of others? Would we want to? I'm not sure, but her advice is worth considering.The chapters begin with a excerpt of the central idea of that passage, then a further exposition follows. If you are new to Buddhism, some of the terms will be unfamiliar, but not difficult to understand. I am somewhat new to Buddhism, but many of the ideas have a familar ring to them. The meditation practice of tonglen, for instance, is reminicent of the Christian concept of turning the other cheek.I'm not sure if I'll read Chodron's other books, but this one was worth the time.
5 This is a question we all ask ourselves - to what do we turn when our world collapses?Pema Chodron leads us down a practical path -I've found it very helpful.\
5 This book got me and a bunch of friends through the most devastatingly awful times of our lives or any other. We all hit bottom and lost everything along with many others. Pema's work enabled me to face the life experiences of total loss with heart and courage.
5 i have been reading and re-reading this book for years and years. it is my go-to book during any difficult time, and i always glean something knew regarding my current situation. pema chodron's writing takes away a lot of the loftiness i've encountered while trying to read bhuddist self help books, but since pema has already gone through so much of the craziness of life, her lessons areextremely comprehensive and compassionate. i love this book because you can open it to any page and start reading and you will find something you can use. love it. thank you pema! i recommend all her books. the places that scare you is awesome and a good one for impulsive activity, including jumping to conclusions, anger, etc, is called don't bite the hook. those are my 3 favorites. oh, i guess it would help to mention my reasons for seeking out this genre of information: i went through a terrible breakup, moved across the country with my dog, the dog bit someone ferociously on the neck, i lost my dog and the house i was living at the time (on the same day as losing the dog), was outcast from my group of friends because they saw my dog as an extension of me, went to live in a basement apartment, started drinking heavily, and fell into a depression that consisted of me waking up, taking an ambien, and going back to sleep. then when i woke up again, i would just take more ambien until i fell asleep again. i lost about 15 pounds on my already 120 pound frame, and contemplated &#34;disappearing&#34; whenever i was awake. it was a completely sucktastic time. i do indeed credit pema for helping me see that i had to kick my butt into gear and grab ahold of the reins.
4 This book is full of wisdom and insight for anyone who is seeking to understand how to face the challenges of everyday living.  Putting it simply: start with yourself and be kind! Nothing is static; change is part of life - accepting that is hard for us to do as we want things easy and simple and what suits us.  This book changes my perspective, enabling me to view my life in a healthier way.
4 interesting about the struggle of our inner duality, shame and guilt seem to make perfect sense. I am planning to make attempts to face my fears and move ahead
5 I first read this when I was having a difficult time in my life.  I found it to be extraordinarily helpful and balancing.  It gave me advice that has stayed with me for many years.  I have given this book as a gift to many people, all of whom have appreciated it and learned from it.
5 I grew up and was deeply involved in a moderate Baptist church. For much of my life I considered myself a "good" Christian who knew that Jesus died for my sins and therefore I also knew that I was bound for heaven. But it wasn't until I was 40 years old and had seen my life fall apart that I decided to let go of my life completely, and give it to God.Interestingly, after this total commitment and release to God, I was immediately and strangely drawn to the biblical book of Ecclesiastes. Many wonder why this book was included in the bible because it seems to contain nothing but the pervading theme of hopelessness. Yet, its words seemed to give me comfort and a source of spiritual strength. It was difficult for me then to explain this to other Christians.Pema's book is a kind of contemporary practical application of the teaching found in Ecclesiastes. Of course our lives and our world are utterly evanescent. Nothing lasts. Yet, most of us become quite delusional during our lives by effectively denying this fact. We grab hold of anything we can that can give us a sense of a sustainable and unique identity... including our religious tradition. But any or all of this can be taken away in an instant. Both Pema's and Ecclesiastes' teachings have the power to bring us home by helping us to discover our eternal identity in the unmanifest... in the mystery of Infinite Spirit. Once we find our home there, nothing can shake us. There is a power and a joy that is not fully describable with words... because its source lies beyond words, beyond creation.In one of Jesus' prayers he asks God to bring all people into Oneness... "may they be One as we are One." Pure Oneness implies the loss (even death) of a separate identity, and the realization of a universal identity as One. Pema's use of the idea of hopelessness is really the movement through the death of our false and fleeting separate identities into the ultimate home of Oneness with each other and with God.  I believe that Pema's teachings can aid any one that is ready, whose ego has been broken enough, to discover their eternal home even as they live in this manifested world. This can be a liberated life filled with the courage and fearlessness to bring Unconditional Love to the whole world, and especially to the seemingly unlovable.
5 I happened across this book by accident when a lot of things in my life were truly falling apart.  Pema Chodron will some day be reknowned as a very significant spiritual leader, if she is not already.  She has an amazing way of bringing spiritual truth down to the executional level.  You can do these things, and doing them helps - a lot.  I can't recommend this highly enough to anyone who is struggling.
5 I just could not put this book down. It is so real and at the same time profund.  Honest, pure and addresses all the questions you have in your mind about life.  It makes you realise that where you are and what is happening in your life, no matter how dark and hopeless it might seem - that this is what life is and we could not appreciate and enjoy the great times in life if we didn't know what pain and suffering is.  It is meant to be and the important thing is to enjoy and bask in ALL of it - cause this is it. As Pema says in the final chapter THE PATH IS THE GOAL.  Profund!
5 Her words are giving me the tools to navigate each day. I am most grateful for that. Thank you, Pema.
3 I read this book years ago, and I remember at the time its message struck me as dull, disheartening, and in conflict with my intuitive notions of happiness.  Even still, it had this certain logical allure; its points perfectly defensible from a rational perspective.  As she points out, there really is no true ground for us to stand on, anything can change.  Cultivating a strong dependence on any one pillar, whether family, friend, or work, leaves you vulnerable - for who's to say your family won't die, your friend move away, or your company fire you.  The only way to truly be content is to detach from your dependencies and be comfortable with groundlessness.  If you have no dependence, there can be no fear.It's only recently as I've begun to study epistemology (the study of knowledge) that I've found what's truly wrong with her argument from a rational point of view, and why I was so susceptable to it initially.I believe Pema Chodron is for contentness what the skeptic is for truth; she's happiness's Rene Descartes.  The skeptic would have us believe that all knowledge is just a house of cards.  No belief can be fully defended from all possibilities - for who among us can say that 1 plus 1 equals 2 in all universes, or that my green is your green, or that we're not in the Matrix.  There is always some challenge to our knowledge that we can't defend against.  But as we begin to jettison each belief one-by-one, we eventually slide down the slippery slope until we hit rock bottom: nihilism.  Knowledge, it appears, has no foundations, and so it must be the case that we know nothing at all.To see why this is wrong, I think you need to discard the idea that knowledge or happiness has "foundations" or "ground".  This is a pernicious metaphor that is used both by Chodron's dismal flavor of Buddhism and by the rational skeptic.  Instead, I believe, knowledge  (like the things that make us happy) sit in a web of mutually supporting truths, and can only be understood or justified in relation to rest of the web.  Independently each can be undercut, but together all hold strong. With respect to my life, I know that my friends help me through work, my work supports my family, my family...and so on.  How I assuage my fear is not by eliminating my attachments with my friends, family, and work, but by embracing them - by knowing that I sit within a web of support and that if one does fail, I can find strength in the others.  Getting rid of the web makes us more vulnerable and fearful, not less.  Finding strength in isolation may be possible for some, but I doubt for many.That all being said, I do feel that it's an important and broadening book and I'm very glad I read it.
5 This is a book I have read repeatedly.  Each time I get new insights.  It also took time to absorb the meaning of the ideas.
5 For anyone suffering a loss or a difficult time this book is wonderful. It speaks to your heart as it aches to be saved by your sadness and grief. It has helped me through the last few years of challenges I have had on many levels. Give it a chance...
5 This is a absolute spiritual classic, full of wisdom and deep compassion, written in an honest, down-to-earth style. Written from a Buddhist perspective, it speaks to anyone who struggles with pain in their lives (which is all of us).
5 If I had read this book six months ago, it would not have had the same impact. A recent crisis provided the opportunity to embrace Pema's voice. In our culture, we tend to focus on our own pain and issues. Tonglen, on the other hand, encourages using life's challenges as a way to spread kindness and compassion.Admittedly, the initial concepts appeared bizarre to me. &quot;Make friends with your demons&quot; and &quot;Chaos should be regarded as extremely good news&quot; came across as masochistic. But when one has hit rock bottom, we tend to discover our humility, which allows us to be more open to new ideas. When I read the phrase &quot;Things become very clear when there is nowhere to escape,&quot; I found myself nodding in agreement. From that point on, I embraced each line-word for word.The best gift one can give to themselves or others is a copy of &quot;When Things Fall Apart.&quot; It is indeed a book that I found much hope and comfort in. I just ordered Pema's book collection and look forward to learning more about practicing tonglen from her.Some of my other favorite passages from the book:&quot;...nothing ever goes away until it has taught us what we need to know. If we run a hundred miles an hour to the other end of the continent in order to get away from the obstacle, we find the very same problem waiting for us when we arrive. It just keeps returning with new names, forms, and manifestations...&quot;&quot;As long as we don't want to be honest and kind with ourselves, then we are always going to be infants. When we begin just to try to accept ourselves, the ancient burden of self-importance lightens up considerably. Finally there's room for genuine inquisitiveness, and we find we have an appetite for what's out there.&quot;&quot;...the person we set out to help may trigger unresolved issues in us. Even though we want to help, and maybe we do help for a few days or a month or two, sooner or later someone walks through that door and pushes all our buttons. We find ourselves hating those people or scared of them or feeling like we just can't handle them. This is true always, if we are sincere about wanting to benefit others. Sooner or later, all our own unresolved issues will come up; we'll be confronted with ourselves.&quot;
5 This is a wonderful book.  I highly recommend it for people wanting to become more compassionate to themselves and others.  Ms. Chodron is a gifted writer and helps the reader to understand the common obstacles that  we all stumble upon each day.
4 This is a great book for someone going through a tough time.  When I was having a nagging health problem that really got me down, this book was a beacon.  It made a big change on my mood in my time of need.The only thing I didn't like bout this book is its sad tone.  I feel like Pema is a very sad lady and some of the buddhist dogma that is overly oriented toward death and pain doesn't always lift the spirits.Other than that, it's a great book that is held high in many well-read circles.
4 If you are interested in matters of mindfulness and meditation, you need to read this book. You can admire the knowledge of the author as well as learn from it a lot.
5 I am a very picky reviewer of all the items that I purchased ..I must say that of all of the Buddhist type books that I have read ,this one is probably my favorite.. it is so well-written and so perfect to be able to apply to our every day life ..I highly recommend it to every person that I meet who ahows any interest at all in Buddhist studies..
5 It makes you understand that all people have been dealing with the same problems for thousands of years and gives you practical methods to change your life.
5 Pema Chodron is a great writer for the serious seeker of spiritual depth. Highly recommed this book and all of her books to those who wish to seek the truth and light in life.
5 the sound of her voice is so very comforting , that combined with her tender message, you can feel you are in therapy just listening to her share her wisdom.
5 If you expect a lot of sympathy for the tough times you are facing, you won't find it in this book.  Pema Chodron turns the tables on grief and loss and clearly and compassionately articulates why facing uncertainty and difficult times is good for us and helps us grow into stronger and better human beings.  I have read one other book of hers and I find them very inspirational and really down-to-earth.  While based on Buddhist philosophy, you don't have to be a Buddhist to appreciate the messages in this book.  I read it in short sections - every morning with my coffee a few pages - and it makes me feel good and strong the whole day.  Highly recommend!
5 Many of us find ourselves with problems that seem overwhelming.  This book helps the reader to remember that sometimes things fall apart and that's okay.  Chaos can be a pathway to growth.
4 I agree with many of the other reviews of this book...it could indeed be the powerful message you need in your life.However, the book leaves certain concepts quite open-ended.  This isn't a bad thing necessarily; it just means you, like me, may have to pursue more literature on Eastern thought if you want a firm grasp on what Chodron introduces.There are a few big dichotomies that are never addressed head-on.  One of them is mindfulness vs. egolessness.  Chodron implores us to be mindful, meditate, develop an awareness of ourselves and how we're affecting the world around us.  Yet she also talks about the wonders of egolessness--dropping the awareness that you are a separate, special individual, distinct from those around you.It seems we should simultaneously develop a strong personal awareness, and give up our separateness in favor of egolessness.  I'm not calling Chodron a liar or a bad writer, but I believe this is a common source of confusion for those learning about Eastern thought, and you'll need to look elsewhere to work out a solution.Chodron also implores us to give up hope--especially hope that there's a better person inside us we can actualize if we only work hard enough.  Apparently, we can never improve upon ourselves: we are who we are.Yet at the same time, a main tenet of mindfulness is to develop an awareness of how we affect people, so we can stop harming them unintentionally and spread warmth and compassion.  By most definitions, doesn't a mastery of mindfulness make one a "better person," one who doesn't lash out or blame people, a "grown-up" who knows how to manage his/her emotions?  And isn't the pursuit of meditation and mindfulness a sort of work that requires diligence and perseverence, with the main goal of freeing yourself from giving or receiving poison--probably an "improvement" on your current state of being?There are answers to these confusing questions, but you won't find them in this book.  Perhaps look into Chogyam Trungpa's (Chodron's mentor) work as a companion to "When Things Fall Apart".
5 This book has resided on the shelf next to my bed for many years and has been read often. Reading through a few reviews at this site it is clear many people are willing to listen to Pema Chodron's uncompromising words about the challenges of being human. For those people seeking a few comforting bromides, who expected a self-help book, this material must surely be unwelcome. But it is far from trite and certainly not depressing. Tibetan Buddhists practice in the charnal grounds not because they're depressives, but because life ends in death for all of us. And charnal grounds in Tibet were places where hacked up bodies were fed to circling vultures...no quickly slipping a deceased body into a casket to avoid confronting the withered body or the odors associated with illness and death for these Buddhists.When I attended a Pema Chodron lecture some years ago she announced that her favorite manta is "Om, grow up!" It takes great courage to meet life on life's terms and accept responsiblity for our actions. And since life invariably brings challenges associated with disappointment and loss, the work continues to the moment of death. In our addicted society, that is a message all too readily rejected. Pema is not for the faint of heart! But if you intend to claim your aliveness, to risk intimacy, to share joy, her words are worth attending to. Namaste.
5 Pema Chodron in 'When Things Fall Apart: Heart Advice for Difficult Times' teaches the reader that instead of running away from problems and pain, we look within and learn from the trauma and grow.  Instead of turning to self-destructive tendencies that hurt us and others, we embrace love, forgiveness, and healing.  Instead of doing things in the past which might not have made us happier, healthier people, we use meditation and self reflection as our basis for becoming stronger people.  It's the kind of book that needs to be put on a shelf and read and re-read time and time again.  It might be hard to stomach at first or when you are going through brutal times, but if you are patient, strong, and endure you can make it through whatever life has thrown your way.We as humans tend so much to let our brains control us so very much and while we have times of joy, we also have times of great suffering.  Instead of continuing to live life as we might "normally" do why don't we all learn to slow down in life and calm our brains and find true peace?***** HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
3 I wanted some practical advice..this was too muchEastern religion for me.  I did get something from it but not a lot.
5 Pema Chodron's advice in "When Things Fall Apart" should be required reading for everyone.  Basically, the advice she gives is quite opposite to many "self-help" books and, in my opinion, is far superior.  Chodron's basic message is that the way life actually is -- things come together, then fall apart -- is not about self improvement but how to understand and cope with both conditions.  She even give personal examples from her own life:  when her marriage fell apart, bcomeing a Buddhist nun and then director of the the Champo monestary in (in think) Nova Scotia -- how everything she belied about herself was ultimately challenged and how she rose to those challenges -- can be inspiration for everyone.The basic message here is that none of us "gets it altogether", at lesst not for long, and that we should face the falling apart times with our lessons as a warrior in the Shambala tradition.  Without viewing our lives as a fixed path leading to a defined end point, we all become open to whatever happens to us, neither embracing it nor opposing it.  It is a message we should all strive to learn.
5 This book is as good as everyone has said. I reccommend it to anyone who needs a spiritual lift without a sermon or agenda to follow. Read the words and listen to how they echo in your ears and heart.
5 Love this book for explaining the deeper dimensions of the human spirit.  I have read it twice and intend to read it again.  Very insightful.
5 Funny, I had no idea that this book was so popular. I like the way Pema writes: very normal and real. I've gone back to it on multiple occassions when stressed out, or even when I just wanted to relax with a good read. I still can't get over how many reviews there are on this book!!!
5 This was the first CD I purchased by Pema... and things weren't even falling apart in my life! Her soothing voice and centered teachings is suitable for anytime in one's life.
5 I keep going back to this book.  It has excellent information for calming me when I'm in an agitated state.She's a good writer and has a lot of wisdom.Very helpful.
5 this is one of my all time favorite books. the title says it all. this book could be called a lifesaver. i wouldn't recommend reading this if you're not experiencing hard times,because i think you may miss the message. but if/when you are,this will help to you to come out of it stronger and better. and it's a friend while you are 'there'.
5 I cannot say enough about this little insightful book...Packed with tons of wisdom, to get you through any difficult time in your life. Pema is an amazing Guru. I recommend or buy this book for anyone who comes to me with a situation. I also have it on CD, so I can listen to it in my car. If your life is feeling heavy, don't wait, find comfort and wisdom in this amazing book. I promise you won't be disappointed-just on your way to healing..OM Shanti
5 It is one of the greatest books.  I am reading it again because it is a lot to take in one reading.  Much to learn from this book!
5 This is the fourth consecutive book I've read by Pema Chodron, but this one will have a special place in my heart since it helped me get through a very frightening and difficult experience. There's nothing trite or sugar-coated about this book ... it boldly challenges readers to lean into, instead of avoiding, the experiences that frighten us, and use painful feelings to wake up, grow up, and increase our compassion.
5 I love this book. It has gotten me through some really hard times in life. Yes, it may be simple to some... but when you're down you're not looking for deep, philosophy. Sometimes it's the simple reminders that make your life that much better
5 Use this great book to navigate the tough stuff in your life - losses, relationships, finances, disappointments. It will help you to return to your center and keep the proper perspective.
5 Pema Chodron is amazing in her ability to give explanations that are pertinent to an actual meditation practice.  I loved it.
5 it was the day i took the books james couldn't carry home to nigeria back to border's.  i found the sale table--3 for $15, and there were fun fiction titles with a sprinkling of books on zen.  i bought 3 of each type of book, and this was one who's title sparked my interest, given the mood and theme of the year. since september, i've carried it with me on all our journeys.  the thin volume offered an easy read, but the concepts introduced were so big it's taken me some time to turn through the 148 pages.  i finished it yesterday, but in many ways, i'll never finish it.  this introduction to buddhist principles, ideas and practice has already transformed my understanding of meditation and what the simple act of mindfully breathing in and out makes possible in the world.  i've read similar stories about the powers of meditation and prayer, but none so simple, so compelling, so clearly stated, so inviting as pema chodron's heart advice for difficult times.
5 Even if you are not a buddhist, this book totally hits the mark for offering advice for difficult times in one's life.  If you already have even a slight buddhist leaning- it's even better, as the concepts will be familiar to you.  Her advice is wholly practical- but springs from our own introspection.  I worked in a bookstore for years, and sold this book frequently to people I saw standing -dazed- in front of the self-help section.  (It's a slim volume, which is great when the soon-to-be reader is a already struggling with life in the pain lane.)She talks in plain language about the roots of suffering, attachment and aversion- but in terms that are practical and useful.  For instance- how hope and fear are really two forms of attachment and suffering-  and that knowledge allows us to see our world a little differently, and deal with what we need to.  Me?  I'm into Practical Practice- and this is a great book.  Those who reject Chodron as the face of pop buddhism will miss a valuable book-  and probably should read it!
5 The review written by "Gor" seems to come from a person who neither understands Buddhism or "New Age clap-trap". Certainly the former is exploited by the latter, but to suggest this book has a thing to do with mumbo-jumbo is ridiculous. My guess  is, that reviewer did not even read this book, or, if s/he did, missed the message entirely. Quite a pity. I purchased the CD version of this book years ago and found Pema Chodron's message, as well as her beautiful voice and exquisite verbal delivery, to be of great comfort. The insight contained within these 146 well-written pages is concise, direct, and easily absorbed ways is of great value to anyone who consciously chooses the spiritual path. Here, the author clearly articulates the states of mind which cause us (and others) pain and how to navigate our way through and out of them. I have purchased 4 copies of this book and have given 3 of them to friends who were experiencing chronic pain and stress in their daily lives; 2 of them, within awful work environments. The feedback I received was very favorable and I have lent my CD to several people who found the content extremely helpful. Most captivating to me is Pema Chodron's use of common colloquialisms, such as "feeling like shit". She tells it like it is, using her own life experiences and observations. Unlike "new age clap-trap", she also provides sound advice and directions for eliminating our pain cycles and releasing old habits from our consciousness. The author clearly describes human states of suffering and spinning off and provides antidotes for habitual thought and action.  When things begin to "fall apart", this is one of my go-to books. It is, in my opinion, as much reference material as it is a collection of reflective essays on everything from fear, death, loneliness, anger, and apathy to accepting our right to feel whole, alive, and well in the midst of chaos.  I highly recommend this book for anyone feeling under-appreciated, tapped-out (rather than tapped-in) and frustrated.
4 Pema Chodron's books can be found in our Muslim nation. This may not be of significance to readers in the west, however it is an indication of the expansive and clear manner of her writings and teachings.  When Things Fall Apart invites readers from all cultures to expand their own hearts, and to still their minds.  Living in a part of the world that is faced with much conflict it can be a challenge to quiet our minds, to live in the present, and to walk gently.  Pema Chodron's writing is an invitation to sit and enjoy a conversation, to be still, and to approach the day with clarity.
4 This is a nice book for anyone, not just for those who feel that things are falling apart. It offers insight into accepting life just as it is, in this moment. The author shares her 'wisdom mind' in this concise and compassionate book about finding peace within the fundamental groundlessness of life. I also highly recommend a book of Eastern wisdom titled &quot;Open Your Mind, Open Your Life&quot; by Taro Gold. I have found great wisdom in both these books.
5 One of these days I'll finish reading this because it's so good that I wind up giving away my copy to someone else whose world is falling apart. I need to keep a copy for myself. Her ideas on reaching that state of &#34;groundlessness&#34; was life-changing for me.
5 This is a truly wonderful book for anyone, not just for those who feel that things are falling apart.  But if things are falling apart or about to this also is the book for you!  It offers great insight into accepting life just as it is, right now, in this very moment. This book was written with compassion about finding peace within the essential grounds of your life. I have read this book several times, and now I read some here and there for pick-me-up inspiration.
5 One of the goofier things typically characteristic of Zen practitioners like myself is the notion that sitting, sitting, sitting takes care of everything. No words, just sit!Maybe it does.  But I'm no Zen master.  In the toughest of times, there's nothing better than words wisely spoken  to support the sitting -- to support this life.  And there's not a single  book in my whole library better for this than When Things Fall Apart.When things are really falling apart, I open this book to anywhere it  happens to open, read two or three pages and somehow always come up more  clear-headed about my particular situation.  Like fueling the spirit tank.There's a million books I love.  If I could take just one on the  journey, though, it'd be this one.  O.k., if I could take just two on the  journey, it'd be this one and Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind. If you let me have  three, I'm all set!  Add Thay Nhat Hanh's Heart Sutra commentaries (The  Heart of Understanding) and I'm walking tall.More seriously still: for  what ails you, this is the book.
4 Pema Chodron repeats herself quite a bit but the words and their meaning bear repeating. It's too easy to one to fall back into old, useless habits that hold us by the throat and keep us from achieving peace and an awareness that holds one in good stead. Her gentle approach is not without chiding and a consistent &#34;truth telling&#34; that keeps one moving on the spiritual path. She makes perceived &#34;failure and frustration&#34; something to smile at and let go of...now that's a habit one can easily live with.
4 I always appreciate Pema Chodron's  books because they are the right balance of spiritual and down-to-earth.  Good information and insight.
2 This review is for abridged audio version of this book.  I have not read the book but have listened to the CD audio book twice and will listen to again a few more times before selling it.The book is 148 pages and the CD is a bit over 2 hours--it is very abridged.At times, I think that whole sections of the book must have been abridged down to sections headings and one sentence.  I recommend buying the book if you are interested in Tonglen meditation, which is taking in bad things into your heart and sending out good, thru your breathing, thinking and compassion.Pema Chodron appears to be reading this script and is not very good at reading it.I have bought two of her of CD's which are  recordings of live presentations or retreats.  I really like these presentations.  She is engaged in the presentation and the topics are presented in more detail than this abridged version of her book.The concept of developing compassion by taking in (and relating) to the other people's trouble and then breathing out what you believe they need has been very helpful in my growth and management of fear and anxiety.  It has allowed me to not be so self centered and feel more connected in the world.The CD that I found helpful  is called Awakening Compassion.  It states that Tonglen is an advanced meditation practice.
5 Pema Chodron writes this book with great clarity for everyone to understand her philosophies behind living a life of mindfulness.  This 140 page book touched a part of my consciousness that has never been touched.  Chodron does a wonderful job emphasizing the most practical, yet necessary introspective of Buddhist philosophies/teachings into everyday life.  She compliments these introspectives with her personal stories as well as lessons/stories from her guru teacher Ch&ouml;gyam Trungpa Rinpoche.  Chodron eloquently emphasizes and identifies everyone has a maitri (Buddha nature), and in order to awaken that maitri one must take necessary steps of clearing one's mind.  Chodron examines a series of human emotions such as fear, death, suffering, anxiety and suggests to the reader these feelings should not be avoided.  Avoidance such as grasping, blaming, denying are feeding into the philosophy of Samsara in Tibetan Buddhism (wheel of death).  In fact she suggests for individuals to deal with these emotions because in essence these emotions are illusions.  Nonetheless, this book is very instrumental in helping one clear their mind, and in doing so it will empower one to prolong their life through meditation, yoga, and perhaps this will provide insight and answer the question of "What or Who is God"?
5 This is a book I am slowly reading for the 3rd time over many years. No matter what page you are on when you have a need to read a bit more, the marker is always on some bit of wisdom that helps you cope with your emotional challenges. I have given this book as a gift to several friends.
5 From start to finish this book was inspiring. I learns some new things and had some things I already knew reinforced.
5 I've read several Pema Chodron books and this may be her best. Her style is clear, intelligent, wise, playful, and quite convincing. This is a book that can open up a new world of understanding and, more importantly, a new way of being for someone.This book exposes our ego's identity, conformity, self-reinforcing nature, and the limits we constantly put on ourselves through our limited, confined thinking. It is not, though, a depressing book. It is hopeful, realistic, and insightful. It is like a primer on what it means to be human with both pitfalls and opportunities.We humans, it seems, in following the ego are automatically like the proverbial fish in the water that does not know it is in the water. This book is an awakening to how we keep ourselves trapped and how we can come to become free. It has practical steps, practices, and perspectives. It is Buddhist (as Pema is a Tibetan Buddhist practitioner and teacher), but it does not have too many technical terms.Once reading this book most readers, I believe, will want to study more and live more this way.
5 Pema has a way of keeping things very simple and very practical. I read it before and it is still good. Wonderful reference and reminder to &#34;stay cool&#34; and accept things, learn, and just keep showing up for life with an open heart and willingness to grow and relax and the same time.
5 This is mainly in response to the reviewer who wrote that this book is "esoteric drivel." The reviewer's summation of the main ideas in the book is incorrect and if you know anything at all about Buddhism, you know it isn't about dogma. One of the many teachings of Buddhism says "Live your life as an experiment. Don't take someone else's word about what the truth is. Find out for yourself."  That said, you can hardly go wrong with any book by Pema Chodron.
5 I read this book when I was more than aware that things do fall apart, but had no idea how to move on, let alone thrive and be happy when, during and after they do. Pema's simple, practical and profound insight and guidance helped me change my way of thinking and living - for the better! I have since given over a dozen copies away as gifts and referred it to others countless times. For me, if I can open a self-help book and find randomly on any page something that speaks to me and helps me live more in alignment with my Spirit, then I'm sold! This was that book for me. Hopefully, it will speak to you, too.
5 I LOVE this book. I have read it four times. It truly speaks to my heart. This books speaks of mindfulness, loving-kindness, compassion, and many other spiritual ideas in a way that I have never understood - or that I finally and actually heard and now understand through Pema Chodron's words. I highly recommend this book for those on a spiritual path. It truly makes me think deeper with each reading. I am awake, conscious, and aware. Thank you to Pema Chodron for her part in my spiritual awakening. I am filled with the light of truth in every moment.
5 Some books you read and enjoy and promptly forget, but this probably won't be one you forget easily. Pema Chodron's down-to-earth, honest writing style is fast-paced, practical, and real. It really speaks to me and her voice makes the ideas easy to remember. A full year after I read her book, I still recall easily and am able to practice mindfulness, Tonglen, and "Hmmm...I wonder what will happen next?" when I struggle to control or resist change in my life. Wonderful wisdom, delightfully shared. A real keeper. :)
5 When Things Fall Apart is another compilation and distillation of several of the Pema Chodron's lecture and talks, in this case focusing on dealing with pain, anger, fear, and other emotional challenges that face us daily.  Chodron's inspiring and gentle Tibetan Buddhism approaches every challenge in a positive way; rather than recoiling, retreating into an emotional shell, or attempting to fend off issues, Chodron argues that the constructive, liberating and ultimately best approach is the opposite, to make friends with our fear, or pain, to investigate it, look at it from every angle, and we will find our fears shrinking, disappearing, leaving us with a richer and more positive life experience.Much of the book's theme could be considered simply as letting go...letting go of our dependence on stability, our need for explanations and justifications, and so on.  Life on earth is inherently unstable, and the things we initially most think we need or want or depend on are actually hindrances to us in living complete lives, acting as faulty crutches.  By letting go of these things we come closer to what is real.Chodron also addresses our responsibility to others, the benefits to others but also to ourselves of maitri, of giving of ourselves to all, regardless of the perceived payback.Chodron's is a gentle, introspective Buddhism, and reading this book allows a glimpse of what it would be like to live a courageous, generous and fully emotionally independent life based on a full understanding of what is needed to enjoy real inner peace.  Her voice, her stories, her approach all inspire us to follow such a path.  It is easy to underestimate the effort and dedication required to do so.  Our crutches *seem* to make life easier for us, and we resist letting them go.  But with time, dedication, and consistent effort, dedicated students could find the same courage to live their lives in this kind of pure and positive way.
2 I think maybe this book would be more illuminating to people who are already very familiar with esoteric Buddhist ideas and conversant in Buddhist jargon. I have read half of it now (and I do plan to finish it) and find that Chodron's message seems to be a slippery string that hasn't stayed in my hands at all as I turn each page.I grasp the basic idea: relax into discomfort to find out what you can learn from it, rather then reflexively freaking out and running away from it. The problem is that this is a one-sentence message, and all the additional pages Chodron writes about it have not clarified it for me at all. It would make sense to provide some guidance or advice on how to gain the skills of relaxing into discomfort, but Chodron doesn't seem to do that; each section is more like an unstructured meditation on the ideas presented, a reminder for people who already are fluent in the ideas discussed. She seems to talk without *explaining*.As a novice to Buddhist thought, I was recently introduced to Buddhism at a difficult and confusing time in my life by Jack Kornfield's "After The Ecstasy, The Laundry" and Sylvia Boorstein's "It's Easier Than You Think". Both of these were less dense and more accessible than "When Things Fall Apart", and gave me much more food for thought and more of a grasp on how to apply Buddhist concepts in my life than the Chodron book does.
5 I enjoy her writing style and have read her articles in Shambhala Sun. I have recommended it to anyone having a hard time with life. Its not a self help book its a book filled with wisdom and strength.
5 I found this book at the library 4 days before my dad died and it illuminated all of my experiences before and after. Although I only read a few chapters it reasonated with truth, wisdom and honesty about the human condition. I bought the book and the tape version. I listen to it on my way  to work. A wonderful resource for all times. You won't be sorry with this  purchase.
5 I agree with many of the comments by other reviewers here.  This definitely is not just another &quot;self-help&quot; book.  It certainly could be very useful to you whether or not you're not a Buddhist. There are numerous important lessons here (especially about being compassionate with yourself and others), and in general the book is filled with wisdom and deep psychological understanding. Finally, the book probably can be best appreciated if read slowly, and more than once as well.  Many of the lessons contained within are not simple, and also counter to much of prevailing American/Western culture (&quot;feel good&quot;, &quot;quick-fix&quot;, naive sunny optimism, owning more/bigger/better stuff makes you happy, the cult of youth, mindless sex and violence, etc.).Chodron's solutions to life's problems are not easy ones, necessarily, and certainly not ones that you can purchase for any amount of money, but they are rich and deep and true, and so refreshing.
4 I love Pema Chodron. She has so much to teach us. Just reading some of her words makes me feel as if I have a more spacious head. It is also true that she can be a bit repetitive. And at times she drifts towards being a bit insipid; one wouldn't describe this book as pedagogically brilliant, exactly. However, the whole world would be much better off if more people would read her work.
5 There is no way you could NOT feel better about anything going on in your life after reading this book.
5 I read this book a long time ago, and after seeing it quoted on Facebook decided to dust it off again. It pretty much sums up life whether you are a Buddhust or not (I am not) life falls apart and life falls together. We must accept this basic tenet of the journey if life and allow it to better us.
5 When things fall apart it is not the mind that will ultimatley save us but our heart and soul. Our intellect can serve our best interests when it conjures up strategies that align with our hearts. That said, there is a reason why it often takes a tragedy to push someone to reconnect with God and divine inspiration. Not talking about religious addiction ... but rather that miracle of surrendering to the flow and what a more divine plan has in mind. Chodron goes to the "heart" of the matter ... the broken heart that is left in tatters .... where the healing is first and foremost demanded. The cure for the pain lies in the pain ... and in harnessing a greater spiritual force. A must read!
5 I lost a family member and was devastated. It left a huge black hole in my life and in the lives of my family.  I bought it for this very reason and it helped me survive it.  I have read Pema Chodron before and this book was not a disappointment.  I really recommend it for the bumps and tragedies that happen to all of us on our pathway through life.
5 I wish I could write a helpful review of this book but it strikes me as nearly impossible; the book is so intense and liberating, so honest and direct, it seems like the only words that can do it justice are the author's.  I came upon this title at a difficult time.  It helped me understand and really feel that things not only fall apart, they get worse.  Or sometimes better.  But the great teacher is our response to events, or rather, our willingness to face our responses and accept them, and ourselves, our failings and strengths, and to let fear be a teacher.This book is the opposite of the quick fix, life-is-a-bowl-of-cherries self-help manual.  Reading it was an experience laced with sadness, relief, and finally a kind of temperate joy.All I can really say is that it's a masterpiece in my view; entirely sane, liberating, full of truth and light.
5 Though my life is "up" the majority of time, there are times when it brutally falls apart.  Financially, the plumbing on my house, my relationship, whatever...........and this is the book I turn to for guidance, to regain my center, and to give me the courage to go into those uncomfortable feelings, to face the "attack dog" head on, rather than to avoid and run, or wallow.....and this is a much more powerful way to begin to heal, to remember to love and have compassion for yourself most of all.  This book *always* gets me back up to take another swing at the bat - it mellows me out - restores my faith - puts things in perspective, and reminds me, that reality does not occur at my direction.  Doesn't this deserve AT LEAST five stars?
3 I listened to the tapes for a couple of days and went back and listened again to them... The second time allowed me to digest Pema's ideas and thoughts concerning our world and everyday lives.. This is great if your in a transitional place and want to be inspired...
5 Chodron has distilled down some basic Buddhist themes for dealing with times when things seemingly 'fall apart'.  For people in these stages of life, the book is a short, powerful way to focus attention on the illusions of 'security' most of us try to build into our lives (job, family, marriage).  When one or more of these things are stripped from us, we feel a bit like we're dying.Instead, she shows how these times can be building blocks for true contentment by discarding the over dependence on 'things' or 'people' as your foundation for happiness.If you're not in a crisis, the book may appear somewhat breezy and shallow.  However, in these economic times I find a lot of people reaching out for works like Chodron's as they try to put thier lives ona  new footing.
2 I could not finish this book - it was so boring and so 1960s in style.  For people who have faith in some religion, especially Buddhism, this could be helpful but it is so full of &#34;the spirit of awakening&#34;, the mentality to see love in everything and accept whatever befalls you with a calm serenity - to accept the karma of everything from a fatal disease to a loss of a wallet or similar. Some people need a teacher of meditation, a guru to lead the way, a godlike figure to perceive as a superhero to help them solve their problems.  For them, this is an excellent book.  I kept replaying &#34;The Age of Aquarius&#34; in my head as I read it and imagined people dressed in long robes dancing around with flowers in their hair - another song springs to mind!  Perhaps it improved but I was too impatient to get on with living my life to the full, to continue reading to the end of the saga.
4 The title of this book is so ridiculously deceptive; this is a philosophical approach to life in general, it isn't a 'how to' on how to recover from catastrophe.  I find the writer somewhat hard to tune into, but her knowledge of Buddhism combined with a modern zen acceptance of our modern day struggles makes her worthwhile.  I got a lot out of this book in terms of changing my perspective towards setbacks in life.  I would recommend to anyone searching for a deeper understanding of their own behavior.  Ignore the title and cut to the content. One of the more pragmatic approaches to reaching spiritual peace, without the new-age sensationalism that most pop-self-help books contain.
4 This book is filled with insights on how to get beyond that incessantly babbling parrot we call the conscious mind, to stop clinging to our life stories, what Eckhart Tolle might call the content of the mind, and to connect with our real self. In doing so we connect with, well, everything.The frustrating part of this read for me, though, is that Pema often uses a unique vocabulary to describe the ideas she wants to get across, and to me it's not always clear what she means.  It's not that she's using esoteric Buddhist terminology--I'm thinking that it's either just the way she expresses herself, or maybe the followers of Trungpa Rinpoche share a common vocabulary through prolonged contact with him and each other.  I'm reminded of Darwin's finches, evolving separately from their kin in isolation in the Galapagos.In any event, there were a number of times when I wasn't sure I got her meaning.  I read each troublesome passage a few times and made my best interpretation, but I really can't be sure what I understood is what she meant.  My personal feeling is that she'd reach more people if her language was a little more generic, for lack of a better word, or if she defined some terms.  It's not that she should "dumb down" her explanations--not at all.  I just think at times she could have done a little better job of writing to her audience.  And to be fair, at times her writing is very clear and compelling--no easy task considering she's tackling a subject that, at its core, goes beyond words.All of that said, this is still definitely a worthwhile read.  It's not just about any one concept or method, it's a comprehensive set of practices to free yourself from attachment to the false, surface layer, ego driven self in order to reach the real you--the you who can experience true joy that's not contingent upon your situation, not contingent upon money, status, getting what you want or finding that "special someone".I also liked how she makes it clear that none of these practices will make pain, fear or the ordinary troubles/emotions of life go away.  What they will do is allow one to feel all of life fully without becoming attached.  How often do we add to our misery by living in the past, replaying it over and over again, embellishing, adding commentary--letting the small snowball roll down the hill until it's big as a house?I've read a number of other books that cover roughly the same territory, each with its own slant and style. I'm glad to have found this book because, despite the occasional difficulties ciphering her meaning, I really feel it has a great deal to offer and has moved me forward in my personal journey.
5 I love anything Pema Chodron writes, which doesn't make me partial to this book, but more practical actually. This one may be my favorite of them all and my &#34;go to book,&#34; when I need some balance and centering.Pema writes about truly deep subjects without feeling or sounding &#34;heavy&#34; or too overwhelming to slog thru.  Rather, reading this book feels more like taking a walk with a friend who has great, everyday, practical insights into the way things really are.  Most books that encourage one to view things from a different perspective present concepts that can be difficult to grasp.  This book just nails it and makes simple sense.  The concepts presented are more like seeing things as they actually are and adapting to a reality that we may not be accepting at the moment,  more than trying to view things so radically different that we just can't manage to grasp the concepts.There's a good deal Zen teachings that support the concepts but one need not adhere to any of it to benefit from the wisdom that is presented.  I doesn't matter if the advice is Buddhist in origin or not, they just make good sense and are very helpful.What I like most about all Pema's books is that it always brings us back to the need to loving ourselves unconditionally and then using that love to be more compassionate towards ourselves and then to the world.  Being our own best friend is a theme that runs throughout most of her works and is especially helpful to keep in mind when we feel that our worlds have fallen apart.I find this book helpful even when one is not in the thick of a crisis.  I also like &#34;The Pocket Pema Chodron,&#34; and recommend both of these books highly.
4 In these hard times, wise and gentle counsel helps.  As a non-Buddhist, I questioned whether I would benefit from this book, but having read it once, I entered the front pages eagerly for a re-read.  There are learnings here for everyone . . . and peace IS possible, at least inside you.
3 Broadly `eastern philosophy' but specifically `Buddhism', Chodron's sabbatical work was written over the span of a year `relaxing'. This work should likely be read slowly, for digestive purposes.It is certainly insightful. Offering to the reader enough comprehensible information to paint a very good picture of some of the most pertinent teachings Buddhism has to offer, Chodron's work does not suffer in style, quality or offering it's insightfully practical advice. Duly, it's likely an addition to the annals of `must read' eastern philosophy for any interested party.The central tenant to Buddhism is `nothingness', or actually the complete shedding of the ego which resultantly seats you at the heart of wisdom, feeling all the world's pain and its joy. No easy feat.The problem with most of the western world is that we have ego. We become entwined in samsara*, always running from the moment, never living the full experience. Rushing to escape and letting emotion, rather than the rational mind, lead the way.The prescription: Maitri*, compassion for all things, the cure for all interpersonal problems, to be able to release your ego, your story and feel both the joys and pains of a people.Submitting to life's flow is also another good measure. Samaya is a total commitment to life's path, `an unconditional relationship with reality'. `The goal is the path'.Per normal, we are instructed in the importance of meditation, which acts to keeps us in this moment. From there we are advised to submit, relinquish control and walk the path of samaya contentedly.Contentment, interestingly, is part of a breed of becoming comfortable with loneliness. Other ways to make loneliness seem irrelevant - having less desire, being contented, avoiding unnecessary activity, having enough discipline to return to the moment, skirting the addictive properties of the `world of desire', and not giving in to negative thoughts.Much of the work is very practical. It can be used and it can be used in a manner detached from other, stronger, maybe more repulsive aspects of Buddhism (e.g. the concept of embracing death, and the death of each moment - a little too fixated upon the concept?). While I find the notions enjoyable, and again, certainly able to be put to good use, I would find myself only practicing aspects of the work as it's been laid out. Not a philosophy... or religion, whichever way you are inclined, that jives at all levels for myself (clearly I'm not `there'  yet, haha).The key is to relax. Don't get all caught up in yourself or your little story (somebody always has it worse), be kind, compassionate, generous, show gratitude and let the pain you've suffered enlighten the world you're part of, not perpetuate the hatred, malice and distrust we see run rampant in this age. Think before you speak and put a value on everything. Now is what matters, it's all we can see, so the most should be made of it in positive manner. Sounds pretty good right? Practice, practice, practice.I'm pleased w. the mention of JP Satre at the very end.Existential Absurdism - now that's my kind of philosophy.Vocab:Samsara  - a hopeless, endless cycle in which we strive to seek pleasure and avoid pain, hoping our momentary bliss will prevail for all time. Based upon the 4 dichotomies: Pain v. Pleasure; Praise v. Criticism; Fame v. Disgrace and Gain v. Loss.Samaya - a commitment to the reality that exists right now. Taking full experience with nothing for granted.Bodhichitta - `awakened heart'. Turning pain into compassion, for some. Moving towards the darkest recesses of human suffering, an effort in understandingBodhisattva - one who has dedicated themselves to the path of compassion.Tonglen - sending and receiving good energy to those in need with each conscious breath.Maitri - loving kindness (or unconditional friendliness) towards oneself and all things.Sem - the incessant stream of chatter in your head.Ripka - wisdom of the universal mind (Jungian `collective unconscious'?.Dharma - complete appreciation of impermanence and change.Egolessness - `Buddha nature'; detachment from any value.Mara - a means by which we try to escape `now'.1. Devaputra - endlessly seeking pleasure.2. Skandha - grasping at our self-construct, ego.3. Klesha - using emotions to justify our reality.4. Yama - clinging to life fearfully, being afraid of losing everything.
5 I first read this book 5 years ago or so. It came to mind again recently. And so I have read it again. Full of wisdom, compassion, love of others and life and self. Our life IS our path.
5 I admit I was a bit embarrassed to be reading this book in public, but it is an amazing book for any point in your life.I recently started studying Buddhism (as a philosophy) and found this book.  Actually, things in my life were falling apart, and this literally saved me from falling into depression or making some impulsive decisions.The idea is to cultivate compassion; compassion for others but for yourself, something many of us have forgotten, or perhaps did not realize it.  A crucial point of the book is the idea of becoming intimate with fear ... something many of us avoid and cover with self-sabotaging activities, addictions, eating, drug use etc.  The idea that you can live your life without any uncomfortable feelings (fear, loneliness, anxiety etc) and live in endless pleasure is delusional.  Thus, becoming "friendly" with these feelings allows one to observe instead of react.Amazing read.
5 A book that is a &#34;Must Have.&#34;  In times like these, most of us have things falling apart all around us. This book will show you how to accept everything as they come.  MO
3 With everything that's happened in my life this year, my mom found this book and thought it would be a good read for me.  And indeed, the title was very very fitting, however, actually applying what is in this book could prove to be very difficult.Pema Chodron is an American Buddhist and as such, this book is mainly about Buddhism and its practices.  And maybe its just because I know barely anything about Buddhism, but I found this to be a very high level book.  She talks about using dharmas, loneliness, meditation and other ways of looking at the world.  The prevailing theme is that things that make us uncomfortable should be examined instead of ignored.  We shouldn't be scared of loneliness, despair, and loss but rather should examine them and accept them.  She offers tips for how to do this and shares stories about the ways other people have found to live this way.  And she odes warn that it is a struggle.As said before I found this book to be very high level.  In fact, I really didn't understand most of what she was talking about.  Which I wasn't prepared for from the cover and the back cover description.  It seemed like something that would be more for everyone.  But I would highly recommend someone knowing a little something about Buddhism and its terms before reading this book.  Otherwise, they may be just as lost as I was.  That's not to say I didn't understand everything though.  There were a few passages that spoke to me and that I could relate to.  In particular, she talks about how we as humans build sandcastles and guard them jealously, even though in the end we know they'll be swept away by the sea and we're ok with that.  She says that kind of nonattachment is healthy and something we should strive for.  And that makes sense.I also was quite fond of a quote found in there.  "Honesty without kindness, humor, and goodheartedness can be just mean."  This really spoke to me because in my last relationship, all the nasty things that were said to me by him were excused by him as just being "brutally honest."  But is it good to be honest when the only outcome is to hurt someone?  I don't think so, and I like Chodron's theory that honesty involves incorporating kindness as well.  It is not noble to always tell the truth with no thought of the consequences.  I'm in no way advocating lying, but there is a way to tell the truth with compassion.  And one person's truth is not always anothers.Definitely not the book I thought it was going to be, and I think if I had been educated further on Buddhism I would have enjoyed it a lot more.  As such, there was just too much that was really only geared towards practitioners of Buddhism and hard to understand for the rest of us.  But there are some valuable lessons to take away from this book even without that knowledge.When Things Fall ApartCopyright 1997146 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2011
5 I'm amazed at the range of responses by the Amazon reviewers of this book!  Probably shouldn't be though.  It's difficult to step outside of yourself and look at something objectively.  Generally, a person's response to something has more to do with the state or psychology or situation of the person at the time than with the stimulus eliciting the response.  This is a case in point--especially for those who reviewed this book more than once!  But it's very much to the point of the book itself.  It's saying to step outside yourself.  How can you effectively deal with life (on a long-term basis rather than fighting fires all the time) if you cannot take the high ground and view your situation form outside?  Pema Chodron provides both a perspective and considerable methods to do just that -- under trying circumstances.  I've read 3 of her books and just got the 4th (from Amazon) today.  I expect I'll enjoy it tremendously.
5 beautiful, raw, painful in the good way, insightful, honest, and brilliant.  This book requires to look within and this is the hardest part.
5 I have this book on my phone and whenever life gets rough, I start reading. Very wise advice. Not sure what I would do without it.
5 this is a great easy to read and to relate to book that is always in my bag: each short chapter provides more insight into a pathway to more peace and mindfulness, and pema ch&ouml;dron is a wonderful and human writer.  it has become my version of &#34;the daily word&#34; (i am not part of any organized religion, but see others with their bibles and/or handouts).
5 "When Things Fall Apart" gave me some really good insight into meditation for calming chaotic life episodes. "To stay with a broken heart, with a rumbling stomach, with the feeling of hopelessness and wanting to get revenge -- that is the true awakening....learning not to panic -- this is the spiritual path." I took these words to heart but it still took time to learn it and live it. Like Pema, I do not choose to run, but turn and face the demons that I will no longer allow to chase me. This is a wonderful, gentle guide to living the best we can. Elaine Williams
3 If you are just starting out on working with fears, this book may resonate.  I have been staring them down for a while and already am familiar with Buddhist philosophy (even if not agreeing with it in many respects).  I purchased the book based on a recommendation from a friend.
4 I love the book, but I believe I will get more from it as I read it a 2nd and 3rd time.  It is very difficult to have a 'still' mind, yet that is the premise of her teachings
5 This is not a book that you read in one night and set aside. Pema Chodron writes pithily and there is a nugget in virtually every sentence.You have to learn to banish bad and destructive thoughts that come stealthily like thieves in the night. But you do not have to wear a hair shirt or flagellate yourself. You do not try to escape your woes by drugs or alcohol or sudden shopping spurts or over-eating. You have to find enlightenment and happiness by opening up your heart to love, so you can smell the flowers. You will learn of ways to reverse negative habits, of ways to calm cataclysmic situations, of ways to communicate with people soul to soul.You do not hide your head in the sand. You meet your demons face to face. You build on misfortune; it is your starting place.Pema Chodron has a delicious sense of humor and she is often very funny. And that is one characteristic that seems to be so inherent in Buddhists. Joy.Can you imagine the Pope laughing at himself? Or giggling deliciously like the Dalai Lama does? The Dalai Lama wears sheer happiness on his sleeve. So does Pema Chodron. And this happiness comes from great inner strength when one is at peace with himself and the world. Finding true happiness takes a great deal of work.The pursuit of happiness.It takes a great deal of practice. I am not there, yet, and I haven't learned to meditate because I can't turn my mind off of unpleasant thoughts. But I am sure that in time I will dispel angry, hurt, destructive thoughts and fractured feelings. Just reading "When Things Fall Apart" left me with a curious sense of peace. And I have hardly yet begun to fight.Five stars. A beautiful book. A beautiful experience.
5 I like her books.  This CD was so calming to listen to.  Very thought provoking.  I think i would be useful to someone who is unfamiliar to buddhism, but I am not sure about that.
2 This book came highly recommended by a family friend, so I was surprised to find it bland, muddled, vague, and rambling.The philosophy of total hopelessness and apathy Chodron offers up seems to me to be an impoverished distortion of the central Buddhist truths of impermanence and suffering. The book offers virtually no wisdom on the questions of how to live and act as a human being in the world. Her reduction of politics to a question of personal animosity is naive and dangerous. Her presentation of Buddhist concepts is imprecise, and her examples don't come alive for me.For those hoping to find an inspiring presentation of Buddhist wisdom and its relevance to modern life, I recommend the writings of Stephen Batchelor, Jack Kornfeld, and Larry Rosenberg. Batchelor's "Buddhism Without Beliefs" is a marvel of clarity and truth. Also, the 'engaged buddhism' tradition begins to engage in questions of political commitment and human progress in much more sophisticated and useful ways than Chodron.
5 This book is a guide the will turn your life around. It provokes feeling and thoughts and brings new insight.
5 Really like this book.  The Buddism rocks.  Also I think I go back to it for the writer's company.  Advice for when your ship appears to be sinking.  Not a feel-good book, but kind of shockingly realistic.  And ...I feel better.
1 This is book presents some unusual ideas, but does NOT help you or teach you how to look at things in a more constructive or positive way or to guide you how to hadle the crisis in hand.DONT read this book if you are unhappy or depressed as this book will just make things worse, or at least look worse.P.
5 What do you do when your world falls apart?  Where do you turn first?  What do you do in those first horrible moments when your universe turns upside down?  Pema Chodron tells it like it is and simultaneously begins the healing process. (Alas, not &quot;instantly,&quot; but with practice.) This isn't fun and games. Although her words are practical, comforting, supportive and helpful, she doesn't sugar-coat the harsh realities of threatening and painful situations. In short, this book/cassette/CD is an Emergency Kit when life smacks you in the face.
5 This book does not promise short term, quick fixes but encourages a way of life that will make living more joyful and meaningful - pain, change and all.This is not a book of "thought" filled advice from the mind, but a book (as the subtitle states) of heart advice. Pema openly shares some of her own experience as things fall apart, when her old way of doing things was no longer working.I bought it to give to my (fully grown) son when he was going through some difficult times.  It wasn't what he needed or related to, so I read it myself.I like the way she points out that when things fall apart, that usually means we are on the brink of a change of some kind.  My usual practice is to try to hold on to the familiar ways, but as I am finding out, that just doesn't work.  And if it does, I am usually even more miserable.  Depending on the kind of change you are experiencing, allowing it to happen with less resistance, without fear, can ease the opening to a new way.This is a disturbing thought to many of us.  Give in? No way. Why, what if your spouse is cheating and you lose your job and you have a fatal illness and the sky is falling and you don't resist?  (Ah, well -- most probably your spouse will still have cheated, that job will be lost, you will still have the illness and the sky will continue to fall.)On page 10 she says, "To stay with that shakiness -- to stay wth a broken heart, with a rumbling stomach, with the feeling of hopelessness and wanting to get revenge-- that is the path of true awakening. Sticking with that uncertainty, getting the knack of relaxing in the midst of chaos, learning not to panic-- that is the spirtual path."This book reminds us again, that going with the pain, confusion, disorder of those falling apart times is necessary.  Eventually we can get to a place where the pain does not seem so big or so deep, where we are no immersed in our own dramas but see everything on a larger world wide scale.I liked her section on "It's Never Too Late", which is about not hating ourselves -- and not really condoning ourselves, but observing ourselves -- 'when we buy into disapproval, we are practicing disapproval. When we buy into harshness, we are practicing harshness...The trick then is to practice gentleness and letting go. We can learn to meet whatever arises with curiosity and not make it such a big deal."This is a truly helpful book, if you can read it expecting a deeper, long-term change in how you experience the unexpected and unwelcome turns we find in our lives.I realized after reading this, that what I perhaps need to do with my son is not to buy him a book to read, but to be there for him as needed but to allow him to have his own experiences.
5 A friend recommended this book to me in 1997, and the title alone was enough, at the time, to make me curious. In the midst of personal, family and business breakdowns, I was feeling things had pretty well fallen apart, and was open to learning some ways to cope. I didn't get a new way to cope, but instead, something much better -- I got the first introduction to accepting my life and this very moment -- the first that really started to penetrate my shell... an introduction also to Maitri - 'Loving Kindness' or 'Unconditional Friendliness' as Pema puts it. Learning to be compassionate to myself was a new and amazingly helpful experience at the time.We've practiced non-compassion, judging and violence for a long, long time. It's an art. ESPECIALLY towards ourselves. We want to be compassionte, kind people, yet how many of us treat ourselves (inwardly &amp; privately if not outwardly) with very little compassion or loving kindness? It's hard -- we've practiced hating ourselves or our lives when things go badly for so long that we are very (unconciously) skilled in non-compassion. The person with whom we have the greatest opportunity to practice is the one who gets the worst treatment, much of the time.If we offer ourselves &amp; our lives love &amp; &quot;unconditional friendliness&quot; instead of fear &amp; criticism, we get better &amp; better at the skill of automatic compassion. We develop a new talent, a different automatic response to the events in our lives. Learning to show compassion to the world starts with practicing on ourselves (which is great, because we have constant opportunities to do so - to need to do so). Sometimes (many times) it is just when things fall apart that we have a chance to let go of our trip &amp; stop pretending -- and start learning to practice being real. Remember the scene in REGARDING HENRY when Harrison Ford's character, formerly so cold &amp; judgemental, responds to his daughter's juice spill &amp; subsequent fear &amp; frenzy with &quot;It's ok... I do that all the time&quot; ? I think of that scene a lot when reflecting on this book.Another reviewer found the book depressing. Though I can't understand that, it's ok. We all have different perspectives at different times in life. I found it joyful and tremendously helpful in bringing sanity and presence to my life at a time it was missing. Regardless of your spiritual path or inclination, read this book, or get the audio. It's gentle, open message will touch your heart and help your practice. And that is how the world is saved, one heart at a time.
4 Pema is one of the foremost and beloved buddhist american nuns - her teaching is on applying buddhist priciples to everyday life and find peace without expecting life to hand it down to you on a platter - which it rarely does. Mostly intended for a western audience the book is for serious practitioners of buddhist philosophy and living in the moment. If you are up for that then it is arguably the best text you can work with.What sets apart Pema from Tich Nah Tanh and some other buddhist writers is her deep understanding of everyday challenges of western lifestyle and ability to apply the concepts to it without denial or self righteousness.All that said though - there is one universal principle that has been personally hard for me, in this and all buddhist oriented texts. When life sucks, it sucks, whether you accept it or not. And it is too short to just allow it to suck, although you can't really change it all the time. Unless you believe in a fatalistic theory that some of us are 'born to suffer' or in reincarnation that means the dividends pay off in the next birth - and maybe they will, the vast majority of us do try to make our lives better, sometimes from a thoughtful/meditative place and many tmes yes, just because we want to feel better and it hurts too much to just stay in the muck. If i practice i may feel good about myself and accept it but what about the rest of my family/friends who may not be able to accept self actualization as a be all/end all thing? What about my responsiblities towards them or even towards myself, a part of me that wants to be happy in a more ordinary, perhaps less spiritual way?
4 I am a fan of Eckhart Tolle, Marrianne Williamson and other writers who have the ability to connect with readers through a spiritual vein that resonates, and Pema Chodron is right up there with them. I needed this book and her message! Highly recommended for anyone going through anything and on a spiritual journey to find eternal peace while living.
5 This is one of my favorite books, spiritually.  The author has a wonderful style to put the Buddha's teaching in every day language.  I have read it 10-15 times and think everyone should.
5 Intresting book from begin till end. You'll not waste your time if read this one. Recommend to everybody. Even for non-beginners
5 I was just finishing this book in September 2001 when the events of 9-11 turned the world upside down, and things truly fell apart. There suddenly were all the vulnerable feelings that Pema Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n encourages us to embrace: fear, sorrow, loneliness, groundlessness. And in the days of shock and grief that followed, there was that brief and abundant display of "maitri," or loving kindness, which emerged in waves of generosity and compassion for one another. For a while, we were in the world that she points to as an alternative to the everyday routine of getting, spending, and constant activity.It is nearly impossible to summarize or characterize this fine book. In some 150 pages it covers more than a person could hope to absorb in many years, if not a lifetime. We may know the Buddha's famous insight that human pain and suffering result from desire and aversion. But few writers have been able to articulate as well as Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n the implications of that insight in ways that make sense to the Western mind. As just one example from this book, her discussion of the "six kinds of loneliness" (chap. 9) illustrates how our desires to achieve intimacy with others are an attempt to run away from a deep experience of ourselves. Our continuing efforts to establish security for ourselves are a denial of fundamental truths, which prevents our deeply experience of the joy of living. Our reluctance to love ourselves and others shrivels our hearts.Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n invites us to be fascinated, as she is, by paradox. On hopelessness and death (chap. 7) she writes: "If we're willing to give up hope that insecurity and pain can be exterminated, then we can have the courage to relax with the groundlessness of our situation. This is the first step on the path." She gets us to acknowledge our restlessness (even our spiritual restlessness) for what it is, something we do instead of simply paying attention to ourselves in the moment and to what happens next, without judgment or preconceptions.In addition to this book, I recommend acquiring one or more of her audio tapes and hearing her voice as she speaks before audiences. For all the high-mindedness that may come across in descriptions like the one above, or what you might take away by reading the cover of her book, Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n is down to earth and unpretentious, speaking in her American accent (don't let the appearance of her name fool you) and with a self-effacing sense of humor. Her message is in her manner, as much as it is in what she says.This is a book to buy and read, and reread at intervals, for it is always new, always speaking to you exactly where you are, right now.
5 This is the very best book I have ever read regarding tough times, getting through, self acceptance, navigating the self, finding any moment of peace you can, and learning how to find your way.  I own it on paper and electronically.  I read it all the time, loan it to friends.  Just amazing.
5 Pema's advice and insight served me well the first time I read this book and every time since, when I've picked it up to remind myself how to put myself back together after a particularly debilitating event. Since it's publication I have given a dozen copies to friends going through tough times. This recent purchase was for just that purpose.
5 Pema Chodron is an extraordinary woman/monk.  Her personal life prior to becoming a monk and her years of studying under the most notable teachers, have given her a clear perspective about how to handle the world as it is today.  It is not focused on doctrine nor a religion, although she certainly is Buddhist.  I love her books and this one saved my life.&#34;To the extent that you allow yourself to be annihilated over and over again, do you find that which in you is indestructible&#34;.Pema Chodren
2 I kept trying over and over to get through just 15mn. of this CD (Auidobook) but every time I would drift away into doing something else, all I ever heard was a woman talking and talking and talking, and not really saying anything at all. I was waiting for something magical but it just never came. I think there's some wisdom in there some where, I just couldn't find it.
4 Chodron is a strong-willed Buddhist monk that has words of wisdom, only earned from years of training and difficult life circumstances. "When things fall apart" takes the reader on a brief journey through Chodron's dissolving marriage and segues to the inner teachings of the human mind.I loved Chodron's messages regarding the blame of others. When we feel the urge to blame others, it is often a form of ego protection. By defending ourselves and putting off the blame, we are unaffected. But this form of defense leads to a distancing effect. By blaming others or feeling the inclination to do so, we are effectively pushing people away.The author and many Buddhist teachings emphasize hope; or rather, hopelessness. Chodron hammers away at this emotion, suggesting that you face the hopelessness. Only by embracing the debasement can one grow to live in the new. Give up. Give in. Live and swim in the hopelessness. Alas, this deeply moving section leaves you feeling just that... But in a growing, joyous sort of way.In heightened debate, there can be an urge to "win." Chodron is wise to point out that engaging in this opinionated discourse can leave both sides losing. Essentially, the emphasizing "rightness" has no place in peaceful conversation. This takeaway seems to have particular applications with significant relationships and friendships.The last piece that really moved me was on negative self-talk. We have a tendency to beat ourselves up. In one of the fundamental tasks of being mindful and Buddhist, we can beat ourselves up for not meditating enough, not removing distractions, and not doing things well enough. Rather than remove or beat back the negativity, it is recognizing the talk as simply "thinking." Letting the thought pass...Overall, the book has a number of secrets to a well-lived, meaningful life. But, at times I felt like I was getting half the story (hence the one star missing). She is a terrific writer, but I'm still searching for a lot of the greater meanings wrapped in her words.
5 I have been meditating for years and appreciate Pema Chodron's practical wisdom for those with deep tendencies toward doubt and fear. No book can replace a live teacher and practice with others, but this book gives encouragement and clearly points out the way through doubt and fear. Hard as it is, I've learned that the most important teaching and the most vital experience of our lives is right in the midst of suffering. While all the book is insightful, I especially recommend chapters 6, 7, 9, and 18.
5 This book was recommended to me because during this time, I lost my dad and I was grieving. I am not familiar with the teaching of Buddha. I never read or study it. When Things Fall Apart is not the kind of book I would normally read. But I was curious and I respect and admire the person that recommended it.The book goes against the grain of what we are taught about suffering and pain. Chodron says that life is suffering and that through suffering we get closer to enlightenment. I don't know, suffering and pain hurt. I habitually try to avoid pain, distract myself, repressed it and do everything to avoid pain. She said do the opposite. And it took me to the end of the book to finally , gradually agree with her. I dont want it embrace the pain but I am not going to struggle with it- like a wave , I am not going to swim against it but rather let it take me to where ever it will take me. That is hard for me. But I am willing to try it.My takeaway from this book are:  I love the analogy of YOU ARE HERE in maps of places. That is actually a piece of reality, we are delusional when we think we have plenty of time-we don't. The only time that exist is- You Are Here X in life. I like the meditation part, although I never meditated. She talks about breathing in , the negatives not just for you but for all the people that are feeling the negative energy and breathe out the light, the positive. I tried it , I felt better. Chodron talks a lot about loving yourself, be compassionate with yourself, all parts, find the beauty in you and be kind with your flaws.I will end that Chodron says when you stuck stop doing the same things you done in the past, unstuck yourself by letting go and go into new paths. Do things differently from your past.
5 Quite possibly the most impacting book I have ever read in my life.  I picked this up when I thought things were going wonderfully.  I had no idea how much more there was in life.  "As I become more wholehearted in my journey of gentle honesty, it comes as quite a shock to realize how much I've blinded myself to some of the ways I've caused harm. My style has been so ingrained that I've not heard when others have tried to tell me, either kindly or rudely that I am causing harm by the way I am or the way I relate with others. I've become so use to the way I do things that somehow I thought that others were use to it too."  Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.  Heart advice for difficult times, intimacy without fear... I honestly avoided this book because of the Buddhist perspective.  Instead, it was a beautiful LIFE perspective, not a book on Buddhism.  Coming from a thick Christian perspective, I found this book to have a healthy, fertile journey of what everyone who wants fullness, peace, healing.  Absolutely the most wonderful book I have ever read.
5 Read this some time ago and gave it to someone else. It fits about any circumstance one might find themselves in and offers a way to find perspective and a path to self awareness. I bought this one for a friend who was having some difficulties.
5 Pema Chodron is a beloved American Buddhist nun who trained under Chogyam Trungpa, the at times controversial Tibetan meditation master. Yet whatever qualms you may have in mind about him, please don't let that taint your perception of Pema. She is truly a shining, clear and loving teacher among us today.In this book Pema draws from the traditional Buddhist wisdom in order to give us thorough and kindhearted advice on what to do when, as the title suggests, "things fall apart." There is only one approach that grants lasting benefit, Pema tells us here, and that entails approaching these situations with openness and inquisitiveness. Teaching us to embrace our painful emotions, she shows the way on how to gain both wisdom and compassion not just towards and for ourselves, but for all people."The Tibetan Buddhist equivalent of Harold Kushner's "When Bad Things Happen To Good People." - Publishers Weekly"This is a book that could serve you for a lifetime." - Natural Health Magazine
5 You might think, because this is a slim book, that it will be a quick read, but my advice is to really take your time with htis book. Chodron's advice is straightforward and simple, but it has a lot ot offer and some meditation will certainly make it sink in deeper.Take your time and really appreciate the words, the advice.I know this book has helped me through some difficult times, as well as helping me forgive myself. Things fall aprt, but eventually they come together again and fall apart again.
4 There were times, as I read the words, pondered the insights of these writings, that I wanted to launch the book across the room. They were exposing the rawness of my heart and soul. I eventually just simply allowed those feelings to rise and quickly dissipate, coming to realize that raw exposure wasn't so bad after all. Such an amazing read. Looking forward to stopping my habitual wheel and living in the now. Compassionately.
5 I suppose well-intentioned souls have written at least several hundred "self help" books. I may have read twenty or thirty of these, perhaps more. This is the best. Maybe it's because I'm 80 years old, or because I'm going through an especially difficult time in my life. But Pema Chodron's book really helped me get to a good place. I'm so grateful to have it. I read it over and over.
1 I'm giving this very good book one star so I can join the one-star people here at the bottom, and say something in reply to their anger and despair. They are angry at Trungpa and then at Pema, because the message coming from the former and followed by his disciple is, you cannot escape the pain of your obsessions unless you are willing to lose them. Meditation is not a soothing massage after which you can jump right back into the habits that harmed you in the first place. What kind of progress are you making, then? And what is continued bondage to obsession, but despair?Whether or not you practice Buddhism as a religion, there is no sense in practicing it unless you understand your personal goals to be caught up in compassion. A number of the complainers here talk about depression as a good reason to turn away from others and seek some kind of palliative numbness. Do that if you want to, but in time you will find yourself disappointed with your practice, and distracted by your anxiety and selfishness, which will continue to threaten you. You will find yourself drawn, after all, to compassion. If it was good enough for the Buddha, it should be good enough for you. Your depression and those distractions are one and the same thing, and compassion is the key to unlocking them, and dissolving the depression while turning away from selfishness and your inventory of reasons for anger. This is all very good advice, and I've done a spotty job of following it, but my own progress in alleviating depression has, without question, begun with compassion for the people I perceived as my enemies. You can choose to be healthy or sick, but you can't choose to be healthy while hanging on to the habits that made you sick in the first place.I'm being incoherent here, because I'm trying to outsmart you and convince you -- not much of a success, really. What hurts me about the supposedly helpful, apparently well-meaning people who hate this book is, it's one of the few things i've read that really helps to alleviate (my own) long-term depression. They represent Pema and her teachers as heartless -- as lacking compassion. And compassion is what she teaches. So they are, in my experience, both wrong and destructively wrong. This inspires me to try to defend a practice that has survived for over two thousand years with no help from me. So my apologies to all the one-star voters: we will all end with compassion, arriving at the pace we choose.
5 A lovely book to be read in small  bits.  If you are interested in meditation and living in the present moment it is inspirational as well.
5 If you took a man with the highest IQ of the modern day and transported him back to the 10th century and then fed him only the knowledge of the time and asked him "This patient is dying, knowing the knowledge we have should we engage in bloodletting to rid his body of the toxins ailing him"He'd probably say yes. And that my friends is the poverty of rational thought. This book is really insightful and immensely deep. The concepts and examples are...mind blowing. But at the same time; even though the author presents the most bullet proof and insightful solid logic for things like "embracing pain" and "accepting that there will be suffering" it is still mired by the poverty of rationality. I found this book to be slightly dangerous for me, engaging in almost sadistic practices to experience what the author was trying to describe.The book is great for a completely different outlook on life and why things happen. Its an interesting read and sure to make you think; at the same time I would think about and always keep in the back of your mind the pitfalls of solid bullet proof logic. One of our greatest failings as Human Beings is the non-acceptance of the fact there are things we simply cannot possibly know.
5 I received this book at a time when I needed it most.  What I enjoyed was the tone of the writing and the way the book itself was constructed.  It will look wonderful on my shelf when I am finished; and, it is presently the perfect size to take with me in my backpack, etc.Several of the topics which had remained open questions to me  were finally answered.  I felt a &#34;sharing&#34; with the author that was, also, a comfort.It arrived early and in great condition.
5 I have never been a person who believed that a book could truly help change a person's attitudes and lifestyle.However, this book altered my opinion.Different than any self help book I've ever read. If uses Buddhist beliefs and rituals to help you make positive changes.I cannot praise this book nor the author enough.
5 This book continues to be the star jewel in my treasure of motivational and spiritual books.  It's simplicity is it's strength and every page provides thought provoking advice.  It's the written version of the "Magic Eight Ball".  Remember as a kid, you'd hold the magic 8-ball in your hands, close your eyes and focus on the overriding question in your mind, then after a vigorous shaking, you'd turn the 8-ball over to see it's answer?!Well, this book is the grown up version of that only far more sound in it's guidance than a simple "yes", "no" or "maybe".  When in a quandry or merely in need of a different perspective, I refer to "The Answers".  I have given this book to many friends as a gift and they all were surprised to find how often they really do pick up "The Answers" and reflect.  It's a great coffee table conversation piece as well.  As the author hoped, it has indeed become a good friend to me!The introduction reads:"The values of friendship are many but one important essence of a good friends is their readiness to offer support and advice.  And, as you use this book, I hope that over time you will come to regard it as a friend, always there to give a few useful and helpful words.To use the book is easy and it is based upon one of the oldest divinatory systems, that of divining by lines or picking a passage from a book at random and applying it to your situations.  It is known that the ancient Greeks and Romans consulted the works of Homer and Virgil for divinatory purposes and since then, many have used the Bible, the I Ching and dictionaries or drawn from books chosen by chance.  However, the chosen lines can be difficult to interpret or apply to what is being asked.The Answers has been written and compiled specifically for the purposes of divining by lines and throughout it's pages are proverbs, maxims and advice that have been included for their value and insight.  It makes this ancient divination system easier to do and understand.In using this book, it is best to quiet your mind and think over the question, issue or situation you want to address.  Keep your thoughts simple and clear.  Then, with your question firmly in mind, close your eyes and open the book at random or flick through the pages until you feel ready to stop.  When you have made your choice of page, open your eyes and discover the response given.Read it carefully and reflect on it's meaning and how the sentiments could apply...."
2 "Experience the mysterious power of The Answers-your instant oracle for any question. Contained within these pages are memorable quotes and words of wisdom to guide you and inspire you. Simply close your eyes, focus clearly on a yes-or-no question, and flick through the pages until you sense the timing is right to stop. Open the book. On that page you will find the solution you need." -Neil SomervilleBibliomancy is one of the oldest forms of divination and uses books to obtain answers to questions. The word bibliomancy is derived from the Greek word biblos, which means paper or book. Usually, bibliomancy is done with a sacred book, but can actually be done with *any* book. The user picks a line or passage from the text at random, and then applies it to the situation in question.Author Neil Somerville has taken this oracle a step further by creating a book called The Answers. This attractive hard cover book was written *specifically* for the purposes of divining via proverbs, maxims, and advice. The pages are not numbered, and the advice section is to the right. The left hand page merely depicts a finger pointing to the advice. A red satin ribbon bookmaker is attached to the book, which is a nice touch.Some of the maxims you'll find in this book include:* Keep Your Wits About You.* By Doing, Important Doors Will Open.* Consider Your Reasons More Carefully.* Avoid Wishful Thinking. Deal With Situations As They Are.* What Have You Got To Lose By Not Acting? If Little, Go Ahead.* Be Hopeful. You Have Great Strengths To Draw Upon.* If Present Actions Disappoint, Try Another Way.* To Progress, Get Further SupportOther advice comes in the form of quotes:* A Short Cut Is Often A Wrong Cut. - Danish Proverb *Be thorough** We Do In Haste And Repent At Leisure. - German Proverb *Avoid rash action** Wisely And Slow: The Stumble That Run Fast. - William Shakespeare *Take more time** In The Long Run Men Hit Only What They Aim At. - Henry David Thoreau *Be clear in your aims** All Things Are Difficult Before They Are Easy. - Thomas Fuller *It is worth the effort to reap the benefits*Each time I tried using The Answers, I turned to quotes that were irrelevant to the question and quite general in scope. Then I decided to look through the book to read more of the aphorisms and found them to be fluffy, trite, and uninspiring. The beauty of using bibliomancy with sacred texts or other weighty volumes is that passages often "speak" quite a relevant message related to the query, with intuition filling in the blanks regarding nuance. The idea of creating a book specifically for bibliomancy is a good one, but it would have to be filled with more profound wisdom and thought-provoking ideas than The Answers to be useful, in my opinion.If you're someone that is used to more profound forms of divination such as Tarot or I Ching, you'll likely be disappointed with this book. However, if you're looking for a handsome book as a gift for those curious about divination or for those who like to read and collect quotes and proverbs, The Answers may be just the book you're seeking.A great bibliomantic book, though, is Angel Answers: A Celestial Oracle by Juan Nakamori. It's designed to be a book oracle, and is quite accurate.
5 This is a great little treasure of a book and yet more than a book actually. Instead like unto a mirror reflecting what our &#34;highest self&#34; or God would say to us...to inspire and encourage us for the journey.I was impressed by my husband when he just walked up and said &#34;I'm getting this one&#34;! He is not bigon book stores and have to almost drag the man into one literally! But that day something extra good was in the air andwe had a great time wandering and browsing around Barnes and Noble this time &#34;together&#34;. Nice to share my bookstore momentsfinally...
4 This is a book you'd use when you want some sort of guidance to questions that need either a "yes" or "no" answer.  And I use it every now and again when I don't want to think too much about a question I have because there are too many threads that I can grasp hold of and try to find meaning in.In a nutshell I use it when I want a fast answer/guidance that to a question I don't want to think about too much.In the end however any decision we make in our life is based on what WE want as individuals and no book on earth will give us the definitive answer to any question, what we can get from this book is a sense of guidance, and remember this, you don't have to follow what answer/guidance is offered in the book, it's not written in stone and YOU have free willIt will do well to remember that when you use this book.
5 Calvin Coolidge--"Do what you can do now."I collect quotes so I was very happy that this book found me.  Yes, you heard right.  I was shopping for the ultimate Nursing Diagnosis/Care Plan book and was drawn to a section and saw this book, liked the size and the lovely red cover with gold and of course the title which intrigued me so I picked it up and randomly opened to, "The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it." With a chuckle and a smile, I purchased it with my other books.  "Answers" is full of wisdom--including some anonymous and many quotes from great people along with proverbs from many cultures. I believe quotes are like windows to the soul of the speaker, the heart of something they learned, more often than not--the hard way--and wish to share to make someone else's load a bit easier.  This book isn't meant to give you all the answers you are seeking, as only you can do that; "Answers" is here to give you smile, a word of wisdom and just perhaps, if you'll let it, give you a little push in the right direction.  I hope we all find our answers.  If we want to find them, we've just to be bold and to begin andSoar!
5 Each quotation provides nice food for introspection and analyzing how it might apply to your current situation. This is the main interest of all "oracles", in that they provide you with a posibility of confronting your analysis of your situation with another viewpoint. That's one of the aspects of the meditation process: reconsidering one's beliefs. This one is full of it.
5 I have really enjoyed reading Purple Hibiscus by Nigerian born writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche. She is an admirer of her compatriot, the writer Chinua Achebe, who wrote, amongst other things, Things fall apart. This might explain why the opening words of Purple Hibiscus are: "Things started to fall apart at home..." Even if the use of these words is purely coincidental, they provide a very apt summary of what is going to happen during the following 300 pages.The story is narrated by 15 year old Kambili. She and her brother Ja Ja are the children of Eugene, a wealthy industrialist living in the town of Enugu. Their father, who can best be described as a religious fanatic/nutcase, loves them dearly but needs them to conform to his every ambition for them. Thus, coming second in class rather than, is worse than failing completely.The tale begins soon after there has been a coup in Nigeria. Eugene, who edits a newspaper that refuses to kowtow to anyone, employs an editor, whose critical writing attracts the fatal attention of the new regime's hit men. His death does nothing to ease the stress he always imposes on himself, and this in turn causes him to punish his children excessively to the point of causing them serious injury. At times he behaves like a Crusader, defending the faith of his own children by resorting to cruelties, which seem totally incompatible with the parental affection, which he always professes after inflicting a terrible punishment.Aunty Ifeoma, Eugene's widowed sister, lives and teaches at a university in Nsukka. She has three children, is also Christian, but has a far more easy-going approach to religion than her brother. For example, her children are allowed to watch television when the erratic power supply allows, and are also permitted to see, to spend time with, her and Eugene's father, Papa-Nnukwu, who lives in Abba.Eugene and Ifeoma's father is not Christian, and has no desire become one. When, early in the book, Aunty Ifeoma takes Eugene's children to see their grandfather, Kambili and Ja Ja are reluctant to get out of the car to greet him because, as Kambili explains: "... Papa-Nnukwu is a pagan." Ifeoma refutes this by saying that he is not a pagan but a "...traditionalist." Eugene, who will have nothing to do with his father apart from sending him money, is not pleased that his children have had contact with a pagan.Against his better judgement, Eugene allows his sister to take his children to spend a few days in her home in Nsukka. On this first visit, Kambili and Jaja are like fish out of water in Ifeoma's home. Ifeoma, who is a no nonsense, larger than life, open-hearted person, lives in a crowded book-filled flat - a complete contrast to the orderly home in which Eugene and his family live. Kambili's cousins regard her and her brother as oddities, and the reverse is true. Ja Ja begins to adapt to the new environment, but Kambili, fearing her father's disapproval, fights against adapting.Enter Father Amadi. He is a new member of the chaplaincy of the University of Nsukka, young and attractive. He dresses casually and is a frequent visitor at Aunty Ifeoma's house. When he first meets Eugene's children, and says: "Nsukka has its charms", Kambili thinks that he has: "... a singer's voice, a voice that had the same effect on my ears that Mama working Pears baby oil into my hair had on my scalp." And thus begins her infatuation with a man who has taken the vow of celibacy.Kambili's first visit to Nsukka is brief, but is the first of many for a variety of reasons, which I will not disclose to spoil the book for those intending to read it. The more informal, even though materially more difficult, life in Nsukka provides Kambili with an increasingly more attractive contrast to the rigid, but more affluent, life that she and her brother lead in Enugu. As the political situation impinges more on Eugene's life, the environment and atmosphere in his sister's home in Nsukka becomes increasingly appealing to Kambili, as does the prospect of seeing Father Amadi.Gently and beautifully, Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche describes the downfall of the family both in Enugu and in Nsukka, drawing us gradually towards an extraordinarily tragic ending. In unfolding her story, she introduces the reader to the customs, foods, and many other aspects of Nigerian life without, as so many writers tend to do, making her narrative seem like a series of chapters of a book, which might be titled an "Introduction to Nigeria".Read The Purple Hibiscus. You won't regret it!
5 The story evolves around a Nigerian family - narrated through the voice of 16 year old Kambili Achike. The voice is lucid, and we get insight into corrupt governments and their politics. Kambili's father is extremely religious, and is too conscious of his patriarchal role in the household...he often abuses his wife and children in the name of God. Papa will not hesitate to flog his wife or his children when he feels that they have sinned. This family is a microcosm of Nigeria in many ways. According to Adichie, the are so many churches being formed at every corner in Lagos, and yet Nigeria remains one of the most corrupt countries. Kambili and her brother Jaja are prisoners in their own home, until they take a visit to Nsukka, where Aunty Ifeoma lives. Kambili falls in love with Father Amadi, a young Catholic priest who also helps to morph her into a free spirit.The story is all too real. I know people in life who are carbon copies of the characters in the book. "Purple Hibiscus"  reminds one of how Africa - with its dozens of countries and hundreds of languages - faces similar ills, and shares many cultural aspects. Yes, this novel is also a celebration of Igbo culture - - its cuisine and language. Adichie uses a sizable Igbo vocabulary, but does it very effectively without saturating the novel.The story is very life-like and there are many lessons to draw from. It highlights family life and generational conflicts in Nigeria. It is an amazing debut, I am eagerly awaiting her next work!
4 Kambili Achike, the heroine of Purple Hibiscus dwells with her brother, Jaja and their mother, Beatrice, in an opulent but abusive environment dominated by their tyrannical father, Eugene Achike. Eugene, an influential business tycoon, is a catholic fanatic and a tyrant whose benevolence to outsiders completely masks his cruelty to family members. He neglects his aged father financially for retaining his traditional beliefs and suffocates his wife and two children with regular beatings and idealogies that stunts their growth psychologically. Their mom suffers miscarriages from these beatings, Jaja ends up with a deformed finger for not placing first in his catechism class while Kambili's growth is stunted psychologically and she is mistakenly labelled in school, a backyard snob.All that change when the kids vacation at their aunt's, Ifeoma, in Nsukka. The environment is a contrast to their home: Loving, free spirited but devoid of their wealth they are accustomed to. As they heal from their father's abuse in this nurturing atmosphere, they return home with their new found freedom and rebel against him. Jaja deliberately misses Holy Communion, to their dad's anger and consternation, Kambili refuses to part with the painting of their grandfather and finally, their mother commits a heinous crime to free them from the constant abuse. Adichie touches on the secrecy of domestic abuse and their rebellion to enact changes in their lives. Amaka, rebels against the Catholic Church by refusing to adopt an English name to validate her confirmation, Eugene, battles the overnment with his pen, Kambili, challenges her cousin during a confrontation over food prepation while her long suffering mom, Beatrice, permanently puts an end to her husband's abuse. In the outside world, the masses are clamouring for change in the society through civic disobedience.Interesting and deep novel.
5 I finally managed to get my hands on a library copy of Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. I'm glad I did, because it's a truly beautiful book.Fifteen-year-old Kambili lives in Nigeria with her parents and her older brother Jaja. Her father Eugene, a rich businessman and the owner of the only indipendent newspaper in the country, is considered a model of generosity and political courage. But he's also a fanatic Catholic and a tyrant at home, imposing a strict discipline over his family and lashing out cruel, violent punishment.But everything changes for Kambili and Jaja when they go to live with their aunt Ifeoma, a university professor with three kids. In the new house there is laughter, music, and the ability to discuss matters. Kambili and Jaja discover a new life of independence, love, and freedom. And this will change their future forever.I truly loved this book. Purple Hibiscus is a compelling story about the end of innocence, domestic violence, religious fanatism and the discovery of freedom, against the backdrop of an African country troubled by corruption and dictatorship.If you haven't read it yet, go and grab a copy!
5 Achingly beautiful language in a story with political, philosophical, and psychological drama and realism. At times I wanted to look away at the pain, but the excitement and depth kept me transfixed.
5 A wonderful way to learn about a country different from my own. For me this was a book I simply could not put down. The author made me feel as if I were THERE. I would give 6 stars of I could.
5 Those who know Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie from her short stories have high expectations of her.  &quot;Purple Hibiscus&quot; lives up to expectations.&quot;Purple Hibiscus&quot; is a coming-of-age story set in Nigeria during the Abacha military regime of the mid-1990s, told through the eyes of 15-year-old Kambili Achike.  Kambili's father Eugene, a wealthy Igbo businessman and newspaper publisher, is in many ways a heroic figure; he is a pillar of the church, loyal and generous to his employees and home village and one of the few publishers with the courage to stand up to the military government.  The same fanatic religious faith that feeds his stern public morality, however, leads him to ostracize his father and physically abuse his wife and children.Kambili, who has lived under her father's hand throughout her life, is a shadow of a person as the novel begins.  As the story progresses, she learns independence and self-reliance from her university-professor aunt Ifeoma, her teenage cousin Amaka and the iconoclastic priest Father Amadi.  At the same time, the deterioration of the country and her father's increasingly abusive behavior drive the family closer to collapse.&quot;Purple Hibiscus&quot; is a powerful and sophisticated first novel, and comparison between Adichie and Igbo literary giant Chinua Achebe is not out of place.  Achebe's novels, though, tend toward the epic, using their characters to tell the story of their country.  Adichie has also spoken in this voice, in short stories such as &quot;Half of a Yellow Sun,&quot; but &quot;Purple Hibiscus&quot; is a more intimate portrait.  Politics sometimes intrudes through scenes of student riots and the persecution of one of Eugene's editors, but most of the political events happen offstage and are seen through their effect on the family.  For all the powerful sense of place in &quot;Purple Hibiscus,&quot; Kambili's story is one that could happen anywhere.
4 I decided to read this book after Chimamanda won an award in London. The book was definitely worth reading. It grips you right from the very beginning and keeps you hooked till the very end. It also delves a lot into the Ibo Nigerian culture that makes me wonder if non-Nigerians can follow the entire story.My only criticism is that the book is very simplistic, which may be a good thing for someone who just wants a very light reading.
5 I couldn't put it down! The story was brilliantly crafted allowing you to feel the pain and beauty of the familial relationships.
5 This is such a beautifully written, raw, heartbreaking book.  There's a great deal regarding wealth and exploring what it really means to be "rich" or privileged.  It is somewhat critical of the impact of the very rigid, self-righteous, culture-obliterating form of Roman Catholicism practiced by some.  Though she attempts to make Eugene, the narrator's father, dynamic, I don't think most readers will leave with the impression that he means well and is merely a product of his environment.  The repeated domestic violence for which he sheds crocodile tears just never ends.(SPOILER ALERT: I'm fairly sure repeatedly killing your unborn children during the process of beating your wife falls under the domain of "mortal sins" but hey, a trip to confession will clean that right up!  His approach to religion made me sick to my stomach)
4 Purple Hibiscus is a strong coming-of-age novel set in Nigeria and narrated by fifteen-year-old Kambili, a young girl beset by family turmoil/violence inside the home and political turmoil/violence outside.Kambili's father is a "big man"-owner of factories,  publisher of a staunchly independent newspaper, philanthropist, and a pillar of the local Catholic faith, financial and otherwise.  Inside the home, however, he is a rigidly religious tyrant who uses violence to keep his family in line, regularly beating Kambili, her mother, and her older brother.  This cycle of internal violence, outward philanthropy is disrupted by two events--the political coup that causes all sort of social/economic disruption and creates an effective background of constant menace and tension, and a trip by Kambili and her brother to a widowed aunt's home, where she sees what a "regular" family looks like.  As the book progresses, tension and violence increase on each front.  Kambili's father's newspaper becomes a target of political intimidation and serious violence as it stands up against the new government. Meanwhile, Kambili's father himself turns more and more violent as his sister's influence begins to cause cracks of disobedience to appear in his family.The voicing by Kambili is wonderfully done, made up of quiet observations detailing her fears and doubts.  Is this how people talk, she wonders?  How do they find the courage?  The words?  But her words carry the novel through the scenes of  domestic violence, of political turmoil, of a young girl's first crush (on a young priest she meets while at her aunt's), of a young boy's first few steps into defiance and adulthood (her brother Jaja), of a clash of cultures and religions, of death.While Kambili and her narration are the strong part of the novel, the other characters more than carry their weight.  Each of them, with the possible exception of the mother, is sharply drawn and full of life.  Her aunt, her cousin, the priest, her grandfather-all of them are full characters as opposed to simple role players meant to move plot along.  This especially includes her father, who could have been simply (and simplistically) portrayed as a monster.  He is, but he is also much more.  He shows true courage in his willingness to take on the government.  He shows true compassion in his willingness to spend his money on those less fortunate.  He is a man of faith.  And yet.  He is ruthless in his authoritarianism with regard to his family, refusing to see his father or to let his grandchildren spend more than fifteen minutes a few times a year with him.  And his violence is truly shocking.  Parts of this book are difficult to read, though the author never lingers for long, never exploits the violence for cheap emotional effect.  What makes it even more chilling is how coolly rational the father is when he turns violent. These are not sudden emotional outbursts of an ignorant man but the rationalized discipline of an intelligent man who truly thinks he is doing what he must for the sake of his family (which of course can be read in a broader, more allegorical sense).The book marches toward its end and if it is often dark, the darkness is leavened by some  humor, some warmth, and the small steps Kambili and her brother take toward maturation and toward breaking the chains of their home.  The end, as one would expect, is not a simple, "they all lived happily ever after" ending.  But it is also not totally dark, or even mostly dark.  It is, however, realistic.Finally, while the book focuses on the internal more than the external, Hibiscus has a wonderfully vivid sense of place, conveyed not in long sweeping passages of description but in the small tiny details of day to day life and interaction--the food being cut, the scents in the air, the logistical obstacles involved in taking a drive, etc.  Nigeria is communicated rather than described.An excellent debut novel, strongly recommended.
4 Got it for a book club read and couldn't put it down. I never knew what all was going on in that country.
4 ISBN-10: 1494983095ISBN-13: 978-1494983093Please check out my book with the numbers above. Sure it will interest you just like Purple Hibiscus: A Novel
5 This is one of my favorite books and I have read it several times; each time finding something I missed the time before. My bias lies in my belief that Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie is a ridiculously masterful writer.There are so many aspects of the story that I loved that it is hard to just single out one, but I most closely related to the depiction of the powerful, sometimes dangerous, and sometimes saving hold that family and tradition can have on a young girl's life. The voice of the main character is quiet and fearful at first but as the story moves on becomes more clear and sure.  The reader is able to watch a young girl come of age in a country, Nigeria, that in some respects is also coming of age. I loved the way the protagonist begins finding her voice; first through the help of others, and then through her own determination - with one of the catalyst being love.
5 This is one of the best books that I've read in a long time.  Ms. Adichie is a master story teller.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed my first read by this author.  The characters were real, even though I couldn't understand why they put up with the father, but I put that on seeing things from another perspective.  But  the characters were well developed to me and the story evoked emotion.  I thought this was an engaging first book.
5 I was in Barnes &amp; Noble and was walking past the new fiction section and just happened to pick up this book.  It wasn't on sale and I had never heard anything about it nor had I heard of the author.  So I took a chance and decided to go ahead and pay full price (which I never do)! Suffice it to say, I have not been disappointed.  This book is sooooo good.  It's a slow, mystical kind of read.  It's also shocking, lyrical, and very enlightening.  There's one scene, when Kambili goes upstairs to the bathroom to see what her father wants with her, and I was totally caught off guard.  I will be recommending this novel to all of my friends, family, and of course, my book club.  For anyone who is a parent, I would definitely recommend this book.  I hope to one day meet the author.
5 This is the second novel I've read by this amazing Nigerian writer, and it was as glorious as the first.  The theme is familiar -- a young girl comes of age, stubbornly clings to a love of her father although he is an abusive brute, and falls deeply in love with a man who can never be hers.  However, the texture of the novel is purely Nigerian.  Adichie makes the reader see the landscape, hear the dialect, and feel the winds, rain, temperature -- even the potholes in the road.  The coming-of-age saga is only a part of the narrative's extensive sweep, which draws in the effects of political repression, the clash between Western and traditional African religion, the oppression of women, and the horrors of family violence perpetrated by an autocratic father with no attempts by other family members to stop it -- because they would become the next target.
2 I found this book to be extremely slow-moving with just too much time spent on nothing that moved the story line along.  The end was predictable and I actually regret sticking it out that long when there are so many other books to read.  I am surprised by the other reviewers' ratings!
4 I gave 4 stars because I get tired of reading about seriously dysfunctional families. But I do enjoy reading about life in other parts of our world and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie describes it so well.
5 Told from the point of view of a young Nigerian girl, this story reveals in a most chilling way the harm that missionaries with their proselytizing and religions zeal bring to a culture that was doing just fine without them. What incredibly misguided individuals they are and the havoc they wreak is far reaching. This is religion at its worst.The beauty of this novel is in the young heroine, Kambili's, ability to survive and love despite the world she is forced to live in.There are hints only of what religion did to warp her father into the abusive husband and father that he is. Some of the story is hard to believe, but I suspect it is all too true. When I lived in Mali, friends were deathly afraid of horses. They explained that when they were very young, priests enjoyed Sunday afternoon games of chasing them down on horseback. What is it in religion that can warp a "god loving" man into a monster?
5 Purple HibiscusChimamanda Ngozi AdichieAlgonquin Books of Chapel Hill2003, 307 pages (hard)ISBN # 1-56512-387-55 Star RatingDee Stewart, ReviewerFifteen year old, Kambili barely breaths, speaks or exists in her privileged, but suffocating Nigerian home with her brother Jaja and her parents. Kambili's father's dominance is felt not only in her home, but in all of Nigeria except for her Aunt Ifeoma.  When Aunt Ifeoma persuades Kambili's father to allow the children to visit her in Nsukka, while they are on holiday. Kambili and Jaja's minds blossom into free spirits. JaJa learns the beauty of life, while Kambili falls in love with a handsome young priest. How will these two go back to such a strict and abusive home when they have been surrounded around love and the beauty of the purple hibiscus?Adichie writes so effortlessly that you find yourself transported to Nigeria, smelling the rich soil and tasting the flowers. Purple hibiscus is a superbly written work. It is enchanting and engaging all at once. One of my favorite lines in the book is :I love short works of fiction be it short stories or novellas, because they cut to the chase and tell the story matter-of-factly. Yet, this novel does the same thing. From the first page, you know the conflict, the characters and a hint at the ending all at once. After the third page, I was excited to know the end. It was a page turner, which forced me to either stay up late at night or throw the book on the floor, to make myself go to sleep. This book will haunt you for months after you have put it down.Adichie does an excellent job at fleshing out her characters. She makes them real at an instant. Kambili is so shy and afraid to live that you want to take a flight to Nigeria and remove her from that mansion. JaJa is so strong and silent that you want to shake him to make him scream. Their mother, Beatrice is such a caterpillar. You wait for her to become the butterfly and I can see Father Adami's clay colored skin and brilliant smile in my mind, behind my eyes. Adichie makes these characters so likable and so real.This book and its cover reminds me of Olympia Vernon's Eden, but it is set in Nigeria not Mississipi. Both books brilliantly tell the story of people of African descent in such a magical way that you feel power in every page. You feel this undying will that manifests the struggle of African people, their struggle to be heard, recognized and loved. Purple Hibiscus is as timeless as the sand and as beautiful as the flower it is named after.
4 This is the story of wealthy Nigerian family with a deeply religious father who gives generously to family, the community, and other charitable causes; a loving mother; and two successful children (Kambili and her brother Jaja) who perform at the top of their classes in school.  It also the story of a family wracked by domestic violence, a father with an uncontrollable temper, and two children who obey and perform through profound fear.  Same family.  Fifteen-year-old Kambili narrates the story as she and her brother go to visit their father's free-thinking university professor sister, and attitudes begin to change.The story is emotionally difficult (as it should be), and it never bores (although I occasionally became frustrated with Kamibili's unrelenting shyness).  Adichie - the author - effectively portrays the complex relationships between domestic abusers and their victims, the entwined fear and love and pride and anger.  Adichie takes advantage of the father's adoration of the West to get in a number of clever jabs at Western culture, and she uses the university professor aunt and her children to espouse a number of messages.  (The aunt experiences - for example - the capricious nature of the process of applying for an American visa; for a much better characterization of that, however, read Kiran Desai'sThe Inheritance of Loss.)I can see why this was only shortlisted for the Orange Prize whereas Adichie's more recent book,Half of a Yellow Sun, actually won the prize.  Both books are emotionally effective, but Half feels more epic while it plays out on the backdrop of a major historical event (the Biafran War).  Hibiscus is more of a domestic drama, although Adichie seeks to illustrate the challenges of life in Nigeria with a military coup, a significant amount of political intrigue, police oppression, and other dynamics.One critique I had was with a subplot detailing Kambili's first love interest, a priest.  The future of the relationship was ambiguous enough to create real discomfort (she is fifteen and he is an adult, after all), and the reader experiences enough discomfort from the primary family relationship to satisfy all discomfort quotas for years to come.I listened to the unabridged audiobook narrated by Lisette Lecat (published by Recorded Books, 10 CDs).  Lecat is an excellent reader as always (she also narrated the excellentDon't Let's Go to the Dogs TonightandThe No.1 Ladies' Detective Agencyseries), but I couldn't help being bothered by the erroneous accent: Lecat is South African, and that accent is very distinct from the Nigerian accent.Minor critiques aside, I highly recommend this fine example of modern Nigerian literature.[Note on content: the book contains graphic (not gratuitous) domestic violence.]
5 This book I would definitely recommend.  In fact I would recommend all of Chimamanda Adichie books.  She's a superior writer.
5 A journalist from the Times in London remarks that this is the best debut novel he has read since Arundhati Roy's 'The God of Small Things'. Indeed, this is a remarkable first novel by a 26 year author. Writing from the heart and no doubt using her experiences growing up in Nigeria, Adichie has produced a book that makes you intimately share every experience of Kambili, the narrator. You are enraged at the abuse she suffers from her father, a zealot who loves his children in his own twisted way while disowning his father for not converting to Catholicism. You feel the pangs of a first, forbidden love with her. You share her very existence as a girl who is perceived to be so rich and fortunate- but who cannot even linger to talk to friends at school or watch television or listen to pop music.This is a beautiful novel. The characters are complex and thought-provoking. I could not figure out the father character, how he seems to genuinely love his wife and kids and even suffer along as he inflicts terrible pain and torture on them. In contrast are his sister, Aunty Ifeoma, and her lively kids who may want for material things but whose spirits soar. In the background is the turmoil of Nigeria- the corruption, the politics, the shortage of fuel, the power cuts, the unrest.When I reached the end of the book, I found myself hoping for a sequel. What happens next to Kambili, Jaja and Aunty Ifeoma's family? Someone said that you know a book is good when you reach the end and feel you have lost a friend. I felt a bit like that on the last page. Highly recommended.
4 This story tells the story of the maturation of a young girl who is daughter of a wealthy leader in the unstable country of Nigeria. It does a wonderful job of weaving together her challenges dealing with a cousin close to her age who resents her for her wealth and her abusive but loving father.  The strength of the story is her closeness with her brother and her ability to calmly grow from her challenges.  It is wonderful to see her eventually become very close to the cousin because of affection that a young priest who the cousin adores has for her.  The priest helps the cousin see her differently.  Another strength is the family closeness in spite of the father's abuse. Her brother gives the ultimate sacrifice for his mother.  The book doesn't finish the story, but leaves you with the feeling that everything is working itself out.  And no matter what happens, this family, cousins included, will always be there for each other.
4 Combines the intergenerational cultures of old time African culture with the changes that come with more modern influences in Nigeria.
5 This is first-rate historical fiction that reads like a memoir. Written in first person narrative by the main character, Kambili Achike, a 15-year-old Nigerian girl, it is a stunningly original debut novel.Brought up in an extremely privileged household Kambili is brought up by a father who is a religious fanatic, to the point of physically abusing his children and wife when they do not follow the "rules" that he imposes regarding praying, etc. As the children have grown to teens they begin to question many of their father's actions. They are not allowed to visit their grandfather because their father regards him as an "unrelenting pagan" who will poison the children's minds. The narrative is restrained yet luminous and telling.When political unrest begins to strike close to home, they are finally allowed to visit their Aunty Ifeoma's warm, crowded, somewhat impoverished household. They are transported into another world where the children speak freely; there is laughter, music and talk. Slowly they begin to realize the extent of their imprisoned lives.The novel is written with sensitivity and originality in wonderful prose. It depicts an unfamiliar culture while describing family values and the universal turmoil of teenagers. I would highly recommend it to book clubs.
2 This book was a bit of a disappointment storywise.  It was very slow to get going.  What was up with the father?  Did he have a psychological disease?  Why did he have such little empathy for his family?  Was it supposed to be because he was so stressed out by the evil government that he had to take it out on the powerless people who loved him?  The father was a monster who was equally as bad as the vile government.  Does he represent a typical Igbo man with power?  The angelic priest was not an Igbo, was he?  The ending was bad.  Did the son or the mother do it?  Either one doing it makes them equally as bad as the father.  The author couldnt make up her mind.  The son must have done it, cause the premise of the book is that Igbo men with power are evil.  Nice that the evil government allows the 3 of them to inherit all of Bad Daddy's money to squander as they wish and live happily ever after without Bad Daddy around.
4 I really liked this novel, the prose was well written and engaging. I found the choice of subject matter compelling and the diversity between two family members with very different views was illustrative of what occurs very often when colonial influences separate the traditional and exchange it for thier vision. We have a man that has so much unrest in the world that he puts up a false front in an effort to keep up appearances in the community and as a result he has managed to terrorize the people that are closest to him and need for him to be the most rational. He managed to push his father away, and had some contempt for his sisters, more because they would not really tow his line, yet instead chose to lead thier lives fruitfully. In the end as life was becoming more difficult, and the same issues continued to resurface, and his world was very small despite his contact with many, many people. It just came to an end as the people that he was supposed to protect and cherish were the people that were instrumental in changing his life.
5 This has been a summer of reading Adichie for me.  I enjoy her writing style and her keen insights into life in Nigeria.A purple hibiscus is a rare flower.  In the book we find that a hibiscus while beautiful and seemingly fragile can survive in the most difficult of circumstances.  Just so, fragile children, fragile women, and indeed fragile families made so by strong men can survive.Adichie takes a look once again at life in the big man lane in Nigeria.  But she also keenly notes the suffering of families and of children.  Most exciting perhaps is her insightful look into how families come to grips with the rituals of the traditional and the rituals of the new.  The reader also learns how a man&#8217;s yearning for the perfect family perfectly corrupts the family he has; how his desire for his children not only to achieve but overachieve throw him and his family into chaos.I give an enthusiastic thumbs up to this sister of the Diaspora as she seeks to inform, to entertain and to tell what is true.  Great reading.
3 I read her book Americanah first and it was so wonderful that my expectations were high for Purple Hibiscus.Not everyone gets to create 2 masterpieces. Still enjoyed it and would recommend it.
5 I loved this book. Will be reading more from this author. I felt I was there in Nigeria with her the whole time.
4 I usually read fantasy, science fiction, and young adult novels, not famous literary works or 'modern adult fiction' (which has got to be the most boring thing anyone could ever imagine).  I heard about this being famous, so I looked at the first chapter in a bookstore and knew I would love it and could buy it.  The prose has the best qualities of the best fantasy and YA novels.  It's lyrical and clear and makes everything you look at feel new and interesting and different, like the way you feel after you come out of a theatre after seeing a really really good movie.  The writing doesn't intrusively interpret or explain things for you.  The dialogue makes every character feel like a real person, three dimensional and distinctive.  If you like reading Diana Wynne Jones, Sandra Cisneros, Gregory Maguire, or Nina Kiriki Hoffman, you will like this novel.  I read it in 2 days during breaks at work and on the bus and staying up several hours later than I should.
5 Admittedly, I wanted to read Purple Hibiscus because I have thought a lot lately about Africa--its role in creation, its role on the globe, and what that means in a post-colonial, post-African slave trade world. I have to check myself in my thinking because I don't want to approach it with an American perspective. It don't want to posit, "if only they were capitalists and democratic", because at the end of the day we are all sinners in God's eyes. And I don't think He gives a hoot about our American ideals. So, I have to come at from a creation standpoint--that He loves us, created us, and allows us to live in this broken, fallen, and suffering world where things like Rwandan and Sudanese genocide happen. Just because I sit in the comfort and luxury of my own culture does not excuse my response as a Christian.Halfway through reading the book I realized that I wanted to teach it, my reasons numerous. It is a modern story, a wonderfully crafted novel, the language is accessible, and the story revolves around abuse, drama, and societal upheaval. In other words, there's enough drama to keep my students' attention. Reading it with my teacher eye (which I will need to do again) changed my perspective.One could say that from a Westerner's perspective PH explains away the problems of third world countries. That it is just another post-colonial novel. But I think that explanation is too simplistic and misses the mark. There is no superficial judgment present in this book.  There are no easy solutions to the problems presented. Characters are drawn (born into) into a circle from which they cannot escape. It exudes with a feel of heaviness, that there is no hope, making Nogozidis's story powerful and subtle. And it's the subtlety that moved me the most. Nogozidi deftly weaves together the core of the novel: a subjection of society to the tyranny of the chaos resulting from political coup. This same theme is mirrored by Kambili's home life . She and her family are helplessly ruled by their father's intimidation which was a result of colonial Catholicism, just as their government is helplessly tyrannical in the fusing of post-colonialism with national leadership.From a Westerner's perspective it's so easy to explain away governmental tyranny, to feel that we don't have those problems. But from a Christ-centered perspective I don't have that luxury.The only possible solution is destruction, or deconstruction, but without an identity either national or self, those options are limited and unavailable.
5 Purple Hibiscus is a vivid, beautifully written novel about a 14 year-old girl named Kambili growing up in a stifling Catholic household in Nigeria.  The story pairs the collapse of the family's strong patriarch who frequently physically abuses his family alongside with the deterioration of the Nigerian society's infrastructure as it undergoes a military coup. Kambili is a very sheltered child who is incredibly insecure because of the repressive regimen her father forces her to follow. Yet, she is looked down upon by her peers and initially scorned by her outspoken cousin because she is viewed as a privileged snob.  When she visits her aunt and cousins she learns how to assert herself and become a more independent individual.Adichie presents you with a portrait of domestic violence very much from the inside. We see the father through Kambili's eyes as a pillar of the community and someone she genuinely loves. Therefore the abuse he administers is seen only as a gesture of love for her own good. It's only when Kambili is pulled out of this horrific environment that she is able to see how wrong it is and understand that this abuse is not normal. While this novel really involves you in the struggles of its characters, it also shows you a lot about the complex political and religious struggles occurring in Nigeria. It's one of those wonderful stories that can broaden your perspective while being incredibly emotionally engaging. This is an amazing first novel from such a young writer and I hope she will continue to write many more books with as much heart and soul as Purple Hibiscus.
4 Half of a Yellow Sun was the best book I'd read in a long time, so I was looking forward to reading the author's other novel. Purple Hibiscus is a good book, but it's one of those first novels that doesn't really demonstrate the author's true abilities.This book is narrated by Kambili, a 15-year-old girl living in contemporary Nigeria. She comes from a wealthy family, and her father is widely admired for his support of the Catholic church and his fearless publication of a pro-democracy newspaper. Beneath the surface, though, he rigidly controls the lives of his family and brutally punishes them whenever they fall short of his expectations. Kambili and her brother don't think to resist until they visit their poor but loving relatives and begin to expand their horizons.Purple Hibiscus does a good job of what it tries to do: detailing the life of its protagonist and the beginnings of change. Adichie writes well and the characters have depth (although they're not as amazing as the characters in Half of a Yellow Sun). Even the abusive father is a fully-fleshed out character rather than a generic antagonist, and the book does a great job of exploring the family's complex feelings toward him; Kambili's proud of her father, she loves him and wants his approval, and we can understand why she feels that way despite everything.If you like immersion in characters' lives, this book has it in spades. We don't have to be told that life in Kambili's father's house is suffocating; the book walks us through every step of it. And there is so much detail about the daily lives of her aunt and cousins that I feel as if I've been their houseguest myself. To the extent that there's a lot of information about a culture I'm unfamiliar with, I enjoyed this (if you're Nigerian, I'm not sure whether you'd like it or not). The downside is that at times, the massive amount of detail about chores and meals and so on seems to get in the way of the plot.... or rather, because Kambili's development depends on this slow and subtle change in her worldview, we have to read through an awful lot of mundane events to get the full picture. Either way, even while it was good, I have to admit to some impatience with the plot.In sum, this book isn't much like Half of a Yellow Sun (and if you haven't read that book yet, go and read it now!), but it's a decent first novel that does a good job at what it tries to do. I plan to read more from this author, but I hope her future novels will be more like her second book rather than this one.
5 Ms Adichie's writing style is captivating, like poetry, or a song...She is a breath of fresh air...Purple Hibiscus is deep and real. Even though I am Nigerian and can thus relate to a lot of what she writes about, being from another tribe and not being catholic still made me have some "Aha" moments.I have to say I was a little shocked by the ending. It was somewhat unexpected and I was even a little sad but it just goes to show how real the story was.It was definitely not a predictable outcome though very plausible.I intend to read all of Chimamanda Adichie's work. I want to write like her when I grow up!
5 Terrific story about a place I knew nothing about previously.  Her books are page-turners with magnificent explanations of people's feelings and the country itself.
5 adichieChimamanda Ngozi Adichie writes about life in Nigeria, Africa. The author specifically writes about two Igbo families. There is Kambili and JaJa. They are brother and sister. They live a prosperous life with their parents. Their parents are Catholic. The father, Eugene,  is very, very strict about his children not becoming heathens. Therefore, he doesn't allow the children to visit their grandfather or their aunt and her two children for long periods of time. This is very sad because Aunt Ifeoma longs for her son, Obiora,  and her daughter, Amaka, to experience a close relationship with one another. It is sad to read about religion used for hatred rather than love. When the children don't obey their very religious father, their punishment is very severe and unbelievable."He lowered the kettle into the tub, tilted it toward my feet. He poured the hot water on my feet, slowly, as if he were conducting an experiment and wanted to see what would happen...The pain of contact was so pure, so scalding, I felt nothing for a second. And then I screamed."The ending of the novel is a shock. I think the ending is also masterful.  The ending proves that the faults of other people have tentacles. These tentacles can kill or severely maim those within reach. I only had one problem with the novel. Kambili meets Father Amadi. She has a heavy crush on him. He seems to have the same feelings about her. I felt the relationship between Kambili and the Father went along too smoothly. It seemed to me the aunt should have been very, very upset about the Father putting aside his vows to look lustfully at her niece. No one seems upset about the situation."Amaka laughed when Father Amadi asked her to come. "Don't try to be nice, Father, you know you would rather be alone with your sweetheart," she said. And Father Amadi smiled and said nothing."Still, the relationship between the two adds flavor to the novel. As did the political situations experienced by Aunt Ifeoma and her brother.  I also thought Purple Hibiscus was very rich because of the two different lifestyles of the families. Aunty Ifeoma is poor. There is an outside toilet. There are many worms crawling in the bath tub because the pipes are old and loose. There isn't always gas for the car. These conditions don't shape Aunty Ifeoma thoughts about people and life. Her hospitality is open handed. She loves to give and share what she owns with the people around her. I think this is the true spirit of Africans. The willingness to share with others no matter how hard their predicament. The Igbos remind me of the Purple Hibiscus. This flower doesn't like too much water. Neither does it like to be too dry. It likes a perfect balance. These two families were in search of that balance like any other people around the world. To find that balance doesn't come without struggle and heartache."It was still harmattan and the earth was thirsty, but Aunty Ifeoma said the stalks might take root and grow if they were watered regularly, that hibiscuses didn't like too much water, but they didn't like to be too dry either."
4 I've been hearing great things about Adichie's work for so long it's hard for me to believe that it's actually taken until just now for me to finally pick up one of her books.  Purple Hibiscus is my first Adichie read and it is a wonderful book, just like I've been hearing for years!I enjoy reading multicultural fiction because it usually introduces me to world events that I know very little about, or at least cultures that I'm somewhat unfamiliar with.  Purple Hibiscus is one of the few books (if not THE only book) I've read that takes place in Nigeria, and the novel definitely provided some of that cultural experience which I so appreciate in multicultural fiction.  The book deals with some of the details of Nigerian government and the ways in which those who spoke against the government were treated (badly).  More than that, though, this book is about Kambili - her family, her life as a teenager in Nigeria, and how she grew up over the course of the novel.What I loved about Purple Hibiscus is that Kambili is just like any other teen stuck in a family situation that isn't the greatest.  She has to deal with her oppressive, abusive father, and with her passive mother, and with navigating her way through life while trying to follow the rules her father (and her church) has set for her.  And generally speaking, Kambili deals with all these aspects of her life in the same kind of way most teenagers would - she handles it okay, but internally wonders when she'll be able to have a better, less restrictive life.  Also, she vacillates frequently between loving and hating her father.  Since her father is such a well-respected man in the community, Kambili is incredibly proud of him, proud to be his daughter and a part of his church.  Yet he is so abusive that she can't help but hate him too.  I like that Adichie showed Kambili having both feelings towards her father; it was incredibly realistic.  Most people who are abused still love their abuser - especially when he/she is manipulative like Kambili's father.  And as Kambili started to grow up a little more, she slowly started to see her father in a new light - started to realize the bad parts of him were more of his personality than she may have previously understood.  I loved reading about her transformation - not only in her feelings towards her father, but in her thoughts about her first love, her feelings on her other family members, and everything else.Purple Hibiscus was a very good novel, I could feel Kambili as if she was a real person, and the story was paced very well.  The secondary characters were interesting and complete and I felt like I got to know everyone in this book extremely well.  And Adichie's writing is simply beautiful.  I know I classified the book as Young Adult, but that's simply because the novel was in the YA section at my library - it could easily be enjoyed as a non-YA novel too.  I absolutely recommend this book and I'm hoping to read more of Adichie's work very soon!
5 Very, very well writen, Domestic violence a very important theme. The characters very humane, some with much more good than bad and mainly one the other way round.A really fantastic novel.
5 Whereas this wasn't a cheerful book there were beautiful descriptions and cheering comments.  Characterization was excellent; the people were believable and I either loved or hated them.  But even the worst...the father..had redeeming features. (his charitable contributions).  The book informed me as to the economic  problems of Nigeria as well as the danger of religious fanaticism.  It illustrates the truth that some, by thinking they are doing good, (like missionaries) really do damage to a foreign culture.
5 I read this title for my book club.  I really enjoyed the bookn Nigeria tremendously.  It was about a family in Nigeria.  I read the book in 2 days on my kindle.  It was difficult to put down.  I would like to read other books written by this autho now.  I enjoy reading books about other cultures.  This is the first book about Nigeria I have read.r.
5 The first chapter you think "uh oh."  The first sentence starts "Things started to fall apart at home . . ." Then there is a broken glass &eacute;tag&egrave;re that gets broken by the father's church missal.  She has managed to pack homages to two famous works - the Glass Menagerie and Things Fall Apart - into the first three pages.  In my mind I'm thinking, this could be a terrible book.  But then I was up until 3 in the morning and would have finished the book if not for the fact that I need at least five hours of sleep.The narrator of the work is the quiet fifteen year-old girl, Kambili.  She is coming of age in a distraught Nigeria that has just had another coup. (Perhaps it's the 1993 Abacha coup, but which one is meaningless.)  She is pulled between her overbearing businessman father and her free-spirited professor aunt.Kambili's father schedules the whole day for his children including prayer time and family time.  He rejects his own father because the old man will not convert to Catholicism.  He has the zeal of a convert, yet beats his wife.Aunty Ifeoma on the other hand is a modern woman.  While she is a Christian she accepts her father's paganism or as she calls it "traditionalism."  Ifeoma also wants to pull Kambili from her shy shell and into the beautiful active woman she can be.In a larger sense, Kambili is Nigeria, or any African gatekeeper state, torn between those who want to copy the whites and those who want to create a new way forward.  The father's way is the way to get rich with money while the aunt's way is the way to get rich with family and laughter.The question is which way should Kambili go as she grows into a woman; and, which way should Africa go as it throws off the shackles of colonialism.  No more can Africans be "like footballs that are kicked which ever way [whites] want."This was a great piece of fiction by the next great Igbo writer.  If this was only Adichie's first novel, I cannot wait to read "Half of A Yellow Sun."
5 This book is a wonderfully crafted piece of fiction that pulls the reader in immediately.  Set in modern day Africa we are brought into the very private and abusive family life of Kambili, her brother Jaja, and their parents, Eugene and Beatrice.  Eugene is the product of colonialism and the Catholic missionaries having come into Africa, and it is within his own family that the circle of abuse continues.  The story is told from the view point of his daughter Kambili who is neither bitter nor angry, but is merely a timid young adolescent trying to understand her place in this world.  Themes are beautifully interwoven thoughout this masterpiece.  Color is a constant thread and often the harbinger of things to come, and the hibiscus are also used in similar manner.  If you are looking for a worth while piece of fiction this is it, and if you are looking for something more you have come to the right place, since I feel this book appeals both to the scholar and the casual reader.  I was unable to put the book down once I got started and would recommend it to anyone.
3 A compelling read but the crux of the plot line isn't fully developed. An interesting story nonetheless. I would recommend this to a friend. &#34;Half of a Yellow Sun&#34; is the one to read, I believe her second or third attempt. I enjoyed this book.
5 "Purple Hibiscus" is the debut novel from Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.  It is the story of Kambili and her family.  Kambili's father is a powerful force both at home and in the family.  He holds fast to his Catholicism he views anyone who does not follow Christ as firmly as he does as a sinner and doomed to a fiery eternity.  He is not simply the father, but the ruler of the household.  Kambili's father sets a daily schedule for Kambili and her brother, Jaja, that they must follow to the minute and they are commanded to be the best students in their school.  While Jaja has a strength to his character, Kambili is meek and has the sense of being emotionally beaten down, though she has a strong narration throughout the novel.The novel is set in Nigeria and it begins on Palm Sunday with a fight within the family.  Jaja is disobedient to his father and this seems like the beginning where cracks start appearing in the family, but Kambili tells us that the true beginning of this story happens earlier than this.  The second section of the novel is "before Palm Sunday" and is set an uncertain amount of time before Palm Sunday (at least, I didn't figure out exactly what the timeframe was).  This section traces Kambili's family and extended family as it leads up the Palm Sunday event, and we learn that the fight was not really a beginning, but an ending, that the fight was the result of all of the time before and the changes that were made in Kambili and Jaja, and by extension - to the family.  Section Three is "After Palm Sunday" and we see the ramifications of that fight and at this point it feels inevitable what happens next.This is a strong, powerful novel, and even though it is set in a location that I have no knowledge of, it is really a novel about a family and a 15 year old girl.  Some things are universal, despite cultural differences.  This story of Kambili and her family is one such thing.  If you put the characters in a different setting (rural America, perhaps), the same story could play out with only a few differences.  This is the power of the story, that knowing nothing of Nigeria, we can understand the story Adichie is spinning.
5 One of my favorite books that I've ever read. It is so.... relevant. I love how Adichie gives us an innocent portrayal of such strong themes. Let's just say this book made me cry.
5 Excellent Book to ReadAdichie is a fabulous writer telling an important story to be read.  I highly recommend it to everyone!
3 This is a well written novel which depicts some quite serious issues in African culture. It's a heavy read though and you need to be in the mood for some serious issues to enjoy this book.
5 It took me a few chapters to get into the story, but once I did I was hooked.  I could babble on and on about the exotic nature of the Nigerian setting, which I did enjoy, but this novel transcends its culture while at the same time honoring it. A story of child and spousal abuse (read the novel for an explanation of my review's title), this is also a tale of a young girl's maturation and self-actualization.  Kambili represents the pull between tradition and modernization, but she also resonates as a survivor and ultimate victor over the traumas of childhood.  This is a very sad novel, but at the same time it is a remarkable tale of the resilience and affirming strength of life itself.
4 This is a wonderful book by a native author. Tale spun with realism and empathy. Told in the voice of a young privileged girl in Nigeria, a girl who follows without question the teachings of her Catholic father, who enforces his messages with physical abuse. You live through her longings, her doubts and yet her unfailing belief. A trip with her brother to visit her aunt brings her an understanding of a different, more empowering way of life. She learns now to laugh for the first time of her life, and yes, she even finds love. Traveling with her brings out your own doubts (especially if you were raised Catholic), but also helps you find your own center. The events that buffet this young girl bring doubt, excitement and finally a sense of certainly to her life. You'll love the trip.
4 The author's command of the youth's narrative voice was superb. I was captivated by the beauty of the land's description, and the language of the people. This story unmasked the secrets in religious customs and the households of ordinary people. The way Adichie weaves the abusive angle of the father into the tale was genius.
4 Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's debut novel set in Nigeria tells a simple story with a depth of details, undertones and overtones.Purple Hibiscus is a first person account by 15 year old Kambili. Envied by her classmates and cousins for her fathers wealth and standing in the community and the church, she is thought of as snobbish, while she is actually a painfully introverted young girl.Her father Eugene, owns a multitude of businesses and helms one of the most fearless newspapers in Nigeria where he and his editor print the news as they see it. An upstanding Catholic, he is held in high esteem for his wealth, power and religious beliefs. All of which dazzle the priests, his community and the folk of his village and blind them to the fanatical edge to his beliefs.As the story progreses, we realise that the terror that Kambili, her brother Jaja and their mother face doesn't stem just from the perfection demanded by their father, but from the very real and frequent domestic abuse that they are all subjected to.Brought up by Christian Missionaries, Eugene renounces his own father for holding onto his ancient beliefs, calling him a heathen and completely cutting him out of his life, only relenting to let his children visit him for a few minutes each year, after his father brings the matter to the village council.Eugene's sister, Ifeoma is not as blinded by her brothers wealth and inspite of having a tough life as a professor and a widow with young children, she refuses to grovel for any monetary help from her brother. Instead, she tries to convince her sister-in-law to leave him for her own safety and that of the children.There are 3 very interesting sets of beliefs and ways of life that are portrayed in Purple Hibiscus. The narrow minded, fanatical Christianity followed by Eugene who leads a privileged life, the traditionalist way of his father who does not even know where his next meal will come from and the middle path that Ifeoma works out for herself and her children while hovering on the brinks of poverty. While they are baptised Christians, they respect their father/grandfather's beliefs, while their mother is well educated and is a professor at University, salaries aren't paid on time, prices are sky rocketing and supplies are low.One summer, realising that Kambili and Jaja know nothing of life outside their fathers strict, unforgiving, disciplinarian and fanatical way of life, Aunt Ifeoma invites just the chilkdren to stay with her family for awhile under the guise of undertaking a religious pilgrimage. And here begins their awakening. While Jaja quickly adapts and learns, Kambili's process is much slower and involves intense internal turmoil.Adichie writes beautifully, her turn of phrase is almost poetic and immerses you straight into Nigeria. She is extremely descriptive and sensitive in her handling of the story. The reader will completely empathise with Kambili within a few pages , rejoicing at each little triumph and shedding a few tears at each set back. While the story could be set anywhere in the world and would hardly change in plot, the strength of Adichies writing is the knowledge of all things Nigerian that come through in each sentence.The description of the food, the smells, the sights, the tastes, the customs all bring the reader closer to life in Nigeria.A poignant read, this is not something you will read for the story line or the plot, but because the words will draw you in and take you on a magical carpet right into the heart of Nigeria.
5 I know I'm being unfair when I say it should have made the short list since I have not had the opportunity to read many that did so -- they are not available in the US.  I chose this book since it had made the long list and was one of the few available here from that list.  As revealed in other reviews, this is a classic story of abuse and denial, told time and time again, but has the ring of actuality about it.  The fact that the background is Nigeria and not a more familiar locale makes it even more compelling.  The revelation that this kind of abuse is prevalent in that corner of the world makes it all the more horrifying, plus the fact that part of the father's abuse is to deny his children access to his traditionalist father and heritage.  As another reviewer has remarked, I look forward to a sequel because these characters are so vivid, I want to know what happened to them once the book was finished.
5 This was an excellent and quick read. I really liked the story and the character development. I would highly recommend.
5 It's a story of a young girl and her young brother as they grow up under a strict father and discover themselves and their freedom. Set in Ibo-land, Nigeria, Purple Hibiscus is a well spun story full of suspense and intrigue. Kambili, through whose eyes and mind the story is told, starts of as mute girl with excellent academic credentials and by the end of the story she is in love with one she will never possess, has discovered her voice through her association with her cousins in Nsuka, and has &#34;lost&#34; her brother through her mother's brave but misguided attempt to liberate her family.This is certainly Ngozi's masterpiece. You will not regret ever reading this story.
1 I appreciated Adichie's exploration into the everyday of a traditional Nigerian family; it is easy to form a picture in one's mind.  However, I expected more.  I came away thinking and feeling "is this it?".  The book seemed to lack a certain substance.Anyhow, I am proud of her accomplishments and have her other book "Half of a Yellow Sun" waiting to be read.  I hope it is better!
4 This was the first book that I read that was set in Africa and I enjoyed it thoroughly!! Adichie does a great job of painting each scene so that the reader can visualize what is going on. I wasn't ready for the book to end because I wanted more!!! Would definitely like to see more from this author about this family!!
5 This book gave me chills and stressed me out. I was living through the eyes of these characters.  I swear I felt every emotion, every violation, every threat of pain. I stopped my breath when they did. Powerful writing!
5 This author is one of my new favorites as she has a writing style that is deeply honest, thoughtful and mature. The way she tells a story pulls you in and makes you feel as if you are living in it, long after putting the book down. I find myself planning my evening (or bedtime) around reading Chimamanda Adiche, I don't want to miss anything! Her novel, Americana is also an excellent choice.
5 I loved this book. I think Adichie is a wonderful writer and makes Nigeria come alive. Some of my friends have difficulties reading African writers because they write in a different way than American writers, but I think Adichie does a good job of infusing both. I read this book because I love African novels. I think many African writers are able to tell (a somewhat fictionalized) a better social history of Africa's near past that most academic books. If you are interested in learning about Africa and particularly about the struggle between tribal beliefs and the adoption of Christianity in Nigeria I think this is a great book. It also gives you a glimpse of Nigerian politics and corruption that is very interesting.
5 Adiche's "Purple Hibiscus" is a beautiful, startling story told through the heart and soul of a 15-year-old Nigerian girl, Kambili, coming of age in a turbulent and corrupt environment amidst a family entwined with both love and violence. Kambili's father, Eugene, is one of the most revered dignitaries of his community, working against corruption and liberally giving large amounts of money and goods to those less fortunate. Yet, at home, he rules with an obsessed and fanatical religious set of unyielding rules, severely beating his wife and children maliciously when he feels that they have not been completely Catholic or when showing what he perceives as heathen-like behavior. I found myself both compelled and horrified by this book, by the growing awareness and intelligence of young Kambili and her almost innocent unbelieving denial and fear at the monstrosities of her over-powering father whom she irresistibly loves and even adores, while also shrinking and wishing to slip far away from her life with him. I loved the young priest, Father Amadi, who believed in and inspired the youths. He had a vision beyond impoverishment and seeming limitations to innate talents and hopeful possibilities. I admired Aunt Ifeoma, who taught at a university and was open and liberal with a large capacity to feel, think and love deeply; abundant with a hearty laugh, quick wit and confidence, speaking and acting in favor of justice and truth. I liked the growing independence of Kabili's 17-year-old brother, Jaja, who openly questioned and rebelled against his father, if only in subtle and occasional outbursts. I cringed at the viciousness against Kambili and Jaja, as well as the mother, Beatrice, who had multiple blackened, swollen eyes, broken ribs and at least 2 pregnancies beaten out of her by her often savage husband. At one point, Kambili is brutally kicked and crippled near death after her father finds her with a picture of his "heathen" father who had recently died without his son's respect and love. I ached for Kambili and the others, even as they found release and new freedom after the death of the cruel and overpowering Eugene and a 3-year prison sentence of Jaja after he "confessed" to poisoning his father to death when realizing that his mother had actually done so. Very unsettling; yet very worthwhile in laying bare the harshness and dangers of over-zealous religious fundamentalism and the complexity and incongruencies in human nature where enormous good and generosity can run closely parallel with depravity and inhumanity.
4 Story Description:Knopf Canada|March 26, 2013|Trade Paperback|ISBN: 978-0-345-80752-6Fifteen-year-old Kambili's world is circumscribed by the high walls and frangipani trees of her family compound.  Her wealthy Catholic father, under whose shadow Kambili lives, while generous and politically active in the community, is repressive and fanatically religious at home.When Nigeria begins to fall apart under a military coup, Kambili's father sends her and her brother away to stay with their aunt, a University professor, whose house is noisy and full of laughter.  There, Kambili and her brother discover a life and love beyond the confines of their father's authority.  The visit will lift the silence from their world and, in time, give rise to devotion and defiance that reveal themselves in profound and unexpected ways.  This is a book about the promise of freedom, about the blurred lines between childhood and adulthood, between love and hatred, between the old gods and the new.My Review:Fifteen-year-old Kambili's home life began to fall apart when her older brother, seventeen-year-old, Jaja, didn't attend communion at church.  Their father, Eugene was a devoutly religious man.  He was so enraged about his son's dismissal of communion that he threw his heavy missal across the room and smashed the figurines on the table.  Kambili's father was always first to receive communion and the only one of the parishioners to kneel at the altar.Father Benedict had been the priest at their church for seven years now but because he was white, the congregation still referred to him as "our new priest."  He often held up Kambili's father, Eugene as an example to other congregants due to his dedication and for speaking out for freedom.  Other Sundays, Father Benedict spoke about, Eugene making the largest donations to St. Vincent de Paul and other organizations, or for paying for the cartons of communion wine and for paying for the new ovens the sisters used to bake the host.  Eugene was dedicated and very rich.Eugene questioned Jaja as to why he missed communion and Jaja said: "The wafer gives me bad breath...and the Priest keeps touching my mouth and it nauseates me."  Eugene was enraged and picked up the missal and flung it across the room toward Jaja.Eugene owned a factory that made chocolate wafers, banana wafers, various drinks and other food stuffs and was very successful.  At lunch that afternoon, the family was taste-testing a new drink that tasted like cashews.  Kambili's mother, Beatrice thought it tasted like wine.  Everyone seemed to enjoy it and commented except Jaja.  This made Kambili nervous as she wanted him to say something nice as their father had not yet punished him for missing communion.  She was hoping a positive comment from him might lighten the atmosphere and make her father forget.Beatrice announces to Kambili that she is pregnant and that the baby would be due in October.  Kambili told Jaja and he told Kambili that the two of them would look after the baby and protect it.  Kambili knew he meant protect the baby from their father, a hugely strict and abusive man who was easily angered and expected perfection from everyone in all that they did and encouraged order in everything.During family time the following day, it was announced on the radio that a coup had happened.  Eugene immediately left the room to call his friend, Ade Coker.  He said that "coups begat coups" then told the kids about the bloody coups of the sixties, which ended up in civil war just after he left Nigeria to study in England.  He said that a coup always began a vicious cycle.  Eugene believed that Nigeria didn't need soldiers but a "renewed democracy."Eugene also owned and operated a newspaper and Ade Coker was his editor.  Ade had been arrested and tortured for some of his opinions he wrote in the paper.  After a week, Eugene was finally able to get him out of jail.  Eugene then announced to the family that beginning immediately they were going to publish underground as it was no longer safe for his staff.A few days before Christmas, the family packed up their three cars and headed for their holiday home in Abba town.  The people of the community there adored, Eugene and called him "omelora" which meant: "The One Who Does for the Community."  During their vacation, Eugene's family fed the entire community and sent all the leftovers home with them as well.For the first time in their lives, Kambili and Jaja are going away for five whole days to stay with their Aunty Ifeoma, Eugene's sister and her children.  Kambili and Jaja are excited as they won't have to listen to their strict and religious father or listen to his heavy footsteps on the stairs for almost a week!When the children returned from Aunty Ifeoma's, Eugene literally tortured them because he learned that his own father had been there as well, and Eugene considered him a heathen.  He felt Kambili and Jaja had lied to him because they didn't tell him on the phone that their grandfather was there.Although, Eugene is a religious man and very kind with his money, he is a cruel, ogre as far as I'm concerned.  His cruelty toward Kambili and Jaja and Beatrice is unforgivable.The ending totally shocked me but as sadistic as it sounds, it made me a tad happy.  What am I talking about?  Well, you'll have to read this wonderful story to find out.There is so much more to this story, I couldn't put it down.  Purple Hibiscus definitely gets a thumbs up from me!
4 In Purple Hibiscus, we listen to the plaintive voice of Kambili, whose skill at language does not extend to the spoken word, as those necessary words remain trapped in her throat, a girl who knows her place and keeps her silence. In Kambili's family, there are too many things "we never talk about". Growing up in the political upheaval of Nigeria, Kambili and her older brother, Jaja, are poster children for domestic violence, quiet, well-mannered, high achievers that their father points to with pride, "his" children: extensions of himself in the world. A generous man, beloved in their village, only Eugene Achike's nuclear family suffers his rages behind closed doors.Jaja's emotions are closer to the surface, more accessible to his spirit of rebellion. But Kambili is her mother's daughter, cautious, constrained and eager to please. Her slow awakening is all the more significant because of the tremendous act of will necessary to break free of her conditioning. This experience is agonizing for Kambili, like the prickling of a limb that has fallen asleep. Her adolescent physical and emotional flowering enhanced by newly found self-expression and self-awareness, Kambili is a product of a world that leaves children unprotected, at the mercy of a merciless man. She is the observer, the reporter, emotionless as she describes the constant abuse. Like a sieve, Kambili filters every action, sorting, learning.Eugene passes on the lessons he has learned in his own childhood, taught by brutal Catholic missionaries who used temporal punishment; the abused is the abuser. Rigid religious instruction, intolerant and unforgiving, is the tool with which this man terrorizes his wife and children. His wife is trapped by her husband's frequent beatings, but the children glean a different way of life in the home of their Aunty Ifeoma. A widow with three children, Aunty Ifeoma exists in borderline poverty, but teaches her children without dehumanizing them. Exposure to this loving family opens Kambili's heart, planting the seed of hope and the promise of a future that offers more than pain and self-discipline.This powerful, yet subtle novel is striking on two levels: one is the subjection of society to the tyranny of the chaos that results from a political coup; the second is the role of family in the formation of children's lives, contrasting a monstrous discipline with the guidance of loving relatives. The political unrest and subsequent difficulties of daily survival are the canvas against which the author defines her young characters, especially significant because of the helplessness of a population ruled by intimidation.In this exotic African setting, the author shares cultural differences, rituals and beliefs. She does so with great skill, describing luxury and poverty alike, the discrepancies of an unequal society. Adichie knows the language of the abused child and speaks simply, directly to her audience. Her native land is Nigeria, but this dialect is universal. She understands that to be heard, one must speak softly. Adichie garners an audience of survivors who respond to personal empowerment, wrapped in hope. Luan Gaines/2004.
4 I think this is a good book with many insights about life in Nigeria.  I could not say, however, that I &#34;enjoyed&#34; it. The horrific domestic violence was just too disturbing for me..  And the fact it was meted out under the guise of religious fervor is even more disturbing.
5 "Things started to fall apart at home when my brother, Jaja, did not go to communion and Papa flung his heavy missal across the room and broke the figurines on the &eacute;tag&egrave;re." This first sentence sets out all the main elements of this debut novel.Narrator Kambili, 15, and her older brother, Jaja, live a life of privilege in Enugu, Nigeria. Their father, Eugene, is not only a wealthy industrialist, and devout Catholic, but also publisher of an outspoken newspaper, critical of the repressive regime.But the glittering exterior hides a rotten core. Eugene, a religious fanatic and Anglophile who despises the old ways to the extent of repudiating his traditionalist father, indulges a sadistic abusiveness when his family fails to live up to his impossible standards. He is always sorry, afterwards, for what they made him do.Then her aunt and cousins visit. "Every time Aunty Ifeoma spoke to Papa, my heart stopped, then started again in a hurry. It was the flippant tone; she did not seem to recognize that he was different, special. I wanted to reach out and press her lips shut and get some of that shiny bronze lipstick on my fingers."And when Eugene is persuaded (against his better judgment) to let the children visit his sister, a new world opens to them. This is no surprise, but Adichie's portrayal of the awakening - amidst a time of political turmoil and fear - is halting and fraught with danger.Replete with beauty and horror, Adichie's novel of self-hatred, fear, and family, with its political/allegorical overtones, is a moving, sometimes breathtaking, debut.
4 I don't know how many of you out there have ever read Nigerian writer. Not do I know what do you expect from one. Being a Nigerian, and being a women, puts Chimananda Adichie Ngozi in an ungratefull position. Critics will expect different kind of voice, one that will open new worlds, and depending on the ideology which they represent, they will try to read  The Purple Hibiscus" according to their own agenda. You should be hearing about oppresion of females, orthodox catholicism and its drawbacks, violent paternalism and many such things which imposes themselves upon reading of this book.Some of them will look for traces of political radicalism, looking to find solution for problem of third world countries. In any case, some kind of ideological reading of this book should be present out there. It is it's inevitable destiny, being what it is.Few people will look upon this novel, as novel itself, without putting it into some kind of dominant or popular discourse. And those who will, what will they find?They will find the story of fear, story of growing up and change of ideals, much of it will be similar (for those of you who have read them) with Hosseini's The Kite Runner" and Levy's Small island", but somehow still it will be different.There is no superficial judgment present in this book, there are no easy solutions to problems presented here. Characters are drawn (born into) into enchanted circle from which they cannot ever escape. Only possible solution is destruction, or deconstruction, but without spare identity in which arms you can ran into, even those options are limited and unavaliable.Those of you who are fed up with stories of growing up in some backwater country, of dominant fathers and lack of justice or some such concept, will not look kindly upon this book. It will seem to them that they've seen it all before. But, in case they choose not to read it, they will miss excellent novel, which precisely draws problems of modernity, in it's modern day appearance. Even though philosophy and possibility of solution presented here isn't as explicit as you might expect, it is still present and it carries the book and it's characters to something more than just another post-colonial novel".There are not many postisms here, there is no unique feminine voice that speaks for the Africans, there is just a novel, carefully written, which will give chance to everyone, for their own solution, and their own, ideological or not, interpretation. Just that should be invitation enough to read the book.
5 I picked up this novel at my local library's annual book sale, and it grabbed me because I enjoy reading authors from others countries and cultures. I had never heard of this author, so I did not know what to expect.The story is told from the perspective of Kambilli, a 15 year old girl living a life of relative privilege in Nigeria. Her world is sheltered in her family's home and in her missionary school. However, while her father can be outwardly generous to those in the community, his behavior in the home is strict and unrelenting, During a period of national unrest, Kambilli and her brother go to live with her paternal aunt, and learn a different way of life, outside of her father's rigid rules and harsh judgments.What I enjoyed about this novel was the ability to experience some of the culture of Nigeria and how the author brought her country alive for me. The characters in her novel also seemed to be full of life and, though sad at times, they really touched me. Easy to read, yet with deep meaning.
2 I liked this book all the way to the end. Kimbali, though too timid, was an interesting and very humble character. She lived to please her father and pleased her father to live. I was also able to relate to Eugene, Kimbali's father, because I grew up in a house under the duress of domestic abuse. Unlike some of the other reviewers, I got the notion that Eugene was abusive primarily because he loved his family... He often wept after beating them, and while he was an overly strict disciplinarian, he was rigidly loyal to the Christian religion (which I could appreciate) and he was an advocate for freedom of the press. He also wasn't afraid to tout off about his favorable views of democracy in his newspaper. In all honesty, I sort of thought of Eugene as the hero of the story, save for his abusive tendencies. But keep in mind, this may be from my own misguided thoughts due to my former presence in a highly dysfunctional family. I grew accustomed to abuse as a child and a teenager, and yet, I still love my father to this day. It's my opinion that had Eugene undergone some very intensive Christian counseling, he may well have been what you would call a protagonist. Suffice to say, I found Eugene to be one of the more interesting characters, both for his monstrosity and his redeeming qualities.My main problem with this novel was the hurried ending. It never was clear who killed Eugene-- the mother or Kimbali's brother, Jaja. And it read as thought the author had been thinking to herself, "Oh yeah, I've got to end this story at a reasonable word count because it's my first novel and the agents may reject it if it's too long for a first timer." Also, regardless of whether or not it was Jaja or Kimbali's mother who killed Eugene, it just wasn't in their character and it didn't come across as believable, thus making not only one character come across as "flat," but two. E.M. Forester sums it up nicely when he says (and I'm paraphrasing here) that a character can be flat if they act in a certain way throughout the course of the novel and unexpectedly do something drastic which doesn't come across as being a believable part of their character so that a plot can be resolved.Overall, this was good for a first novel, and I'd be willing to give the author another chance in the future... I liked the political finagling at the beginning, and Kimbali's love interest in Father Amadali drove the mid portion of the book, but I was SOOO disappointed with the ending. And ya know, the beginning of a book sells the reader on buying that book, but the ending sells that same author's next book, and for the sake of this particular ending, I wasn't satisfied. As I mentioned, however, I will give this author another chance because the novel did have such great potential. Keep in mind, I'm no pro reviewer, but I appreciate you taking the time to read my thoughts and I hope that they were helpful.
5 Purple Hibiscus by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie is actually a young adult fiction title - but it'd be a shame to limit its depth and complexity to teens, so is reviewed here as a recommended pick for adult readers as well. Set in Nigeria, it tells of a privileged teen and her older brother who find themselves increasingly at odds with their father's religious fanatic ways. When the kids visit their aunt, it's to enter a new world of freedom and laugher - just as a military coup threatens the country. Inner and outer turmoil blend in this complex story of politics, religion, and change.
5 The words &#34;beautiful&#34;, &#34;touching&#34;, &#34;amazing&#34;, &#34;wonderful&#34; and &#34;enjoyable&#34; don't even come close to describing this book.  I think the only word I can find to describe it is &#34;real&#34;, which doesn't at all reflect the perfection of writing or storytelling achieved in the pages.  The author made the shortlist for the Women's Prize for Writing and is more than deserving of the notice.  Her words are chosen perfectly and strung together with just enough length to make the point without rambling on.  There are times the words are so well chosen that the shortest sentence makes you blink with the amount of knowledge it contains.Every character feels as real as if they were flesh and blood, standing in front of you, inviting you to their house or walking with you to their car.  As I was reading the book I felt as if I had developed relationships with each of them, I would feel relief when reading about some and feel my body tense in preparation for dealing with others.  I kept this book with me wherever I went so I could bring myself back to this community in Africa as frequently as possible.  A world so far away from my own, became suddenly familiar to me with every page I turned.The only times I found the story difficult were when the first person narrative dealt with the abuse happening in the home, which is where the word &#34;real&#34; comes in, because I was so caught up in the story that I felt I had to pause to protect myself the way someone would hide from what was to come from the anger of an abuser.  I can honestly say that I felt as if I lived with Kambili and her family for a short time and that I will most likely read this book again, so that I can make a return visit in the future.
4 Two thumbs up for this story told from an African perspective.  Kambili the shy young Nigerian girl, and her brother, Jaja, are from a well-to do family that includes their submissive mother, Beatrice and tyrant father, Eugene.  Eugene, a staunch Catholic, rules with a heavy hand and his family is slow to disappoint him.  While on a visit to their Aunt and cousins, Kambili and Jaja get to see life the way the other half lives and these experiences transform Kambili and Jaja from sheltered "rich kids" into young adults with voices and minds of their own.  There are so many other layers to this story, though - religion, politics, wealth/middle class, young love, abuse.  This was quite a find for me and a very enjoyable read.  A solid four star! I look forward to reading more work from this author.
4 I was about 6 years old during the civil war in Nigeria that she wrote about.I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, I didn't want it to end.
5 Purple Hibiscus, is a wonderful piece of literary fiction. It is a coming of age story, a story of domestic violence, and a look at freedom. The characters are well-developed.Fifteen year old Kambili, lives a life of privilege in with her parents, and her brother Jaja in Nigeria. The father, Eugene is a wealthy businessman, a religious fanatic, and a strict disciplinarian. His family is the recipient of his cruel and unusual forms of punishment. The book opens on Palm Sunday, with the father, Eugene, throwing a prayer book across the room, trying to hit his son for his refusal to taken communion at mass earlier in the day. This is just the tip of the iceberg.Later in the story Kambili and Jaja spend some time away from home at their Aunty Ifeoma's home. At this home there is laughter, love, few rules and much freedom. Later, the mother also spends some time there, and soon they begin to question the strict rules Eugene makes them adhere to. What follows changes their lives forever.This book was an amazing debut novel. I had both the written version and the audio version (the reader was excellent). It was not necessary to have the written copy to enjoy this book however, I was curious about some of the names and phrases so the written form was helpful. I definitely plan to read more by this author.
5 39 other reviewers have hit the main points of plot, character, award-winning writing, etc., but I'd like to emphasize the possible allegory (intended by the author, or not)that the Nation is a Family, and that the family she writes about represents the struggles of her native Nigeria.  For me, this interpretation enhances her treatment of characters and plot.  This book also stimulated me to search the Internet for information and photos about Nigeria (foods, plants, maps, and political analyses), of which, like most Americans, I know so little.  Tagged by some as a "coming-of-age" story sadly misses the depth of this novel. I look forward to reading more from this young, insightful writer.
5 ~Spoiler Alert~Adiche write elegantly and beautifully through the eyes of a seemingly privileged Nigerian teenager.  The style is simple, the descriptions lovely and atmospheric, but the themes are deep and disturbing.  While I agree that the themes of fanaticism and abuse could have been found in any setting and that the children's silence is so typical of the abused, (I saw this as a teacher for 35 years.) I would say the Nigerian setting is also essential, because the tyranny goes beyond just the family and crosses over into the description of the love of the beauty and culture of Nigeria while at the same time showing the horrible abuse suffered by its citizens at the hands of a strong arm dictatorship. The children, in the same way loved their father (Nigeria) while fearing his cruelty (the violence of the Nigerian society in recent years.) Just as the only way out of family abuse is to escape, Jaja, Kambili and their mother have to escape, but in the most tragic of ways. The only way out of the abuse of a dictatorial regime is to escape to another place, as happens with their Auntie and her family.  This was my first book by Adiche and I will definitely be reading more.
4 Well written novel. Believable. Will make teenagers grateful for their own, flawed but human parents. Great contrasts between different families and ways of life.
5 "Purple Hibiscus" is Nigerian writer Chimamanda Adichie's award winning debut novel. I read its follow up, "Half Of A Yellow Sun" when it came out two years ago, and was totally enthralled by that novel; its story, the texture of the words, and the history of Nigeria told hand in hand with the fictional characters."Purple Hibiscus" is in a similar mould, real life events in Nigeria (Corrupt civilian government toppled by a coup, a military leader whose wife was rumoured to have drug links, a dictator that died atop a prostitute) occur alongside a fictional narrative of a wealthy Enugu-based family of four, seemingly perfect and over-achieving to everyone on the outside, but like most families with some dark secrets.Its lead character is Kambili who along with her brother Jaja are shown by their widowed free spirited and opinionated aunt, that there is another life besides the gloomy and tense one they know dictated by their unbending father. Sadly enough, I sense that despite it all, their father does love them all but is himself battling some demons of his own which cause him to relate to his family in the way he does. I know it is difficult to feel any empathy for him but he seems like a lost soul.Much like "Half Of A Yellow Sun", I find the book features a weak female character (who grows stronger), an admired female character, a charismatic and unbending male character, and some family conflict. At many points in the story, I felt a sting in my eyes as loads of issues raised in the book are so true in Nigeria today, and I truly related with what Kambili and Jaja had to endure, and the inner conflict they felt. Their father, like lots of Nigerians, displayed a seeming religious fervour which does not seem to improve one's character but instead makes one look down condescendingly on those perceived as being different (the "Heathen", kin included, and even those of their own faith who sing or pray different from them), the importance of putting up a show for the public at all costs, hypocrisy, and greed. I could really relate to events and locations, seeing as I spent some time at Enugu (where Kambili's family lived) and Nsukka (where her aunt Ifeoma lived with her family). Adichie's vivid description of seemingly trivial things, like the feeling of dread and breathlessness Kambili feels when called upon for an opinion, add to the richness of the story.This is simply an outstanding novel, and I look forward  to more from Adichie's gifted pen. An acute observer of the human condition, she is fast becoming one of my favourite authors.
4 Kambili is a teenager growing up in Nigeria in a family where her father rules with an iron hand, where duty, family and religion are elevated above all else. Where love is frequently spoken of but seldom practised. The contrast between traditional and modern life is distinct. When Kambili and Jaja her brother visit her aunt in another town, things change, the same things are important but this is a loving household where they somehow manage to marry the old with the new, and instead of God being an oppressive figure, there is affirmation even rejuvenation and questioning what is taught is encouraged rather than punished. This is a coming of age story that many readers will enjoy.There was a surprise at the end I did not see coming, it was shocking but then again that is what makes a good story teller. Pulling one out of the bag when the audience least expects it. In the end Kambili emerges more grown up, confident and in control of her destiny.
4 Intriguing story about events in Nigeria, fun read but shallow and not memorable.  Good effort by a new African voice.
5 If you're not sure which new book to pick, choose one published by Algonquin Press. They seem to select the most consistent string of quiet winners.Purple Hibiscus is an amazing debut novel about Kambili, a 15yo Nigerian girl who is the keeper of ugly secrets from within her privileged family, a family dominated and abused by her religious fanatic father. She is offered escape when she visits her Aunty Ifeoma, a university lecturer who is supporting her children on her small salary. A tragic conclusion slowly builds as old secrets and new tensions rise to the surface. As Kambili blossoms toward maturity, she questions values she once held as inscribed in stone. Her own turmoil is mirrored in that of her country. A startlingly good coming-of-age novel, disconcerting and thought-provoking.
4 Adichie's &quot;Purple Hibiscus&quot; will join other notable first novels like &quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; in the canon of great African literature.  It is a very good story of the stuggles within one Nigerian family, with a domineering father, a sad, submissive mother, a defiant brother, and a daughter who is torn between following her aunt or her father.  I did like the aunt's perspective, but on the other hand, I don't like the insinoution that pagans are spiritually purer than Christians.  I also thought that the book excused the mother a little too much for how she finally dealt the family problem.
5 Beautifully written story, Ms Adichie gives us a look into life in her country but at the same time relates a tale that is sometimes all too familiar in ours.Finely crafted language draws realistic pictures of both the differences and thesimilarities between her world and ours.  Great read.
4 Very well-written, absorbing novel, sad but realistic.  Character development well-done, especially that of the narrator, her father, and his sister, her aunt.  As a practicing Catholic, I was appalled at the father's extreme application of his religious beliefs to his relationships with his wife and children, but he was a complex character and quite believable.  Having recently read &#34;Americanah&#34; by the same author and having enjoyed it also, I will look forward to her next novel as well.
5 This book arrived way quicker than I expected.  It was in perfect shape for the price I paid.
5 I found this an extraordinarily gripping novel. It is set in the Igbo area of Nigeria, and the story is told by Kambili, 15 years old for most of it, who, with her 17 year old brother Jaja grows up in a Catholic family utterly in the thrall of their father Eugene, a prosperous factory owner who maintains a large clientele with hand-outs of money.  In a note about the novel, the author writes that she had wanted to portray him as `a man who did horrible things but who, ultimately, wasn't a monster.'  Personally, I can see very little to redeem him:  he is a terrifying monster, a fanatical convert to Catholicism  who is driven to paroxysms of physical cruelty whenever he feels  crossed and during which he inflicts the most grievous bodily harm on his wife and on his children.  The children suffer when they fail to come first in school, but especially whenever they fall short in the slightest respect of his extreme religious demands.  True, he weeps and hugs them afterwards, claiming that he had done it only to save their souls, but since he assaults his wife without any such excuse, he is simply a pathologically violent character.  Kambili grows up a frightened and timid girl, dreading her father but at the same time longing for his love and approval.  Jaja is more defiant, and the development of his character is also among the book's superb qualities.He refuses any contact with his own father, Papa-Nngukwu, who had not converted to Catholicism, and he never allows him into his palatial house in Enugu.  Papa-Nngukwu, serene in his own beliefs, lives in great but dignified poverty in the nearby town of Nsukka, not far from his daughter Ifeoma, who has an ill-paid job at the university there and three children of her own.  Eugene allows his children to meet their grandfather for exactly a quarter of an hour once a year, and he is reluctant to allow his children to visit their aunt, considering her not a good enough Catholic because she remains fond her `heathen' father;  and he is enraged if during such visits his children meet their grandfather.  Ifeoma is a wonderful strong woman, and the children love their visits to her, to her relaxed household in her run-down home,  and they come to love their grandfather also.  After Eugene had carried out a near-fatal assault on Kambili, his children are effectively taken into Ifeomo's care.Throughout the novel there has also been a political background.  A military coup has just taken place (presumably the coup of 1985).  Paradoxically the autocratic Eugene owns a newspaper which supports democracy against the military dictatorship, and Ifeoma, too, is an outspoken critic of the new regime.  They are therefore both in danger from the brutal soldiery.I must not reveal the end of the story; but it is as powerful as the rest of the book.  The whole book is suffused with the atmosphere of Nigeria, its customs, its weather, its plants and its food stuffs, its clothes, and even its language.  A glossary at the end of the Igbo words used would have been helpful, but we can guess the meaning of many of the expressions.
4 I read her short stories and fell in love with her writing and then read all of her books.Purple Hibiscus is a touching story of a young woman coming of age in Africa and by reading her story we not only get a glimpse of another culture but we see the humanity in us all.I recommended this book and all the other books she has written.
5 I could not put this book down!  I've since read her other books too and they are all equally interesting and easy to read. I think she's an outstanding author.  Her books are well worth reading!
4 Poignant and compelling. A sad chapter in African history sensitively told. Could we have done better? Who is responsible for the issues presented. Thought provoking.
5 I only just finished reading the book at 2 a.m this morning and the first description that came to mind as I turned the final page was that it was written extremely gracefully.Some reviewers have decribed it as a coming of age story. Yes, it is that and more...so much more. There are several themes running through it and in the hands of another writer it might have seemed contrived but in the hands of this writer, not one word or situation rings false. She deftly weaves together all these varied themes to create her story. All of her characters have great depth and we come away feeling like we know them personally. Something else I liked was the fact that her charcters weren't one dimensional, neither good nor bad. They were just people struggling with their own personal demons and everyday life, people like you and me.I'm Nigerian and did live a great part of my life there and some of the characters, places and situation did bring back strong, vivid memories. I did visit with my aunt in Enugu and the conditions of living with her and her family were somewhat reminiscent of the same conditions of living with Kambili's Aunty Ifeoma. And that's asides from the other characters in the book. I know some of them or more specifically I recognize bits of some of the people I know in some of them. I know some of those situations. I know Mama Joe, I knew several Sisis, I see a bit of my grandfather with his rigid Catholiscism in Eugene but there the similarity stops.Our teenage protagonist is one that stays with you for a long time. She will haunt you long after you've put the book down. Her perceptiveness is uncanny and her ability to absorb and interprete life and events sends tingles down your spine. what touches me most is all the things she wishes she could have said and didnt or couldnt.The book has its flaws but there are too many high points to notice them. I have read some of Ms. Adichie's essays and I do believe she is one to watch. No, let me rephrase that she is here to stay and I'm very proud of her.
3 There is no denying the appeal of Adicie's story which many readers have summarized and appreciated. But the reader needs to be aware of the political and religious positions the author holds. First, that European, colonial-sponsored missionary Catholicism seems to beget only sadists and tyrants, abused children and beaten spouses. (Note how Eugene is, finally, depicted as a victim of missonary sadism rather than of his own moral choices.) Africanized Christianity on the other hand seems to inspire only happy families and well-balanced people, mostly women. The love affair between the 30-something African priest and the 15 year old heroine is presented in wholly positive terms; the violation in spirit if not in physical intimacy of the priestly vow of celibacy is viewed with amused toreance and good humored innuendoes.So it's a beautifully written touching tale, but beneath the appealing surface lurks the anti-colonial, anti-Catholic, anti-male liberal bias that is at the core of so much  "serious literature" today.
5 I picked up this book about a month after discussing Chinua Achebe's novel "Things Fall Apart" with my book club. I had no idea that this book had deep roots in Achebe's great work, and was thrilled to discover the many connecting threads. While Achebe's work focuses primarily on one man, and offers a very male look at society, Adichie weaves a tale through the eyes of a shy teenage girl, Kambili, offering a complementary perspective. The book still revolves around a powerful man, who in some ways is similar to Achebe's main character, but who, instead of fighting for what he perceives to be "traditional ways", fights wiith equal passion and blindness on the side of the most domineering of the white missionaries. The men in both books try desperately not to be like their fathers. 'Purple Hibiscus' follows the progression of young Kambili, who has almost no identity or passion apart from her father, to a growing awareness about faith, tradition, family ties, and her own voice and beauty. I appreciated how the story gave examples of many different forms of belief in God, not pigeonholing believers or setting single stereotypes about missionaries. Adichie's book is complex, and invites a second read, after the first gripping, page-turning session.I would recommend this book to book clubs, after reading Chinua Achebe's "Things Fall Apart". While reading Achebe's book, I found very helpful a commentary edited by Isidore Okpewho called "Chinua Achebe's 'Things Fall Apart': A Casebook'". The essays and interviews in this book opened up the first novel for me and prepared me for many of the allusions in "Purple Hibiscus".
4 Great book....I really enjoyed reading it.  I will look for more books by this author and recommend it to others...Also sold at a great price with timely delivery.
4 This book was actually my introduction to African literature. The book touches on some heavy topics. As I write this, I'm visualizing one of the domestic violence episodes described in the book. It is definitely a page turner and certainly made me want to read more from this author.
3 I haven't decided yet whether or not I liked Purple Hibiscus, but it made me think; and I truly enjoy thinking. Every once in while I stick with a book not because I particularly like the subject, enjoy the prose, or find the text entertaining; I stay with it because it is stretching the few brain cells that call my head home. You know what I mean?A main theme throughout the story is domestic abuse and how these 3 survive, told through the eyes of Kambili. Her family is rich and privileged; Kambili and Jaja go to private school, the family has at least 2 vehicles and a driver, they have wait-staff, etc.As the story unfolds, Kambili and Jaja get to go to their aunt's house for a short visit, their first unsupervised visit away from home. Of course their father sends them with modified schedules; yes, he has day-to-day schedules for everyone in his household. For the first time the kids are free to laugh, watch TV, and listen to music throughout the day. There is even singing, something their father sees as unchristian and therefore not allowed in his house. The kids start to bloom into real people in the few short visits they have at their aunt's. While much of the book was a bit tough to listen to, the book is hopeful and left me with a believe that life would turn out OK for Kambili.
5 All families have secrets.  Negotiating the complexities of family dynamics is difficult at best but  Ms Adichie has done a brilliant and engaging story evoking the emotions of both the reader and the characters.  I didn't want this book to end.  And I'm going to buy all her other books as a gift to myself.
4 Half a yellow sun is still my favorite book of her's, I did not connect to the characters so much in this book , but the storyline has a good lesson
5 Adichie's novel is a wonderful read. It is poetic and sparing and yet deals with important issues and fascinating ideas. It discusses religion and concepts of good and evil. Though Kambili's father is violent and brutal, he is also loving and generous towards his community. It explores ideas of colonialism and how the Western world views Africa and their other colonies. One of the most memorable statements made by Kambili was when the sister/ mother in school failed to understand why they did up their houses in the suburbs like palaces when they only spent a week or 2 in it a year. Kambili's response was that there is no need to find the reason for everything, to seek to understand, as that's just the way things are done. Oftentimes when cultures come together there is always a desire to unravel to seek to explain when really, there should just be mutual acceptance. The book was also very well written when exploring the growth of Kambili into a young woman as well as how she starts to speak, smile and even laugh. Jaja is also a fascinating character in the way he progresses and changes through the influence of his aunt Ifeoma and the exposure to a world outside of his father's rules. Other well developed characters are Father Amadi and aunt Ifeoma, so that it feels like you're watching real people on a screen rather than just reading about them in a book. A wonderful, moving study of beliefs, world views, religion, love, relationships and good evil, Adichie's novel paints a colourful Africa full of life, pride and passion as well as a gift of renewing itself.
5 I found this first novel by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie to be a superbly crafted story about post-colonial Africa.  Having lived for several years in East Africa, I was delighted to be able to envision the settings, characters, actions and vernacular language.  It is essentially a tale about the current transformation of African republics, struggling to create a world that befits their cultural mindsets and dreams.  In most cases, these political and social processes are often painful, if not necessary to move from the ancient ways into modern times, as this story depicts today's Nigeria.In this cautionary tale, the narrator is a young teenage girl. She and her older brother have been constantly bullied and manipulated to become their father's best examples of his Catholic faith, wealth, politics and place in modern Nigeria.  After a time, family circumstances offer a way out of their oppressive situation.  The siblings' lives become intolerable but this is only realized when they are finally exposed to &#34;normal&#34;, African family life, in the home of their father's loving and generous sister.  Through the experiences of living as most other Nigerians do, the daughter and her brother begin to find a new path in life that is without the constraints of her father's strict and abusive manner of child rearing.  In the end, everything falls apart, when the mother decides to end the cycle of abuse and neglect in her family.  However, due to dire necessity, the daughter find herself responsible for running the broken family.  Through sheer will and hope, she succeeds in keeping her immediate family intact but not &#34;whole&#34;.Probably what is best about this story is Ms. Chimamanda's highly-skilled manner of describing the thoughts and actions of her main characters.  The settings are as lushly told as the people within the places of the storyline.  Her use of highly effective language and the characters' varied vernacular is superb.  The conflicts within the plot are real for the book's African family, as the actions would be for other families, worldwide.  Mostly it's about how people come together to share themselves, to help one another and to redeem themselves, in the face of crisis and hope.  Eventually the several in the family become part of the Nigerian world  diaspora, as political and social events begin to unravel the worlds of the characters' extended family.The theme echos that of Chinua Achebe's trilogy, beginning with the classic tale: THINGS FALL APART.  A bit of research into modern Nigerian history and politics would also help the reader better understand the motivations and lives of this story. If you enjoy this novel about Africa, you should also download or buy works by Zakes M'da; Nadine Gordimer; Ben Okri; M. J. Vassanji; Abdulrazak Gurnah, to name a few, because they are all important African writers who have created an important body of literature about their continent.
5 Young Kambili's father is a presence in his Nigerian community. He is larger than life--a physically big, economically powerful man who raised himself from nothing to preside over factories and the only newspaper in the country brave enough to trumpet the corruption of the latest government. He is a godly man, a man who prays so long before a meal that the food becomes cold, a benefactor whose generosity has made his local Catholic church a thing of beauty and prosperity. He inspires awe in many, and outright worship in more than a few.And so, how can his family--his teenaged daughter, her brother Jaja and her mother--not love him? How can they complain when his fervor to keep them all righteous and spotless in God's eyes tips into rigidity and, ultimately, into violence?Purple Hibiscus explores, through the eyes of its young protagonist, the dicotomy of life with a Great Man who is a dictator to his own family. The situations and the characters are utterly believable; even the scenes that made me flinch were so beautifully written that I could not dismiss the complex glue that held this family together--the economic dependence, the paternalism, the order that flies in the face of the country's chaos, and, yes, the love that can't believe that things will only get worse.This could be a grim tale, but the complexity of the characters, the candor of the narrator and the beautifully precise sense of place raise it above its painful subject matter. The family also serves as a microcosm of the country: in spite of the power games of an inept government, the paranoia, contradictions, and lingering taint of colonialism, the broken promises across the board--be it the diversion of fuel or non-payment of state salaries--in this book Nigeria's citizens, like the family members, only run when they have no choice. And in both cases, they do so with a sense of betrayal, a wounded love.A simply written, complicated book.Susan O'Neill, author, Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Viet Nam
3 This is my first novel by Chimamanda Adichie whom I have been wanting to read for some time now. The book is about a family living in Nigeria under the strict rule of the devoutly Catholic father, Eugene. Our narrator is the daughter of the family, Kambili, who is fifteen and terrified of her father. Kambili's life work is to please her father. The other family members are the mother, Beatrice and a son, Jaja. Eugene is a tyrant that subjects them all to mental and physical abuse all in the name of religion.Honestly, I have been nursing this book for some time. I have picked it up an put it down continually over the past few months. The beginning was so slow. It was like walking through mud. Towards the end things began to pick up because we were introduced to the character, Aunty Ifeoma. Aunty Ifeoma is Eugene's sister. She is a free spirit, a widower, and a mother to three lively children. It is when Kambili and Jaja go to visit them that they start to blossom and come into themselves. Aunty Ifeoma's children are not bound by rigid religious traditions and rules. Kambili is the character that had the most growth. She broke out of her shell and got in touch with her own emotions instead of them being dictated by her father. The ending was sad and shocking.In my opinion, the book took a while to develop. There is nothing about this story that has left a lasting impression on me.
4 Kambili is fifteen. She lives with her mother, and brother in the house completely controlled by her over-bearing Christian father whose ideas of "keeping the faith" include numerous forms of torture. The story of her life is played out against the larger struggles of one of Nigeria's many coups.The story is well-written, and does a fine job of exploring Nigerian custom, life in the big and small cities in Nigeria, and the differences between religious fanatics - Catholic and others.
3 This book was well written and I enjoyed reading it.  I did not LOVE it though.  Good enough to keep me reading but not good enough to keep me up late.  Sadly, the main character's lives are realistic.
5 I listened to an NPR interview of Adichie and immediately wanted to read one of her books. I chose the first one, Purple Hibiscus. She took me to Africa and the communities where her characters lived. Beautiful writing, beautiful book.
5 An excellently written, heartfelt novel set in Nigeria about a young girl going from a cold, rigid, abusive household to Aunt Ifeoma's, which is full of laughter, love, and honesty. She finds herself, God and love there. She's freed...spiritually and physically. My only complaint is that we never learns what happens to Jaja.
4 Half of a Yellow Sun was definitely more engaging, but this was another page-turner that brought me in and made me care about the characters.  The dictatorial dad is a bit exaggerated as a caricature I felt, but otherwise this was a very rich compelling portrait of African family life balancing between traditional and modern.
5 This novel depicts the lives of a family of Catholics living in Africa. The father is strict and his children must abide by his harsh rules. They are not allowed to spend time with other family members unless they too are practicing Catholics. The paternal grandfather is a pagan so the family rarely sees him. The story escalates and the family falls apart due to tragedy. The story casts the 2 children into the home of their paternal aunt where they find that life can be very different but rewarding as well. This is truly a lovely story and I love learning about this culture.
4 This engaging tale of a family's conflicts parallels the story of revolution and national conflict in Nigeria. At times it is heartbreaking. I love the book and rated it 4 stars only because I think the author's &#34;Half of a Yellow Sun&#34; is even better. Even if you are not interested in the political events, the story of a family dominated by a kind of monster will move you.
5 This novel hits a home run. The characters, especially the young female narrator, but all the others in the family, are very well developed. The violence is evident from page one, but it is SO hidden. It's never overt, but couched in Christian values, that are always understated. So many issues like the competition to love the father more, to say what he wants you to say is SO chilling, so believable. The disdain for all things non-Christian is palpable. This African family grabs you in ways that few families do. Their truth is universal. I will definitely read this author again.
2 I bought this book because (if I recall correctly) it was long-listed for last years ManBooker Prize and also, (this I recall) because it had good reviews here on Amazon. Anyway, I was real disappointed. I quit paying attention after page 100 and quit outright a few pages later.  I found the contrasting aspects of the Father's character interesting but after awhile so contrasting they felt way off reality.  Character of aunt, cousin, priest, mom etc etc also grew gratingly "perfect."  This  may be excessive, but after a while I felt like I was reading a bit of sophisticated version of a teen romance novel.  The comparisons with God of Small Things are seriously unflattering to Roy's great book.  Comparisons with (the overrated) Memoirs of a Geisha or (also not finished) One Thousand Chestnut Trees would have been more appropriate.
5 I very much enjoyed this book.  My bookclub, Reading Roses, read this as our June selectin and everyone really enjoyed it.  I think this book brought out the most discussion we have had in a while.  It was quite interesting to read about life in another country; well written; characters were well developed.  Good choice for a bookclub.
5 Purple Hibiscus deserves a five star rating.  The characters are real and.deep.  I found the novel to be profoundly moving.
4 This is a book I was so invested in and I'm really glad it delievered exactly what I'd hoped for. I have never read African literature before but I've heard a lot about it. This book is definitely a good one to embark on to that genre. I thoroughly enjoyed reading it to the hilt. There are grey shades to the characters but I can't help but mention that they are all so well carved particularly from a first time writer, Chimamanda Adichie. There was depth and intensity to every character that was layered so beautifully, that it seemed to you that they were actually exisitng in flesh and blood.Purple Hibiscus tells the story of a 15 year old girl, Kambili and her younger brother Jaja whose day-to-day activities are scheduled by their religiously fanatic yet loving father, Eugene. He is so Christian that at one point in the book we realise that when they visit their hometown for vacation, they are allowed to visit their ancestor worshipping grandfather, Papa Nnukwu for not more than 15 minutes. The contrast between the living standards of the really rich, which are fewer in number and the poor or middle class, which are the majority; is distinctly shown in this book. The protagonist's father, Eugene is a really wealthy businessman and a philanthropist and so it is eveident that they live in huge mansions. Even the guesthouse at their home town is a really large, impressive residence. It is during one of these visits that they encounter their cousins, children of Eugene's sister Aunty Ifeoma and Ifeoma suggests to take them home for a few days at her place in Nsukka, to which Eugene agrees.The kids are soon charmed by the place and their cousins. But unavoidable circumstances unfurl and they are send once again to spend their days with the now well acquainted cousins. Political coup, uneasiness, arrests, murders in Enugu result in Eugene and his wife beoming walking wounds in an empty mansion.This book has you in a viselike grip showing you that whether rich or poor, those who go against the ruling parties of Nigeria shall be severely punished. It leaves you in the end with a palpable sense of ache.
3 This was one of those books that I wanted to know the ending to..  But wanted to scream at how the characters ran around in circles..  40 years to shrug off stubborness and admit true love?  While I enjoyed meeting the other characters on the journey through out the book, if I could have shaken Rosie in the hope her stubborness disappeared, I would of.
5 I am 52 yrs old and I still relisten to this audio.(about 12 times so far)  Its so easy to follow while in the car travelling because anyone who sits in the car can  pick up the thread of the story without me having to go back to the beginning.I felt relief to disappointment, laughter to sadness. The story carried me along so easily.  I could really relate to Rosie Dunn.  What a woman.Defintely one of my favourites.
4 In this excellent, epistolary novel, Alex and Rosie are kept apart by circumstances both within and without their control.  The only reason I'm giving this book four stars rather than five is that one of the "reasons" keeping them apart was clearly a plot contrivance meant to add another 100 pages to the book, when it was an easily solvable "problem" in real life.My favorite character in the whole story was the solid, reliable, no-nonsense Ruby, who calls it as she sees it and is correct from the get-go in that Alex and Rosie are mad for each other and just have to face that for themselves.A friend of mine said a couple years ago that "love leads us down strange pathways."  This immensely entertaining novel is an apt demonstration of that belief.
3 I liked this book and thought the characters were really realistic and likable. The plot was okay, and I was excited to get to the ending, only to be disappointed by how rushed and anticlimactic it was.
4 This is one of the most original books I have read in a long time. It's seems completely fictional, but it consists of nothing but notes passed in school, emails, instant messages, text messages, and the good old fashioned way, letters. It also spans over 40 years just in one book. Of course, only the important events occur, years sometimes passing in the turn of a couple of pages.There's no particular no time period in this, as instant messaging is included quite early on in the book, and for it to span over 40 years, there's no specific year the book starts and ends. It can be quite confusing that way, but don't let your mind dwell on it.The book is about Rosie & Alex, who start off as best friends at school, and over the years, they encounter all the important events together: first loves, first jobs, pregnancy, marriage (to the wrong people at that), divorce, loss of jobs, reappearance of old girlfriends/boyfriends - basically everything you dread to happen in your life. Throughout all this, they argue, talk to others about what they can't tell each other, marry others ... The list goes on. They want to be together, but there's always some kind of obstacle.At first the book can be severely hard to get into, considering there's nothing but emails etc. But I've now read this book more than once (it must be 4 or 5 times now), and I still find it exciting!I identified a lot with this book, cos I'm a terrible hoarder, not only of material things, but stuff like emails & texts too. I have saved any email that ever meant anything to me, and the same goes for texts. I've saved some IM chats with my friends (which are somewhere), but I'm terrified about ever losing all my emails. They tell a story. They're nice to look back over every so often.I love "P.S I Love You" too, but "If You Could See Me Now" was confusing and disappointing, and I still haven't managed to read more than halfway through the book. I haven't even managed to GET halfway. I hope her next book follows on from "P.S. I Love You" and "Where Rainbows End", cos then it'll be great.
5 I've been reading and re-reading this book since I was about eight! Following the story through different mediums such as emails, letters and texts effectively allows the reader to grow up with the characters, learn about them from a personal level, and feel the heartbreaks and accomplishments that every person experiences. Unlike many books written this way, I didn't find it remotely hard to follow, and found myself literally engrossed. I really love this book, it's beautifully executed and heartwarming.- Kelly Austin
5 I wasn't sure how I would feel about this book after reading P.S. I love you and then seeing how this book was written, which is sort of a letter back and forth, then emails back and forth, followed by instant messages back and forth...surprisingly though, I fell in love with this book!  I couldn't put it down!  I did get caught up in the drama of Alex & Rosie and longed for them to be together and something inside of me sparked wishing I had a childhood friend like that where through the years you know they'll always be there and you can count on them! I laughed reading this book out loud because the humor is so cute and at just the perfect moments.  You wont be disappointed in this book, which is a quick read!
5 This book is a wonderful, light, easy to read and connect with the characters book.  One of the best books I have read in years and I love to read. Have bought this book in print a few times and given it out to friends all with wonderful reviews on it. I have read it a few times and will keep reading it over time...I rarely read a book a second time...it was truly THAT good. I like all Cecilia Ahern books but so far this one is the best.  LOVE IT!!! LOVE IT!!!! it is the same as Love, Rosie and Rosie Dunne though.
3 McDermid enters another solid story into the series.  Our characters are at their finest-Tony Hill with all his quirks and insights, and Carol with all her bossiness and desire to prove how tough she is.  As a writer, McDermid is excellent!  I have no reservations on that score.  Her plotting is solid, believable, and always just a bit frightening (even to a police-procedural aficionado like me).Unfortunately, I am beginning to tire of the series.  There are a few reasons for this.  First of all, Tony Hill is the only one with any talent on the Jordan-Hill team.  Carol bosses everyone around and enjoys being in authority, but she never seems to have any ideas to make breakthroughs in a case.  Tony is the one who does the thinking and makes the penetrating discoveries that lead to capture and rescue of criminal and victim.  Second, the idea that these two are in love with each other has become incredible since so many novels in which their feelings for each other are clear finish with them in exactly the same platonic position in which we found them in Mermaid Singing.  Third, Ms. McDermid seems determined for her readers to believe every third person or so is homosexual-she consistently seems to push her agenda just a little too much for my taste.I really can't believe two reasonable adults would not have pursued their relationship past step one.  The series can be rescued, but the characters must have realistic emotional interaction with each other.  Until that occurs, the series will slip into the trite.  Her stand-alone works continue to be outstanding, so I will keep the McDermid flame burning.
3 I am a big fan of Val McDermid but this outing is not her best.  A battered and traumatized Carole Jordan is tapped to head an elite squad of ambitious and not completely trustworthy detectives while Dr. Tony Hill leaves the world of academia to renter clinical practice at a mental hospital near Carole.  Let the murders begin.  Someone is killing prostitutes in a particuarly vicious fashion, mirroring exactly crimes for which an inmate at the mental hospital was convicted years before. Simultaneously, the squad is challenged to solve the disappearances of two young boys.McDermid is an effective writer however, the serial killer bit was a bit stale.  The evil duo bit has been done before and prostitute murders are not all that challenging for the devious criminal mind.  The lost boy story  was  actually more engaging.The narration by killer device used in some of her earlier novels was somewhat flat and uninspired here.  Additionally, how the brains of the murdering pairs was able to select and manipulate the dumber partners was not explained to my satisfaction.One of the more fascinating aspects of her earlier novels was the symbiosis of good police work and keen psychological insight.  In this book, Tony Hill almost automatically has the answer and has become annoyingly reckless professionally. I actually find the platonic relationship between Carole and Tony believable, in view of their many issues.  Hopping into bed would be the worst thing for either of them, personally and professionally, and the tension makes for interesting interaction.  Additionally, the author should lighten up on the hot lesbo thing. Okay, okay, everyone with good looks and brains is gay, we get it! It is unneccessary and boring.All in all, this book is worth the read, but definitely not her best.
5 This is the second in the Hill Jordan mysteries that I've read, and they just get better. The dark mood never wavers, our protagonist is riddled with needs of her own, yet is very likeable, the pace of the story is smooth and flowing. McDermid is a master mystery writer! I'm on to the next.
5 I'm a big Dennis Lehane fan, but now that I've read all his books, I went looking for another crime-fiction author that would be as edgy and page-turningly exciting as his books were for me. Well I think I've hit paydirt in Val McDermid! I started with this 4th in the Tony Hill/Carol Jordan series since I'd found it as a sale book, and I've now bought the others in this series to start it from the beginning. Wow. Flawless plotting, edge-of-your-seat storyline (to say the least!), fully realized characters, a book that kept me up into the wee hours reading! Me being a "Yank", there was some British wording I wasn't familiar with, but it in no way detracted from my reading experience since it was part of scenarios I fully understood. I am soooo glad I picked up this book, and if you like your crime thrillers, well...thrilling...I'd highly recommend this one. Can't wait to see what awaits in the rest of the series!
5 Why do we love to read about serial killers? From Jack the Ripper to Silence of the Lambs, tales of these nightmarish murderers seem to fascinate people, and for most of us this predilection is embarrassingly out of character. Maybe they are a safe way to explore dark, id-powered fantasies. Perhaps, in confronting our worst fears, we hope to make it less likely that something bad will actually happen. They also are a source of comfort, a way to impose order on apparently chaotic sadism: There is always a clever detective or investigator who figures out the warped logic of the crimes and brings the perpetrator to justice.THE TORMENT OF OTHERS is Val McDermid's fourth novel about two such experts: Detective Chief Inspector Carol Jordan and Dr. Tony Hill, a clinical psychologist who is called in by the police to profile serial killers. Set in the (fictional) bleak northern English city of Bradfield --- mostly in the seamier neighborhood frequented by prostitutes and drug dealers --- this book is a far cry from the polite stately-home murders beloved of Agatha Christie and her ilk. It is no less atmospheric, though; you can almost taste the bad coffee, damp grayness, and ugly architecture of this former mill town. McDermid is a realist, like another first-rate Scottish suspense novelist, Denise Mina, and part of the fascination of her cinema-verit&eacute; mysteries is how deeply she embeds her sharply drawn characters in an unpromising environment and draws a kind of harsh music from it.Jordan and Hill's relationship is not just professional; it's a more serious version of the unconsummated mating dance performed by Cybill Shepherd and Bruce Willis in the first two seasons of "Moonlighting." (In fact, McDermid's books are the basis for a British TV series, "Wire in the Blood," that turns up now and then on the cable channel BBC America; it's an intelligent, not-too-glamorized adaptation, and well worth watching.) DCI Jordan's rigid self-control and extreme workaholism mean that her longest-running relationship is with her cat. In THE TORMENT OF OTHERS, moreover, she is particularly fragile because she was raped while on undercover duty in a European operation (cf. the previous Jordan/Hill book, THE LAST TEMPTATION). As for Dr. Hill, his unhappy childhood and tortured personality (self-loathing, impotence) make him lousy boyfriend material but great at hunting serial killers: "Anyone examining [Tony's] own past would have found a series of indicators that, in another man, would have been the first steps on the tortuous route to psychopathy. For him, they had provided the foundation of his empathy with those who had ended up on a different path. ... And just as the serial killer had a sure instinct for his victims, so Tony had an apparent sixth sense for tracking his prey."The will-they-or-won't-they gavotte gives the book an extra frisson, a line of suspense that parallels the main case under investigation --- actually, two main cases: McDermid's plot is nothing if not complicated.DCI Jordan is summoned to head a special police unit --- in the wake of the rape, this is supposed to be therapeutic --- with a mandate to investigate unsolved crimes as well as take on fresh ones. The old cases in THE TORMENT OF OTHERS (the title is from T.S. Eliot's FOUR QUARTETS) involve two missing boys who turn out to be the victims of a pedophile killer. The new, particularly grisly murders target prostitutes, the twist being that the M.O. is precisely the same as in a series of old killings. But since the murderer confessed, and is now incarcerated in a mental institution, he couldn't possibly have committed these more recent crimes. Who did? All the unit's efforts come to nothing, so Carol's boss orders her to organize a trap using one member of her team as a phony prostitute --- the same sort of dangerous undercover operation that had backfired on DCI Jordan herself. When the "bait" is snatched, there is a race against time to find her before she becomes another victim.Because McDermid explicitly pits one intelligence against another --- expertly alternating accounts of what the police and Dr. Hill are doing to solve the case with chilling italicized passages that let us inside the killer's mind --- the reader knows exactly what the stakes are. What we don't know, until close to the end of the book, is the identity of the murderer (if you can guess it, you're good).Often, writers who can handle complex plots are washouts as far as character is concerned, but McDermid is strong on both counts. Even the supporting roles in the book are beautifully, memorably detailed: Members of the police team --- including opportunistic Sam Evans; sad, unlucky Don Merrick; computer whiz Stacey Chen; and Paula McIntyre, with her charm and ambition --- are as much a part of the action as Carol and Tony. And the prostitutes, from young, inexperienced Honey to hardened Dee, are more than faceless victims. This gives the story a full-bodied, almost Dickensian texture that is very satisfying.Two caveats: First, if you're squeamish, go elsewhere. This is explicit, violent stuff. Second, because to some extent McDermid assumes knowledge of the previous Jordan/Hill books, I'd recommend beginning with the first in the series, THE MERMAIDS SINGING (she is also the author of several exceptional non-series thrillers, notably A PLACE OF EXECUTION).McDermid has written two other detective series, but they are in a lighter vein (and I must confess that I couldn't finish the one title I tried). In focusing on the darker side of human nature as well as on the austere landscape of the urban north, she seems to have found her natural territory. Read her for the fiendishly devised puzzles as well as for the humanity and three-dimensionality of the people she has created. THE TORMENT OF OTHERS may be a guilty pleasure --- twisted, shivery, and not to be indulged too late at night --- but it is a pleasure nonetheless: the best of its genre.--- Reviewed by Kathy Weissman
5 I've only recently started reading Val McDermid's books-I love really gruesome/scary/thrilling books,and after reading some samples of her work,I took the plunge and ordered "The mermaids singing"...simply because the sample was good.I say "take the plunge"because quite often the sample shows the best bits,leaving not a lot of good stuff, however I was not disappointed,so quickly ordered "The Torment of Others". Well-what can I say?This book was good from the first page to the last-plenty of action,a fast-moving storyline and a couple of "BRRRR" moments,when I got a chill up my spine. My only complaint about this book, and it's only a little one, is that I would've liked more gory bits...what there were, seemed to be quite brief,whereas I like all the gory details.I would highly recommend Val as an author to anyone looking for a good,juicy read.I literally read this book all in one go-only stopping for unavoidable interruptions.All in all,a very good book and highly recommended.
5 This is the first time I had read a Val McDermid 'police' thriller...and I really enjoyed it! The storylines were interesting and unpredictable, the characters solid and had genuine 'human' responses. Anyone who likes Michael Connolly, Hakan Nesser or Johnathan Kellermann will enjoy the psychologist Tony Hill's astute assumptions...I like a book that has plenty of action and enough twists and turns to keep you interested!
4 Like the Tony Hill television series with Robson Green, so I am looking forward to enjoying the books.  Collecting them all on Kindle.
4 I am enjoying reading my way through the Tony & Carole series. The plot is great. I like the profiler as a solver of puzzles. The crimes are gory, but I can tolerate the brutality when the story is good. I'm looking forward to the next book!
4 I had not read any of Val McDermid's work before this. It seems that a lot has transpired in previous novels that were alluded to time and again, so if there is a novel that proceeds this, you might want to check out that one before starting in on `The Torment of Others'. That aside, I was immediately brought into McDermid's world as a reader. The characters Tony Hill and Carol Jordan have so many demons that are being exorcised that this does not read as though it were just another in a long line of sequels.There are two mysteries unfolding here. Carol is found at the start of the book taking control of an elite crime fighting force and these are the two first cases that fall under her sphere. Both of these stories are complex enough that you will be left guessing and not quite sure as to where things are going until near the end. Along the way several other side characters are introduced. I think that the plurithura of first person characters that stride through this novel was a bit of a drawback. In my opinion, the fact that McDermid mines not two, but at least six (that I can recall off the top of my head) points of view is a real momentum killer. You never really get to the point where you are on the edge of your seat with this book. I always felt like a disengaged viewer lording over this unfolding event rather than as an immediate participant.The mood that I gleamed from this book... the over all aura... was sort of like a Patricia Cornwell novel. If you have not read her yet, you are in for a treat. I would highly recommend her work and suggest that you start with her first novel. Otherwise, this book is worth reading, though by no means the best of this genre that I have come across.
5 Derek Tyler has been in a mental institution for two years, locked away after confessing to a string of savage crimes, the ritual mutilation and murder of four prostitutes. Derek's not a bright guy, but his crimes were meticulously planned: the Voice, after all, had given him very precise instructions. Elevated by his acts of sadism, Derek was changed from one of life's losers to a somebody whose crimes could terrorize a community and stump the police, at least for a while. But two years on, with Derek safely behind the bars of his asylum, it's happening again: prostitutes are being killed in precisely the same way, grisly details that had never been released to the public replicated in a gory reprise of the earlier murders. And the Voice is commanding a new killer.The elite major incident squad investigating the killings has brought in Britain's top psychological profiler to consult on the case, but Dr. Tony Hill is, frankly, at a loss. There is no doubt that Derek Tyler was guilty of the first crimes, and a copycat killer would need inside information about the Tyler murders to reenact them. More problematic is that no one else would want to reenact the murders, at least not for the purpose of satisfying their own sexual fantasies. As Dr. hill repeatedly insists, no two people committing sexually motivated homicides will derive satisfaction from the same complex of details--how their victims are bound, how they are tortured, how they are killed.While Tony Hill tries to enter the mind of the maniac cleaning up Bradfield's red-light district, the city's police department, under the leadership of DCI Carol Jordan, investigates the crime by more traditional means--poring through paperwork, interrogating everyone working and living in the seedy area in which the crimes took place, and planting an undercover policewoman among the city's vulnerable working girls.Val McDermid's The Torment of Others, the fourth book in her series featuring profiler Tony Hill, is a solid police procedural and simply a very good read: well-written, with likeable but flawed good guys, creepy bad guys, and a plot that will keep you guessing until Tony himself starts putting the pieces together. And when he does that, some 60 pages from the book's close, readers will be hard pressed indeed to put this one down.Reviewed by Debra Hamel, author of Trying Neaira: The True Story of a Courtesan's Scandalous Life in Ancient Greece
4 I read WIRE IN THE BLOOD and loved it and just finished TORMENT and will have to get everything by McDermid.This novel is VERY gruesome but the characters and "secondary cases" are so interesting and well-written that you really can't help turning the pages.Good stuff-- but creepy!
5 A really good mystery, as usual with Val McDermid.  I read deep into the night.  I would really recommend this.
4 DCI Carol Jordan and Dr. Tony Hill are once again working together in "The Torment of Others," a dark and depressing police procedural in which a sadist is kidnapping, torturing and murdering prostitutes.  In addition, Jordan and her colleagues are still looking for the perp who abducted and presumably killed two young boys whose bodies have never been found.Jordan and Hill have plenty of personal demons to exorcise.  Jordan was raped during an undercover sting that went wrong, and she has been gun shy about returning to police work since that horrible event left her in shock.  Hill feels guilty since he failed to protect Carol, whom he secretly loves.  Their friendship has been strained ever since, and they are uncertain about how to behave in one another's presence.Jordan in now back heading an elite Major Incident Squad.  She knows that everyone is waiting to see if she is still up to the job intellectually and emotionally, and she is determined to prove her mettle.  The two high-profile cases that she is investigating will test her powers of concentration, her patience, and her ability to command.  To make matters worse, there is very little forensic evidence in either case that might lead to quick arrests.Val McDermid is one of the undisputed masters of the British police procedural.  She puts us in the incident room with the detectives, and she makes us feel the pressure that the detectives experience as they fan out to conduct endless interviews, most of which end up giving them "no joy."  As the bodies of victims pile up with no suspects in sight, Carol and her team begin to believe that their adversary, the unknown serial killer, is too smart and/or too lucky to get caught.  When her boss suggests putting one of Carol's officers on the street posing as a prostitute to attract the killer, Carol is reluctant to go along; after all, she was once asked to act as a decoy by her superiors, with tragic results.  Can she, in good conscience, allow one of her own officers to take such a chance?"The Torment of Others" is a powerful story of psychological terror. Carol's fears, Tony Hill's weird empathy with the "nutters" whom he treats, and the perverse forces that plague each individual, whether cop or criminal, are depicted with depth, insight, and frightening detail.  The novel is genuinely scary at times, and the ending is both tense and brutal.  Val McDermid pulls no punches; she is not afraid to go over to the dark side in her fiction.  On a more romantic note, McDermid explores Carol's tentative efforts to have a relationship with a man.  She starts dating a hunky geologist who may have information that might help her with a case, leaving Tony Hill almost mad with jealousy.My quibbles about this book are few, but they are worth mentioning.  The serial killer who preys on prostitutes has been done to death, and although this time there is a new twist that changes the scenario somewhat, it still is a stale plot element that has been overused.  In addition, I found the solution to the crime to be exciting and enthralling, but completely unrealistic.  Most readers will need a huge suspension of disbelief to buy what McDermid is selling.  Still, McDermid is one of the best salespersons around, and "The Torment of Others" is an eerie, creepy, daring, and shocking story that is as mesmerizing as it is gruesome.
3 This book was my first in Val McDermid's series.The inner workings and more than camaraderie of the police dept. are the focus in this story. This holds especially true when one of their own is abducted. the author held my attention during the first third of this book and the last third. The middle made the story a bit too drawn out. Although the end result was stunning.This is a story how desire for power can  become an obsession in a most evil way.
5 This author just keeps doing it. How she can write book after gripping book and sound fresh, suspenseful and compelling is a wonder in today's crime fiction scene. Just read it!
5 Of all the books I've read by this author, The Torment of Others stands above and beyond the rest. Tightly written, populated by vividly real characters, and running a course of twists and turns, this book kept me reading until my eyes burned and I simply couldn't stay awake. Bradfield and her scummy underbelly came to life in this one. I might just have to re-read this one, something I rarely consider with thrillers.
4 McDermid is an excellent writer. Very few writers could deal with the ultra-violent spectrum of crime without descending into sensationalism. McDermid manages to straddle that line beautifully. I never get the feeling that she is intending to titillate with the suffering of the victims.While it is nice to see Hill and Jordan together again, the book unfortunately lacks a bit of the spark that made a book like The Wire in the Blood so great. I would truthfully give this book three or three-and-a-half stars, but have rounded it up out of deference to the very high quality of the prose. I am not really sure what is missing, but it somehow felt like we were back again at the same point that we were at the beginning of the series, only with everyone a little bit more battered. Carol Jordan, in particular, needs to have some progression that is not rooted in emotional damage.One unfortunate note was that I guessed the identity of the villain very early on. I am not sure if that is a fault in the plotting or just a lucky guess on my part. Whichever was the case, it took a lot of tension out of the reading experience for me.If you have never read a Hill-Jordan McDermid before, then I would recommend that you consider starting with The Wire in the Blood or The Mermaids Singing. Established fans will probably get what they came for, but should be aware that The Torment of Others is far from the best in the series.
5 Derek Tyler was locked away two years ago for the brutal and sickening murders of four women. He's still very much imprisoned, but the murders have started up again. Tony Hill, however, believes they couldn't possibly be copycat murders---they're the work of the same killer. Yet the forensic evidence used to convict Derek was irrefutable even without his confession, and so the police face an apparent impossibility. It seems that the killer is at once both on the loose and safely locked away.For me personally, the Tony Hill novels represent the ideal blend of mystery and crime novel elements. I love the psychological details, particularly presented as they are through Tony's novel and quirky insight rather than a textbook-type info-dump. I've always been something of a fan of horror, so I'm okay with the blunt and straightforward handling of gory details (if you can't handle bloody and/or sexual material, these aren't the books for you---the material is never prurient, but it also isn't whitewashed).I also adore McDermid's skill with a mystery. She has that rare and unique ability to present a mystery that makes perfect sense in retrospect---for which you had all the clues and elements present---but in which there are enough details and confusions and red herrings that you'll probably be kept guessing until quite late in the game. There's plenty of forensics and procedure to keep things fascinating, but the characters are given equal importance. Every member of DCI Carol Jordan's team has a strong and interesting personality, and not a single one is immune to the kind of job stresses and dangers that come with the territory. The character arcs are dramatic without being melodramatic.While I can think of reasons why this book wouldn't suit some readers (particularly the aforementioned blunt approach to human deviance), I can't think of a single thing I would point to as a flaw.
4 Val McDermid creates a new twist on a murder mystery.  It is a plot that goes down many allies and keeps the reader guessing.  Fourth in a series of returning characters, McDermid takes Carol one step further into a healing process that can be nothing but challenging for a detective.  However, in spite of the plot, McDermid is still weak on developing her characters, so readers interested in a fully enhanced relational quality while also solving a mystery will be disappointed.  Nevertheless, the plot is a page turner that will keep you enthralled.
5 Bringing together an excellent woman police inspector and a top police psychologist to solve serial killings in West Yorkshire provides a chilling story and an insight into the criminal mind. This book is very intense and you are rooting for the detectives to find the killer. McDermid writes with compassion both for the victims and the detectives.
5 I COULDN'T BUT THIS BOOK DOWN.  STAYED UP ALL NIGHT TO SEE HOW IT WOULD END.  HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS BOOK TO ANYONE WHO LOVES MYSTERIES.
5 With apologies to anyone who is reading this as a duplicative review, I am going to review all four of Val McDermid's Dr. Tony Hill/Carol Jordan novels in one place and copy the reviews individually.I've now read seven of McDermid's books. She's not a great writer but she's a fabulous storyteller and her Tony Hill/Carol Jordan mysteries are the best of the bunch. The first two books aren't written terribly well, but the writing gets better as the series goes on. You may know these characters from the BBC series "Wire in the Blood" starring Robson Green. As an aside, while I generally find film and television adaptations to be far less satisfying than the source material on which they are based, the BBC series is really an exception. While the books have some detail that doesn't make it to the t.v. series, the television program really brings the characters to life and improves on the writing while staying true to the novels, although only the fourth book's plot actually made it to the screen.As noted by some other reviewers, these books are not for the squeamish. McDermid doesn't pull any punches in writing about vicious psychopaths who commit sex crimes and the books may well be disturbing to many. The second book in particular (more below) actually gave me nightmares. McDermid, however, really gets into the heads of her twisted antagonists and she seems to have done a tremendous amount of research. Most importantly, both Dr. Hill, a clinical psychologist who consults with the police as a profiler, and Carol Jordan, the police officer with whom he works most closely, always feel like real people with investigative abilities and compassion that are easy to admire and foibles that are easy to relate to. They have serious difficulties in forging personal relationships which makes their relationship all the more poignant. Each book focuses on two stories -- a main investigation involving a psychopath and a secondary case that is generally no less compelling, while also following the relationship that develops between the two protagonists. If you've never read any of the books in this series, I would recommend taking them in order. The fourth book is the best, the third the worst, but it's worth reading them in order for the character development (although you could easily skip the third). If you really think you only want to read one, or aren't sure and don't care about spolers, just go straight to the last one. Some people who have read the entire series have found the fourth book repetitive, but it's the one that really works on all levels. Overall, the series gets 4 stars, but here are my individual assessments:SPOILER FREE REVIEWS1. The Mermaids Singing - 4 starsThe first of the series is really the only one that delves in any great detail into the personal lives of Tony Hill and Carol Jordan, who come together to investigate the brutal torture and slayings of four men in northern England. McDermid's Tony Hill/Carol Jordan books all deal with issues of sexual identity, but this one does is particularly focused on that as the police suspect a gay man of killing heterosexual men. McDermid shares the thoughts of the killer as well as those of Dr. Hill, who relates all too well to the motivations of the subjects he is asked to profile. The writing in this book is kind of clunky, but the insights of the author into how and why someone sets out to cause maximum pain and humiliation still make it a riveting, if disturbing, read.2. The Wire in the Blood -- 4 starsIn this second book in the series, teenaged girls are being abducted and brutally raped and tortured to death. We are introduced to an extremely smooth and charismatic character, Jacko Vance, a television celebrity and former star athlete, that Dr. Hill and Carol Jordan called upon to investigate. This is the hardest of the series to read, probably because the killer's victims are all extremely young, naive and female, with no chance whatsoever of fighting back. This book deals with charisma and celebrity as well as sexual deviance and although the writing is still somewhat awkward, it's generally a more compelling novel than the Mermaids Singing.3. The Last Temptation -- 3 starsThis is the weakest book in the series. On the plus side, McDermid decides to branch out from northern England and take the reader into continental Europe, particularly Germany, where Carol Jordan has gone as an undercover operative to investigate a drug dealer/slave trader. Tony Hill is also in Europe, helping the police solve a series of murders in which psychologists are the victims. McDermid brings to light some of the darker deeds of the Nazis that are generally not known and discussed and for this she should be commended. The writing also starts to improve with this book and the secondary protagonists, two female, European police officers who develop a long-term relationship with each other, are the best of any of the books. There are some serious problems with the novel, however, that make it the weakest of the bunch. First of all, in the other books McDermid is writing about the North of England, which she clearly knows like the back of her hand. The locale in the other books is really the third character after Tony Hill and Carol Jordan. The European locations never quite come to life in the same way. But the biggest problem with The Last Temptation is that McDermid tries too hard to force a particular ending. In order to get where she wants to go, she has to have Carol Jordan do something completely out of character and, frankly, she doesn't do a good job of convincing us of the reason. The whole book feels a bit contrived. Kudos to McDermid for trying something different instead of just writing variations on a theme, but the theme is one she does really well and this effort is a bit disappointing.4. The Torment of Others -- 5 starsThere's a reason this made the best adaptation of McDermid's books for the BBC series "Wire in the Blood." By this point, McDermid had started to write really well, and she'd really gotten the hang of tying the two story lines together. In the main story, someone is killing prostitutes with the m.o. used by a man currently in an insane asylum. How does the killer know exactly what the prior murderer did? The mystery is more satisfying than that of the prior novels and the sub-plot, involving kidnapped boys, also intrigues. There's not much to learn at this point about Dr. Hill, but while the third book didn't entirely work, the aftereffects of that novel's events on Carol Jordan are all too real and bring the characters' relationship to a new level.If books on criminal profiling and psychological forensics are your thing, you'll probably really enjoy McDermid's work. If someone has recommended her writing to you and the Dr. Hill/Carol Jordan mysteries sound like they are too gruesome, check out the Grave Tattoo, which is a neat, little literary mystery.
5 Even though I'd seen this story in the TV series, I still loved the book even though I knew the plot.
5 As always, Val is true to form.  I have never, ever not enjoyed her book and love the series on Netflix as well.  She is a keeper.
4 I have only discovered Val McDermid in the past few months, and have been reading her Tony Hill/Carol Jordan books in order. I have just finished The Torment of Others and find myself increasingly impressed by her skill in plotting and characterization. Early in this book, McDermid throws us a red herring, that was clear. But she does a very good job of concealing the true villain, which I finally figured out just before it was revealed. Even then, things get very dicey, and a last minute discovery brings it all together.This is a story of power, sadism, perversion and brutal murder. McDermid pulls no punches and is not averse to killing off regular characters. It is not a cozy mystery, but readers familiar with the British TV series already know that. On one level, it is a slow unfolding of a relationship between two damaged people: Hill and Jordan. On another level, it is a brilliant and (as far as I know) grittily realistic police procedural; and on yet a third level, it is about the quest for justice and fairness in a world where the lines between good and evil have grown a bit blurred.I reserve five stars for truly exceptional books, and would award 4.5 if I could. Thanks, Ms. McDermid, for another complicated and suspenseful reading experience. I now move on to the next in the series.
3 I'm definitely a McDermid fan, but a picky one.  In general, I think her stand-alones are stand-outs, but I find Kate Brannigan and her sidekick annoying, and the Lindsay Gordon series is uneven.  Up till now, the Hill/Jordan series has been quite strong, but the formula is starting to wear out in "Torment of Others."  (Which is not all McDermid's fault, of course; such is the nature of even the best fiction formulae.)For starters, the plot rises rather high on the implausibility scale; I'm willing to suspend a lot of disbelief when it comes to fiction, but there's a limit, and this book surpasses it.  And maybe I just read too much, but the "inside-the-killer's-head" narrative strategy is becoming a little threadbare, too.Then there are the main characters, who have lost a lot of their former complexity.  It's as if McDermid has gotten tired of developing them and instead allows one or two traits to serve as a sort of shorthand for the more-fully-realized characters of yore.  Tony, the psychological profiler, has become practically infallible, never making a professional misjudgment.  His leaps of intuition are always right on the money.  Carol, the maverick detective, is now erratic in ways that are only partly explained by her current psychological situation as a recovering rape victim -- too often her character seems sacrificed to the needs of the story.  Carol is supposedly a crack professional, top-notch in her field, yet she overlooks things that can be spotted even by a reader like me, whose knowledge of police work comes solely from reading detective novels.  For instance, when Carol & Co. decide to use a cop as a decoy prostitute to suss out the killer, I said to myself, "A decoy?  But it's clear that the killer knows the Bradfield red-light district intimately; he'll spot her instantly as a suspicious newcomer."  Yet pages and pages elapse before this idea occurs to Carol (or to anyone else except, of course, Tony).  And not even an amateur would overlook the possibility that, if one child murder victim is found buried in an out-of-the-way spot, the body of another victim might be in the same area.  Yet Tony has to point this out to Carol, who figuratively smacks herself in the head and says, "Why didn't I think of that?"  Why?  Perhaps because plot has been allowed to trump character.One element of the Hill/Jordan series that I really like, however, is the presence of gay and lesbian characters whose sexuality is not the point of the story; they are just part of the milieu, the way they would be in life.  A few other Amazon reviewers have complained about this presence,  seeing it as too heavy-handed, as evincing too much of an "agenda" on McDermid's part.  But most novels have no gay characters at all; I wonder if these same Amazon reviewers think such books are promoting a heavy-handed *heterosexual* "agenda."  If homosexuality seems too prominent in "Torment of Others," I fear that's a flaw of this particular difficult-to-swallow plot; it doesn't indicate any problem with representing gay characters as such.  To my mind, the more visible they are, the better.  So rock on, Val.
3 Interesting read. I have not read any other books in this series so I do not know much of the back story of Carol and Tony.Carol Jordan having survived an undercover operation gone wrong is now in charge of her own team and needs to solve two cases. One is a serial killer and the other is a pedophile case. This is her first step in overcoming her insecurities. Dr. Tony Hill is brought in to help with the profile on the serial killer case. Unfortunately to catch the serial killer, Carol will have to put one of her officers undercover. Carol's worst fears come to life when her undercover agent is taken by the serial killer and she will stop at nothing to get her back. Tony's profile points to the killer being someone who is very influential (possible in law enforcement) and is able to convince people to commit the murders for him/her and since he knows that no one will believe him, he investigates on his own. The pedophile case takes a backseat to the serial killer case and I think it does not play a huge part in the whole book.I loved Carol's character. Before her rape she was a very strong cop and now she is striving to get back to some normalcy. Throughout the book you see her determination to overcome these doubts and Tony plays a big part. Lots of layers to these characters. McDermid's descriptions of the sexual abuse might be a little gruesome for some but necessary to the story. This book has many twists and turns and kept me guessing till the end.
5 This is one tough book!! Really dark, really gruesome, really creepy, really good!  Carol Jordan is far from recovered from the last book and Tony Hill is really at a loss as to how to help her, but decides that proximity is the first step.  That's the good news.  The bad news is that Carol is put in charge of a new investigative squad whose members haven't gelled yet and who can't necessarily be trusted to act as a team vs. in each individual's own interest.  AND they have a horrible and relentless serial criminal on their hands.  This is one breathless read.  You do need to stop sometimes just to escape the cruelty and darkness, though.  I don't even want to think of how and where McDermid came up with this one.  It smacks a lot of her first ("Mermaids Singing") but the similar crimes seem so much worse when they are visited on women.  This is just heavy with the shock of insanity and yet it has a glowing, redemptive quality as well.  It is hard to see how McDermid's writing could improve and yet she manages it over and over again.  Now the long wait begins for her next outing.
5 If you have never read a Val McDermid book make haste to a bookshop, a real bookshop, or to an e-book supplier. You are in for a treat. And when you've finished this one and recovered your equilibrium go get the rest of her books. They are all brilliant.
4 The Torment of Others starts in a relatively routine way, with three familiar story lines. Two young boys have gone missing, one turning up in a porn photo. Two years ago, the problem in Bradfield was a vicious killer targeting prostitutes. Enter Inspector Judy Hill, herself a rape victim who has been on extended leave, but now agrees to return to help find the little boys. Can she make a comeback, or has she been  damaged too profoundly?  But they caught that guy and he's now institutionalized, so when murders with the same MO begin again, the police are flummoxed. Nothing new there.Val McDermid writes police procedurals with all the newest techie bells and whistles, but doesn't neglect the all important human element. As Hill teams up again with friend and former lover Tony Hill, psych profiler, those around them are also obliged to thread their way through a maze of increasingly multicultural relationships. Who's in and who's out? As their two depressingly sordid cases converge and separate, a series of unforeseen developments emerge to create a surprising climax. Bloody, creepy, and all too real, this is a page turner of a crime novel, in which nobody's perfect.
5 Gruesome and chilling, McDermid's latest DCI Carol Jordan and criminal psychologist Tony Hill procedural centers around the torture/murder of prostitutes in a grim neighborhood in Bradfield, a city in the north of England. McDermid describes the killings in explicit, horrifying detail, as seems to be de rigeur these days, but the baffling twist required to keep it from being just like every other well-written serial-killer thriller, is a good one.The killer follows a script dictated by a voice in his head. Trouble is, the script is old. The current murders are exact copies of a series solved two years previous, when irrefutable forensic evidence - and a confession - landed the killer in a hospital for the criminally insane. The case is ironclad and Dr. Hill can't accept a copycat.Jordan, still traumatized from the brutal attack she suffered in their last outing ("The Last Temptation"), now heads up the new "major incident" squad. Along with the serial killings, she and the empathetic Hill are juggling a cold case of two missing, presumed murdered, boys.Point of view shifts primarily, though not exclusively, between the two protagonists. Hill, with his uncanny (but convincing) insights into the criminal mind, and his tortured love for Jordan, has the most intriguing view. Jordan's struggle to appear more in command than she is is well done and McDermid keeps the political maneuvering and ambition in the new squad tense. The two cases build in intensity and suspense to an excruciating and prolonged climax.- Portsmouth Herald
4 The Torment of Others was beautifully read. There are two stories stimutaneously going on. Police Detective Carol Jordan  and crime pyschologist Tony Hill are involved in both. Carol goes undercover in Berlin, Germany in order to gain evidence on a eastern European mobster. Tony goes to Berlin in order aide two women police dectives (one Dutch and the other German) in their search for a serial killer. It is fastinating how Tony Hill puts pieces together ( with the aide of the two detectives) and determines who the serial killer is. The Rhine river plays a major part in the story.The characters are well drawn and I felt  a tinge  of sympathy for the bad guys. At the end of the story, it is revealed that the good guys believe that the end justifies the means ( "colleratal damage").Torment of Others is an exciting story and gives you alot to think about.
5 Love this author's style and the development of the Dr. Tony HIll and Carol Jordan.  Action plus thought-provoking plot plus wonderful wrtiting style, how can anyone go wrong?
4 This is only the second McDermid book I've read, but after finishing "The Torment of Others" I ordered the other available Tony Hill and Carol Jordan books. To me, it's very interesting to read how the minds of Dr. Hill and DCI Jordan work, although some may find that boring. I was engrossed within the first few pages, and didn't want to put this book down.
5 Val McDermid delivers another taut, gripping story.  The development of the relationship between Tony Hill and Carol Jordan continues to stumble along, one step forward, 2 steps back, as they both try to resolve or at least deal with the traumas in their pasts.  A series of murders of prostitutes turns out to be masterminded not by the killers themselves but by a person who has established almost complete mind control over the vulnerable people who commit the murders.  And the identity of that mastermind is well hidden until very near the end of the story.  As usual, the resolution of the mystery is taut and suspenseful.  Highly recommended.Besides a great plot, McDermid supplies three-dimensional, interesting characters, whether heroes, villains, or incidental characters.  If you are not put off by graphic violence, the Tony Hill books are well worth trying.  I believe if you try one, you will want to read them all.  They are best approached by beginning with the first, &#34;The Mermainds Singing.&#34;
5 I love this series and hope McDermid continues her current standard of excellence (unlike, say James Patterson or Patricia Cornwell). The book is easy to read and holds your attention. McDermid manages to expand on the relationship between Tony and Carol while weaving two other plot lines.I'm looking forward to the next one in the series!
5 It's always a pleasure when I take a chance on a new novelist and it pays off as well as it did here. Val McDermid is, I now know, one of our best writers and I won't hesitate to buy any book in the future with her name on the cover. In The Torment of Others, you'll get everything you want from a thriller and more : intelligent characters, gripping imagery, a powerful plot, clever pacing and just entertainment all round. The lead characters Jordan and Hill are very much individuals whose personalities and concerns are so well described that we almost feel that we know them; the key point is that we can easily believe in them. The side-plot of their 'relationship' is actually intriguing, dealt with subtle aplomb by their creator and cleverly left unfinished within the context of this story so that we can carry on where they left off in the next one. The main story line of this book is quite daringly graphic in its description without being gory for its own sake. It just leaves you wondering "Jeez, what a way to go"...and I'm not a woman! This is a writer of high intellect, vivid imagination and the bringing together of those rare skills makes for very enjoyable reading. Call me a fan.
4 From The Last  Temptation. We see the return of Carol to Bradfield, Tony leaving academia to go back to profiling. I enjoyed the book, but when I read it I always saw in my mind, and compared it to, the episode they based this on for the BBC series. That said, this book could have been edited much better and tightened up a lot. I found it went on just a bit too long to get to the whodunit part. I suggest to also watch the series episode based on this book, you'll enjoy it even more after reading this. Heck just watch the whole, excellent series. I actually got turned on to these books after watching the series. So Robson Greene, the actor who is spot-on in portraying Tony Hill, is who I visualize while reading the book. The actress who plays Carol Jordan, forget her name, seems older and more serious in the series and doesn't match the younger, more vibrant one in the book. But be prepared, the show is quite dark, bloody and gory, and sometimes just over the top,which is why it's such a good watch.
5 Forget James Patterson! Forget Dan Brown! They are all fakes, hacks, shadows of what they could be.Val is the real deal! Huge in Britain where Crime Lit as a genre doesn't pull punches like American Crime Lit sometime does, Val McDermid is one of the best thriller writers out there. And if Torment of Others doesn't prove otherwise, then I'm loosing my faith in the fact that most people know talent when they read it.Torment is Tony Hill and Carole Jordan back together again. If you haven't read a book with these two characters then go check out the Mermaid's Singing. You can buy one for about a buck used. Tony Hill is a profiler - the real thing, not Millennium or Profiler or X-Files. This is gritty, nasty, gory, scary, in-your-face crime drama.She puts her characters through hell and wants you to come along.Let me tell you: don't hesitate.Take Val's hand.She'll scare the s#!t out of you but, let me tell you, the trip is worth it!
2 Not her best effort and I would recommend passing on this one.  The likeliness of a mass murderer having a dungeon at the exact location of a police sting operation is a difficult pill to swallow.  There are further flaws as well, and although I have enjoyed some of her other novels, I found myself rolling my eyes at this one.
5 Yup, just like all the other McDermid's in this series. In Tony Hill she has created a classic of literature.
4 My first read by Ms McDermid but will certainly not be my last.  Very good character description and a good plot.
5 One of the things about Val McDiarmid's work that is so intriguing is her insight into the motivations of the villain. In this novel, the torment refers to the motivations of the hero as well and reveals even more about the formation of empathy in the main characters. McDiarmid can only be considerd to be at the top of her game here. When one would think these recurring characters have no place futher to go, she takes the reader to the next most organic place...their souls.
4 "The Torment of Others" is the fourth in the electrifying Dr. Tony Hill/Detective Chief Inspector Carol Jordan series by Val McDermid, a quickly-emerging writer.  Like her others, it's set in Bradfield, a fictional northern English city much like Manchester, where McDermid, after graduation from Oxford, worked as a journalist for 16 experience-enriching years.The author was born and raised in a Scottish mining town, and though this series is set in England's north country, she writes the toughest tartan noir going: sharp-humored and bloody-minded.  In 1995, she won the Gold Dagger Award for Best Crime Novel of the year.  Her novel "A Place of Execution" won a "Los Angeles Times" book prize, was nominated for the Edgar Award for Best Novel, and was named a "New York Times" Notable Book of the Year.  Mind you, she frequently makes use of oft-seen plot devices.  Yet she seems to break new ground with each book, always at the margins of society, where most of us have not been.In "Torment" DCI Jordan returns to Bradfield after a disastrous German assignment, in which she did not receive the full support she needed from her superiors.  Once back in the aging industrial city, she again joins forces with Hill to crack two puzzling cases.  Someone is kidnapping young boys at rather long intervals.  And someone is torturing and murdering prostitutes.  The latter case is considered doubly mysterious because, in a familiar plot device, the town had an identical series of crimes two years earlier. Irrefutable forensic evidence brought the conviction of a deeply disturbed young man, now safely locked away in a mental institution.  Is there a copycat on the loose?  The desperation of local police brass to solve this case will result in their sending out another insufficiently supported young woman decoy, the aftermath of which will echo Jordan's German experience.McDermid is always strong on forensics and police procedure.  She demonstrates an appreciation of the suffering of victims of crime, and the burdens of law enforcement work.  She can keep several plots spinning at a time.  Further, her Dr. Hill provides stimulating psychological insights into the criminal mind.  She also writes vividly and well.  She probably can also write quickly: she's actually doing three series, as well as the odd standalone.  But be warned, the squeamish and sensitive among you; this book, like many/most of her others, is not for you.
4 While not as heart-stoppingly suspenseful as "The Mermaid's Singing," this latest Tony Hill/Carol Jordan mystery novel proved to be a very riveting and compelling read, that will (need I say it?) keep you completely glued to your chair until the very last page.When a prostitute is found brutal murdered in a manner similar to a previous case from a few years ago also involving murdered prostitutes, DCI Carol Jordan and her team think that they've a copycat on their hands. But this, according to criminal psychologist, Dr. Tony Hill, is not the case. His belief is that the same person who was responsible for those murders, is responsible for this one as well. The problem is that there was irrefutable forensic evidence as well as a confession for that first case, and Derek Tyler is currently serving time in a mental institution for those first murders. Tyler's claim, hitherto dismissed as the fantasies of a deranged mind, was that the "voice" had told him what to do and how to do it. Could his fantastic claims be true? Could there be a sinister, twisted personality out there who derives pleasure and satisfaction from manipulating others to commit, vicious, brutal murders against women? As the body count rises and pressure to make a quick arrest mounts, Carol's newly formed Major Incident Team begins to fall apart as the different personalities clash -- some even begin to question if Carol is up to the job given that she's still feeling raw and vulnerable from having been assaulted a few months ago. Carol must now put her personal qualms aside in order to bring her team together so that they can work as an integrated unit as well as get them to trust her instincts and leadership again. Fortunately, she has Tony Hill backing her up in more ways than one...Taut and fast paced, "The Torment of Others" was an incredibly engrossing read that really kept me guessing for quite a while. At some point, a few readers may get an inkling as to what's going on and who the guilty party may be; fortunately, the author took great care to make plausible suspects of a few key characters, so that if you enjoy trying to solve the mystery along with the lead detectives, you're in for a treat. And by filtering in Tony's and Carol's complex and unresolved feelings, Carol's still raw feelings about her rape, and Tony's feelings of guilt, Val McDermid also makes "The Torment of Others" a much more multifaceted and more textured read.Chilling and horrifying, "The Torment of Others" definitely is a very well written and clever mystery novel. And while Val McDermid has written more suspenseful thrillers, "The Torment of Others" rates high as a very satisfying and chilling police procedural. Definitely a "not-to-be-missed" thriller.
2 Just like the old Chariots of Gods, his books are very interesting and and entertaining.  But please dont think that you are reading a scientific work.  Real historical works are not as sexy and entertaining as these books just as real archeologists are not Indiana Joneses.
1 I only skimmed this book, thank God. Hancock's and Bauval's "Talisman" must be one of the most meaningless books ever written. It promises to uncover a vast, 2000-year long conspiracy somehow connected to 9/11. It does not. Or rather, it uncovers the conspiracy in such a manner, that the reader is left with the distinct impression that the authors *support* the conspiracy. Perhaps they do. But if so, why not simply say so? Another conspiracy, perhaps...?All the usual suspects are there: Gnostics, Manicheans, Cathars, Templars, Freemasons and Jacobins. Many U.S. presidents were Masons, both Paris and Washington are practically teeming with occult architecture, and it seems both revolutionaries and counter-revolutionaries in France were deeply involved in Masonic activities. The ultimate roots of the conspiracy goes back to the Hermetica and beyond, into ancient Egypt. And Atlantis? The whole thing is a secret counter-religion to official Christianity, hell-bent (pun intended) on destroying the latter. However, since the authors depict the Cathars in particular as really good guys, one wonders what the fuzz is all about, really?In the appendix, Hancock and Bauval claims that al-Qaeda might have attacked the United States in the belief that America is a secret Masonic-Zionist state. Israel's declaration of independence in 1948, and Truman's swift recognition of the same, is cast as suspicious. Here, the authors suddenly imply that the millennia-old Gnostic conspiracy really is evil. Note also the anti-Semitic undertone. However, since they spent a large bulk of their book attacking official Christianity and extolling the virtues of Catharism and the Hermetica, one wonders once again what their *real* agenda is...Not that I care much. I don't believe in *this* kind of conspiracy theory, anyway. My guess is that Hancock and Bauval probably couldn't care less either way, and wrote this voluminous, expensive book simply to cash in on the new wave of conspiracy thinking following in the wake of 9/11. That would explain their strangely non-committal angle."Talisman" is...a broken talisman. Or, if you're paranoid, a plot by the Illuminati. :P
3 There is a tremendous amount of historical detail in "Talisman", with good use of original sources.  This is undoubtedly valuable to people with an intense interest in Freemasonry and similar secret organizations.  I am one who enjoys a lot of facts and details, but in "Talisman", I found myself getting bored with a fair amount of it.  There is also a good deal of repetition, along the lines of "The reader will recall in Chapter 7..."  The pace is slow and didn't always hold my interest.It's definitely worth a read, but you may find yourself starting to skip passages and pages, as I did.  I've read most of Hancock's other works and enjoyed them all.  I looked forward to reading "Talisman", but this book is slower going than his others (such as "Underworld", I could barely put it down).  Perhaps it is the topic, I admit to being more interested in underwater archaeology than secret organizations, but don't feel guilty if you start to turn the pages a little too quickly.  You're not alone.
5 Great book but new edition with updated material has been published as "The Master Game"The Master Game: Unmasking The Secret Rulers Of The World
3 Graham Hancock and Robert Bauval have produced a number of books, separately and together, on various subjects of esoteric interest, primarily dealing with the possibility of a hitherto unknown civilization having existed before the last Ice Age.  These books are usually diverting and often thought provoking, as is Talisman, even when the reader fails to be convinced of the overall thesis of the authors.Talisman supposedly describes the centuries old history of a secret faith which has surfaced time and again in human history.  The sections which deal with the early Christian gnostics and the Cathars are very well done and provide some intriguing information about the parallels between those groups of which I had not previously known.  I also found the segments dealing with the Templars and their links to the Freemasons intriguing, as will other readers who have enjoyed such books as Holy Blood, Holy Grail, The Messianic Legacy, and others of that ilk.Where I found my interest and credulity flagging were the sections dealing with the numerous references to Ancient Egyptian religion to be found among the French Revolutionaries and in the supposed Masonic symbolism to be found in cities like Washington and Paris. Egyptian references during the French Revolution make sense when you remember that the Catholic Church was considered an arm of the French monarchy, and that therefore anti-monarchists would also be anti-Church and seek to replace it with symbols of other faiths.  Also it is well known that Freemasons were actively involved in the Enlightenment Period and that many early US leaders were (and continue to be in the present era) Masons.  However, I tend to be skeptical of maps detailing straight lines linking different sites.  (It has always been my observation that if you draw lines long enough and in enough directions you can link up just about anything you want to.)I was also somewhat puzzled by the references to 9/11 that are tagged on at the end of the book.  While Al Qaeda members certainly appear to be gullible enough to swallow the idea of a huge Jewish/Masonic conspiracy against them, I don't believe that Osama bin Laden chose to destroy the World Trade Center because the towers had Masonic significance!All in all I can say that this is an entertaining book which will provide a lot of interesting information about Gnosticism, Catharism, and other assorted heresies and the Catholic Church's responses to them, but unfortunately mixed in with this material is a lot of poorly sorted out and ultimately irrelevant data.
5 This is yet another brilliant journey of discovery in the company of Hancock and Bauval. After a lot of historical background the authors bring to light the Egyptian roots in the design (or wished for design) of cities such as Paris and London. The esoteric idea behind this is that the cities will become transmitters of (Divine)energy in the world and provoke wisdom in humanity in the same fundamental way that the ancient Egyptians once did through their temples or pyramids. The first example of the attempt to draw on the ancient Egyptian influence was Alexander the Great and his founding of Alexandria. A later example is Christopher Wren in London. The main historical themes which the authors focus are the Dualism of Gnostics, Cathars on the one hand and the Hermeticism of the Renaissance on the other, with idealists such as Tomasso Campanella and Athanasius Kircher being two important players. The Masons (or Freemasons) base their rituals on the rebuilding of Solomon's ancient temple (esoterically, rebuilding the temple represents cultivating oneself spiritually) and this is shown to be incorporated in the way planners and architects have thought in terms of city design.
1 Hancock and Bauval have done some great work in the past and that can not be denied.  However, their reach is into areas of esotericism and literature they have no knowledge of or expertise in disminishes there reputation as serious students of the esoteric science.The Knight Templars and Cathar question is a case in point.  My personal take on the crusade against the Cathars was merely a displacement or force relocation of the masses.The Knight Templars could not have been heretics if what they believed is precisely what the Church was teaching at the time.  Most of the cathedrals of Europe were built by the year 1307.  In particular Chartres Cathedral, and Dante Alighieri was well into writing his La Divina Commedia, and two centuries later Michelangelo would used the same mathematical system (Dante used to write his Commedia) to fresco the ceiling and Altar wall of the Sistine Chapel.  Incorporated into all these art forms, architecture, literature, and fresco painting is the same science used to write the sacred scriptures.  The very things that are called occult practices are incorporated into these genres of thought.  This same belief system is what was believe by the Templars and Cathars.Those that doubt this argument should read my recently published work:The Sistine Chapel: A Study in Celestial Cartography: The Mysteries and the Esoteric Teachings of the Catholic ChurchNovember 2012) where it is demonstrated that the Kabbalistic Tree of Life and much of the esoteric science comes directly from the first chapter of Genesis in which the fresco painters of the Sistine Chapel were well aware.  This work without mentioning Hancock or Bauval names destroys their argument in TALISMAN because of the scientific nature of the evidence that was marshaled to validate the paper's arguments.Hancock and Bauval argue that the Templars and Cathar had this esoteric knowledge and that is why they were destroyed.  Why would the Church destroy the very organizations that it and the bible's teachings created?  That would be insane and ludicrous.  This is where Hancock and Bauval fail in their reasoning process.  They act as if the Church is totally ignorant of the Esoteric Science and does not use it in their teachings.  Both Hancock and Bauval have a very very limited understanding of the Esoteric Science or what it is all about.For me I believe that for the most part the Knight Templars and the Cathars are merely mythological spiritual stories similar to the legends of the Holy Grail.  Yet, these stories have come down to us as if they were actual historical events.  Remember that the Church had absolute control over what was historically written before the invention of the printing press.  It should be considered that the legends of the Templars, Cathars, Crusades, Holy Grail, La Divina Commedia and other such documents are a rehashing esoterically of the sacred scriptures knowledge of Esotericism.The hatred that Hancock and Bauval have towards the Catholic Church is quite obvious and evident by the first part of the book - they are without shame in their rhetoric: "A study in Catholic Bashing" should be considered AS A REHEADING for the first section of TALISMAN.All in all TALISMAN is the worst book these previously VERY GOOD THINKERS and researchers have ever written.
5 This book is a classic for a reason.  While you can ready a chapter a day and move on, I find myself returning to particular passages again and again as they resonate through me.
5 this book is wonderfully written with a wonderful voice. She speaks with the loving kindness that she teaches.A wonderful easy to read book that changed my life.
5 The Wisdom of No Escape gives a clear introduction to shamatha-vipashyana meditation (shi-n&egrave; and lhatong). Pema Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n has a warm and encouraging style with touches of gentle humour. It is an excellent book for those who are new to meditation, or for experienced meditators who would like to experience new vigour in their practice. The book encourages us to make friends with ourselves using the practice of meditation. It is who we are right now that counts. We do not need to purge our neuroses - we simply have to be here and now in order to be fully awake. The practice of meditation helps us to get to know ourselves, without judgements or expectations. Pema Ch&ouml;dr&ouml;n teaches that the Path of Loving-Kindness begins with ourselves. Only when we like ourselves can we possibly hope to like others - and thus help them.
5 Essential reading for anyone alive!  Pema Chordron always speaks the truth and this book is a good summary of her thoughts on life.
5 i have read many books on spirituality over the years, and this has been one of my top two that most memorably changed my life. (the other one being 'autobiography of a yogi'. it is not that others have not shaped me, but this one was a dramatic shift in thinking for me. i have referred several people to it, quoted from it at times, and would love to see this being read by more, and it is already fairly well known and is in a new cover.i call pema the goddess of hard times. this book for me was everything i wished that 'when things fall apart' would have been for me. thankfully i didn't stop at that book, and found this one. when things fall apart was forgettable for me. this one was my favorite, and 'start where you are' i found to be good, but i don't seem to quote from it, nor have the fond memories like i do of wisdom of no escape.pema is a great asset to buddhists and people all around the world seeking more compassion and a greater sense of humanity in their souls. this book is her greatest work as far as i am concerned. well worth a read, well worth 'practicing' not just reading. the concepts are best experienced, not just intellectualized. intellectually they are counter intuitive, and a few friends have reacted without really getting the essence of it which is the practice and inner transformation available.
5 all pema's work is wonderful-and the delivery was timely.  as a practicing buddhist, i can't imagine life without pema.  i also love her cd's
5 As human beings and Americans living in the 21st century, we are taught to be constantly striving for something better: a better job, a better body, a better mate, a better life, etc, etc, etc. This book challenges that way of thinking and encourages us to see this moment in the life we have right now as the best possible teacher. Instead of always running toward something "better", what if we learned to really look at ourselves the way we are right now?"The Wisdom of No Escape" is the second book I've read by Pema Chodron, and she continues to provoke, fascinate, and inspire me.
3 Pema Chodron's The Wisdom of No Escape and the Path of Loving Kindness has both what I love and dislike about Buddhism in one inspirational package.First, there is no denying the Chodron is writing about profound topics that revolve around respect for oneself, others, the earth, as well as teaching a philosophy or religion where people see their own mutability, and therefore have compassion for other mutable creatures, trapped by their circumstances and fate, hoping to be free of the confining influences of life here as human beings.My main problem with Buddhism is not the message, but the sub-text of that message.  Most of what westerners see of Buddhism is from teachers from the west, or those who fashion their message for the west.  Chodron's book is a series of talks over a month at a remote monastery in Nova Scotia.  People sit for most of the day, concentrate on their breathing, have communal meals, talk mediation walks.This seems remote from daily, domestic life.  Who has Buddhist babies to make new Buddhists?  Who runs the house and makes the money and cleans the dishes and pays the bills.  The version of Buddhism presented in this book is almost purely monastic.  Since most of us do not live monastic lives, but in households, with children and spouses, what good is any of this?  The sub-text is a bit scary: the shaved heads, the loose robes, the lack of possession, life is fleeting.  Is this a religion that promotes a sense of life denial?Also, most Buddhists are of the "folk" variety; they believe in many gods and goddesses, incorporate Buddhism in family life, mix their Buddhism with local belief  and custom.  Where  is this in Chodron's book.  It is simply not there.The message of this book is wonderful, but how we are to get there strikes me as somehow presented in a less than ingenious fashion.  We are told that life is fleeting, desire is never satisfied, yet at the same time, we should remain attached to life and existence and be good.  Can we really be both?
3 Don't get me wrong, this is a good book, but there are just a couple of things about it that make it not quite as good as I was hoping. First, her interpretation of the Four Noble Truths is problematic in my eyes. Basically she take Tibetan teachings on egolessness (which are great teachings in their own right) and superimposes them on the Four Noble Truths. Her interpretation does not ring true for me - she states that the 2nd Noble Truth is "resisting life causes suffering" and that the 3rd Noble Truth is learning to let go of our "selves"/ego. These are valuable teachings but do not represent the more usual (and probably academically correct, as well as more powerful, in my opinion) translations that I have read: that (very summarily put) the 2nd Noble Truth is that that craving/desire/grasping causes suffering and the 3rd Noble Truth is that ceasing to crave/desire/grasp results in the cessation of suffering. Her interpretation is not wrong, but it is a bit of a Chinese whispered version of the Four Noble Truths and I would have liked her book better had she not re-interpreted them like this. Secondly, she writes "from above" a little. I feel that she comes across like a lovely, cosy, caring and wise Aunty. For me this made her teachings have less impact. I preferred Tara Brach's "Radical Acceptance" (which deals with a similar subject - accepting life as it is) to "The Wisdom of No Escape": Brach's writing is a bit more raw and personal and she writes like one sister to another sister (or brother)).
5 Sometimes you don't expect much from a book that is about 100 pages in length, but you would be doing yourself a disservice to NOT read through this book. It pulls on some many wonderful, traditional tokens of wisdom from the Buddhist cultural and relates it to the experience of our modern lives. I truly enjoyed this book and I am filing this is my &#34;Must Re-Read&#34; file for a future revisit.:)
3 Pleasing enough to read.....not anything that avid readers of this subject matter will necessary relish.
4 This book is a collection of talks given during a month-long meditation retreat, by an American teacher of Tibetan Buddhism. She emphasizes the cultivation of loving-kindness toward everything, including ourselves and our busy, crazy brains.When I picked this book up a number of years ago, the first  sentence was just what I needed to hear: "There's a common misunderstanding among all the human beings who have ever been born on the earth that the best way to live is to try to avoid pain and just try to get comfortable."(I also highly recommend "The Myth of Freedom" and "Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism" by Chodron's teacher, Chogyam Trungpa.)
5 This book came to me after suffering a severe Gout attack. My life was a mess, manifesting itself in my poor dietary habits. After limping home from the hospital, I scanned my bookshelves for something to read, as I convalesced. The Wisdom of No Escape sat on my bookshelf for a few years. Everytime I would see the title, I'd think, &quot;sounds depressing&quot;. Well, it's not. It is a very honest and straight forward guide book for the human creature. It basically tells you that life is hard and it's that hardness that makes it worth living. I also got the impression that the author believes that Heaven and Hell and reincarnation are all part of everyone's daily experience. Everytime something repeats itself in your life, you are experiencing a living reincarnation. The key seems to be in keeping it all new and fresh.
5 This is my favorite Pema Chodron book! You can open its pages anywhere,  any time, in any frame of mind, and receive wide benefit to mind and heart.  It is spiritual teaching of the only useful kind, practical teaching  deliberately intended not to implant, but rather to  unsheathe what is  already native, but hidden.  Pema Chodron leaves one to oneself -the very  best teaching!-  and by the faintest strokes of wisdom, insight, and  practiced sensibilities leaves one higher, deeper, and more able to live  freely within oneself.  I think she is an extraordinary teacher, in the  very best tradition of Western Buddhist training.  If Gampo Abbey in Nova  Scotia is fortunate indeed to be gifted with this extraordinary woman,  likewise are we.  It seems I open that amazing turquoise cover (a more  illustrious blue than even the fine photo on this page indicates!) several  times a week.  It is a book one gratefully lives with.  I have given it to  friends, family, and even a few strangers!  I recommend it with confidence,  compassionate purpose, and indeed a great deal of joy.
5 Pema Chodron has written a modern day Buddhist classic in "The Wisdom of No Escape and the Path of Loving-Kindness". The book was originally compiled from a series of talks that Pema gave during a month long meditation retreat in Gampo Abbey. The basic premise is there is "no exit", no where to hide so you might as well make the best of it and be here now. The no where to go except where you are right now can be also be applied in terms of working with our own mind and the minds of others. One of the main points and practices of the book seems to be to "be open and accept all situations and people". Easier said then done, but Pema actual talks about some practical and worthwhile practices to do just that. I originally read "The Wisdom of no escape" during a meditation retreat. It was perfect to read during retreat and it is perfect just to pick up and re-read from time to time. I highly recommend this classic book as a great introduction to tonglen practice, Pema's work and as a reminder to apply loving kindness in whatever situation we find ourselves in.
5 Clear, gentle, compassionate, wise. Adds joy and value to your life. Never runs from reality.  Explains causes of suffering.  Resolves them.
5 The title speaks for itself. The book give you the ability to pave your own path to displaying heartfelt human kindness.
4 Self Acceptance is the basis of emotional resilience. This book contains the background for two meditations that are useful to me. Hopefully, less is more in this review.
5 Pema Chodron has a wonderful way of making the complex seem simple.  In a gentle, non-parochial, non-confrontational manner, the author transmits, explains, and supports basic Buddhist principles so as to make them understandable to Westerners not versed in Tibetan assumptions, cosmologies, mythologies, etc.  For example, her explication of Tonglen (sending and receiving) is presented in relation not only to Bodhicitta (universal compassion) but also in terms of personal development, mindfulness and presence, and acceptance of life's challenges as challenges (not restrictions or compulsions).  Her chapter on renunciation is a classic as are other of her talks to her month-long meditation retreat class (which totally comprise this volume).  It's difficult to escape the comprehensive wisdom of this book.  It's one of her best which is saying a lot.
5 This is one of my favorite books by Pema Chodron.  It not only does a very good job of describing the essence of Buddhism, but it goes beyond that in making Tibetan Buddhism more understandable and relevant to a Western audience without deveating from the tradition.  In short, it contains the heart of the teachings of the Vajrayana.  A nice complimentary book if you are interested in going deeper into Tibetan Buddhism isFundamentals of Tibetan Buddhism.  These books compliment each other and the latter puts all of the Buddhist traditions in historical context.  Huston Smith's essay inThe World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom TraditionsorBuddhism: A Concise Introduction.  You get more bang for your buck with the former Huston Smith book, however.The fundamental teaching of the Buddha involves the following realizations: 1) Life is suffering; 2) The cause of suffering is selfish desire; 3) To get rid of selfish desire, follow the eightfold path.  The essence of the eightfold path is a moral life grounded in a strong loving-kindness practice (A Mahayana emphasis, but true of all schools).  This book provides precisely that -- a path of loving-kindness that any person could follow and apply to their life.  When asked what religion the Dalai was, he once said... "my religion is loving-kindess."  While the Dalai Lama didn't officially endorse the book that I know of, certainly it is written in keeping with this spirit.This book covers a LOT of ground in short volume of about 108 pages.  It looks at the existential situation of not being able to escape our life and the human condition which is characterized by suffering.  The Buddha said as his last words, "be a lamp unto yourselves."  I believe the intent here was that no super mommy or daddy in the sky is going to come down and save you from the human condition.  You must look deeply to see the truth and this will liberate you from samsara or the cycle of suffering.  In this book, Pema Chodron describes the Buddha's teachings and more importantly practices to help you to arrive at a place of loving-kindness and equanimity.What I most like about this book is that she keeps things simple.  She also describes Tonglen practice and other forms of meditation and habits of thought that cultivate a mind that is not locked in conditioned thinking.  Krishnamurti once said, "seeing the truth deeply is what liberates, not your efforts to be free."  A corallary to this might be... yes... but what limits how deeply you can see is your depth of compassion for others, but primarily for yourself.  This book is a manual about how to cultivate a loving-kindness that allows you to penetrate the insufficiency of living for things like money, sex, power and status.  It is a good read for anyone.If you are interested in a somewhat different Western perspective or something to contrast these writings with then tryA Path with Heart: A Guide Through the Perils and Promises of Spiritual Life.  This book by Jack Kornfield emphasizes an earlier Buddhist tradition namely the Theravada (Way of the Elders).  Mahayana Buddhism was an outgrowth of these teachings and Tibetan Buddism (Vajrayana) a further extension and elaboration.  Jack Kornfield is a Western psychologist who spent a number of years in Thailand as a Buddhist monk and his perspective is accessible, entertaining, practical and complimentary to this book.  If you are looking for a more integrative read that relates to Western Psychology directly tryToward a Psychology of Awakening: Buddhism, Psychotherapy, and the Path of Personal and Spiritual Transformation.  This is a more difficult read, but extremely worthwhile.  There are other recommendations on my listmania lists of this is your area of interest.
5 The wisdom of no escape describes the central practice of mindfulness - to open the heart and mind to be fully present with what is, rather than how we wish things would be. The central opening that is mindfulness naturally opens the way to loving-kindness, or metta, because we open our awareness to everything we encounter, including suffering. It is in this spacious awareness that true healing and transformation take place. I also recommend ASIN:1432736884 The Path of Mindfulness Meditation for an in-depth study of mindfulness meditation.
