5 I was completly satisfied with this gift. I ordered it for my boyfriend for Christmas with The Hobbit hard cover. The pictures are beautiful, any and all collectors should own this collection.Good reading as always. Fast and Quick shipping and Delivery. Was at my door step 1 week before Christmas, which was amazing, because I was told it might take longer than that, but somehow it all happened all right.If you are a fan, and you already have the series, then you should know, it's still the same story, but if you do not have the series and you want one that will last and continue to out-live all the others, buy this one, and you'll never have to buy another collection as long as you live.
5 `The Hobbit' and `The Lord of the Rings Trilogy' by J.R. R. Tolkien on Audio CDs from Recorded Books. Complete and Unabridged, performed by Bob Ingles. 10 compact discs in `The Hobbit' and 46 in LOTR; more than 60 hours.I've read `The Hobbit' and LOTR several times over the years and I've seen all the movies several times (Good News! Peter Jackson and Guillermo del Toro are filming `The Hobbit' and a `prequel' to LOTR to be released in 2010 and 2011). So when I saw this was available from Recorded Books I bought it. Overall I was not disappointed; there is enough here to satisfy any LOTR geek (not do disparage geekatude, in fact I admire most geeks) but the main thing I got out of it was an increased admiration for Peter Jackson's film adaptation. Jackson was a genius at cutting out the parts that added little to the overall story and in changing places and characters to make it flow better.I could review and compare the books, the movies, and the audio CDs, however I'll just refer to the whole thing as LOTR here.The recording at times gets very heavy and hard to follow. Just like in the books, there are long passages you'd like to skip. Unlike the books, you have a hard time doing that here. Having said that I still have to give this all 5 stars as it is worth having if you are a LOTR fan like me. Bob Ingles does a masterful job of performing all the parts, not merely reading them. At times it is confusing, but then LOTR is confusing at times; all those names that are so close always got mixed up in my mind. Also Ingles at least even tries to make those doggerel `songs' of Tolkien sufferable. Thank gawd that Jackson cut them from the movies. I did think that Ingles was channeling Dwight Frye at times when he was doing the voice of Sm&eacute;agol/Gollum. But overall I was very impressed and rarely confused, or at least no more than normal.I will say in listening to LOTR I noticed things which I never picked up on in the books or movies. For one thing Tolkien's rather snobbish acceptance of the `Divine Right of Kings' and aristocracy worship in general is much more evident when you are listening. Also I came to detect a more than small amount of racism on Tolkien's part; for example Sm&eacute;agol/Gollum is referred to as `black' and the humans who join forces with Sauron are described with racial stereotypes. I suppose Tolkien can be excused as this was probably merely a reflection of his background and era, but it did get on my nerves at times. Also Tolkien seems to me to be even rather dismissive of the Hobbits as `little people' and in the end Gandalf abandons them to fight Saruman on their own; he is `too busy' off smoking his pipe and talking to Tom Bombadil (a character thankfully left out of Jackson's movies)to be bothered to help them.But, all things being equal which they never are, if you are a fan of LOTR you'll want to spend the US$150.00 or so for this collection and listen to it all in preparation for the Jackson movies.
5 I hadn't read this since high school and I picked it up again about a month ago.  Just an incredible series, it's the best escape I could imagine.  If you haven't read it yet, do so immediately, you'll find yourself longing for the simpler life of Middle-Earth.
5 Rob Inglis reads this book so well that you feel like you are part of the epic adventure story.  Hearing the songs and poems in the proper rhythm makes the book that much more meaningful.
5 I bought this edition back in 1997. I was blown away by the story and the way Tolkien was able to create an entire world rich with interesting races, creatures, and places. His descriptions are amazing. You will be drawn into Middle Earth like a moth to a flame.So, then the movies came out. I watch them every year during the Holidays. So, they are fairly well ingrained into my memory. I had forgotten much of the original story. So, I decided to read the book again. I found it even better the second time around. If you've never read the book and have watched the movies, I urge you to savor every word that Tolkien wrote. The movies are different from the book. The basic story is the same, but many details and scenes were left out.As others have said, there are a few minor printing issues with this edition. Some of the text is printed a little lighter than the rest on the page. But, it is completely readable. The artwork by Alan Lee more than makes up for this minor annoyance.I was very sad when I came to the end of this epic tale. I want more!
5 What else can I say? I have multiple copies of this and have probably read the story 10 times over the last 30 years. None of the movies have ever come close to the appeal of the book.
4 Just as J.K. Rowling is popular for a book about death eaters that resemble terrorists, in Tolkiens day, he became famous for a book that resembled a World War. There have been many Tolkien spinoffs since this book, and even Steven King has thrown in an attempt to equal this pivotal work of the genre. As a recent high school graduate however, I do not remember a time where all the nations of the world decided to tear each other to shreds, and some of the experience is lost for me. What makes this book last more than say, "All Quiet on the Western Front", however, is that Tolkien has a new world to introduce to us, and we can relate to it through our similar experiences. While the tone of this book is often frustrating, and some parts in the beginning of the Fellowship of the Ring can be slow, this book has endured throughout the ages, which is testament to the authors skill of worldbuilding paired with social reflection. This is a classic world that has stood the test of time and is still reminiscent of our own, and because of this it is a very accessible story.
5 Of course I will not regurgitate the sweet plot of J.R.R. Tolkien's great novels, The Lord of the Rings.  If there's any criticism it's that the volume does not have The Hobbit, but that's a minor quibble.But why get this book?Unlike the little paperbacks, this thick volume not only has all three books into one volume, it has large type and holds easily in the hands.  After you have visited the Two Towers and have scoured the Shire, it's time to dive into the Appendices.Wow, this a great!  Tolkien clearly put a lot of work into creating this world of fantasy.  We have the legends and history and lore of Middle Earth, starting with the Annals of the Kings and Rulers, the Numenorean Kings, the Heirs of Isildur and the Kings of the Mark (and so on, and so on).Drooling yet?There is a chronology of events in the later appendices which makes a reread of the stories make more sense (at least for me).  A brief mention of The First Age, the dark years of the Second Age, and a thorough working of the Third Age -- it's as if this world actually existed, complete with its own history and events.Turn the page and observe the genealogy of the Baggins of Hobbiton, Brandybuck of Buckland, what a Shire Calendar looks like and how to work out the dates, the pronunciation of words and names, writings and spelling.  Heck, learn the "Feanorian" alphabet!A complete index of all three novels, including the songs and verses, the first lines of the songs and verses, references for all persons, beasts and monsters and so on.You get the idea.  Extensive!The book was printed at the time of the Peter Jackson films and so will have photos and the New Line Cinema logo on the cover.Reread Tolkien's masterpiece all in one easy-to-read volume.Recommended!
5 I think I speak for many when I say that after many years of enjoying Tolkien's book, I wanted to have a nice copy for my library.  The books I read as a boy show their age and as Lord of the Rings is one of my "must have" books, I wanted an particularly special edition.  Sound familiar?  For like-minded individuals, there are essentially two choices:  the single volume with Alan Lee's gorgeous illustrations (he later became artistic advisor for the movies) or the 50th Anniversary Edition.  I got the best of both worlds -- bought the illustrated version for myself and this one for my finacee!  As nice as the Lee watercolors are, the 50th Anniversary really is the better book.  The binding, paper, cover, and feel are amazing... THIS is what a great book should feel like.  Also, this is the final revised text, so it is marginally better.  Don't let the price discourage you, it is definitely worth it, and this is a book to treasure.
5 These books should be read by anyone who enjoys fantasy.  They are classics of the genre and probably will be for a very long time.The strength of these books are their detail, imagination, and realism. Tolkien's world seems absolutely convincing and comes with a history and a strong sense of the future.  Tolkien admirably develops a sense of &quot;abiding strangeness&quot;--which was one of his goals.  The things Tolkien does right are often very, very right.  The language is sometimes beautiful as well.Having said that, you need to know that the pacing is sometimes slow and Tolkien did very little editing when he wrote these books.  They are not the kinds of books in which every word is significant or always perfectly chosen.  Even the best poems in the books will never be considered particularly great and some of the poems are abysmal doggerel. It seems that some people get a carried away by their love of these books into praising aspects that don't necessarily deserve high praise.So am I criticising The Lord of the Rings books? No, definitely not. They are great books because their imagination, strangeness, and beauty. Tolkien makes up for any weak points by being very strong in these areas.  They beg to be read by people with imagination.  It's a little misleading to compare Tolkien's writing with Shakespeare, Milton, or Keats--it's just not up to this par.Read these books and enjoy them for what they are.  They are very good for a number of reasons that aren't always particularly &quot;literary.&quot;
5 I don't understand why it says &#34;volume one&#34; as this is all three books. What could I say about The Lord of the Rings that has not been written and studied for years.This the The Lord of the Rings. If you've never read it, enjoy. I've lost count of how many times over the many many years sine first introduced to this series, that I've read the books.
4 I mean...its the Lord of the Rings...who cares what I think? That being said, I liked the e-book version. There are little formatting issues here and there, but you still have all of LOTR on your e-reader, so there's really not much to complain about. It would be nice if the links went to direct things in the appendix, but instead they get you lost fairly easily. Maybe that's just me.
5 "The Two Towers" continues the epic saga of Frodo and his companions on their journey to rid Middle Earth of the evil One Ring and defeat the evil Sauron and his nefarious followers.  This novel contains more action and is faster-paced than "Fellowship of the Rings."  As the reader has been already acquainted with much of the lore and mythology of Middle Earth, Tolkien seeks a quicker pace in their adventure tale.Tolkien continues to paint a mythological world of wonder and enchantment. The battle scenes are particularly vivid, as the Rohan riders and the fellowship attempt to stave off an assault by Orcs.  Through brilliant detail, Tolkien delivers a graphic and realistic picture of a heroic battle.  Indeed, Tolkien's skill for painting masterful pictures in the reader's mind continues.  Although Tolkien is not flowery in his language, he nonetheless presents the sweeping battle scenes and panoramic vistas in a straightforward, yet illustrious manner.Throughout this novel, the importance of fellowship and friendship become more evident.  Sam and Frodo elicit a friendship bond that may be stronger than brotherhood.  Although they were certainly close at the start of their epic, their bond has grown stronger.  Their loyalty to each other cannot be broken - not by Gollum, the Orcs, or any other evil creature or power.  Legolas and Grimli also put aside historic animosity between elves and dwarves and become battle-tested companions.  Although they may not be as close as Sam and Frodo, they display the same loyalty and camaraderie that are essential to the strength of the fellowship, and the foundation of victory for the forces of good.Saruman remains a stark reminder of the ability of absolute power to corrupt.  Although he was once the highest and most trust-worthy of wizards, he has evolved into a calculating, power-hungry fiend.  It is the power and lure of the One Ring that has corrupted him and turned a once powerful ally into a hideous enemy.The character of Sam continues to develop from a comic sidekick to a true hero.  By the end of the novel, Sam has become a noble hero and combatant.  Although he is still a pudgy hobbit, he shows valor in the face of adversary.  Although he briefly abandons Frodo when he thinks all hope is lost, he quickly understands that his role may not be as the ultimate hero, but as Frodo's loyal companion, come what may.  Indeed, Tolkien reminds us that one need not might and strength to become a hero, for the potential to be a hero resides in all of us, no matter how small and insignificant we may deem ourselves.The narrative leaves us hanging, as the "Return of the King" will bring us the conclusion of their quest.  Yet, even though their quest may end, Tolkien will no doubt leave open many mysteries and legends of Middle Earth.
5 The Lord of the Rings has been my favorite book for 30 years.  This review is just to say that readers should be aware that there are some misprints in the Kindle edition.  I don't know if the same misprints are in the print edition of this version because I don't have this version in paper book form.
5 Epic fantasy just wouldn't exist as we know it without the master. There would be Brooks, no Goodkind, no Jordan, no Feist, no Martin, etc. etc. etc. It takes literature of a high degree to spark such fascination and enthusiasm in readers and writers alike. It took something like the Lord of the Rings.To be sure, The Lord of the Rings is a mythical tale, a legend documented in detail by a faithful historian. It's paradoxically fantastical and yet so real. The characters are archetypical, but that is how they should be, for legends are after all, the beginnings of all fiction. Everything about it screams refinement. It seems like a good tale passed down from generation to generation, with all of the diluting that occurs along the way.Don't get passed by the bandwagon, jump now! Buy this collection immediately and be a part of literary history.
5 Though my son has not begun reading them since I got them for him for Christmas, he is looking forward to getting started since he has seen the movies.
2 I have attempted to read the 1st book in this trilogy on about 5 occasions over the past 15 years and I never get beyond the Council of Elrond before I yet again find the whole thing too boring to continue.I loved The Hobbit and admire Tolkiens vivid imagination, but his style of writing in LOTR is just too &quot;early 20th century british&quot; for my liking. I have the same problem with Dickens that I do with Tolkien; ponderous prose! I guess I've been spoiled by many of the excellent sci-fi/fanatsy authors (i.e. George R R Martin) that write edge of the seat, gripping &amp; fascinating stories.Unfortunately, in LOTR, Tolkien's ability to tell an interesting tale seems to have taken a backseat to his world building.
5 I'm on the plus side of 50 and I'm finding it more difficult to see the small print in some books.  These Charnwood series of books are just what the doctor ordered for me and those like me.I recommend this series to everyone that would like to continue reading after they "can't see" any longer,(j/k).
5 The Lord of the Rings Trilogy continues the story begun in The Hobbit and more fully develops the world of Middle Earth. In this epic saga, ordinary beings must use their small gifts in a struggle against great evil.  Frodo, a peace-loving hobbit of the Shire, is given the Dark Lord's One Ring of Power, which his Uncle Bilbo found on his adventures.  Soon he is forced to flee his home, pursued by the Dark Lord's servants.  All the strength of Middle Earth -- men, elves, dwarves, wizards, and hobbits -- is called upon to oppose the Dark Lord's plan to conquer Middle Earth, but in the end the fate of the world turns on whether or not Frodo succeeds in destroying the Ring.  But the Ring itself is imbued with the Dark Lord's evil, and seeks to corrupt everyone around it -- including Frodo.This work has becoming a defining influence in the genre in fantasy literature, and none of the works that came after it have matched it for its marvelous use of language, the deep coherency of the fantasy world, and the epic themes which propel the story to its climactic finish.Christian readers have long appreciated the way in which Tolkien's stories express his Christian view of reality.  David Mills, in his essay Enchanting Children, writes that:The world as it appears under the sun is a world loved and governed by God, and The Lord of the Rings is among other things a study in Providence. Though no god of any sort is ever mentioned in the story, the world has a moral law, recognized as eternal and binding, obeying which brings blessing.Frodo and his friends do what is right, and their courage and moral fortitude are rewarded by peace, even though the effects of the defeated evil are never fully eradicated.The Lord of the Rings is best appreciated by mature readers who are able to appreciate its deep themes as well as its complicated plots and often weighty prose.  While the movie version is enjoyable, the books are best enjoyed prior to experiencing the films.  Because of this, parents may be inclined to introduce the books earlier than otherwise.  This may be a wise choice, as long as parents are careful not to force the books on readers before they can fully enjoy them.
5 I have the Kindle version which does contain some misprints (as all Kindle versions seem to), but all in all it is wonderful to be able to carry around and read the entire collection from beginning to end. The stories are timeless and captivating for adults, as well as children. I have read them to my children and will be reading them to my grandson soon.
1 Tolkien was a scholar not a &quot;writer.&quot;  But since lots of great writers (Dickens, Poe, Dostoevsky) couldn't write, I'll forgive his artlessness. And he did create a wonderful, if highly eurocentric, world.But this book fails because of its incessant praise of war.  The Nazis were evil because of the Holocaust. What did the Allies do to stop that?  Not much (didn't even bomb the tracks leading to the death camps).  War is simply evil; the sad lesson of the 20th Century is that warriors only contribute to the problem (Hiroshima) and only peacemakers fight evil effectively. (MLK, Ghandi, Einstein)Tolkein should be criticised for glorifing war because he: (1) wrote for children, is very popular, and (3)is credited with greatness. But Tolkein set up a world where war is becomes the essentially bloodless killing of evil subhumans or spirits.  As in Beowulf, there's no horror, just glory.  The enemies, who live in a &quot;black and evil land&quot; can't be reasoned with, only killed.  (Contrast this with the Iliad). Real evil never works that way; Hitler came from the same people that produced Beethoven and Goethe.  Speaking of which, the the book's subhumans are so gleefully killed, that one wonders how Lord of the Rings would have been received if the author were german and not british.It's too bad really.  Tolkein had a magnificent imagination, made evident by the wonderful interplay between the Dwarf Gimli and the Elf Legolas--they eventually learn to overlook and finally appreciate their differences. But, given the criticism above, I can't recommend this book to anyone.
5 What can you say.  It's the Lord of the Rings.  One volume, for the Kindle.  They would have had to go some to screw this up :)
5 The final part in the three part Lord of the Rings, the Return of the King finds our heroes in a tight fix.  The forces of Darkness are on the march:  Frodo is captive in Mordor, Gondor is under siege, and the remainder of the fellowship, lead by Aragorn, is missing.  In other words, things aren't looking good.The plot, once again, is masterful.  You can't get any better than a story conceived by a professor of English Literature at Oxford.  Tolkien is a wordsmith equal to the best of them.  However, he doesn't take three pages to say something which can be said in a paragraph.  There's something to be said for brevity.The characters have been maturing throughout the novel, and the third part is no different.  Frodo is coming into his own, as are the remaining Hobbits.  The question is, will they be able to step forward and do something epic in nature???I loved the way Tolkien wrapped it all up, and the appendicies are a treasure trove of information on what happens afterwards, what happened before, etc...  Honestly, when I finished this book way back in high school I had a tear in my eyes.  Very good stuff.  This type of novel comes along once in a lifetime, if that often.
5 My daughter, like her father, LOVES Tolkien and this book was perfect. She particularly loves old books - even the smell of old books - but this book has special features that made it a special gift for her!
5 i'm so glad I chose this set of books over a regular set of smaller paperbacks.  Great quality, they are just beautiful,  and my daughter loves them.
5 This was a great and unique Christmas gift for my son! It was the highlight of his Christmas, best ever!
5 Besides The Bible, this trilogy is my favorite reading of all time! You can tell Tolkein put a lot into this. What a captivating quest and a great theme of how the smallest person can save the world. Captivating, imaginative - are there enough adjetives to describe how awesome this trilogy is? Probably not. When it comes to fantasy, this trilogy is the original. Definitely a must read for all fantasy lovers.
5 I rammed this sucker into my Kindle and ran the whole thing out through text to speech while driving. It was highly enjoyable and I look back on my time driving fondly.
5 Had to re-read after so many years and the movies, and now the Hobbit trilogy. It is well worth it.
5 I read this many times back in the early 70's.  I wanted to give it another read on my Kindle, especially since the wonderful Jackson movies now exist.This is a wonderful, thrilling read.  Tolken does a wonderful job of describing scenes, setting time, and building characters.  It has garnered its fame, and so many derivatives such as the movies, for a reason.  Well worth the read.
4 A nice compilation.  I have many different copies of the trilogy.  Some well worn from high school, some purchased simply to read and loan out.  My children have been told the story since they were young until they were able to read it themselves. This volume of all three is for me. I never have to be concerned when the boys take a volume to school, loan it out, turn down a page, or read it with French fry hands. &#34;My precious&#34;!
5 Valiant you be, will no fear ever hinders.Water is Gold spring, feast  always for the day.High foiled the sky, then from legend backs the king.
5 They say that the English speaking world is divided into two. One, which hasn't read LoTR and the other which has read it. But believe me when I say that even this statement doesn't express much enough the greatness of this magnificient story. The story is simple and yet an epic. Its about how even the smallest of things can change the tides of time and face of the world. This is a story of all stories. Theres fantasy, adventure, mystery, suspense, humour, romance in this saga of friendship, honor, loyalty, sacrifice, courage and bravery.There's one powerful ring, which is to be destroyed before it falls into the hands of evil orelse the world will fall into Darkness forever. It can only be destroyed by throwing it into the cracks of Mount Doom. This responsibilty comes upon the shoulder of one little hobbit, frodo baggins.In the entire story, Tolkein never mentions anything about Life, but after reading the story, you'll yourself realize how wonderful Life is and how a person should respect and enjoy it and thank God for such invaluable gift. In short, Life is a journey to one of the biggest celebration of the Universe. The meaning of Life is Life itself and Death is the celebration of all the moments of good and bad things happened to you;the moments of happiness, sadness, fear, joy, love, hatred, hope, despair;the moments you have spent in light, darkness, morning, night, summer, winter and all the moments you have lived through out your life.READ THIS BOOK AND YOU'LL UNDERSTAND WHAT I'M SAYING. YOU WILL NOT GET THIS KIND OF STORY THROUGH YOUR LIFE!!!
5 This is nicely presented. We gave it as a gift to our nephew (who doesn't appreciate it yet, but will do as soon as he starts reading them!!)
5 Before there was Dungeons and Dragons, before there were RPG video games (or RPG's for that matter), before the SCA, there was the Lord of the Rings. All of these wonderful spinoffs can be traced in one way or another to this fantastic book series. If you enjoyed the movies, there are many entire sections of the books which were skipped over or altered. These books are large and take many days to read for even the most voracious reader. A must read for any lover of fantasy fiction.
5 I am too small to write a review on the Lord of the Rings..One of the best books ever in all genres and surely the best in Fantasy..Everything from there and after maybe good,but cant be that good..It is the standard for comparison,though every comparison pales..I wanna say one more thing about the guy who works as a programmer in Hasbro..I am deeply sorry that the guys who maybe will design the RPG of LOTR ,dont like the book...and my friend,if you are in the team of the designers,send me an e-mail,so I dont buy your product..no offense...
4 Okay, I really liked the size of each of these books and having the complete set in one handy box. Unfortunately, these paperbacks will not withstand the reading habits of the average 11 yo boy. For adults, this set should be perfect. For kids, maybe I should've sprung for the hardback version.
5 I'm writing this for people who haven't read J.R.R. Tolkien's 'Lord of the Rings' yet but are wanting too - most likely because they've seen the dumbed-down, royally-screwed/altered movie versions (although they are very visually and musically appealing) unleashed upon us by Peter Jackson.(or you're at your local Barns & Noble and see a display of Lord of the Rings books being advertised in anticipation of Jackson's upcoming 'The Hobbit' movies)Of course if any other Tolkien fans want to add their own two-cent tips please put them in the comments (people seem almost afraid to review the actual books - they seem to only review the manner in which the books are presented; that alone should tell you something).Reading Tips for Beginners: (this is a Journey after all)1:) Do NOT try to put this book into any genre-classification; this (in my opinion) sets one up for false expectations. Yes, this is a 'Fantasy' story, but it is also so much more: it is also a Historical novel, a Romance, an Epic, a Tragedy, a fireside tale told in a manner that suggests this all really happened a long time ago in the forgotten ages of our own world. Again, avoid classifying. These books have everything and more.2:) Do NOT skim-read. This is not a pulp-novel; or a Twinkle in book form. This is a literary six-course feast complete with before-meal speeches and music and dancing at the end. If you skim-read you will miss things, many beautiful things; many important things. I myself have made this mistake; I was in a hurry, I wanted my action-scenes and battles given NOW; I was impatient. I regret it deeply. I suggest buying and reading each book (The Fellowship of the Ring; The Two Towers, The Return of the King) on their own to help avoid this temptation. Do not rush. If you are planning to skim-read the books just so you can say you 'read' them don't even bother reading the rest of these tips.3:) Pretend that you NEVER saw any of Peter Jackson's movies.  This will be very hard, I know, it was so for me. It took multiple readings of the books and multiple viewings of the (extended) films - which I also own - before slowly realizing just how much damage had been done. Jackson played some serious God with Tolkien's works, both obvious and subtle. Put the movies out of your mind; pretend you're entering Middle-Earth for the first time and try to imagine the world and its people in your own unique way, otherwise you'll set yourself up again for false expectations. Again, do not rush.4:) Do NOT let Tolkien's style of writing freak you out. Middle-Earth is Tolkien's own fully-imagined world so he takes great pains to describe the beauty of said world and the culture, language, histories and names of the many different peoples who inhabit it. There are stories within stories. There are songs and poetry. There is a storehouse of vast history and lore that is remembered and spoken of by the characters of the present. There is a deep sense of sorrow and yearning nostalgia.This is not a tale for shallow or superficial people or people in a hurry. You will either love this story or you will think it was a complete waste of time.5:) Pretend that you are encountering Fantasy (and all the trappings that come with it: Elves, dwarves, Wizards, goblins, secret kings; enchanted objects, mysterious realms, evil tyrants, swords with cool names, mighty cities, horrid monsters, last stands, epic questing and fighting and celebrating) all for the very first time. This book is, after all, what almost all other high fantasy comes from; what other fantasy stories try to aspire to. 'The Lord of the Rings' actually ruined most other similar fantasy stories for me. All other Wizards (except maybe Dumbledor)and Elves and Dwarves seem just like pale copies of Tolkien's. Whenever I encounter the word 'wizard' I envision Gandalf; when I read 'dwarf' I remember Gimli and Thorin and the others; when I hear of Elves I'm reminded of the mighty Elrond and Galadriel and Legolas. When I read of warrior-kings it is Aragorn and Theoden (and their ancestors) that I compare them to. For me there are no others. I don't need any others.Tolkien has given us all these things and only in Middle-Earth will they remain in all their wisdom and beauty and glory, forever enshrined in our hearts and imaginations, were none (save Peter Jackson in those botched movies that I used to admire so much) will ever spoil or mare them.Here is a good final reason to at least try to explore the Middle-Earth Tolkien created. These are not my words and sadly I couldn't find the person's name, but they are SO true:"Middle-Earth is not an Imaginary World.J.R.R. Tolkien not only kindly shared with the whole humanity the extraordinary world created by his mind. He brought to everyone who believed in his words, a shelter, whose walls can't be trepassed by any evil. A shelter where love and friendship mean more than just false promises based on biased words. It's a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out. He shall live forever inside each page that brings Arda to life.You laugh, you cry, you fear, but most of all you believe. You believe in the only thing that saved you, in the only thing that made you feel real. Even if it was for a glance of time. Til your heart stops beating, the story will keep beating with you. And will keep beating for you."
5 The red leather one may look fancier on the shelf, but that's not what this book (or any other book) is about.  I'd rather enjoy classic illustrations while reading this book than a fancy cover when it's just sitting there.  The illustrations do really add a lot to this.  Sometimes, they don't always agree with what's in your mind, but they always do a lot to set the mood.  The pix are also great for children; it really gets their imagination going at an early age.  The first time I read this book, I knew it woudl be one that I would read over and over again.  This was one book (along with the Hobbit) that it worth owning in hardcover and keeping for a lifetime.Late Addition: Be sure to check out 'The Hobbit' also illustrated by Allan Lee.  It is every bit as well done and much easier to get through.  (Tolkien wrote this for his son when he was young.)
5 If you like Tolkien and appreciate a beautiful book then this is the book for you! The story is, of course, unbeatable and the book itself is gorgeous! It's not exactly portable if you want to keep it looking good, but it's a great collector's piece for your home. Solid!!!
3 Generally, I really liked this audio series.  There are only a few quibbles I have with it.  First of all, Rob Inglis's singing on Tolkien's many songs is quite enough to make you lose your lunch.  Somehow, these songs seem like commercial breaks in which you can get up and go to the fridge before the program resumes and you can continue listening to the stuff you came to hear.  At least in the print versions you can easily skip them without batting an eyelash.  The Fellowship is the worst offender in this regard, as the characters break out into song more often than the cast of Cats.Another problem with the Fellowship is that the story really takes a long time to get moving.  If you ask me, Tolkien's descriptions of what the hobbits ate on their way out of the shire can be skipped in their entirety and wouldn't detract from the story one bit.Some of Tolkien's writings sound silly and pretentious considering they were written in the twentieth century, what with all of his &quot;ere's&quot; instead of &quot;before's&quot; and &quot;hither's&quot; instead of &quot;here's,&quot; etc.  Further, many of his descriptions of people and places seem a bit overwrought, and much, again, like annoying commercial breaks before you get back into the action.Lastly, Tolkien's admiration of his fiction &quot;Elves&quot; who seem to look better, sound better, cook better, make prettier stuff, than everybody else in his fictional universe seems to sound like the worship of some non-existent hero race to me.  It hardly seems possible that one group can be better than everybody else in every conceiveable way.  Just gave me the heebie-jeebies.  Oh, and Gimli's obsession with Galadriel gets tiresome after a while.Now, if you think all of this makes me sound a bit like one with an attention span that's too short, I'll grant you that you may have a point, but that said, slogging through over a thousand pages of this stuff takes a bit longer of an attention span than average.Generally, good compelling literature, but it does have some major drawbacks in its pace and tone.  Greatest novel of the twentieth century?  Probably not, but still good stuff.
5 Even more so than the original book &quot;Dune&quot;, these books create an interwoven and wonderful world that should not be missed by anyone.
3 You can't say you didn't get what you paid for. These colossal books, filled with adventures, can certainly keep a person occupied, but as a general warning, these aren't those "glove-fits-all" books. You have to be in the mindset for an epic fantasy battle, and though I wasn't, my classmates who read the entire trilogy absolutely adored the stories. I would highly recommend reading The Hobbit before attempting to digest the trilogy, just so the concepts of hobbits, wizards, and Middle Earth, will be old hat.
4 The maps are so low-res that the words are unreadable in the Kindle version of the book. I had to hunt down some maps on the Internet and print them out in order to follow the travels of the heroes of the tale. That's why this version only gets 4 stars. Of course LOTR is an amazing tale, but I can't give this version 5 stars because of the maps.
5 I'd hate to give away the story -- this review is specifically on the single volume, movie art cover, hardcover edition of LOTR.- 1008 pages of text, not including Appendices- There are INDICES! When's the last time you saw an index for a work of fiction? Very, very useful.- Appendix A: Annals of the Kings and Rulers, 45 pages- Appendix B: The Tale of Years, Chronology of the Westlands, 15 pages- Appendix C: Hobbit Family Trees- Appendix D: Shire Calendar (for hardcore fans, I guess)- Appendix E: Pronunciation guide for Elvish, etc. and some characters called Tengwar? And, other scripts as well.- Appendix F: Languages and People of the Third Age; &quot;On Translation&quot; -- very amusing section- Index is organized by I. Songs and Verses; II. Persons Beasts and Monsters; III. Places; IV. Things- Finally, several pages of MAPS- Dust cover: well, you can see it here at Amazon.com. The spine contains that cool logo made from combining the author's initials. It kind of looks like the Chinese character for 'book'.- The naked hardcover is black with gold lettering.  Printing, font, margins, etc. are good enough.  The book is fat and compact, not much longer or wider than a college dictionary.Hope this helps.
4 To review the book there is not much I can say, that has not already been said. This is a great addition to any library, it is in my opinion one of the greatest literary works of our time. If you are a fan of the Peter Jackson films then you definitively must read Tolkien's pages upon pages that burst alive with so much more detail and vibrancy than any film could possibly portray. And I say that as a rather big fan of the films. The complete volumes in short is a masterpiece.Seller was very gracious as well and I am a satisfied customer. Keep it up =)
4 I've seen the LOTR films so I thought I would by a really decent edition with some x-mas money. I received this in great condition with shrink rap and a thick, sturdy, durable case in which to hold the leather bound book in. The thing I love about this edition of the LOTR trilogy is the gold trim on the edge of the pages. If ever quality were to be at its high for a book, this would be it. I have a complaint about the binding of this pristine, elegant set or collection of the LOTR trilogy. Though Houghton Mifflin published a suberb set for the 50th anniversary of the trilogy, they could've spent more time on the durability of how the book's spine would hold, more so the binding felt cheaply put together with crinkles and crackles when opened up for a read. The price is steep for the contents of the book, I would urge LOTR fans to by this if you're loyal to Tolkien lore. For people who just want to read this at a cheaper price, just by the set in paperback. Overall I like this set but wished time would have been spent on the binding and the durability. The paper could have been a little thicker like the Houghton Mifflin edition for The Hobbit.
5 I first read LOTR years ago, when I was a teenager, it amazed me back then, and since those days I have read its pages over 6 or 7 times. It's about time I write a few words here about my all time favorite book.Tolkien died a year before I was born (73), a scholar by profession, he was specialized in Anglo-Saxon (Old English) and its relation to linguistically similar languages (Old Norse, Old German and Gothic). He became a master into the language of poetry and the poetry of language. His interest in mythology (shared by his friend C.S. Lewis) and his faith in Christianity also had a stunning effect in his stories.LOTR is above anything, a book about the struggle between good and evil, somewhere in our own world, but in an imaginary time. It all feels familiar, but &quot;glorified by the enchantment of distance in time&quot;.In Middle Earth (North-western Europe was probably what Tolkien had in mind) Bilbo, a Hobbit (a branch of the human race) finds himself in a quest to destroy the One Ring, crafted by the elven-smiths and Sauron, the Dark Lord, but lost. Sauron searches far and wide for the ring that would complete his dominion of evil, while the initially nave Bilbo and his friends (The so called Fellowship of the Ring) journey Middle-Earth, deep into the shadow of Sauron, to destroy the Ring by casting it in the Cracks of Doom.LOTR is amazing by many reasons. The languages presented are most certainly real languages, especially the Elven languages. It is unbelievable how they are not arbitrary gibberish but really possible tongues with established roots, sound laws and inflexions. Tolkien used all his knowledge and imaginative powers deriving them, in a realistic manner.LOTR is narrated by Tolkien, based on ancient manuscripts written by the main characters Frodo and Bilbo, or at least, many people think that Tolkien sought to maintain that he was only the editor and translator. This would be nothing special, as many authors tried to make their fantasies sound as true stories from some ancient times, but very few have done it so successfully as Tolkien. His love for language and his imagination and scholarship produced a work that is hard to translate, at least, without losing much of its impact. For instance, an adequate translation of Rohirric would have to be replaced with some ancient language whose relation to the language of the translation was the same as that of Anglo-Saxon to modern English. Tolkien actually used an approximation of Anglo-Saxon so we it would remain intelligible to modern readers like us. This was not accidental, but carefully devised. New land, languages, races, history, cultures, a whole new world; That is what you will find in this most remarkable work of literature.Tolkien has left us a gorgeous, eloquent and heroic romance, and after you read it you will understand why this has been named the &quot;Book of the Century&quot; many times.  Some readers gave it 4 stars because it's &quot;so long&quot;. That's the only problem I can point to LOTR, its length, but for the opposite reason. I feel it should be a lot longer. :) It is true that the first 100 pages are somewhat slow for some readers, but they are still rich and interesting.The struggle of good and evil, the depth of all the characters, friendship, love, temptation, war, hate and the inner moral conflicts the characters face, all is presented marvellously thanks to Tolkien's keen abilities for both prosaic and poetic expression, based on his deep love for ancient languages, myth and nature.This is the Bible of fantasy literature, but you will probably still like it even if you're not used to its kind. No other writer of fantasy titles has ever come close. Not even the best like Tad Williams, Robert Jordan or others.  Never read it? What are you waiting for? Get it. Get the hardcover illustrated version by Alan Lee. I own a few versions and will probably end up buying more. The best LOTR hardcovers are expensive, but it's fully worth it.  The Lord of The Rings is simply a timeless masterpiece!After 6 or 7 reads, I still return to LOTR often, and am always fascinated by it. Every time I read it I find something new and very, very few books have come close to give me as much joy. The complexity of Tolkien's world and all its elements, the detail and richness of the descriptions, this world still makes me sit there thinking a numb &quot;Wow&quot; when I close it and it's over...
5 I originally read this book in the late '60's and have loved it ever since.  I re-read the trilogy periodically about every 2 years.  This makes rereading simple.
5 I used to have the whole set of Lord of the Rings and read them about once a year.  SOmehow I had lost this one part.  So it is good to have the full set again.
5 It's been a year since I read book one but any book I can finish in two days is a great read.
5 Each of the books that make up this trilogy is a masterpiece.  This can be lost somewhat in the hype of the movies based on these fantasy tales.  As good as the movies all were, the three books should be read in their entirety as well in order to form an appreciation for the absolutely wonderful world that Tolkien created.  Even if you are not a fan of the fantasy genre, there is something so captivating in each of these books.  This group of books would definitely be included in my list of "desert-island" books.  It's probably a good idea for people to read the book "The Hobbit" before beginning this trilogy.  This little book introduces the reader to the wonderful world of Hobbits.  This trilogy has everything - adventure, romance, war, deception, and a whole world of wonderful creatures!  I could go on and on about this, but you need to read this for yourself.
5 A worthy copy of Tolkien's epic magnum opus.  Peter Jackson's movies are near excellent (although they do change the storyline of the book, usually quite dramatically), but they still pale in comparison to the original written words (of course).If you plan on buying the complete works in a one-edition copy, this is it.
5 At 31, I thought it was time to read the Lord of the Rings, especially with the movie coming soon. It's been awhile since I read fantasy (I'm more into ancient history books). One things for sure... I'm glad I read it. The writing is a mark of a genius. The characters are touching and really are alive in your mind while you read.In addition, this edition comes in a very cool box-set with great cover arts.My advice... if you've not read it yet.  DO SO NOW!
5 This addition is so beautiful and is so worth forming a part of your library or collection! As for the story itself, if you love epic fantasy novels, then you will this one! It is like the Shakespeare of Fantasy Novels, and a masterpiece to boot! One of my favorite series.
5 The Fellowship of the Ring tells the story of the Hobbit Frodo Baggins and of how he discovers that the invisibility ring handed down to him by his uncle Bilbo is in fact the One Ring of Power, the most dangerous of artifacts, forged by the evil lord Sauron to ensnare all the peoples of Middle-Earth and bent them to his will. It has to be destroyed! Following Gandalf the old Wizard's advice, Frodo leaves his quiet Hobbit hole in the Shire and with three of his friends, makes for Rivendell to seek the Elves' counsel. There he volunteers to be the Ring-Bearer, the one who must destroy the Ring by casting into the very fire in which it was forged, in the furnaces of Mount Doom. With eight companions, he sets off on a most perilous quest, over mountains and under them, on rivers and through forests beautiful beyond words, to the heart of Mordor.The adventure goes on in The Two Towers. The Fellowship has just been broken, and as the Hobbits Merry and Pippin are captured by Orcs to be brought to the traitor wizard Saruman, now the ally of Sauron, Frodo and his friend Sam are slowly making their way through desolate plains and treacherous bogs, to Mordor. Soon they realize that Gollum, a nasty creature who once possessed the Ring, is following them. Captured, and still under the irresistible lure of the Ring, the twisted wretch agrees to become their guide to the forsaken land. Meanwhile Aragorn the Heir of Kings, Legolas the Elf and Gimli the Dwarf are running across the grassy plains of Rohan, the domain of the Rohirrim horse masters, to rescue Merry and Pippin and later help Th&eacute;oden, King of Rohan, defend his people against Saruman's army in the battle of Helm's Deep.In The Return of the King, as Frodo and Sam are ineluctably treading closer to the heart of danger, putting the goal of their quest in jeopardy every day a little bit more as Frodo's mind threatens to give in to the power of the Ring, Aragorn and his companions must defend the beautiful white city of Minas Tirith, capital of Gondor, in a hopeless struggle against Sauron's reckless army of berserkers.How does one go about writing a review of such a masterpiece, now that The Lord of the Rings is not only the second most read book of the twentieth century (after the Bible), but also a blockbuster movie trilogy? How does one do it justice? One just can't. That's it, I admit defeat. I simply lack superlatives to describe the tidal waves of emotions that overwhelm me each time I read this book. So I'll just say this: read it. And re-read it. And again.The Lord of the Rings is timeless, atemporal. Even though Tolkien himself was notoriously not fond of allegories, I can't help seeing that, in these dark and sad days of our time, it stands as a beacon, a bright message of peace, telling us that even when evil and fear threatens to drown us all, there's still hope... May it be tomorrow's Bible.
5 I have no intention of debating the merits of The Lord of the Rings. The work speaks for itself; if you are one of its few detractors, your silly comments are not worth a reply, and you should go read some Philip Pullman. Here, I will simply address the quality of this edition.I recently picked up this set because I needed new reading copies (the pages were falling out of my old ones), and I am quite happy with them. I was very surprised to read some of the other reviews that complained that this edition was of low quality. As far as the pages being a little off-white, my question is this: Is that bad? And if so, why? I can't really understand why that would be a minus, the pages just look older, and the color goes nicely with the brown cloth binding. The second complaint was the font. If you have ever had the pleasure of examining first editions of The Lord of the Rings books (and I have), its the same font that was used on the first printing. Thirdly, there were complaints about the fold out maps being hard to get out. The maps are FOLD OUT and ARE NOT meant to be taken out! If you tried to do it, its your own fault that your book is torn up, so don't complain about it and blame the publisher.The point of all this is that the books look vintage, and the design is very subtle and classy. If you want some garish looking movie cover set, then there are plenty of those for you. But if you want something that looks good on a nice bookcase, then get these.
5 I've known about Tolkien since I was a teenager and first discovered the fantasy genre.  Nonetheless, I never got around to reading LOTR.  Then "life" happened and I found myself in mid-30s, having seen the movies, and with enough time to spare that I finally decided to make the effort and read them.  Others have sang the praises of this wonderful tale with far greater skill than I am able to muster, but suffice it to say that this is the best story that I've read in my whole life.  Being a Christian, the allusions to the person of Jesus Christ caused giddiness within me that I haven't felt since I was a much younger, and less careworn man.  Being a fan of fantasy, I have read no other author who spun so rich a tapestry as Tolkien.  If you can read, take the time to treat yourself to this book.
5 How do you celebrate the 50th anniversary of the book that started the love affair? The book most likely single &#34;handedly&#34; giving us Dungeons and Dragons?You give it a release fit for a returned king!According to the preface, many, many instances of misspellings (according to what Tolkien had intended, not necessarily actual misspellings), grammatical changes (again, Tolkien didn't always use things in a grammatically correct fashion, which is what his original intent was) and general restoration work took place to make this THE definitive edition of the book.And they did an amazing job of it. This will be the version of the book by which all future editions will, and should be, judged.If you're looking for a reader edition, one that you can carry around and not worry about damaging, then this isn't for you. You can get much less expensive editions. If you are looking for an edition with the most &#34;correct&#34; text, is presented as a piece of art and looks amazing on your shelf, this one is for you.The page edges are golden lined. All of the runes, and various languages, are beautifully represented in text. You also receive two high quality, frame worthy, maps. And to make it easier to remember where you are, a ribbon book mark embedded in the spine. You also receive a hard slip cover with Tolkien original artwork to store this on your shelf.If you are a fan of Lord of the Rings, or any of Tolkien's work, this edition is positively the most beautiful presentation to date, and worthy of purchase.Highly recommended.
5 My review is simple, this is a complete and unabridged reading of all three parts of Lord of the Rings and boy is it great! Rob Inglis is a master of the voice. His pacing and ability to capture the mythical feel of the Rings world is magic. He excels in doing different voices for each of the characters and in singing the many songs that make Rings such a rich book. If you get this audio book you will not be disappointed. Well worth the money.
4 The adventures continue for the fellowship in book 2, The Two Towers.  There seemed to be a lot more action and fighting in this book than the first. Tolkien's writing style makes this book just as magical as the first, however, I did feel that it dragged on in a few spots and just didn't seem to hold my attention quite like the 1st book. However, I would recommend this book to anybody who loves the movies and anybody who loves the 1st book or the Hobbit.
3 I love the Lord of the Rings. I've read it many times, and downloaded it for my Kindle to read it again, but the features I've become accustomed to on the Kindle simply don't work for me. If I recall correctly, the bookmarking was the only thing that worked properly, other than reading the book from cover to cover.It worked so badly that I returned the book and asked for a refund.Houghton Mifflin needs to address this.
5 Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS (or perhaps better known by its separate titles The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers and The Return of the  King)is one of the greatest literary achievements of all time.  For those  who look upon this as a simple fantasy with elves, dwarves, goblins (a/k/a  orcs)and of course hobbits, they miss the greatest part of the story.  Tolkien has fashioned a timeless tale of humanity within a world of his own  creation.LOTR is an epic, more telling, more indicative of human  behavior than any of those epics which are considered part of serious  literature.  Richly detailed, the book evokes simple themes of bravery,  good versus evil, love, magic, wonder and loss while treating the  characters not as simple fantasy stereotypes, but as complex individuals.  The struggle of good and evil, temptation, fall and redemption is presented  marvelously throughout and Tolkien's keen abilities for both prosaic and  poetic expression make this a story to remember.The final chapter of the  book is one that will remain in thought for a long time.  I have read LOTR  many times and it is a treasure.
5 This is the Fourth time I have walked with these wonderful characters, but the first time on my Kindle.  Well done.  This version is an enjoyable way to celebrate the defeat of evil.
5 This story has it all, drama, adventure, and a wild ride for the sake of making peace work in a war torn world.
4 We enjoyed the book but from a nine year old's perspective we thought the The Tower: Being the Second Part of the LOTR could have given us a wee bit more action.
5 Who doesn't love Lord of the Rings?  Although I had forgotten how wordy it is.  It's the quintessential examination of good and evil.  No kid should get as far as college without having read it.  Gollum is a masterpiece.
5 I originally read &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; eight years ago, when I was eleven years old. While I understood and enjoyed some of the story, I wasn't old enough to truly get into it. A couple of months ago, I was browsing a local bookstore and ran across the leather-bound Collector's Edition. While it held a hefty price tag, I've always been a big fan of high-quality, solid-feeling items. Especially books. So, I purchased it and read the story for the second time in my life... It was even better than I remember it as a child.The bottom line is that if you're looking for a long-lasting piece of literature (physically and mentally), the Collector's Edition is the book for you and is completely worth the price you'll pay.
5 i could not help but feel dismayed that the movie hype had caused a lot of ppl to buy and attempt to read LOTR and ended feeling cheated - and dissed the book as being uninteresting, dull etc etc... you get my drift.honestly though, if you are not the reading type, chances are you'd might not want to even start undertaking the task of reading this behemoth. hell, even the most avid reader may well blanch at the sight of the book. this book is *HUGE* and i can't emphasize enough. i think it is clever of the publisher to print LOTR into 3 novels - instead of printing it in one volume like what tolkien wanted - coz then many will not be daunted and be willing to read LOTR when presented in more managable portions. granted, i own a british-printed, one-volume version and believe me, holding it while reading was not exactly a pleasant experience; although it did help me from totally becoming a couch potato - i used it as a dumbbell!i don't mean to discourage ppl, but many plunge right into this whole LOTR business because of the hype more than anything. this is *not* an easy read; there are a lot of the things that happens throughout the books that seems insignificant at first and in the end ended up as being bloody important to the whole thing! i'm not joking, coz it might be something that happened in the early pages of the 'fellowship of the ring' that only makes sense when you're half way through 'the return of the king'... so be prepared for the &quot;huh?&quot; and &quot;what?&quot; that are bound to occur. personally, i had to read it twice, both read months apart, to fully understand and appreciate the full genius of tolkien. i salute his ability to tie seemingly inconsequential and disparate events into one coherent tale as the reader reads LOTR further.the gist of the plot is simple enough; take the ruling ring to orodruin (sp) - mount doom - and melt it so that sauron won't be able to get his hands on it and use it to control the other 3 rings held by the elves. except that it's not that simple. we are talking about a novel that is 3 times as long as a normal one! there are a ot of things to consider, firstly that hobbits aren't exactly a rambo or schwarzenegger type, and that mount doom is very, very far from the shire. plus not to mention other political maneuverings, racial problems and the fact that they are constantly harrased by orcs, wolves, balrogs, animal spies etc etc and a whole host of other unwholesome creatures.tolkien amazingly managed to pace the story realy well; at first the threat of sauron seems so far and had a dream-like quality, but the urgency and fear became more and more palpable as they continued the journey. the characters are also well developed; both boromir and aragorn became less mysterious and less unapproachable as the story goes along. merry, pippin, legolas, gimli and sam are also surprisingly well developed and are not treated like an afterthought or just as &quot;fillers&quot; to an otherwise sparsely populated tale. however, there are a lot of thigs that are said and barely hinted at as why to certain things ARE and the history that preceeded the war of the rings... you need &quot;the silmarillion&quot; for that, if you're really interested like i was when i first had LOTR.to say that this book is brilliant is an understatement indeed. however, i must say that this novel isn't cut out for everyone. if you're less than thrilled with the prospect of reading a story for more than a few days, i suggest that you wait for the movies. and if you are a lil bit interested - but are not sure whether you'd like LOTR - i suggest you to get your hands on a copy of fellowship of the ring (at the library or a bookstore), read a lil bit and see if you're interested enough to buy the whole lot. and if you do buy it, well... it'll be one of the best reads ever. i promise...
5 As a kid I was fascinated by science fiction and loved, as well, the mythic worlds of earlier times. Among my favorites were the northern mythologies of the Norse and related Scandinavian peoples. I also had a soft spot in my heart for old fashioned Celtic mythology. And so, when I stumbled onto Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS in my teens (a long time ago indeed!), I was practically floored, since it melded all these elements together into a new kind of tale: high fantasy with an epic cast to it. In truth Tolkien's great work grew out of a very deep cultural vein and had many serious antecedents that came before and set the stage for it, both in modern and pre-modern times (the Greek epic cycles, the medieval chansons de geste, the Amadis of Gaul texts, to name a few). And yet, for me then, his tale was entirely new. I think I read the RING trilogy first, before THE HOBBIT, but am no longer entirely certain. However, in whatever sequence I first found these books, they were utterly delightful and spoiled most science fiction and fantasy for me afterwards because they were so hard to match in terms of breadth of vision, depth of feeling and vividness of the world painted by their author's vigorous and yet very precious prose. Not entirely innovative but largely derivative of the older mythologies, they yet innovated in the way they combined these (Celtic and Norse and Christian and Manichean) into a single and coherent whole. These books tell an epic tale of a quest to destroy a mighty talisman of power, a quest which combines the world-ending themes of the Norse Ragnarok and end-of-days religious fundamentalism with the uplifting feel of revitalization that grows from a cleansing battle between the forces of good and evil. The world we live in, of course, isn't anything like this but it's a tribute to the vision and power of Tolkien as a writer that our own world seems pale by comparison with the one he invented for us, invented out of the whole cloth of ancient myths and traditions. And yet, though I find myself eagerly anticipating the upcoming film, dramatizing the first book of the trilogy (previous animated attempts failed to do it justice), I must say that, looking back on the tale now, I am struck by certain problems with it. Very much in keeping with its northern vantage point (the main source of the Tolkien mythos), it is marred by its apparent linking of goodness with racial types, i.e, the evil orcs and southern men are variously portrayed as dark-skinned, with sloping heads and slanting eyes and as, therefore, somehow removed from humanity because of this, marked as closer to the corrupting evil of the enemy, Sauron. And, of course, the main characters who are the good guys are largely fairy tale types who, while multi-faceted and subject to great temptation, in the end are not fully humanized. Now Tolkien was writing a high fantasy in a hoary and respected tradition and within those terms he delivered a magnificent and literally flawless masterpiece (complete with invented languages and histories which lend an added aura of authenticity to his work). But his vision was very Eurocentric in the end and I've always wondered how people of non-European background or those who are just sensitive to this sort of thing deal with the awkward stereotyping his vision displayed. It will certainly be interesting to see how the filmmakers handle the more politically incorrect aspects of his great tale. And yet great tale it was and is, despite these minor quibbles, telling a grand story with mighty themes and touching many of the chords which myth and legend generally pluck in our very human hearts. In the end, his is a tale which transcends its cultural biases and speaks, I think, to all of us.SWMauthor of The King of Vinland's Saga
5 Kids these days seem to like paperback books, maybe because they're smaller and more comfortable to hold. This was a much-appreciated Christmas gift and the price was attractive.
5 This book and the Hobbit were the first fantasy books that I had ever read, and sence then I've read a lot more. Tolkien basically made up this style of writing, and it is so much enjoyed that it is continued today.  This is the kind of book that you will come back to every now and then, for  the rest of your life.
4 This is one of the best noval in the whole world, and if you like fantasy, then I will highly recommand this book. If you like humors and twisting plotling,then I won't be recommanding this to you because there are hardly any humors.reading age: 15+
5 These books were in the condition promised and I was pleased to give them as gifts.  Of course, the content is excellent.
5 My first rereading in many years and worth the wait! Wonderful storytelling, beautiful language and brilliant characters. I look forward to my next reading!
5 I guess the release of the movie will stimulate interest in the book. So I'm writing this for those who know the film but not the book. There are some minor differences in plot, inevitably, but both Tolkien's Trilogy and the Peter Jackson movie trilogy are great. I REALLY great. After vast battles and perils the forces of good previal, and Middle-Earth is saved, but at a cost. Tolkien unfortunately, I think, cut the final chapter from this, which provides a satisfactorily epilogue. It can, however, be found in his collected work elsewhere. The book also contains valuable appendices, chronologies, notes on the languages of middle-earth, etc. It's hard to say more about something so well-known, but if you loved the film you ought to love the book, too. Incidentally, Hal GP Colebatch's book 'Return of the Heroes&quot;, which I have reviewed on its own page, gives an interesting and insightful socio-political analysis all Tolkienties should enjoy.
3 Tolkien is a master at worldbuilding and characterization. But I did find much of the books BORING. I mean fall asleep BORING. ZZZZZZZZZZZ. Some of it even silly in some aspects. Like Tom Bombadil. ? He is very LONG WINDED in describing the travel of the hobbits, especially in the first book. Which almost put me to sleep. He describes every nuance and rock, but after four pages of reading about the rocks and grass it gets a bit overdone. But I did enjoy the books. Just be prepared for more than a few chapters of fluff here and there that really aren't nessisary. Once again he's writing for world immersion. A great read though and an amazing world to explore. But not one of my all time favorite series. In fact I don't think I'll ever read Tolkien again, because I was that bored.
3 This book was good, with some vivid descriptions and good fantasy. However, I felt the plot was sometimes too contrived. I'm sure I would have enjoyed this book as a kid, but I read it close on the heels of Harry Potter, which I loved, and my mind started making annoying comparisons between the two series, and I found Harry Potter to be much better. It is not my intention to compare the two, but I felt that if you read it as a kid, you would have liked it and liked re-reading it as well. If you are an adult, then go for it only if you are a fantasy buff.
5 I found Lord of the Rings many years ago and I have read it countless times.  It is, without a doubt,  my favorite book in the world.  It helps me to live! The characters are real, you suffer and rejoice with them.  Their travels stay in your mind,  and remind you to have courage in your own hard journey through life.It has always been to me a spiritual book,  the hard fight of good vs evil. For those who really love this book,  it is not that it is too long,  but that it is too short.  You won't want to leave Middle-Earth.
5 Don't get me wrong. I adore the movies, and the books can never take the place of the movies, just like the movies can't ever take the place of the books. I saw the movies first, and they did the series justice. But due to the fact that a movie is short (even each 3 hour interval of The Lord Of The Rings series) these books go into so much more detail and make every aspect of the movies make a lot more sense. It's like an enlightenment, really. Read these books and you'll want to watch the movies all over again, and I promise that you'll see them in a whole defferent light.
5 If you've seen the magnificent film trilogy by Peter Jackson and enjoyed it, then try this 13 hour radio dramatization on for size.  While the film draws much of it's beauty from visuals and epic battle scenes, this dramatization draws ALL of it's beauty from Tolkien's prose.  The acting in this version is even better than the outstanding acting of the films.Regardless of whether you loved or hated the films, this radio play IS NOT TO BE MISSED!! It's a very different(and in some ways, better) vision of Tolkien's masterwork than what was seen onscreen.
5 Everyone knows this book is one for the ages, and the subject matter need not be rehashed by me. So, this review is regarding this version -- this edition/printing only.For a very large book this is a remarkably good paperback edition. It is a pleasure to hold and read because the cover is beautiful and the binding is strong. The pages are of sturdy paper, not flimsy tissue stuff, and the print is clear and legible.  The book is solid enough that it doesn't flop loosely when held, but not too stiff either because it will remain open when laid down. I prefer hardbacks, but this paperback was a wise purchase I don't regret.  AMAZING BOOK, UNFORGETTABLE STORY AND A COMPLETELY RECOMMENDED EDITION.
5 What can I say that's not been said already? Intricate, sophisticated, thorough creation with both humor and drama. It stands up to re-reading many times, and it still stands to be read again.
5 Thank you so much for sending me these books in such great condition.  I also purchased this set from half.com and only received one old yellow book, The Hobbit.  It was so nice to get these books with wonderful color covers and in such good shape.  They are a gift for my niece who hates to read but has expressed and interest in this series.  You don't know how happy you made a 13 year old girl.  Thank you for shipping them so fast too!  I am impressed!  Meanwhile, I am trying to get my money back from Ebay on the other set that never came.  I wish I had just bought them from you to begin with.
5 I read The Lord of the Rings at the urging of my husband, who loves the series, because he couldn't conceive of anyone having lived to adulthood and not having read the series.  Well, he was right.  It is an amazing trilogy, not to be missed.  The epic story of wizards, drwarves, elves, hobbits, orcs, and ents (my favorite) draws the reader into a world of the author's making.It is a far too large and complex tale to be described here.  In truth, it is so large it would probably take a reader several readings to fully devour it all.  I will say that, like most fantasy novels (because indeed this one began it all), The Lord of the Rings contains battles, magic, death, undeath, huge insects, and the ultimate battle of good and evil.  Unlike most fantasy novels, The Lord of the Rings features superb writing and a truly moral story.The only two 'problems' that I had in reading this book were:1.I am not, normally, a fan of fantasy writing.  Trying to read all three of the books straight through was a bit much for me.  I would recommend those not normally fantasy fans to read one book at a time, taking a break in between with something else.2.I have the hardback edition of all three books in one volume.  It was a bit of a horse to hold onto, especially if you tend to carry books around or read in bed lying down.  I recommend getting the volumes individually.See, tiny problems having nothing to do with the story.  Certainly, to be able to claim being well read, a person should read this book at least once.
5 These books can be somewhat difficult to read... there are many names for the same people and places (elvish name, hobbit name, dwarf name, you get the idea) and the names are sometimes not easily pronounced. BUT, if you push through, it is COMPLETELY worth it. You can get used to flying by names (without missing anything because most of the time he writes &quot;and the elvish name is&quot;...).The world Tolkien creates is absolutely amazing. You absolutely get a feel for this world and can put yourself there. If you have not seen the movies (unlikely but possible right?!), I would HIGHLY suggest reading these first. There are so many things you miss in the movie. A quick example is when Gollum/Smeagol is writhing around because of the rope that has him restrained. That is because it is an Elvish rope and it burns his skin (there was a lot of good dialog left out there).As we know, the book is 99.9% of the time better than the movie and these books are no exception (this should say a great deal given how awesome the movies are!). I found that it was a ton of fun to see the story come to life on the screen and it enhanced the already exciting story I had read.If you have already seen the first two movies, you don't have to wait to find out what happens! Although, in the second movie they left out some of the action that happens in the second book. In the movie, Gollum (Smeagol) says something like &quot;she will take care of them&quot;. In the book, you aren't told this but, in any case, what he is referring to happens in book two. I would suggest starting with when Frodo and Sam leave Faramir (I believe that would have you starting with the last three chapters of book two)...that is, of course, only if you don't want to read the entire thing!Last thing...it took me a while to push through the first 100 to 150 pages. I was told that I really should have read The Hobbit first and it would have been faster and I would have already known and liked the characters. I never went back but it was suggested to me by several people...ENJOY!
5 I write this immediately after commenting on the Hobbit.  I was inspired to write another after this, for the Silmarillion.To me the three books intertwine into three levels of journey, from lower to higher levels of conciousness and expression of imaginative genius.The Lord of the Rings can certainly stand it's ground as a saga and a work of a brilliant mind.  Having learn't a little of Tolkien himself, it is clearly evident this work is the result of a lifetime of toil.  The cumulative expression of his experiences and knowledge, accentuated with the playful abandon of a child, sobered by the grim wisdom of a sage; this is the Lord of the Rings.The scale of this work had an effect on me similar to mythologies and legends of ancient civilizations - of our own world.  But the world Tolkien created here was a complete immersion.  I could taste and smell it.  I yearned for it.  I suffered with the heroes in the book, and I revelled with them in their moments of joy.  I felt the yawning agony of defeat and death, and the mourning of times lost.The world Tolkien created was ever in a state of decay.  Call it entropy in our scheme.  Evermore the purity and innocence of ages past faded away and died.This did not distress me.  For every now and then brave souls on this journey gathered their spirits, and in mutual kindness, brought forth joy.  That was the victory, that was the achievement.  And those moments made up for all the suffering and toil.The book is HUGE, but I relished each page and dreaded the end.  Such is it's excellence.
5 For lovers of Fantasy (i.e. magic, and sorcerers e.t.c) this book is a MUST READ. It deals with the genre in a mature, practical way. It is the greatest fantasy book ever written. For general readers, this book is a MUST READ too! As it says on the back cover: &quot;The English-speaking world is divided into halves. Those who have read the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings, and those who are going to.&quot; For Star Wars fans, this book is a must read too, because this is where George Lucas got his inspiration. Do not be daunted by the size of this story. It is one long story, but it keeps you hooked all the way. A person's life isn't complete without reading Lord of The Rings! Some people have made a few outrageous claims and said the book is racist/or male-chauvinistic. All I can say to these people is that they are looking to find the slightest pre-text to get offended. This book is a fantasy book, and as the writer himself mentions he just wanted to write a story, and there are no allegorical references of ANY KIND. Take this story for what it is. Just a story, and a FICTIONAL one at that. Happy Reading!
5 This book stands over my childhood as more than just a book, more than one of the many books that I read, but The Book. The book that more than any other gave my young mind a fascination for literature and storytelling, the book that taught me about right and wrong, bravery, friendship, and good and evil. It is hard to over-estimate the huge impact this book had, not just on me, but on all Anglophone culture, and how it is influence is still seen in hundreds (if not thousands) of books, games, and films that come out every year.I first came across Middle Earth at age 5 or 6, the exposure coming from my father, who read these books out loud to me then.  I trace back my interest in books and writing to this time &#8211; this time when I could barely read myself, and the awe that I felt at the ability of words - mere sounds, to conjure up beings, emotions, landscapes, indeed entire worlds.  I could sense the enormous power of literature: I couldn&#8217;t wait to learn how to read myself! And learn fast I did.I cried rivers when Frodo &#8220;died&#8221;, and my heart leaped for joy when he was discovered to be alive.  I cringed in fear of Sauron and Boromir; felt right at home in the Shire; soaked up the atmosphere of Butterbur&#8217;s tavern.  My skin crawled in the presence of scaley, smelly orcs, and I gazed in wonder at the glories of Rivendell and the lost majesty of Moria. Like the budding little critic that I was, I snoozed through the romance of Faromir and Eowin (one of the book&#8217;s weaker sections), and wondered what lay beyond the Sea of Nurn. Without consciously realizing that this was what I was doing, I identified with Frodo and Sam, and participated with all my heart in their adventures. Thus was my true initiation into the world of the narrative arts.When I read it for the first time on my own, at age 11 or so, it was a different but no less rewarding experience. This time I was moving toward independence, with small steps. I no longer needed my father to read this massive book for me; I could do it myself and was immensely proud that I had.  And what has this book done for me now that I read it for a third time, as a grown man with bills to pay and goals to pursue and the clock ticking mercilessly?  A little sad to say, but not as much as it once did.  Parts were still quite enjoyable, and the scope and detail of Tolkien&#8217;s creation are as impressive as ever.  But not surprisingly, my views on life have changed quite considerably.  For me great literature has to have a degree of moral complexity, has to go with a lantern into some of life&#8217;s more shadowy regions.  I found myself asking questions I never would have as a child.  Why is there not even a hint of sex anywhere in these pages?  What do the rings of power actually do besides make hobbits invisible?  To what extent is this an allegory of World War II, or the struggle between capitalist democracy and totalitarian communism?Some of the magic remained, of course.  The truly unforgettable characters, such as Tom Bombadil, Treebeard, and Gollum. The marvelous cities, the bizarre battle of Isengard, the treks through the hills &#8211; Tolkien has a descriptive ability that ranks with the very best.  And the rhythms of his sentences - they still beat through my brain today.  Those sentences left their tracks, and the tracks became the paths and roads through that others have followed.  And there are tears, tears of love and tears for all the lost moments of time that fill my eyes as I declare: Hail the great lord Tolkien, the mightiest wizard of them all, bard of the Shire, chronicler of Middle Earth, and creator of the greatest children&#8217;s books ever written.
5 Great Book Series, makes me want to watch the extended version of the movies, but not until I finish the entire series.
5 Enjoyed everything about this Book Reading. The character development was incredibale. Voices for each character were spot on. Enjoyed everything.
5 While the movie version is exciting, the original printed version gives a lot more insight into the plot and characters.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien was a fantastic author and these books are pure genius.  I have read them multiple times and still enjoy them
5 I'm doing a review on Tolkiens epic fantasy The Lord Of The Rings. For those of you that say it is a series, you are wrong. It is a single book often broken up into three parts. It all began with a book called the Hobbit were a Very adventurous hobbit [1/2 man  dwarf] Bilbo Baggins travel with 13 dwarfs and a wizard to a mountain were a dragon has taken over the dwarf home. On the way he is taken into a goblins cave but the wizard comes and saves them. Wile running away from a horde of goblins Bilbo gets lost and stumbles in on a creature who plans to eat him, but Bilbo got a dagger from trolls earlier. He then gets a ring that makes you go invisible.In the later book Bilbo gives the ring to his heir and nephew Frodo. Then Frodo must leave his home with a few friends because ghosts enslaved by the dark lord. Frodo meets the heir to the king of men Aragorn who is supposed to protect him. Frodo must bear the ring and take it to mount doom [a volcano]  were the ring was forged.  He joins with his hobbit friends, Aragorn, Legolas an elf, Boromir a man, Gandolf the wizard and Gimli the dwarf. Frodo and another hobbit get separated from the group where Boromir dies and the other hobbits get captured. Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn fight major battles, the other hobbits go fight the evil wizard and Frodo with his friend throw the ring into mount doom defeating the dark lord.I loved how descriptive Tolkien was, and how he gave every possible detail and trait till I felt like I was on the adventure. He also explained the emotions of the characters till I knew every thought in the characters head. Tolkien even made sure that it was in multiple perspectives of both the evil and good characters. Tolkien made sure that he kept you guessing about what would happen and wasn't afraid to let main characters die or let you believe them dead, like some authors are and lastly it was packed with action. On a scale from 1 to 10 I thought it was 10 because of all the reasons I told plus many more. It was one of my favorite books, I hope you like it too!
5 The old adage that &quot;change is inevitable&quot; is a message oft repeated, rephrased and expanded, from the ancient philosopher Heraclitus to the Terminator movies. But none has ever said it with quite the passion and resonance of J. R. R. Tolkien in his groundbreaking opus, THE LORD OF THE RINGS. This lengthy sequel to THE HOBBIT, mistakenly considered a trilogy due to its being published in three parts (&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; and &quot;The Return of the King&quot;), has maintained its reputation as the benchmark achievement of &quot;sword-and-sorcery&quot; literature for 47 years.In the exquisitely detailed story of Middle-Earth's great war and the quest to destroy the One Ring, a token imbued with evil power, stands a fable for the ages echoing with the message that the future is ours to choose even in the face of inevitable change. This epic stands as such a singular achievement due in part to its broadly identifiable heroes, vivid realization of Middle-Earth and its history, and the epic scope of the story in which everyone is willing to risk themselves for the good of the world.The story picks up some 60 years after THE HOBBIT, enjoying the same conspiratorial tone of narration as that of its predecessor. In the Shire, home of the diminutive, man-like race called Hobbits, we meet young Frodo, new owner of the Ring of Invisibility. The comforts of his rustic homeland become all the more dear to Frodo when he learns that his ring is the One Ring of Power, possessed of endless evil from its maker, the evil Sauron. Informed that Sauron is searching for the Ring --- the only thing standing between him and world domination --- and that the Ring will ultimately corrupt any one who owns it, Frodo undertakes a mission to travel across Middle-Earth to destroy the Ring in Sauron's own stronghold. Accompanied by three Hobbit friends --- Sam, Merry, and Pippin --- Gandalf the Wizard, and four others appointed as representatives of the free races of Middle-Earth, Frodo ventures beyond the world that he knows into the wild of the larger world and places fraught with peril. Each of the so-called &quot;Nine Walkers&quot; has a critical role to play in the course of events, both in the destruction of the Ring and in the coordination of the war against Sauron's forces.Frodo himself is very much the Everyman with whom readers will identify so well. In his fear, indecision, and courage, the little hobbit represents anyone who reaches a point in life when they have to make irrevocable choices without certainty of the results. Faced with the choice to do nothing and risk harm to everyone he knows or to venture into the unknown alone, against his greatest fear, Frodo chooses --- time and again --- to do the right thing. &quot;I feel that as long as the Shire lies behind, safe and comfortable, I shall find wandering more bearable...&quot; Accompanying Frodo to the bitter end is his gardener, Sam Gamgee, a character possessed of an astounding level of loyalty to his employer. In Sam Gamgee, Tolkien crafted the true friend who stays with us through thick and thin and who would give us the shirt off his back without being asked. Sam remains overtly overprotective of Frodo from beginning to end, refusing to be left behind even for his own good and even forgoing food and water for Frodo's benefit. The choices that Sam is forced to make provide some of the book's most heartbreaking moments. The other hobbits, Merry and Pippin, display a range of irksome silliness and denial until pressed to hard choices, and both prove themselves worthy players on the stage of world affairs.Through the character of Strider (Aragorn), a seasoned warrior wise beyond belief, Tolkien is able to interweave elements of mystery, bittersweet romance, unrequited love, predestination, and ultimate sacrifice. While every character is willing to expend themselves in the efforts to stop Sauron, Strider is the first after Gandalf to join the quest with a full understanding of the consequences of failure (&quot;...if by life or death I can save you, I will&quot;). The introduction of Strider also introduces us to the diversity of Middle-Earth through the many names by which the various races (Elves, Dwarves, nations of Men, Orcs) call him. Throughout most of the novel languages are interchanged, giving people, objects, and places a variety of names. In this way THE LORD OF THE RINGS realizes the gravity of the situation, that a vast group of divided nations are putting aside their differences to face a common enemy who threatens the entire world. This idea is also affirmed in the unconventional friendship that develops between Gimli the Dwarf and Legolas the Elf, whose races have a history of enmity dating back centuries.Tolkien worked on this novel over the course of 13 years, a fact that becomes clear in the narrative tone that moves from conspiratorial to grimly melodramatic as the story moves towards its climax and the heroes' respective situations become dire (&quot;So they were come to the bitter end&quot;). The extent to which the author labored over this work is also apparent in the complete realizations he painted of each character and each race. The inherent qualities of the various species are thoroughly described in terms of the physical, spiritual, aesthetic, lingual, and intellectual. The speech and actions of each reinforces the images of &quot;stupid Hobbits,&quot; &quot;foul Orcs,&quot; &quot;fair Elves,&quot; and &quot;hardy Dwarves.&quot;A lot of attention is also paid to the terrain of Middle-Earth as the travelers move from the lush, green comfort of the Shire to rough mountain passes and wastelands created by industrial processes. Whether the characters experience comfort or suffering in the wilderness, the reader feels the situation fully. The greatest evidence of Tolkien's extensive mythology-building is the 103 pages of appendices to which the text frequently refers. It is hard to say whether readers should refer to these whenever prompted or simply read the book straight through and then read the appendices. Either way, the appendices (which chronicle everything before and after this story, complete with maps, charts, and alphabets) is a stunning testament to the author's vision.--- Reviewed by Sofrina Hinton
5 It's hard to believe how long ago this book was written and i'm glad that the movie followed closely along with the original story. i'm loving reading this.
5 This was an amazing investment I love love love the leather bound collection edition!! This looks truly wonderful on my bookshelf!
4 Yes folks, this was the book (THE book--it wasn't supposed to be a trilogy originally) that started it all. The roots of modern fantasy begin here. Yes, it's also terribly formulaic writing--but it was written to be mythology. Myths and legends are generally pretty big on formula. Beneath that stiff prose, though, is the rich and complex world of Tolkien's Middle-earth...and what an amazing place it is.
5 Rather than do a conventional review I'm going to talk about the significance of The Lord of the Rings, as I understand it--I have enjoyed it for years, ever since the first Peter Jackson movie came out, but only now am I coming to really appreciate what God blessed us with in Professor J. R. R. Tolkien.  Like him, I am happily Catholic, and I believe this accounts for the popularity of the book, whether people know it or not, and whether they accept it or not: The Lord of the Rings is fundamentally, though only covertly, Catholic.What do I mean by this?  There are no references whatsoever to anything exclusively Catholic to be found in the book: no Papacy, no bishops, no Church, no Jesus, no Crucifixion, no Resurrection, no Eucharist, no Virgin Mary, none of that.  However, the underlying theology and morality of the story are consistent with the Catholic faith and no other, because no other faith or non-faith is entirely consistent.  We recognize Truth even if we don't always understand it, I think, and precisely because the foundation is Catholic where there are no overt superficial references to the Catholic faith, I believe this book demonstrates the universality of the Catholic faith in a way that non-Catholics, non-Christians, and unbelievers in God can appreciate irrespective of where they are coming from.  If they have conscious issues with the Church, they might have fewer with this book and the underlying setting of Middle-earth.So what evidence is there that this work is fundamentally Catholic?  Two major things, one relating to the plot and the other to the setting.First, the One Ring is the Anti-Eucharist.That's the "secret code" to unlock the point of The Lord of the Rings, even the parts that we today might think are written badly.  If you understand that, and all it implies, you have the key to understanding this story.  The One Ring is the exact inverse of the Eucharist as the Catholic Church teaches It is in almost every respect.  Where the Eucharist is a full circle, the Ring is empty; where the Eucharist goes into us, the Ring goes around us; where the Eucharist offers eternal life beyond what we know, the Ring only offers a stretching thin of the life we have; where the Eucharist unites us to Christ's Sacrifice, the Ring offers temporal power (and invisibility, which primarily sinners would desire); where Jesus Christ does not require possession of the Eucharist in order to have Power, Sauron does require possession of the Ring in order to maximize his power; where desecration of the Eucharist, grievously sinful though it is, cannot harm Jesus definitively, destruction of the Ring effectively kills Sauron; where Jesus gives us the Eucharist to heal us and grant us eternal life, Sauron made the Ring for himself, to usurp power for himself.Because of all this, the Ring must be destroyed, as sin must be destroyed, so that Frodo's quest is a necessarily imperfect mirroring of the Via Dolorosa, the Carrying of the Cross: necessarily imperfect because Frodo is only a Christ allegory and not Jesus Christ Himself, as only the Son of God can defeat evil definitively, fallen man cannot.  But only where the Ring was made can it be unmade: the hero must walk through the valley of the shadow of death in order that death might be conquered.  And this requires a unique kind of hero, one with Christian virtues rather than classical pagan heroic virtues: one who is content with what he has, with a simple life, and does not want what the Ring offers, and one who is so powerless, combined with this contentment, that he is humble enough to rely on Divine Providence rather than his own skills--though again, he must be tempted by the Ring even if he does not succumb.  Indeed, with Aragorn (another Christ figure) the classical hero motif is subverted: rather than have Aragorn defeat Sauron with the Ring, he makes Sauron think he has the Ring in order to distract him, allowing Frodo to get to Mount Doom to destroy the Ring.Second, Professor Tolkien's Middle-earth legendarium is perhaps closer than anything I know of to being a Catholic fantasy setting.Lately I've been thinking about what kind of world God might have made other than our own, with multiple races or species of sentient corporeal beings instead of one, and the only way I can see it working is this: 1) having no more than three separate species, and 2) having both fallen and non-fallen members of each.  Those three species: 1) Man, ourselves; 2) a species of sentient tree; 3) semi-incarnate angels.  In reality, we alone have a foot in both worlds, the corporeal and the immaterial.  Angels were made for Heaven alone, having no bodies (contrary to popular belief, angels were never human, and those who die and go to Heaven become saints, not angels).  Animals and plants were made for Earth alone, but as suggested in the famous poem "Trees", plants in particular can be seen as "children of the Earth" (especially as we too are animals except for our souls), and trees are the biggest and oldest plants.I cannot see God making a second sentient species of animal besides man (nothing is impossible for God but some things would be improper), but I could perhaps see Him making a sentient species of plant, of tree.  Here, perhaps, lies something resembling Professor Tolkien's Ents.  And the opposite of a tree, a child entirely of the Earth being given an immortal soul made for Heaven, is an angel with a body--but only God can have the fullness of two natures simultaneously, so an incarnate angel would have to only be semi-incarnate, having no mother and no childhood.  In short, not unlike Professor Tolkien's Istari, or "Wizards".  And as for fallen man living alongside non-fallen man, our non-fallen brethren might well resemble Professor Tolkien's Elves: immortal, wise, and beautiful, and perhaps allowed some degree of supernatural power to perform holy miracles, though not as much as the semi-incarnate angels or "Wizards".Added to this, two last things: first, a major part of the reason for this story's popularity is its realism, which is due not only to its Catholic foundation but to the fact that the setting was created before the story.  The setting was created to bring to life artificial languages, as Professor Tolkien was a philologist, understanding (where many of us today have forgotten) that language, literature, history, and music are inextricably linked, such that no one of those things can exist without the others.  Language does not exist in a vacuum: we use it to record our history (and language changes over time as our beliefs and values change), and to tell fictional stories that serve as examples of our beliefs and values (even history, properly speaking, is the stories we tell about the past which is irrecoverable--so that interpretations change even if the events don't), and to sing songs.  Talk slowly and tell me you don't hear musical notes in your own voice, even if you aren't trying to sing--I guarantee they are there.  Consequently, for greater realism, Professor Tolkien conceived for his artificial languages an entire "sub-creation", with peoples to speak the languages, land for them to live in, beliefs and values shaped by and shaping the languages, histories, biographies, stories and songs, etc.  And all devoted to the Lord, as a world that He might have made but didn't.  This probably accounts for why the superficial motif (though not the underlying theology or morality) resembles pagan Norse mythology, as Old English is a Germanic language related to Old Norse.Finally, Professor Tolkien must have been guided by the Lord to write this, as if he had had his own way, The Lord of the Rings would not have been written at all, and The Hobbit would not have been published but only remained a private work for the entertainment of his own children.  (There wasn't even an equivalent of the opening line of "The Hobbit", which sparked that story, for "The Lord of the Rings"--only after demand for a sequel existed did he decide to call his first chapter "A Long-Expected Party" and go from there.)  Those are the best stories, those that we didn't plan on at all--and thank God Professor Tolkien listened to the demand for a sequel, or we would never have had this wonderful story!  In fact, while Elves predate the writing of it, Ents do not, and while Wizards are in The Hobbit, Professor Tolkien originally didn't plan that work to be part of his Middle-earth legendarium and so didn't bother to explain what Wizards actually were.  (The Catholic faith tells us that magic is a grievous sin, so Gandalf couldn't be a good character if he were merely a man dabbling in the occult.)The point is, this is the ultimate in Catholic fiction, and I believe that accounts for its popularity, and I am only sad that it's easy in this day and age to focus too much on the superficials and lose sight of the point--which can also lead to criticizing the work, as in rejecting Tom Bombadil or the Scouring of the Shire in adaptations of it, as though these were mistakes, without considering why Professor Tolkien wrote them in.  But if a non-Catholic can appreciate the work for what it is, even if he doesn't quite understand why, that's all that matters.  I might go so far as to say that this is easily one of the best works of fiction ever written, with the possible exception of The Divine Comedy by Dante Alghieri.God bless you all.
4 This book is perfect for fans of the other books.  If you liked the movies than this is a perfect read.  The only problem with it is that it can get a bit slow at times. (This probably isn't the case for most people though, as I was 12 when I read this book)
5 When author J.R.R. Tolkien released the last installment of the Lord of the Rings in 1955, it was as though he had tilled a seismic line in the sands of fantasy and fiction literature: Before Tolkien and After Tolkien. With his extraordinary depth of characters and storyline, scrutiny of detail, and flowing, serial writing style, the author - in one swift stroke - redefined a genre of modern literature in much the same way that the great bards in Shakespeare's time recast the foundations of drama and the spoken word. The story begins in the fictional land of Middle-Earth, a place not unlike our own in days gone by. Turquoise streams and chill valleys cut across the scenery; intimate villages and great stone cities dot the landscape; and an endless array of interesting characters, both kindly good and plotting evil, wait to be met. The reader first meets Frodo Baggins, the book's protagonist, in a town called Hobbiton - a mythical Pleasantville, USA where the grass is mowed and one's neighbors are just down the road. Frodo is a Hobbit, a kind, soft-footed creature of small stature. He could be any one of us, an Everyday Joe going about their tasks of today. But a mission soon thrust in his hands by Middle-Earth's powers-that-be? To destroy the One Ring, a fulcrum symbol of absolute power, creation and authority... and the one device that may end the world. In short, Lord of the Rings is truly epic: It is chock-full of battles, heroism, romance, comradeship, royalty, long-days, cold nights, plot twists. But Tolkien's ability to capture the imagination of the everyday reader is, perhaps, his greatest accomplishment. The reader feels drained at the conclusion of Frodo's remarkable journey, but filled with new experiences, as if one was actually there riding, walking and fighting with him and his colleagues. Tolkien succeeds in stimulating our emotions and diverting our minds, while clasping our hearts in a way that no other epic has before.
4 1200 pages of hobbits walking around. I'm a long time reader of fantasy/sci fi and such, and finally got around to reading this. Honestly I liked the movies better, over all. The book did help fill in some holes, as the movie had to jump around so much, I honestly wasn't sure who all the groups were and what was going on sometimes. Now that I read the story I need to watch the films again.
5 I got this for my Kindle and it is great to have the collection of the three books in one electronic version I can take anywhere.
5 If you love The Lord of the Rings, this set is of the highest possible quality. No other publication of the story can come close to this one. In other words, if you just want to read the story and throw it away, buy a used &quot;regular&quot; copy. But if you treasure it and want to read it again, THIS IS THE ONE TO HAVE. I bought it sometime ago and it is a treasure on my shelf next to the Hobbit's similiar book (and to which every thing I said is just as true). Actually you MUST read the Hobbit BEFORE you see the movie if you truly want to understand it, because that is where it all starts, and the movie makes MUCH MORE SENSE if you've read it first, especially since they left almost the entire story out--so your're starting well into the TRUE STORY, and may have trouble making sense of some things that happen.
5 I wanna so much J.R.R. Tolkien and I've read all the books in Portuguese(I'm brasilian) but NEVER in Inglish!So I'm very satisfied with this book and I'm let me down with you because We cannot but games and other stuffs in your in your web site!Come on Amazon let ship games and eletronics for Brazil!PLEASE and thanks a lot!
2 This 50th Anniversay Edition is not only a beautiful product but one to be treasured.  To see the Lord of the Rings, the way it was supposed to be, in a single binding, is a delight to any avid fan of the books.  The attention to detail is evident and a salute to Tolkien.  The addition of the pages from the book Gandalf found in Moria is a rare treat!  It is a wonderful additon to any 'Ringers' collection.
5 Had such a great time re-reading these books.  The description can be just a bit misleading when buying.  THIS IS ALL 3 BOOKS IN ONE.  With the appendixes and maps, etc. intact, though they are a bit of a pain to view on the e-book.
5 This series was one of the greatest classics I've ever read, and served as a great example of how fantasy can be done right.Ever since this series was published, authors have tried to match the drama and elegance that Tolkein mastered, but few have managed to reach such heights.The first part, The Fellowship of the Ring takes us through the hobbits journey to see Elrond and how the fellowship was formed. It also introduces us to the one ring, a remnant of the past that turns out to be a powerful artifact that could allow Sauron, an ancient dark lord, to take over Middle Earth. This part was filled with excitement and had some of the best scenes I've read in any Fantasy.The second part, The Two Towers, slows the pace down and was actually the hardest of the three parts to get through. This tells us the story of the Rohan and the epic battle at Helms deep, and also the journey to Minas Tirith to help the land of Gondor defend against attack. There was a lot of information in this book, and a large amount of history, and while it was slow paced at times, I found it informative. It helped me get deeper into Tolkein's world, which really set up the third and final part.The Return of the king is a breathtaking plunge into the epic battle between Gondor and The Dark Lord, and also the end of the Journey of Frodo and the one ring. The story is wrapped up nicely, and my only real complaint was that the end material (back to the shire, the parting of frodo and gandalf, etc) felt a little bit drawn out. Still, I wasn't disappointed by it at all.Overall, I feel this is a classic tale that every fantasy lover out there should pick up and read. This is the beginning of a great many fantasy books out there, and there aren't many books that can say that.
5 Of coarse you know by now that The Lord of the Rings trilogy is THE most magnetizing fantasy story in the history of literature.  That claim is irrefutable and defendable by those of us who have substantially read fantasy literature throughout our lives.  That reason alone is justification for owning this most elaborate ternion.By the way, in this edition all three books are combined in a single volume, so no more purchases after this one is necessary.This particular edition offers the reader the artistic inventiveness of illustrator Allen Lee.  Mr. Lee, who won an Oscar for conceptualizing The Lord of the Rings motion pictures, adds a visual component to Tolkien's written word, and imaginatively captures the spirit of this adventuresome and perilous universe.  This is a big plus for all you LOTR movie fans.  When you examine these illustrations, some of them will be immediately recognizable from the scenes used in the movies.One last thing to add:  To those who have watched the movies but not read the trilogy, take heed.  While the movies were fantastic, the books are even better!!
5 Put it simply - this is the seminal motherlode of modern fantasy. It is the best work of fantasy ever written and has spawned a great numberof imitators. Phrases from the book have become standardaphorisms in comtemporary language. Every year thousands flockto a small village in England hoping to catch a glimmer ofa mythology that is so achingly beautiful, it is impossible almostto believe it wasn't real. These have been voted the best booksof the last 100 years in virtually every poll ever given on thesubject. If these books don't enchant you, you must be dead.
5 As others have said before me, this is a truly inspired work.  Rather than reiterate  the 400 previous posts, I'll just say this is a book the will create a  thirst for reading in a child.  I would strongly suggest reading  the Hobbit to your young ones, and then letting them read the rest of the  series on their own.  These are the only books I have read more than twice  and it certainly got me away from just reading comic books.  Enjoy!
5 I have read the entire trilogy several times and am about to start another reading and I have enjoyed them all.  The author invented version of earth for his own use, peopled it with different races, both good and bad and then had them interact to further their own wants, needs and desires.  This is one of greatest sagas ever written.
5 Tolkien. There are so many words that can describe a man like him. Awesome author of the greatest series in the world. The Lord of the Rings brings a new look into the magical world and the history of Middle Earth. Tolkien is fantastic. I have never read a better series of books than this. Series is great I highly recommend them to anyone who loves fantasy.
5 I've been running across a fairly unfortunate state of affairs lately, in that apparently very few fantasy fans are actually reading this book (yes, it's "book", not "trilogy": non-fans, Tolkien buffs are kind of rabid on that distinction, so if you're talking with a fan anytime soon, just remember that One Vol. is a gooooood thing for this novel).  Oh, they'll talk you a blue streak about how great it is, possibly out of the interest of fantasy solidarity but more likely just because a generation of critics regard LotR as the next best thing to the Second Coming, so they're obligated to like it as well.  So laudatory statements are in no short supply, but people aren't actually reading the book, and when you dig a little deeper under the kneejerk reaction of "aha!  Yes!  Great book!" you find that there's often a deep-seated animosity toward a cultural phenomenon they're not on the inside of, and in a lot of the younger readers today, that comes out as "OMG, it's so BAD!"So I'd like to take this opportunity to say...no.  It's not bad.  You just couldn't read it.  There's a difference.  This is not necessarily an attack on you personally.  The idea that each of us has to be some kind of Renaissance Man or Woman who can appreciate fine literature even while slaving away as a med student with no actual time to read or being fairly uninterested in books anyway makes it sound like one, but it's not.  What I'm saying is that there is a generation of people provided with alternate means of entertainment than the reading of novels.  Television, movies, and video games are far more the go-to cultural touchstones than is literature (seriously, I'm an English major, and when we get together, we do not talk about the latest literary magazines.  We talk about Mad Men and Dexter).  And yet there is this inherent and evident presumption in modern society that despite the fact that the majority of today's youth does not read more than a dozen good-sized novels a year of their own free will, they should somehow still be good at reading and appreciating what they read by recognition of highly advanced literary tropes.The fact of the matter is, most people are simply not all that good at reading anymore.  Hell, a stunning number of people can't even spell correctly.  Yet we expect that if someone can understand the basic mechanics of reading, that individual should be dumped off in the savage eddies of literature as a whole and advised to sink or swim.  Most people sink, unless they're met halfway by J.K. Rowling or Brandon Sanderson or James Patterson or Stephen King or another writer who tends to put palatability of prose ahead of complexity of style.  Not that any of these people is a bad writer, per se (except Patterson, who in a just world would be arrested for crimes against art on the merit of Alex Cross alone), but they have the trick of being compulsively readable, of providing information in a flashy, dramatic way that keeps the television generation stuck to the page.  They're the direction most of literature is going today, or at least the literature that wants to attract an audience rather than sit in the Snobby Corner making toasts to elitism.The thing is that Tolkien (yes, finally we're getting back to Tolkien) was not the product of an era in which constant competition for readership with a glowing box was much of a concern.  Imagine, if you will, a world BEFORE Legend of Zelda.  Yes.  Yes, it's earth-shattering, I know, but there it was.  Tolkien wrote Lord of the Rings over the span of about a decade in the thirties and forties, before most of the world even had a television, and movies with sound were still the big new thing.  In Tolkien's day, this form of entertainment simply had not had time to become preeminent in the minds of the population, and (you guessed it!) the majority of people were still big readers.So when Tolkien wrote The Lord of the Rings, his concern was not whether or not his readers could get through it.  That was taken as a given.  People were still reading freaking Middlemarch for fun back then.  Of course they could last through Lord of the Rings.  So Tolkien was free to play with the elements he actually wanted in his book, independent of commercialism.  In his mind, he was not writing a cultural phenomenon: when LotR first hit bookstores, it was only a modest success, and Tolkien was perfectly satisfied with and probably expected this outcome.  I'm sure he was pleased when the hippies got hold of it and people started wearing Gandalf for President t-shirts, but that was emphatically not something he foresaw.  Tolkien wrote Lord of the Rings primarily for himself.  His publishers asked for a book "like the Hobbit", and so his only real job was to pump out another children's faery story starring furry-footed little gnomes bouncing across a cheerful fantasy world.  Instead, he gave us Lord of the Rings, tossing in the Gothic Bildungsroman style with language adapted from the heroic literature of the Middle Ages he studied as a professor, and an expression of a personal philosophy in "nature and childlike attitude" versus "modernism and selfishness", all based on what is possibly the richest fantasy universe ever created.Is Tolkien's novel good?  Hell yes it is.  It's a triumph of literary ingenuity, a melting pot of styles and influences guided by a master's hand to incredible profundity and depth of emotion.  It's a fully realized and idealized world representative of Tolkien's dreams and wishes.  On top of that, it's an adventure and a tale of the power of friendship and it's the inspiration for over two generations of fantasy authors.  What Tolkien did had never been seen before.  The closest we had was freaking Thomas Hardy with his Wessex.Sadly, we are living in a generation of people who are not readily going to understand these things.  That is not actively their fault.  It becomes their fault, however, when they start claiming that if it doesn't entertain them at every moment, it's somehow failing as a novel, and try to justify this attitude with some sort of half-assed argument along the lines of "Seriously, Tolkien's not all that great.  It's all good guys and bad guys, right?  The real world isn't like that.  That's too simplistic."So let me say, now and for all time: Tolkien DID NOT WRITE THIS NOVEL FOR YOU.  He wrote for a readership that could (by and large) better appreciate what he had done and were not going to be off-put by a bit of imagery and alternate cultural additions alongside the main plot arc.  He was also writing long, looong before the Mighty and Awful Gods of Pop Culture had declared that gritty realism must somehow be present even in escapist fantasy (bizarre as that might sound).  Is Tolkien writing an idealized world?  Yes.  But there is nothing wrong with that.  It's a stylistic choice more or less carried over from the Heroic lit he was basing a lot of this stuff on, and it also gave him the chance to portray a world he would like to live in.  Yeah.  Remember when authors used to do that?  No, really.  It used to be fashionable to portray larger-than-life heroes and villains as representations as icons for the reading public.  It's a tradition carried all the way from Shakespeare.  Is it a "comfortable" read?  Probably.  Ultimate good and ultimate evil do provide a framework of moral certainty a lot of us would secretly like in a more complex world, but gritty realism isn't really any more edgy or less of a crowd-pleaser.  It's just appealing to a different impulse.  Instead of presenting noble heroes we aren't like but wish we were, new fantasy presents people pretty much exactly equivalent to modern society, thus reassuring us that even in Westeros or the Malazan Empire or what-have-you, everyone is the same crowd of selfish twits we see around us, and thus there's nothing wrong with society (or at least realistically changeable) as it currently stands.  Neither approach is ultimately the better one, in my view.  Both are perfectly legitimate.So consider the fact, the next time you get irritated that someone is asking you about that boring Fellowship of the Ring, that maybe the problem isn't with the books so much as the fact that you're just a little too removed from them.  If you genuinely want to appreciate LotR, start reading other older novels.  Believe it or not, people used to like Portrait of a Lady and Wuthering Heights.If you haven't read and appreciated Lord of the Rings, if you're tempted to pass it off as an overly lionized bit of Mary Sue fantasy, try to recall that this is the novel that kicked off modern fantasy, and a novel that many regard as one of the best of all time.
4 Let me start off by saying that tolkien is a great, if not, the greatest fantasy writer ever.  This book took me two months to read, not only because i wanted to enjoy it, but also because I kept having to retrace my steps to make sure it took in the info I had previously read.  well enough rambling let me tell you what I thought of this book!THE GOOD:1. This was a real refreshing break from the movie hype.  To me the book is alot better than the movies.(just my opinion).2. There are also alot more characters in the books who wasn't in the movies.3.  Tolkien takes his time to explain the settings around the people.  This is very good if you like details.4.  Best of all (if you can't afford the extended DVDs)Tolkien finishes the stories of everyone else besides the hobbits and Gandalf.  And the book goes into details for a very satisfying ending.5.  Also one final good note and then on to the bad.  There are bloodlines and an appendix at the end of the book( for those big words noone supposed to really understand).Now to the bad.  These are the only reasons I gave the book four stars instead of five.1.  Sometimes Tolkien goes into too much detail; often subliminating the main story line just to set the atmosphere.2.  I know that Tolkien probably meant for the LOTR to be an intelligent book but come on not everyone can speak elvish and not everyone cares for big words.Well thats it I hope you enjoyed the review as well as the book.  PEACE!!!
5 The BBC's performance of The Lord of the Rings is first-rate, though book purists may have problems with it.  It's an adaptation, and the writer(s) played with the chronology a bit--they've added some flashbacks early on that take the place of narrative later in the books--but overall, the dramatic impact is a definite plus.The actors are fantastic--for tone, emotion, and character, you won't hear better.  The script is well-written enough to get more than just the main points of the story across without being a word-for-word reading.  I highly recommend this for any Tolkien fan who loves the story but doesn't demand absolute faithfulness to the script.
5 What's not to love! It has been several years since I originally read this book. Having watched the movies countless times, it was nice to go back and reacquaint myself with the original story.
5 What can I say? Beatifully done. I would highly recommend this for anyone who can afford to shell out the bucks. Very high-quality.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is a huge, and hugely enjoyable, adventure story.At the opening of the book, we learn that a villain, Sauron, the Lord of the Rings, plans to expand his tyranny over all of Middle Earth.  All he lacks is the One Ring, a ring that gives great power, which has fallen into the hands of Frodo Baggins.  Frodo is a hobbit, short in stature and overawed by the forces that strive with one another to control the ring.  "Why did it come to me?  Why was I chosen?" he asks.  "Such questions cannot be answered," says Gandalf, a far-seeing wizard.  "You may be sure that it was not for merit that others do not possess: not for power or wisdom, at any rate.  But you have been chosen, and you must therefore use such strength and heart and wits as you have."  So Frodo undertakes to carry the ring to Mordor, Sauron's stronghold and the only place where the ring can be destroyed.He is helped along the way by eight companions (the Fellowship of the Ring) and many fantastic creatures, knights, and kings they encounter on the road.  As the Fellowship make their way toward Mordor, the kingdoms of Middle Earth are on the march.  Alliances are made and broken and great cities are besieged, as a final confrontation with Sauron approaches.Frodo's journey is a long and dangerous one, and Tolkien's accounts of combat and bravery are stirring.  But Frodo and his companions make many stops along the road for eating, drinking, storytelling, and other simple pleasures.  The interior scenes, with the friends at a table or in front of a fire, were one of the major attractions of the book for me.  There is good humor as well.  One of the running jokes in the book is based on the contrast between what the hobbits appear to be and what they actually are: "They were, if it came to it, difficult to daunt or to kill; and they were, perhaps, so unwearyingly fond of good things not least because they could, when put to it, do without them, and could survive rough handling by grief, foe, or weather in a way that astonished those who did not know them well and looked no further than their bellies and their well-fed faces."  By the end of the story, they have accomplished such feats of heroism that men suppose them to be princes in their own land, when in fact they are ordinary hobbits.The Houghton Mifflin one-volume paperback edition is an attractive volume with a comfortable, pliable feel in the reader's hands.  It includes an exceptional index, maps, and many other resources in over 100 pages of end material.
3 I'm not a fan of science fiction.  Nor am I a fan of things that are very popular with lots and lots of people.  But I kept hearing The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien mentioned and I have only read one book of fiction since January 2011, so I decided to read this novel.The story is pretty good.  An unimpressive and unskilled person is tasked with a difficult task in a new and original setting.  The setting of Middle Earth is interesting and unique.  Many parts of the setting and characters races have inspired lots of other creative works.  Even creative works as recently as this year have been inspired by this book.This book is said to be one of the great classics of science fiction.  And the few characters against the world makes for a good story.But there are problems with it.  The unique characters and setting seem incomplete.For example: a large group of villains in the book are called &#34;orcs.&#34;  Why are they villainous? What do they look like? Where do they come from? Do they have a society of some kind?  I don't know the answers to any of these questions.Another example: the group of protagonists get chased by a &#34;balrog.&#34;  Apparently it is a monster that they fear.  What does it look like? How big is it? What color is it? How many arms/ legs/ eyes does it have? Where did it come from?  I don't know the answers to any of these questions.  All the characters fear this monster and I have no idea about what it is.One more example: The main character spends the first quarter of the book getting introduced and making his way to the city of &#34;Rivendell.&#34;  Apparently it is the home of some elves.  And one elf in particular lives there.  I don't know anything more about it.  What do the buildings look like? How many are there? Are the citizens mostly elves? Is it located in a valley or mountains or a plain?  I don't have the slightest idea.LOTR is a sequel to another book, &#34;The Hobbit.&#34;  Perhaps all of these points are covered in it?  Perhaps not?For the first time ever after reading a book, I say, &#34;watch the movies instead.&#34;  I've seen most of the three movies that were based on this book and I constantly was thinking about it so that I could get some idea of what was going on in the book.In other books you can read and imagine that you are in the book.  That is not the case in LOTR.When other books are made into movies many parts are cut from the story.  That does not seem to be the case with LOTR.For the first time ever I say, &#34;watch the movies instead.&#34;  Other books translate very badly to the screen.  Other stories lose lots of characters, back stories, or scenes.  But despite watching and reading this story I've only noticed very minor differences and only very minor characters removed.The Lord of the Rings should be praised for introducing a new world, a new setting, and a new section of fantasy.  But the missing setting and missing character descriptions leave it lacking.Its a good story but it seems to be lacking in depth.  It uses just enough words to move the story along.  I miss knowing what the settings are.What does the world look like?How tall are the dwarves?
5 Being one of the most influential fantasy books of all time.  A must read for anyone with even passing interest.
1 Tolkien is way over-rated.  Read some Martin or Jordan instead.
5 What can I say about this classic, epic story?  Tolkien has done something that is very rare.  He has created another world, complete with languages and history and he has done it masterfully.
4 There are already a lot of reviews available, so I will just make a few points for you first-time readers. LOTR fans, you don't even need to read this. In fact, please don't. You will probably just feel insulted.For all you first-timers, I have answered several questions from your ilk (love that word) that I felt I should address here. I am assuming that everyone on Earth has seen the movies, you liked them, and now you want to read the book. I read LOTR many years ago, and have read it several times since.1) The title of the book refers to SAURON, not Frodo or anyone else. Sauron is the lord of the rings. This is the most misunderstood thing about this book.2) Don't expect a gripping edge-of-your-seat fast-paced tale. This book was written a LONG time ago, and basically created the fantasy genre. It can't be compared to today's style of writing. It is rather slow, much detail is omitted for you, the reader, to fill in. Its similar to the 'MTV' style of TV production today: It can't be compared to the TV productions of yesteryear. Which one is better is a matter of OPINION, as long as you know what to expect going in, you won't be shocked. In addition, the author was English, so if you have only read stuff from American authors (and shame on you if that is so) the writing style might be unsettling. Just stick with it, you'll get used to it.3) Tolkien wrote the book as ONE novel, it was the publisher that divided it into three separate books. Even so, the first book is very slow and boring IN RELATION to the other two. DO NOT get bored and stop reading! The story gets better and better as you get deep into the first book, just hang in there. You also may notice that the pacing of LOTR is rather screwy. That is basically explained by the fact that Tolkien had no idea where his story was going to go when he started to write it. The first book founders quite a bit, and the story really picks up with the second book. The strange pacing is most noticeable once you have completed the entire story.4) Its almost impossible for ANY book to live up to the fame and legend that surrounds LOTR as a novel. It is a celebrated book most importantly because it created the fantasy genre we know today. No other book before it created a world like Tolkien's. Just don't expect the supreme masterpiece the hype surrounding this book would lead you to believe it is. Its not. Its a very good fantasy book, and a good (not great) read. If you know this going in, you won't be disappointed when this book doesn't change your life after you have read it.5) I'm sure you have heard the Tom Bombadil complaints. Once you have read the book, you will probably realize why Peter Jackson left him out of the movie. He was a red herring in comparison to the rest of the book. Again, Tolkien didn't know where his story was going at the beginning, and it shows.Reading this book is a rewarding experience. For the casual reader, I would recommend it. For new fantasy fans, it is a MUST READ.
5 This is one of the greatest gifts anyone has given me. A friend of my brother gave me the 4 book set about a year before the movie came out and I have been thankful ever since.I recommend you purchase this for yourself and for anyone who has yet to read it.The movies have been great but there is much more to this tale then can be captured on film (though they came very close).Parts of book II may be a bit slow but it is worth it to read at a very slow pace to ensure you get all of the character depth and Tolkien's vast symbolism. The smallest details can come back later to have a very large and meaningful impact on the story...much like a Hobbit (sorry, I had to throw that in).And please do not get turned off after reading the Hobbit.  This is a great story which will seem like a child's tale.  Rest assured, the remaining trilogy is an entirely different story which uses the Hobbit as a preface.  As my friend told me after I finished the Hobbit, "The Hobbit is a good story, The Lord of the Rings is an epic tale."
5 this book was one of the two best stories i have ever read. the characters and some of the scenes are magically beautiful, but also darkly sinister. i can't help think that Tolkien (the author), was trying to catch the reality of this life... that there is an almighty struggle between the forces of good and evil. there are agents of darkness as well as agents of light. i believe, that in writing this book he must have felt a great anxiety about finishing such an epic. this would have been with the knowledge that it had to be written. he is not only telling a brilliant story, but he is also pointing towards the real situation. not only is this world involved, but also whole galxies and perhaps universes in an almighty war between the forces of good and evil. there are magical devices, scientific machines, mysterious races and perhaps even rings of magical power in this battle... you can loose your soul. you can become a deceived minion of evil. beware and watch and pray... the road is slippery, and yet along the way you will have moments of joy and happiness.the one ring of power to bind them all, closely represents the 'urge' to power. i use the word urge because this is more primal and fundamental than 'will'. will emerges from an urge. pride is that which needs power, to be powerful, pride is a form of greed. therefore it can clearly be said that the urge to power is an extremely deep rooted urge in the human being, perhaps found in all idividualities. 'pride' is 'force', whereas the prime quality of humility is gentleness. the urge to power forces its way, whilst humility, the antithesis of pride is 'truly' gentle, in an uncontrived manner. the urge to power can be hard to overcome. this urge in itself is 'strength' or power and as such is potentially very corruptive. any super-man is in danger through the self destructive urge to power. just look at the case of adolf hitler. though initially the urge can be a force for growth and development, eventually it passes a point where its growth in position, knowledge or whatever other form of power expression leads to its own self destruction, or onwards into a true enlightement (if in pursuit of the spiritual path). i find it worrying that we have this 'urge' built into our genetic programming. what initially could be of great benefit to the species survival, could ultimately either be the end of all life on this planet, or its salvation. hence the parallel between the one ring to bind them all and human 'pride'/the urge for power. it should be mentioned that greed plays an important part in the urge for power, but we must not forget that it is also part of the species survival mechanism.i feel that rather than stronger and stronger weapons which only make us proud and posturing, what is needed is agaponic technology, the tools to overcome all forms of harmful violence and warfare (to neutralize it) by peaceful, non-destructive means... thats on the technological front. the second thing and perhaps more important is an ontological change in our natural makeup. i have outlined this in my posts, and the third thing is an understanding of what is true and what is false, through the guidance of our conscience ('feelings' of rightness/confidence and peace/comfort as opposed to guilt and vengeful anger) and most importantly the objective statement of loving-kindness.it is through recognising the dualisms of good and evil and understanding them in all their substance and power that we can aspire to understand and appreciate the 'true' good. to deny the existence of evil or good is sometimes to be overtaken by the forces of darkness. this is since that evil can only be resisted if it is understood to exist. the teaching of non-dualism sometimes found in some eastern religions denies the existence of evil, and in a sense it is right (there is nothing purely evil), but it is also wrong... i say wrong since without acknowledging the existence of evil one will never aspire to be good, nor perhaps be able to resist his assimilation into it. it is only by recognising human pride and forcefulness that we can work at overcoming it within ourselves, never mind others. the buck starts with me and you.perhaps one of the greatest storys ever told. i find the symbolism in this book akin to that in the 'never ending story', by michael ende, but even better.do take care, love, flakey xxx.
5 What can be said that hasn't already been said about Lord of the Rings? This is the best and highest achievement of all literature in the history of the English language, and I don't just mean fantasy literature. Tolkien was a quiet, unassuming genius who created a world of wonder, of magic, of mirth and dread, a world of ancient legend, of nearly forgotten antiquity, a world populated by a myriad of creatures and races, some obscure and some of great renown. That an unassuming, overlooked species known as hobbits would spawn one in whom the destiny of Middle-earth would depend is an amazing story for the ages. With wizards, elves, dwarves, orcs, and an unnumbered amount of other creatures populating this world, Tolkien provides the template for all fantasy storytelling (not to mention gaming) to follow. There is too much here to describe in such a short space, so I'll just say if you have not read this trilogy you are a poorer person for it. Get it, read it, don't just watch the movie series, read it! Now! What else can I say?
1 13 May 2011 - I got an email from Amazon and on my response with "YES" the corrected version of this text downloaded to my Kindle, finally!!! just short of 2 years after I first complained about it.  Spot checks show that errors I had noted before are in fact really corrected.  Finally a readable version!Text of my original rant-review follows unmodified "for historical purposes".===================================================================I've read the whole of LOTR over and over since I first got a secondhand copy of the BB edition in 1969.  I have been known to describe it as "the best book ever written".But here is a one-star (really, zero star) review FOR A PARTICULAR PRODUCT.That product is this Harper Collins Kindle Edition.It is littered with typographical errors and dropouts.  How bitterly ironic to find those starting in the preface in the explanation of the effort to arrive at a definitive text!LOTR expert readers will be enraged.Newcomers will be baffled.Harper Collins editors should be jailed for gross negligence: no one could have ever proof read even the first 10 pages of this waste product and allowed it to be published; we can only conclude that THEY NEVER LOOKED AT THE PRODUCT THEY ARE SELLING HERE.DO NOT BUY THIS KINDLE EDITION!DO NOT BUY THIS KINDLE EDITION!DO NOT BUY THIS KINDLE EDITION!
5 What a great classic.  this book is just as good on a repeat read as it was the first time around.  I find myself looking forward to the next chapter.
3 I bought the Ballantine boxed set of Lord of the Rings about Dec 1999 for an avid Tolkien fan who has unfortunately found many typos and errata in this edition of each book (roughly 6 to 12 per book). These word substitutions and omissions seriously damage the language and the meaning of the passages they occur in. This edition was in the dark blue box with red, green, blue and black book covers, but has the same ISBN number (0345340426) for the boxed set above* (and for the individual books). I hope that Ballantine has fixed all the errors in later printings of this edition. If not, I would recommend finding a copy of the older edition ca 1978 (white covers, picture of Tolkien on back of each book) which does not have the same problem.
5 I have read this trilogy on my kindle and love the story.  I have also promised myself that as much as I love my kindle and the savings it gives me when buying books I would also buy the books I love in hard copy.  This is mainly because I still love the feel of holding a book and looking through it.  I would hate to see actual books go by the wayside and only have digital books.  The Lord of the rings boxed set is a very nice set and I would recommend it to any that loves J.R.R. Tolkien.
5 Eventhough The Lord of the rings is a classic work, much people didn't hear about it before New line decided to do a movie about it! what a shame, really. Because he who loves fantasy and epic adventures without reading this amazing saga, or simply knowing about its author is simply gonna die in ignorance. Hearken lads! This is a the tale when Beleriand is once again under the shadow of the dark lord Sauron, mayar and henchman of Morgoth. The one ring is found by the halfing on his way to defeat a dragon and share its treasure with his fellow dwarves. the war of the rings has begun, Sauron's wraiths are unleashed, attracted by the malefic power of the ring. This ring can bind all the others by its power and with it, sauron will retrieve his ancient might and reign from Mordor over all the elven kingdoms of Middle earth. What's gonna happen next is you immediately ordering this boxed set and die happy.
5 This is a reread.  I really like this version, mostly because its on the kindle.  I'd defiantly recommend this book
5 I was thrilled to get these they were on time too my son and our family will have years of reading them
5 Inevitably, after reading The Fellowship of the Ring, the natural reaction is to reach for The Two Towers. The second part of a classic trilogy, The Two Towers picks up exactly where The Fellowship of the Ring left off. With most of the main characters already established and the main focus of the journey identified, the truly exciting scenes begin to take place. The novel splits up into a pair of books that take the reader through two different adventures based on the now divided characters. The two books take place during the same time line, which I felt was a very interesting way to observe the storylines. Talking about all the amazing qualities of Two Towers might spoil your own experience, but if you are ready to read Two Towers, you are already have an idea of what type of brilliance lies ahead.The imagery laid forth by Tolkien is simply dazzling, he was a master of the written word and this book exemplifies as well as magnifies that fact.Full of excitement and adventure, this continuation of the quest to rid the world from the threat of evil takes the reader right through the heart of one of the most colorful, well known and amazing fantasy adventures of all-time. After being left breathless at the end of this one, the reader will take part in his or her own journey to get their hands on The Return of the King to finish out the trilogy. Simply Spectacular!
5 I love this book! It is a classic that I had to have in my home library. I plan to hand this down to my children someday.
5 This was the book I grew up with...the book I had read to me twice before the age of six. I was a little surprised at how unhappy some people were with this edition and would like to say that although, like most books, there will be some defects, most copies are just lovely. If i wasn't a broke student I would buy this without hesitation.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed reading these books.  You want to start out with The Hobbit first before reading the others as it is the start of the story.  It took me a while to get used to all the new and different characters, but when I did, the story flowed right along.  These are books that you can easily enjoy reading several times over.  I have a brother-in-law who has had to buy new books because he had worn the others out.  I highly recommend the books.
5 Since it's publication in 1937 Tolkien's fable has stood the test of time for all time BEST sellers. His fiction reveals much that is factual about us.
5 Many times, the middle installment of a trilogy is little more than filler between an engaging first book and a climactic third.  Not so with the Two Towers.  Peril, battles, and struggle carry readers further into this saga as we follow some very simple folk on an adventure none of them wished for.  Indeed, that is one of the appeals of the book, average people just like you and me coping with dangerous circumstances, making the best choices they can, and wondering if and how they will ever come out of it.At the end of Fellowship, the group was divided as Frodo and Sam headed off on their own to Morder.  Tolkien chose to completely separate their adventures from the narrative of the other members rather than intersperse their chapters to tell the story chronologically.  I didn't mind this separation at all.  While it would have been nice to know what each party was doing at roughly the same time, this device allows readers to focus on one group at a time, letting the emotional momentum of that thread build uninterrupted.Two Towers focuses first on Merry and Pippin's capture by orcs and Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli's pursuit.  In this section, the threat of Saruman, who desires the ring for himself, is dealt with as allies are marshaled.  Help comes unlooked for and from surprising sources.  The section on Frodo and Sam recounts their arduous trek toward Morder and the uncertain alliance with Gollum.Tolkien's writing tends to be sparse, leaving small details to the imagination of the reader, but he nevertheless evokes a mood with his choice of phrase.  Where he is most descriptive is in landscape and structures.  Here, he displays familiarity with a wide range of plant life and geographical features.  The land is as much a character as the people.  Many of the battle scenes are relayed second-hand or observed from a distance, so there isn't a feeling of being in the thick of things, nor do we find the graphic violence that marks other authors.  These are not necessarily bad.  Again, it is left to the readers' imaginations to fill in the picture.Characters evolve in this book:  Pippin grows from an immature, impulsive hobbit into a resourceful, clever fellow in the face of adversity;  Aragorn starts off the book doubting himself and his choices, but eventually comes to own his position as Isildur's Heir and rightful king of Gondor;  Gimli takes on more shape as we see him interacting more with other characters, offering to educate Eomer with his axe and extending a gruff kindness toward the hobbits.  We saw in the last book that this rough-hewn, earthy dwarf appreciated beauty and was capable of great eloquence in speaking of it, and this occurs again in the Two Towers when he moves Legolas with his speech about the caves of Aglarond.  Sam plays a greater role, his uneducated but shrewd mind distrusting Gollum and serving as counterpoint to Frodo's benevolence.  His treatment of Gollum demonstrates that he is not necessarily a kind and gentle soul, but capable of mean comments based solely on suspicion.  Frodo is more inclined to pity Gollum, who responds to this understanding by revealing that under the twisted ruin of his mind, there yet lives a vestige of his old self, a self that remembers happier times.  Indeed, Gollum's character is arguably one of the most intriguing in the book, and Tolkien works the interplay between "Slinker" and "Stinker" beautifully.Although Legolas remains two dimensional, his interest in wine being an exception, we learn something of him through his developing friendship with Gimli and his ceding leadership to Aragorn.  Many of the elves come across as removed from mortal life and concerns, even Otherworldly, as the Galadrim showed.  Legolas is no exception.  He remarks at almost feeling young again while in Fangorn forest, revealing that he is much older than his companions, yet he says he's not traveled as far as the 80-something Aragorn.  He must have led an insular life indeed not to have ventured far in so long a life.  And for all his age, he lets Aragorn make the decisions.  We know Aragorn is an exceptional man, but is this also an indication that the elves no longer know how to function in a world that has changed around them?Legolas' friendship with Gimli shows us the power of genial interaction between different cultures.  Each character opens himself to new experiences and greater understanding.One comment I'd like to make about Faramir, the brother of Boromir:  with all due respect to the writers of the movies, Faramir's effortless rejection of the ring shows readers that he is a very different sort of man from his brother, one whose strength in the face of temptation mirrors Galadriel's.  If he is emulating a powerful elf, he must be a unique man indeed.  He also shows us that not all humans are weak and easily seduced.  The strength and nobility of the line of Numenor still exist.If anything disappointed me in Two Towers, it was the lack of any magic cast by the wizards.  I've grown so used to the D&D; model of magic users that I expected some display of arcane artillery.  Instead the wizards of Middle Earth are figures of wisdom and knowledge.  The closest we come to seeing power is Saruman's compelling voice, which Tolkien skillfully describes--when it speaks, all it suggests seems right and good, while opposing voices sound harsh and unreasonable.  That scene is one of the most gripping in the book and makes the power of Saruman's influence more sinister.In itself, Two Towers is a great story and sets us up nicely for "The Return of the King."
5 THE TWO TOWERS is the second part of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. As mentioned elsewhere, it is a shame that THE LORD OF THE RINGS was originally printed in three separate volumes except in the one whole that Tolkien intended because now we constantly have to refer to the three pieces of the whole distinctively.  With that said, THE TWO TOWERS is a grand follow up of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING.The book begins exactly where THE FELLOWSHIP ended, with Frodo and Sam setting forth together to fufill the grand quest and the remaining members of the fellowship left fighting orcs of Sauron and the Uruk-hai (that develish breeding of orcs and goblins) of Saruman. The book begins on a sour note with the fellowhip tearing asunder and the death of Boromir and ends even more dismal with the separation of Frodo and Sam and Frodo's capture. Nevertheless, there is a great amount of hope in THE TWO TOWERS. Treebeard and the Ents arise from a sleeping living to avenge themselves on their former friend and neighbor, Saruman, and the forces of good win a great victory at Helm's Deep.However, the best part of THE TWO TOWERS are the lessons of friendship, love, and loyalty that it contains. The novel begins with the fellowship torn asunder: Boromir is killed; Merry and Pippin are captured by orcs; and Frodo and Sam leave on their own. Aragorn makes a difficult decision; realizing that Frodo has made his own decision; and attempts a rescue of Merry and Pippin. He would have followed Frodo all the way to Mt. Doom but chose instead to help the companions that could least help themselves.Later in the novel and even greater act of love is displayed by Samwise Gamgee. No spoilers told, but Sam shows in THE TWO TOWERS that the Baggins aren't the only hobbits who can do great deeds (a lesson even illustrated more in THE RETURN OF THE KING by Merry and Pippin) and his devotion to Frodo is the stuff that true friendships are made. Even in the darkest hour things aren't as hopeless as they seem.
5 As with the Fellowship, this is a really terrific book.  Mr. Inglis has the perfect voice for these readings (referring to the whole series).  Highly recommend to other fans.
5 I acquired my first copy of LOTR before 1970, while Tolkien was still alive.  I have read it every year or two since.  It's a great quest story ( or perhaps reverse quest story) written in beautiful English with many tips to Anglo-Saxon poetry and other beautiful if formulaic historical narratives.  I also love the much more contemporary story of Harry Potter, who treads much of the same territory but in far less soaring language.
4 I liked it because I learned about a hobbet named frodo and his adventures with a ring of power that they want to destory.
4 Having seen the films and fallen in love with them, I naturally was compelled to read the books. For me, adoring a movie experience is never complete without the book or books it originated from. Thus my extreme excitement over reading the acclaimed LOTR books, and gaining even more insight into this enthralling story. I must now say that it was indeed the movies which made me love "The Lord of the Rings." The books are beyond a doubt masterpieces, full of rich fantasy, unforgettable characters, and an entire history of a world to explore. However, it strikes me clearly that Tolkein is perhaps a better professor of history and languages and such than an author of a tale. There are actually a number of occasions when the story becomes rather tedious, with lengthy pages devoted to, for instance, journeys through woods that never seem to go anywhere, and never develop into anything significant. Yet, in the very next chapter, the book is liable to grip you again by plunging into something that is not only very significant but positively enchanting. This was not the case when the books were translated onto the screen, at which point the story was thrilling and poignant at every moment.Perhaps the strongest point of the books, the most important reason to read them (yes, I heartily recommend you read at least some), is that extra detail, description, and small characters are introduced-things that could not possibly have fit into a visual telling of the story, unless audiences should be content to sit for over four hours. This does not mean that the movies did away with these other people, creatures, secrets and twists-indeed, all of the most important and most amazing aspects of the books are revealed in the movies-it means they were simply not shown onscreen. However, I found that it's what is onscreen that grabs a person and really makes them love the story. Without being told visually, the books seem to me to be an incredible tale in need of being portrayed in another form. Some might say, "If you appreciated the movies even more than these books, then you were probably won over by all the great special effects and garish Hollywood theatrics." BUZZ. False. It is actually the astounding portrayal and development of the characters that initially attracted me to the Lord of the Rings. I do wish there could have been a bit more in the films, but this `more detail in the books' thing is true of every novel that has ever been shown as a movie. What takes four pages to read about takes at least another half hour to effectively portray onscreen.I expected to be thoroughly bowled over by the LOTR books and found that the characters seemed, in fact, more real and distinct to me onscreen. Normally I prefer the books to the movies, but in this case I adore both, yet hold the films dearer to me. There were points in the reading when I found myself thinking there was too much of this or too little of that, and wishing to spring ahead to something more profound, but not knowing when that more profound event would occur. Though I enjoyed most of what I read, I must admit that I did find some faults. Book 1, for example, does seem to dull for a bit after the Council of Elrond is over. Not all who read the books will have the same thoughts or form the same opinions, but most likely many readers will, so I decided to provide my LOTR book experience as a reference for those considering reading them.I give four stars and a recommendation. "The Hobbit," by the way, should also be read first; I used it for school before I was ever a Lord of the Rings fan, and was impressed by it. Fantasy at its best; use that to judge how willing you are to read these books.
3 I know its popular to praise Tolkien as something like the God of Fantasy, but I have to dsagree. Although he did have a major hand in starting the fantasy genre (he really isn't the creator), and his books are good, their not flawless.Its true he has written a compelling series. the world is beautifully drawn and the epic involves you. The language is well-constructed and lyrical. The major strength of the series is its theme. Although Tolkien claims otherwise, his quest can be interpreted to have allegorical meanings. In my own reading, the Ring symblolizes technology, which all want; (but in Tolkien's view, and this view is apparent in his other writings) however it also corrupts. There is a beauty in the theme.There are however, numerous problems. The series is highly Eurocentric (hm.. Proud, strong, light Northerners like Aragorn; weak, corrupt dark Southerners and Easterners like the Easterlings). Not only this but Tolkien's literature is highly nostalgic and yearning for a better past when 'giants' (as in heroes) walked the land. Tolkien apparently detested change which is inevitable. And change is certainly not all bad. His characters are always bursting into song and telling great tales of the PAST while the great deeds being done at present are largely ignored or downplayed.Most annoying though, was the change of style. The beginning starts out like the Hobbit, in the sort of style that children's tales have (Tolkien even addresses the reader directly sometimes, a device almost exclusively confined to children's books or confessionals). Midway through the first book, the tone abruptly changes and we are left with a darker (and more suitable) tone that continues to grow darker and drearier. By the time Frodo was getting near Mordor I felt like kicking him, I was so tired of the author's continuous description him as weary, weak, tired, half-dead.The ending too was highly nostalgic which may be beautiful for a while but quickly grows tedious. Not a single ray of optimism shone as the Elves departed to leave the world for Man.Although this book is a must-read for fantasy enthusiasts, don't fall into the cult and think of Tolkien as the incomparable God of Fantasy without thinking about the book.
5 The touchstone novel that set the standard for classic heroic fantasy stories, great story-line with characters that draw the reader.
2 No illustrations in this edition, but it is the print which is blurry throughout the LOTR trilogy. I returned them.
5 This is undoubtedly a masterpiece of fantasy and great fiction in general. Even if I have read books I have enjoyed more, this will probably outlast them, is more than likely more important, and will probably be better research for me as a writer.See more at [...] [...] and [...]
5 The story itself is self explanatory, although the 3 volume story is wordy and less fun than the Hobbit.  But I'll always want to re-read it, and now my kid wanted to read before she sees the movie.  This is paperback but the types are clear and easy to read.  Other publishings had kind of thick types that almost made the letters look unfocused.
5 Tolkien set the background of Heroic Fantasy (and unfortunately contributed to the swarming of mediocre &quot;epigones&quot;).This trilogy is about the eternal fight on good and evil...in the human heart.All the strange creatures of the book are a symbol of a particular kind of human being. Hobbits are innocent,bold,yet vulnerable to temptation.They can be noble like Frodo,faithful and loving like Sam,amiable amd cheerful like Merry or Pippin..or pettily greedy like Lobelia,or miserably loathsome like Gollum.In fact,hobbits are the average man. Wizards like Gandalf and Saruman are the men of power,who must also fight the tempation of evil.Gandalf has fought  and conquered it, Saruman has been overwhwlmed  by power lust, falseness and deception. Then you have Elves: disillusioned idealists who've chosen to fly,to evade.And so we have the psychopaths Orcs,spiteful of all that's human (they remind me of some...), the Ents,representing the Earth (Wizard are Fire, Eagles are Air, Elves are Water)as well as the industrious Dwarves. And the Evil itself,Sauron,is not personified,because it is an abstract principle,and the battle between good and evil takes place (as I've said)in the human heart. So much for the symbolic. I've also loved Bilbo,Sam,Merry,Pippin,Gandalf,Aragorn,and pityied wretched Smeagollum,and admired the proto-feminist (of sorts) Eowyn,and saw  in Elbereth Gilthoniel a long lost love of mine! Whit time, Frodo and Sam have grown and become Fafhrd and Gray Mouser, Elric,Kirith Kirin, and the Elves have finally become Lynn Flewellyng faye (Alec and Seregil) and the Grigori and Wraeththu of Storm Constantine. But Tolkien was the pionieer who reinvented the myth.
4 This is one of those sets that everyone should read once, just to say they have. And once we've slogged through the pages and pages of descriptions of places the characters only visit once, we can go watch the movies and actually enjoy the story.I liked these books. I honestly did. I just felt like they dragged too much and that the author was too intent on describing the world he'd invented and not intent enough on actually moving the story along.Still, this is a beautiful set, and probably something everyone should have on their shelves.  Worth buying!
5 I cannot believe it took me so long to do so. Despite recommendations from my young adulthood to know. I thought it was boring. How wrong I was. Pick it up. It is as old as time and yet new.It challenges what we already know of the struggle between good and evil. I was scared sometimes reading it but it was well worth sticking with. I found so much depth to this book, so many things that surprised me.Of course I had to read The Two Towers and The Return of the King! I had to find out what happened.Excellent writing if at times a bit long but you will be glad when you see the movies. And you must see them as well!
5 Awesome book to read. Would suggest to complement this with Silmarillion and Children of Hurin and the Hobbit to get the full story of Middle Earth.
4 Probably the trilogy that started the fantasy- adventure genre, I have been meaning to read the first of the trilogy for a long time (I attempted a first reading when I was very young, but soon got bored of it). The second time through, I enjoyed it much more. At its heart, FotR is a simple tale between good and evil, with a microcosm of the world and its varied people exemplified by the denizens of Tolkein's Middle-Earth. There are the Hobits, the Elves, the Dwarves, the Orcs, the Wizards, the Humans, and whatever race Strider belongs to. The story starts in the Shire, where Biblo Baggins (a Hobit) is staging his disappearence on his (elevnty-first) 111st birthday. He leaves as a heirloom a ring to his cousin (Frodo). This is no ordinary ring, however; it is imbubed with power to control the mind of the wearer and even to make him (all of the bearers were male) invisible! Problem is that Sauron, the dark lord is looking desperately for this ring, through a team of his dreaded henchmen, the Ringwraiths. The job of Frodo is to enter Mordor, the dark land, and destroy the ring. The 'Fellowship' in the title refers to the band of (for the lack of a better term) people who leave their peaceful existence behind and start journey which will terminate in Mordor (by book 3). The book is verbose and apt to burst into a poem every now and then; the descriptions of places and denizens of Middle-Earth are very detailed. Tolkien has weaved a compelling fantasy world.
5 And it was fun re-reading this series of books and about the editing background JRRT must have faced to get it all into print.  Amazing piece of work.  Still the best fantasy world-building ever.
5 This is one of the best fantasy series ever written. Reading originals is so much more gratifying than movies.It covers the whole gamut of emotions and is action from start to finish with good triumphing over evil, while being clean all the way through.There's never a dull moment, although the first time I read it 30 years ago, it did take me several starts to get into the swing of the book # 1.
5 This has become one of my favorite books. What a great story of good versus evil with friendship, trust and hope along with showing respect for all beings. Definitely recommend as a must read. More detail, information and feeling is represented in reading this story.
5 It is hard to find words to express my thought about this trilogy.  This story has impacted countless lives since it was published.  I am not here to review the story, but instead to simply say: "Thank you, Professor Tolkien!"
5 For someone in the third world $... is a huge investment. But I'm glad I ordered a book a couple of years ago. I'm a proud owner of this edition that a lot friends want to keep for their own. The centennial edition is the most elegant among all the LOTR sets I've seen. An added case would have made it more valuable. Considering the book's weight, the binding is surprisingly sturdy compared to most hardcover books.Alan Lee's illustration are simply marvelous. (The movie draws much of inspiration from Lee's images; Lee afterall provided the initial designs for the film I understand.) It's a good thing that the publishers decided to print the color plates on coated paper and the text on book paper. Text on coated paper is a bit difficult to read and stick to one another in time, especially under tropical conditions where I live.Well, I don't there is anything more to add to what people have said about the novel itself. Either you love it or you hate it. If you're one of those who love Tolkien, this one edition to keep, re-read and re-read, and display. I've lost so many copies of LOTR in the past 30 years. Certainly, this is one set to own. It's one convenienet volume everyone wants to borrow, but I'm not sure if any onw would want to lend.
5 Finally The Lord Of The Rings has been combined into one book.  This is the best version you could buy other than the origional copies if you can find them.  In this book you get The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.  The only downfall of this book is that it doesn't include The Hobbit.  Another great thing about this book is it combines every appendix and makes it easy to understand.  At the beginning of the book it describes what went on in The Hobbit for those who did not read the book.  Buy this book before seeing the movie.
3 This book would have been so much more interesting if Sauron had just gotten his ring. Those hobbits and elves were just annoying. My mind kept screaming for them to die, but they never did.Tolkein is the most depressing autor ive ever read. Every character he makes me fall in love with he has killed by every character he makes me hate. Sauron, Sarumon, Durins-Bane (the Bolrog), The Witch King, and not to mention all the Orcs. I remember crying after the Hobbit because Smaug and all the Orcs died in the last battle.One of my biggest complants about this book was how he portrayed the battles. He spent a good twenty pages describing the all mighty power of the Witch king, and then had him die in five seconds at the hand of a woman. That, and his descriptions of the battle was very generalized. He basicaly said, that the good guys won and that the Evil was very strong.It would have been so great if Sauron could have gotten the Ring and taken over middle Earth, the story would have been much more interesting. The hobbits were just annoying.Tolkein's book had so much potential, sure its a classic and will be popular even another 50 years from now. But it will never be as great as it could have been.
5 Downloading as a kindle was simple.  The book is fabulous and well worth the price.  It is priced less than buying all volumes one at a time.
5 This epic story, spread over four books, was what planted the seed of reading in my adolescent mind over 20 years ago. I have read the trilogy several times and enjoyed it more each time. I recommend these books for  anyone who is interested in fantasy literature and even for those who are  not. This work would also be an excellent gift for a young person. You  could start them off on a lifetime of reading pleasure and stimulate their  imagination through literature in these days of video mind melt.
5 Although ther are many fantasy books out there in terms of imaganitive power the Lord of the Rings trilogy has them all beaten.This book is in a class all of its own.
5 Finally got the partner to my 50th Anniversary Hobbit.  They are so happy to be together. So happy to stand next to each other and both begging to be read, and reread, again and again. Lovely pages. great purchase.
4 I did really love this book.  So much so that I know have three copies of each book floating around.  But I wouldn't say it's perfect, and I can't say it's the best book ever written.  Here comes the justification:I found it too short.  This is supposed to be an epic tale of the weak against the strong, but it seems to cut out too suddenly.  After the 'Great Battle' at the gates of Minas Tirith, the Armies of the west could march all the way to the gates of Mordor.  Now, call me old fashioned, but isn't it likely that Sauron would've left some troops behind, just in case?There are so many chances for the book to go into more detail, so many avenues left unexplored, I felt almost betrayed when it ended.  Maybe this was intentional, but it did leave me feeling that there should have been more.Another thing that annoyed me was the sudden change in style.  For most of the first book it's very colloquial, as though someone was sat there talking to you, tellig you what happened.  Then, towards the end, it suddenly changes to a mythical style - lots of Lo!'s, and 'he beheld's. It seems almost as though Tolkien couldn't make his mind up about what sort of story he was writing.Please, though, don't think I'm slagging it off.  I really did enjoy LOTR, and I would be singing its praises, but I think people have already done enough of that.
5 One of my all time favorite book.  I still can't believe the depth of this imaginary world Tolkien created and will surely enjoy it again.If I were to sum up the whole book in one word, it would be friendship.  In an age where friendship is often equated to two folks clicking a button, LOTR reminds us the real friendship is that which is willing to leave the comfortable and walk with you all the way to the gates of Hell.
2 This is the radio version of the the Lord of the Rings trilogy.  It is not the unabridged reading of the three books:  Fellowship, Two Towers, &amp; Return.  It is a 12 cassette dramatization.  I was very disappointed when I  realized what I'd bought as I was looking for an unabridged  reading of the  three books.
5 LOTR will not enjoyed by everyone;  some find it silly, pointless, and boring.  My advise is to read at least 100 pages of 'The Fellowship of the Ring';  if you are not engaged at that point, put it down and forget about  it. The three volumes of LOTR are merely the culmination of the story of  'Arda', the world of Tolkien's imagination and his lifetime's work.  The  whole story is very briefly summarized in his other work, 'The  Silmarillion'. Imagine if you will a world history that harmoniously  combines Christian and pagan European ethos in a  10,000 year span full of  heroic good and evil, courage, beauty, sorrow and hope.  It is  trancendantly magnificant to those whose imaginations allows them to  appreciate it.
1 I honestly do not understand what all the hype is about.  I forced myself to read this book because all I had ever heard was how it was one of the best and most influential pieces of modern literature, but eight hours a day of manual labor would be a less tiresome task then trudging through this pile of rubbish.In all honesty, the plot is entertaining, if you can find it.  I am sure the Cliffs Notes of the LOTR are interesting and entertaining, but why anyone would want to torture themselves reading this collection is beyond me.I read one chapter a night until I was done, and that was too grueling a task.  I constantly found my mind wondering and having to reread every page because it could not hold my attention.You don't have to believe the hype.  This collection of books is really, really terrible and boring, and I wouldn't wish the task of reading in on my worst enemy.
5 I've read many books in my life, not many being fantasy(Robert Howard being the exception) But of all the books I've read this is by far the most detailed story of the lot, and that includes Hemingway and even Homer. Hemingway's battle and retreat at Caporetto leaves nothing on the battlefield of Minas Tirith. And while one may say that I am comparing fiction and fact, that isn't the point. The story blurs the line between fact and fiction and almost seems like it did happen and you are reading a first hand account of history.Also, every major character in the story and even most of the secondaries are given a detailed background and full depth. Very rare for most novels. The character Aragorn is as complex a person you will find in literature. He has known happiness and grief, hard toil and loss. You get a true sense of the life he has led. All of the players are given such treatment and while it's been said that the women are given less importance than the men many point out that three of the strongest characters in the book, Eowyn, Arwen, and Galadriel are women.Perhaps my favorite moment in the book is the reunion of the ThreeHunters with Gandalf in Fangorn forrest. Gandalf's retort to Gimli's asking if Fangorn was dangerous: "Dangerous? And so am I, very dangerous: more dangerous than anything you will ever meet, unless you are brought alive before the seat of the Dark Lord." He goes on to point out that we are all dangerous in our own fashion, and no one should be underestimated. At least that's my take on it.There have been many papers and such written on this book that go much deeper than I can but I have read this book at least 5 times and will read it again. It, like all great books, becomes better everytime you read it. And like all good books it takes you away, expands your mind, and makes you think. Highly recommended for all young and old.
5 A good way to evaluate Harry Potter is to compare it to Tolkien&#8217;s Lord of the Rings trilogy.  Taking into account the facts that Tolkien&#8217;s masterpiece is the standard for fantasy literature and that Rowling is writing a slightly different genre and for a different audience, Harry Potter holds up fairly well.  Nevertheless, Rowling falls short at a crucial point.  That shortcoming, however, is one that much Christian thinking about God and evil shares.  We desperately need to hear Tolkien in order to avoid the errors of moralism and a simplistic faith that cannot withstand the tidal waves of disappointment in the face of the hiddenness of God.The similarities between Tolkien&#8217;s and Rowling&#8217;s works are obvious.  They are both fantasy literature, have a deep concern with the dangers of power, and share a typically British appreciation for normal life.The differences are just as important.  Harry Potter is also a coming of age story and shows a marked preoccupation with death.  The Lord of the Rings is an epic tale and so more in tune with the tragic dimension of life.As a coming of age story, Harry Potter is necessarily geared to a younger audience than Tolkien, and, at least in the earlier volumes, is at the level of intelligent older children.  As Harry, Ron, and Hermione grow up, the story becomes more appropriate for adolescents and young adults.  I think this is why Rowling has so much more humor than does Tolkien.  Her marvelous gift for invention is used to entertain children and teens.  Howlers, disgusting jelly bean flavors, and quidditch are great fun.  She also includes a wonderful collection of queer beasts and odd ball characters.Tolkien is the better stylist.  As an epic author his prose has a gravitas that is lacking in Rowling, and his landscape descriptions carry the reader into a world of sweeping grandeur.  At times Rowling&#8217;s writing contains some painful lapses.Rowling does avoid the trap of simplistic characterization, a failing of many children&#8217;s and cosmic conflict stories.  Her characters are not mere cartoon figures of pure good and evil.  There is internal conflict and failure by the good.  Hermione can be a prig.  In addition to Ron&#8217;s adolescent addiction to snogging (which is Rowling&#8217;s fault not his), he is subject to juvenile jealousy, and Harry can feel real hatred.  Harry also has to come to grips with the fact that his father had mistreated Snape, and, as a young wizard, even Dumbledore had lusted for power.Also, some of the bad characters are not purely evil.  The Malfoy family is a case in point.  Lucius Malfoy, a nasty bigoted man, in the end is a weak person.  His wife Narcissa is too, but at the same time she is strongly devoted to her son Draco, a devotion that leads her to lie to Voldemort and save Harry Potter.  Draco, the bad boy bully in all the earlier stories, still has enough decency not to want to kill Dumbledore and in the end, if not reconciled to Harry, at least has become a husband and a father who is no longer actively hostile to Potter.Both Rowling and Tolkien finish their tales in the typically British fashion in which the great cosmic battle for evil results in the reestablishment of normal life.  In Tolkien the Shire is restored, and Sam becomes happily married.  In Harry Potter the main characters are married and send their children to Hogwarts.Yet this return to the normal points to the most serious shortcoming of Harry Potter. Rowling&#8217;s portrayal of evil lacks the depth of Tolkien&#8217;s.  Harry&#8217;s loss of his parents and friends poignantly portrays the human desire to escape the tragic consequences of death.  Voldemort&#8217;s quest for immortality shows how that desire can be perverted to very evil ends.  In the end, however, Harry can go on to live a normal life, having matured from his combat with evil but not being permanently marred by it.  He can live a normal life even though he has a scar.The effect of evil upon Frodo is lasting, symbolized by his loss of a finger and the injury received on Weathertop that never completely heals.  Frodo does not just have battle wounds.  He is a wounded person.  He cannot return to a normal life in the Shire and is granted passage to Valinor where he will find peace.As I watched Harry snap the Elder Wand and cast it into an abyss in the movie version of The Deathly Hallows (in the book he returns it to Dumbledore&#8217;s grave) so that it could never be used for evil purposes again, I couldn&#8217;t help but think of the contrast with Frodo and the ring of power.  Harry, the true hero, resists the temptation to abuse power.  In The Lord of the Rings Frodo fails.  He cannot resist the temptation to keep the ring and use its power for himself.  The ring is only destroyed because Gollum wants it for himself, takes it from Frodo, and then falls into the fires of Mount Doom.In Tolkien evil is not defeated by the heroic efforts of an individual.  Evil defeats itself in what he calls a &#8220;eucatastrophe&#8221; (See his &#8220;On Fairy-Stories&#8221; in Essays Presented to Charles Williams edited by C. S. Lewis.).  Tolkien&#8217;s eucatastrophe is undoubtedly derived from the biblical notion of evil defeating itself, especially in the cross of Christ where the forces of evil do their worst and unwittingly trigger the means of saving the world.The theme of evil defeating itself is present in Harry Potter.  The killing curse that Voldemort uses upon Harry is his own undoing, but in the final analysis it is Harry&#8217;s heroic action that saves the day.We Christians often present the Bible as a collection of tales about heroes from whom we can learn moral lessons and ways to live victoriously.  We look for evident victories.  Sadly our quest for evident victories means that we will seek power to win them.  In so doing we walk by sight and thus succumb to power&#8217;s hidden capacity for evil.We forget that God has chosen to reveal the biblical characters as sinners and frequently as failures.  The hero of the biblical narrative is God, and his ways are not only higher than ours they are often hidden from us.  In the darkest hour, at the moment of testing, the Christian will often fail. Yet even then the unseen hand of God&#8217;s providence is working to overcome evil.  Indeed, the very victories of evil, such as the cross, are the moments of its greatest downfalls.  By trusting in the hidden God, we learn to walk by faith and not by sight and overcome the temptations of power.  As the Lord told Paul, &#8220;My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness&#8221; (2 Corinthians 12:9).
5 My granddaughter loved it. She's into these things--I don't understand.  &#34;But for now, I will enjoy her joy.  What makes her happy, makes me happy
5 This book changed my life. Before it I was a spotty 14 year old hooked on my science studies. Then I read LOTR, and, at the same time, discovered women existed and.....but thats enough of that. You want to hear about the book.By now there are few people who haven't at least heard of LOTR, and most of them have an opinion. There are the fans, almost fanatics, and there are the people who have read fifty pages or so, sometimes five or six times, but just can't get it, and don't understand what the fuss is about. I might have been one of them, if it hadn't been for an accident.I asked my local librarian to recommend a book for me as I had read all the Arthur C Clarke and Isaac Asimov works they had. She pointed me at LOTR, and handed me what she said was book 1 of 3. It was only when I got home I found I had book 2: The Two Towers.I arrived in the story just at the point where the first film ends - The Fellowship is broken and Frodo and Sam are heading for Mordor.I think that is what made me keep reading -I had started at a point of crisis and I needed to know what happened next. Of course I had a lot of blanks to fill in, but I managed to pick up most of them as I went along , and I caught up with the first book as soon as I'd finished the third. (I bought the big all-in-one paperback, the one with the yellow cover. If you were a student in the seventies it was obligatory to have one lying about, all battered and torn to show that it had been read several times. You used to see backpackers in their hundreds on the trains going south through Europe, all with this version of LOTR falling apart in their hands.)As for starting at the begining, I believe the reason a lot of people give up is that they are expecting heroes, wizards and high magic. What they get is, in great detail, the rural goings-on of a bunch of small hairy creatures who eat and drink a lot and seem to live in an idealised version of the Home Counties. Anyone who has read "The Hobbit" will know that there is more to the Hobbits than that, but newcomers often feel cheated and give up.They don't know what they're missing.The story only picks up AFTER Bilbo's birthday party, and after the passing of his ring of invisibility to Frodo. Gandalf, a wizard, discovers the true nature of the ring. It is a magic item of great power, belonging to Sauron himself, a dark god intent on taking dominion over the world.Gandalf tells Frodo that the ring must be taken to a place of safety, to Rivendell, where the high-elves hold out against Sauron.And so the great journey starts, with Frodo and his friends, Sam, Merry and Pippin, taking the road to Rivendell. On the way they have many adventures, and the mood begins to darken with the appearance of the dark riders, servants of Sauron intent on finding the ring.The travelling band is befriended by Strider, a ranger of the north, and he helps them get to Rivendell, but not before Frodo is wounded by the dark riders, and starts to understand the power of the ring.At Rivendell, many things are revealed; the history of the ring is told, Strider is shown to be Aragon, the rightful heir to the kingdom of Middle-Earth, and a fellowship is forged, of wizards, elves, dwarves, men and hobbits. They form a band of nine who will try to take the ring to Mount Doom, a volcano where the ring was forged, and which is the only place where it can be destroyed.And so the adventure truly begins. From here on we have battles in deep mountain mines, the loss of one of the Fellowship, encounters with elves in enchanted forests, treachery and betrayal leading to the breaking of the fellowship - and we're still in Book 1!Books 2 and 3 deal with the fight for middle-Earth, with Aragon and his allies taking the battle to Sauron and his minions and Frodo and Sam trying to reach Mount Doom to destroy the ring. There are huge, stirring, battle scenes, moments of humour (especially when the younger hobbits meet the Ents), spectacular feats of high magic when the White Rider enters the battle scenes, and moments of great friendship and tenderness - I defy anyone to have a dry eye when Sam and Frodo are parted at Shelob's lair.It all builds up to a terrific climax, and the story comes full circle back at Hobbitton where we see the effect the war has had on the rural life of the Hobbits.And that is why the beginning is important - you might not see it till right at the end, but it is teaching us a lesson about the value of the simpler things in life - respect them or lose them.Tolkein's genius lies in melding these simple aspects with world-shattering events, showing how even the "little people" have their part to play in the fight against the darkness.And he also knows that the best villain is a mysterious one....Sauron hardly appears at all in the books, but his dark presence stretches over everything, and he's always there, his evil eye seeing everything.I used to have nightmares about that large, red-rimmed eye, but that was before I discovered women, grew my hair, developed a liking for Hawkwind and Led Zeppelin, and started to write fantasy fiction. I've never been the same since...... but that's another long story.
5 As a Tolkien fan since my childhood I cannot but give 5 stars to this work.  Its fantasy speaks of a bolder realm of the world, with people high and noble, small but courageous Hobbits, and others misshapen and enslaved by ill will  - the Orcs of Mordor.  Some may disavow its characters or its escapism, but for me this work really is definitive of the best in fantasy, and has made a lasting contribution to the literary and mythic understanding of ourselves.  There is only one Tolkien to rule them all, so to speak, and many petty imitators.  Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings" certainly will remain a benchmark achievement, inspiring readers of all ages, and challenging writers of all kinds to match this great labor of life.
5 Originally posted at Bibliophilia, Please. [...]I've been struggling with the choice of what book to review first. I tried deciding by genre. Urban fantasy maybe? I LOVE The Dresden Files series (Jim Butcher). Or a space opera? I just finished A Rising Thunder (David Weber). The thought kept rattling around my empty skull, until a thought made its presence known. Since this is our first review, let's make it about the first book we ever read. You may have noticed a plural or two there. Nothing to see here. This is not the multiple personality disorder you're looking for. *waves Jedi arm thingy frantically*I have read books before The Lord of the Rings. I even remember a few titles. Sandokan, The House of the Spirits, and that's ALL I remember! And I only remember the titles at that. I do know there were some pirates in Sandokan. Maybe some jungle. Maybe a turban or three? And The House of the Spirits was about a... haunted house or something. I wasn't paying attention. Ghostbusters anyone?(Whoyougonnacall!?)So, even though I have read books before, they obviously left no impression whatsoever. The Lord of the Rings on the other hand, changed me. It gave me magic, wizards, elves, dwarves, quests, evil overlords. It's important to me. It's (dare I say?) precious. Jeje*.So, how do I review a book that's as reviewed as this one is? I'm sure there are better reviews, and better reviewers than me out there. So the only thing I can do to make this my own, is to relive my memories of it, hopefully through the eyes of a kid who didn't like to read and who found out just how wrong he was. Later on I'll re-read it and review it again from the perspective I have now, with a few more reviews under my belt. But this one will be from memory.The story is about personal growth, as I see it. Empires balance on a sword's edge, lives are lost, races face extinction, all this is true. But what got to me were the personal struggles. The fight against greed, corruption, temptation, darkness. Don't get me wrong, the battles and riding around were fantastic. I still get a bit of chills imagining Gimli, Legolas and Aragorn chasing after the Uruk Hai to rescue Pippin and Merry. The mental picture of the armies of Gondor, or when Rohan arrived just in the nick of time to save the day, still fill me up and make me want to ride with them. I'd get killed right away, but that's what's nice about books. I get to ride next to Th&eacute;oden into battle and face the Nazgl. In my head I kick so much ass, you don't even wanna know!But that's not what makes any of the characters move. It's the inner fights that leave lasting memories for me. Frodo carrying the weight of the ring, Sam looking after his master, Aragorn fighting to save his line and the world, Boromir losing his own battle. It's these struggles that allow me to connect to them. Could I have fought the insidiousness of the ring? Could I have supported Frodo from the Shire to Mount Doom like Sam did? Faced with Boromir's decision, would I have fallen like he did. Maybe. And that's what I love about this book. It gave me a new world, when the one I was living in wasn't all that good. It let me lose myself inside a grand quest to save a whole world, by riding with the fellowship and suffering and rejoicing with them.The writing is fantastic. Tolkien is my master. I want to carry his children and feed his pets. If I close my eyes now I can see the Shire. I can see the fellowship riding towards their destiny. I can see Moria. I can see the Balrog. Now, tell me. If you read the LOTR, how can you not be awed by the Balrog. And if you saw the movie, how can you not have a nerdgasm! I just got goose bumps thinking about it! You shall not pass?!? YOU AIN'T CROSSING THIS BRIDGE BALROG! TIME FOR UNCLE MAGN... GANDALF TO MAKE YOU HIS BITCH! Don't even get me started on the memes. Just. Don't.*15 minutes later* Ok *twitches* I'm back *twitch*. One does not simply stop looking at memes. *twitch*When I look back at the trilogy now, I get is this warm fuzzy feeling. Nostalgia for old friends and an old story, still new and relevant even after all these years. Like the feeling I get when I come back home. Familiar and comfortable. Full of magic and elves. Fantasy at its best. I have a few more books to read before I can read the trilogy again, but I most definitely will.I'm looking forward to going back for a visit at Bag End, have some elevensies with Frodo, Sam and the gang, and read from the red book while we wait for Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli to arrive. It's going to be grand. Why don't you join us! Plenty of room around the fireplace. Grab a cup of tea and a lembas. Let's listen to some adventures.*That's just the Chilean showing. ;-)
5 This book is long, very long but good book, mainly about what you seen in 3 movies of &#34;Lord of the Rings.&#34;
5 With three movies released in the cinemas, which are masterpieces in their own right, this is the definitive dramatisation of Tolkien's work.  A medley of great actors come together with the help of Brian Sibley and Michael Horden to create a convincing experience.  This is highly recommended for those who don't have time to read the whole book, and for those who would like to experience Tolkien's adventure in a different way.
5 This is a beautiful, 1-volume copy of the LOTR books.  A good size and good heft (not a small copy that is too hard to read).
5 One of the best books ever written in my opinion this book bought together action adventure story and suspense this book was my 2nd fave rote my first favorite is the hobbit so keep the good books coming.
5 What's to be said?  It's Tolkien.  The cream of high fantasy.  Tolkien sets the standard for all other writers of fantasy.
5 The Lord of the Rings Trilogy is one of the greatest fantasy series ever written. When I first began reading the books, I was swept away into the land of Middle Earth. A land that was on the brink of turmoil - the Ring had been found. A plain gold ring but full of deadly, sinister magic that was a constant reminder of the One who made the Ring and was determined to retrieve it, at whatever cost. So begins the quest of Frodo the hobbit, the adopted heir of Bilbo who some years earlier discovered the Ring. Now Frodo and eight other companions must journey to the land of Mordor. There, it is left to Frodo to destroy the Ring by casting it into the fires of the raging volcano known as Mt Doom. Nine set out but will Nine return? Who or what follow the companions? Dangers, obstacles will be thrown in their path as they journey closer to a land as black and foul as the heart of Sauron the Dark One himself.
5 Addendum January 2008:Let me say that while there may be finer editions (the 2000 HarperCollins black leather/india paper (now over $300US) and the 2004 UK 50th Anniversary HarperCollins edition (still in print, but over $150US where available), this US 50th Anniversary edition is easily the best edition in print in the US. Despite some complaints and comments by other reviewers to the contrary, this book is in fact leather bound. Many readers will have only had experience with a style of leather binding now rare (calfskin or morocco leather) that was quite heavy and very expensive. As an amateur bookbinder, typesetter, and papermaker who has studied with John Risseuw and others, I can say with absolute confidence that the binding on this edition is a type of elegant, thin leather formerly much used, known as "bonded leather", it is infact and deed: leather.Having set that issue to rest, let me also say that the other design and manufacturing consideration of the edition are first rate. I should say it would be a bargain of it were just cloth bound, and it should occupy a place of pride in anyone's library, and become a suitable heirloom. Have no fear if you are looking for the best in-print edition of LOTR. You will get it with this one.Two fine points. If you prefer an illustrated edition, perhaps the Centenary one-volume edition illustrated by Alan Lee is more suitable. No slipcase, a cloth binding, and the text, unlike this edition, does not reflect the most recent corrections (this and the lower priced 50th Anniversary "Standard" edition are the only editions in the US which do). Also, this edition is sometimes confused with an earlier commemorative published around 2000-2001 from Houghton Mifflin that was famously defective in its production, with missing or torn pages, improperly sewn or bound pages and signatures, and all around sloppy construction. They sound and look similar, but always check the ISBN and be sure that you are looking at the correct edition (which should have a preface by Wayne G. Hammond regarding the text corrections). This edition, whatever other opinions may be, has had no such manufacturing problems, and is for the moment the definitive text of LOTR.July 2007:Beware that many of the reviews posted here for this edition do appear to actually refer to another, slightly earlier edition that was defective. While I can't provide ISBN numbers, there was another commemorative edition published shortly before this one (and which was also slipcased in a black leather binding with gilt edges) that of a limited edition of 1500 copies, 1100 were recalled by the publisher due to defects in the binding and assembly, specifically the problems listed here of bad cutting and gluing etc. This edition here is that which was brought out to replace it. It contains the Mazarbul paintings and different cover art from the earlier one, and can be distinguished from it on this basis at least. I bought my copy from Amazon last year and it is perfect. I have examined at least 3 other new copies at bookstores and each of those was also as it should be. I have also seen a used copy of the earlier defective and it is clearly not the same edition, though I imagine it will become valuable due to scarcity in time (only 400 copies extant, at the most)Having said this, and while I recommend this edition without reservation, it is not the most lavish or expensive edition ever printed. It does contain the definitive corrected text according to Christopher Tolkien and the Tolkien Estate, though the Folio Society ($175) and Easton Press ($295)  both publish editions which are much more expensive, and there are and have been numerous other leather (quarter to full-bound) and full-bound cloth, slipcased (paper, cloth, leather), gilt-edged, illustrated or engraved (various), hubbed, deckled, and otherwise "deluxe" multi- and single-volume editions of LOTR over the years.Still, with the possible exception of the British HarperCollins 50th anniversary edition (which is a complete seperate book design [and unique ISBN]: covers, case, color scheme, exterior markings, type, etc.) I do think this is an elegant, beautiful book. The color, the choice of foil stamped images (and the stamping quality itself), the inclusion of Tolkien's own artwork (and the particular choices there), the paper, type, ink, and other elements each and all combine to produce an outstanding book-object. I believe Tolkien would be most pleased with it, on its own merit and compared to all the other editions currently in print.
5 There is so much that can be said about The Lord of the Rings...  The power of the book for me was in the piercing spiritual insights into the challenges and choices of how to face despair.  Against overwhelming odds, and a sure knowledge of the HOPELESSNESS of all possible action, Denethor, who was so mighty and noble and wise and therefore should have been one to have more self-confidence, chose to succumb to the despair and committed suicide.  In contrast the two hobbitts, by nature weak and frail and therefore with even less hope than one as mighty as Denethor, took into account the utter hopelessness of their situation but chose to go forward anyway. This is where the value of Tolkien's own experience shows: he who had been called away from his home to a hopeless war, away from the one he loved, held a keen understanding of the paths that Sam and Frodo walked, and the darkness that Denethor faced...The height of spiritual courage is conveyed in a few brief sentences that tell of Sam's progression while on the road in Mordor from hopelessness into a resolve that is made heroic by its utter selflessness... "But even as hope died in Sam, or seemed to die, it was turned to a new strength. Sam's plain hobbit-face grew stern, almost grim, as the will hardened in him, and he felt through all his limbs a thrill, as if he was turning into some creature of stone and steel that neither despair nor weariness nor endless barren miles could subdue." (p.934)The book reveals the hopelessness of the road in Mordor in a way that the movie cannot do... the dread and despair of that journey as they realize there is no hope of return, and little hope of success ahead.After struggling with the despair Sam's resolve turns to steel and he reaches the point where he rises above the despair."With a gasp Frodo cast himself on the ground. Sam sat by him. To his surprise he felt tired but lighter, and his head seemed clear again. No more debates disturbed his mind. He knew all the arguments of despair and would not listen to them. His will was set and only death would break it." (p. 940)There are many worthwhile insights in the book, but the single phrase: "He knew all the arguments of despair and would not listen to them," contains by far the most profound of all Tolkien's insights.  It reflects the stance I believe that Tolkien took during his own dark days in the trenches, far from home, far from the hopes of his life.  The lines he composed "Cold be heart and hand and bones, cold be travellers far from home... they do not see what lies ahead when sun has failed and moon is dead" were very apt and effectively conveyed the grim horror of being alone in the darkness far from home and hope that are meant to be conveyed as well in the dreaded journey of the hobbits to finish their task in Mordor.It is human nature to give in to despair.  It is harder still to forge on despite being familiar with "all the arguments of despair".  The reality is that there are some who choose this path and then never waiver, even as they face their own deaths.  Essentially, Tolkien is describing the highest achievement of the human spirit, which is to carry the heaviest burden WITHOUT HOPE, and yet not renounce the journey, in essence to renounce self and all self interest as secondary and less important in comparison to fulfilling the heroic quest. This was the point that Sam reached, and ironically, it led to "a new strength" for Sam.  Denethor could not renounce self, and his insistence on clinging to his self interest bound him as a slave to despair, just as the wringraiths were bound as slaves to the darkness of Sauron, as all others who could not renounce the rings(self-empowerment) were bound to the same doom.It is interesting to note that the same struggle between self-interest/self-preservation and self-sacrifice in service of the soul's higher calling is an age old struggle and well recognized in the ancient books of the world (John 12:27 "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.")Tolkien offers a whole world of amazing complexity and depth; this is just a scratch of the surface.Tolkien's story is a great tale when read simply for the story itself, underneath the story lies a profound metaphor which taps into great reservoirs of spiritual truth.Well worth the read.
4 The three-part saga of Lord of the Rings is one of an epic scale, with the lives of all beings in middle earth at stake.  This book revolves around the One ring, the token of power forged by the evil Maiar Sauron in the forges of Mount Doom, and how a fellowship of Hobbits, Men, an elf, a dwarf, and an Istari attempt to cast the ring back into its place of making.  While this book is clearly and wonderfully written, the books seem lacking in a sense.  The Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales are more epic, more grand than these books, and contain characters that are superior to those seen in Lord of the Rings.  For example, Sauron is portrayed to be omniscient evil in Lord of the Rings whereas Melkor[Morgoth] is the real nemesis of Middle Earth in the Silmarillion. This trilogy of books I highly recommend to all readers along with the *Amazing* A Song of Ice and Fire series by George R. R. Martin.  Overall, I give this book four and a half stars.
5 This was in Good condition and it is a very good book. I would buy this again if I could
5 No need to write a review on the story of The Lord of the Rings, it goes unsaid. The book that I purchased is a great book. Solid quality and love the single edition.
5 I first read these books over thirty years ago.  I have been rereading them yearly (at least once a year) ever since.  This series of books is known as the foundation on which all modern fantasy is built .  It is a well deserved reputation.  Tolkien is the master to whom all others owe homage.  I have shared these books with my children and friends whenever they expressed an interest in reading a &quot;good book&quot;.  None of them has ever expressed other than sincere admiration for the writings and profound thanks for my leading them to the novels. I am sure that I can add little in way of praise that has not already been said in the many reviews listed.  I am also sure that I do not want to give away any of the plot.  The main reason I am writing this review is to admonish sevral reviewers who had the unmitigated gall to even begin to compare works such as the Harry Potter line, or the current works of Mr. Martin to The Lord of The Rings.  Preposterous I say!! All of todays fantasy, including those mentioned above, whether well written or not, whether well thought of or not could not have been written and accepted if Mr. Tolkien had not broken the trail.  There can never be a comparison to an original as original as The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings Trilogy. There have been a number of reviews that had the temerity to suggest that some of these works might actually be better than the original.  BALDERDASH!!  The original stands alone not only because it was the original, but also because of the depth and breadth of the story.  The writing, while some language may be outdated to the thinking of some, is superlative. I read a lot of fantasy and sci-fi.  While I have other favorites in sci-fi nothing and no one tops Tolkien and his work in fantasy- not Martin, not Jordan, not Brooks, not Eddings, not Goodkind, NOT ANYONE!! All that said I will go on to remarks about this edition....yuck! Find an older copy PLEASE!!  My earliest are hardbound editions that came from a school library.  Seems that thirty years ago or so, I forgot to return them.....  They are cherished treasures in my library.  I have several well worn paperback editions and most of the corresponding works and ancillaries.  Please, if you intend to reads the books, find an older copy.  The current edition is filled with typos and the maps are very poor.  Please, if you intend to see the films (beginning Christmas time this year with another edition Christmas 2002 and the final edition Christmas 2003) do yourself a favor and READ THE BOOKS FIRST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5 It takes me more than 2 months to finish this series (Hobbit &amp; Lord of Rings trilogy) but I found the time spent is well worth it. No wonder people call this series the greatest fantasy work of last century. The amount of details is so amazingly much that it seems that the author actually were there with the fellowship of the rings. The intensity of the battle scene is so great. The plot is so sophisticated.The thing I love most about this series are those pure hearted and nobel people Tolkien created. We live in an imperfect world and thus purity and nobelty is some high quality people really yearn for but most would never get in their whole life. Thus, it is really refreshing to read about those people who are pure and nobel even in a time of darkness. Although there might be fear and sadness, there is no darkness in those people's heart (I am talking about Gandalf, Strider, and Galadriel if you can relate). I know it is fiction, but nontheless it is beautiful. Tolkien is a Christian and no doubt he poured his belief of the perfectness into those characters he created. Think about Gandalf, isn't he like a guardian angel?
5 The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings trilogy are the best works of fantasy liturature I have ever encountered. I couldn't believe how captivating these stories were. It created a place in my imagination that I did not want to leave. I was constantly in awe of Tolkien's depth of detail and creativity. I can definitely see this work as something that I will reread regularly, and pass on to my children. This set is more than just entertaining, there are powerful lessons about friendship, prejudices, the dangers of power, and the strength of goodness.
5 The BBC keeps radio drama alive.  This adaptation of British classic &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is perfect.  The actors are all spot-on, and each of them is a skilled voice actor.  Peter Woodthorpe, who plays Gollum, also does the voice of Gollum for the Ralph Bakshi animated version.If you have never listened to a radio drama before, you are in for a treat.  The story is treated with respect and reverence.  Minor changes are made in the adaptation, but nothing that disturbs the overall story.  The entire production rings in at 13 hours.For a fantasy story, this is probably the best way to experience a story after the original books.  The imagery and adventure still take place in your mind.  The characters will look like &quot;your&quot; characters.  Give it a try!
5 It pretty much is summed up in the title, but I'll add on more.I was raised on this book. It is my favorite literary piece by far. This version is expertly edited and binded. I know quality binding, and this is what you are paying for more than anything. If you are a fan, buy it and love it forever. When you have children and grandchildren, pass it down to them. If you aren't, check it out from the library or buy a cheap paperback that you'll be able to beat up and drop in puddles until it falls apart on your third reading. Either way, you'll get your money's worth.
5 This is obviously an edition designed for every devotee of Lord Of The Rings who ever wanted to hold The Red Book in their hands.I can't think of any better praise than to say that it's obviously been designed for hardcore fans by hardcore fans.  It's just perfect in every detail.  If you've already read this book many times and want to own an edition that does justice to your love of Middle Earth, get this one.
3 &quot;The Two Towers&quot; -- the second volume in Tolkien's model-train-set of a novel, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; -- has fewer of the pleasures to be found in the first volume (&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot;), while enlarging many of the first volume's faults. As everyone in the world must know by now, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; basically tells how various good-hearted fantasy creatures strive to destroy a magic ring that, if acquired by the Enemy, would result in the end of decent society. Here the journey continues just as in the first volume, but Tolkien now moves much more slowly. He introduces us to fewer characters and &quot;wonders&quot; than in the first volume (most interesting, to me, were the Tree Shepherds, the revamped Gollum, and Boromir's brother), while filling many pages with tedious faux Arthurianism involving the Riders of Rohan, and with deadly landscape descriptions that are at once long-winded and vague. Nevertheless, the old excitement returns often enough -- particularly in the last few chapters -- and by the end my desire to find out what happens in the final volume was as fresh as ever.
5 I'm a great fan of J.R.R. Tolkien's works, especially The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, and own numerous editions of these works. Since watching Peter Jackson's adaptation of The Hobbit Parts 1 and 2, I've re-read The Hobbit, and after watching the LOTR Trilogy for the umpteenth time recently, I thought it was time to re-visit the books again after a span of almost two decades.This leatherette volume collects all three books comprising the trilogy : The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King. The leatherette cover makes this not only an elegant edition to own but also a convenient one for reading - unlike the heavy three-in-one hardcover volume which is too heavy, or the paperback versions that may not endure as long.There are several other reasons why I favor this HMH Leatherette Deluxe edition. One is the note on the text which provides information on some of the changes made to the text, whether due to Tolkien's own wishes or because of some overzealous typesetter etc., that has resulted in inconsistencies to the text over the years. This is explained at length here. The font size in this edition also makes for easy reading, and my eyes truly appreciate not having to squint whilst reading.  All in all, this makes for a highly readable edition as well as a handsome addition to one's library.
5 I have read these books perhaps 20 times in the course of my life and I still long to return to Middle Earth, Lothlorien, and revisit my literary friends there.
5 _The Lord of the Rings_ is the most popular work of fiction of the 20th century with millions of devoted fans the world over.  The book was inspired by Tolkien's personal ultra-conservative Catholic faith and his study of Nordic myths and languages.  One of Tolkien's favorites was of course Beowulf.  There is little modernity in LOTR, and the Hobbits who live simply off the land in their small pastoral countryside are given the center stage.  The great wizards, wise elves, and warriors don't accomplish the task of destroying the Ring of Doom, they instead play a supporting role--the ultimate cause of victory remains an unknown force that plays its hand in the courses of the world, aiding individual effort.  Tolkien borrowed something from the ancient Atlantis and Golden Age myths in the plot of his story.  The men of "Numenor" were a semi-divine race that came from the West across the sea and set up kingdoms where they ruled over men of lesser stock.  Eventually they declined after their will to life had been sapped from internal decay, stagnation, and violent conquests from outside demonic forces.  _Lord of the Rings_ is the story of their recovery and regaining of the their lost king, who reunites their kindoms and establishes his rule on Middle Earth after the Dark Lord is vanquished.  The political outlook of the book is similar to the feudalistic Middle Ages and Sparta rather from modern day liberalism, democracy, fascism, communism or other forms of rule "by the masses."  The rulers have a higher-than-human origin, but at the same time they are not despots or pillagers.  Evil is portrayed as the total corruption of what is natural and free-flowing, such as the destruction of forests, industrialized machinery, agricultural decline, and mindless bloodthirsty soldiers who fight among themselves but obey their demonic masters' every whim.  The book concludes, not with the destrution of the Ring, but with the Hobbits' fight to liberate their homeland, which had run itself well independently until one Hobbit began trading with the evil wizard Saruman and the Shire was taken over by gangs of thugs.  The book is almost an unconscious indictment of what government control, greedy capitalism and communism alike has done to the planet over the past 200 years: cultural decline, rootlessness, and environmental degradation.  Possibly the reason this book has been so popular is because LOTR portrays an idealistic world with settings and characters so radically different in their lives and worldviews from our own.  The protagonists are not self-serving hedonists rebelling for no reason, but rather individuals who are concerned with maintaining their traditions, old ways of life, and are in touch with a transcendant mission above and beyond themselves.
3 Good story line althought I found it a little hard to dive into at first. It was a boring start. Worth the read in the end.
2 I read his books "Man and boy" and Man and wife" and they were terrific. Those books had rare insight and deep rich characters. This book doesn't even resemble his writing at all. It's boring and one dimensional. I didn't even finish it.
5 I think British writer Tony Parsons is just fantastic. His "Man & Boy" was one of my favorite books last year, and this may end up being one of this years. I think he's great because he creates real, honest, and flawed protagonists. They don't have all the answers and more often than not will probably do something that produces hideous results, but their reality makes me root for them all the more. In his newest book, it's Alfie Budd, a teacher at a language school who is slowly moving through the unbearable grief caused by the tragic death of his wife. Like "Man & Boy" Parsons revisits themes of love and loss, & children's relationships to their parents.Equally moving and very funny, the book unravels with not a great amount of surprise, but a boudless supply of heart.
2 "One for my Baby" is ostensibly about a man's coming to terms with a loss of a loved one, but it seems to be more that it's simply the product of an author who is clueless about life and one, moreover, whose characters don't seem to learn anything over the course of this ostensible novel.  I say ostensible because (and I am just surmising here) it strikes me that Tony Parsons, our author herein, and his "fictional" protagonist seem to share quite a number of things in common. Hence we have a story of a man adrift whose chance encounter with a woman on the Star Ferry crossing Hong Kong's Victoria Harbour eventually does him much good.  The woman in question is most ordinary (or so it seems, as her character is never really shared with us readers; and doesn't come across as anything like the picture of the woman on this book's most recent cover).  She seems, though, to have been of a type simply tired of relationships with snobs and assorted other phonies, who simply was ready to settle down (and settle?) for a nice guy, albeit perhaps boring; a man who would really care for her.  Alfie lionizes her---"I wanted to please her more than anything in the world"---and, if anything, feels even more strongly in this regard after he loses her.  Thereafter he reverts to his dejected inclinations, seeing good in nobody, value in nothing.  His father in the story trumps his would-be-writer son with the fluke success of a first book, then proceeds to parlay such unexpected success into moral bankruptcy.  This Alfie laments, but also as he himself plays fast & lose with a number of young ladies, unethically taking advantage of them in a way himself.  That the author himself was separated from his wife, apparently under particularly unpleasant circumstances, makes one wonder who he is really writing about.  I could be wrong, but this single author, with a child in his care himself, parallels his character "Alfie" (a name obviously chosen to connote Michael Caine's shallow creation in that eponymously entitled film) who at the end of this book finds himself caring for an unexpected child.  Moreover, the runaway success of this author's first novel (Man and a Boy) parallels Alfie's father's unexpected success with regard to the latter character's first published book.  So when Parsons has Alfie second guessing whether Alfie's father has any true friends and whether an enormously successful first book can be topped, or even equaled, one begins to wonder further who he is really talking about.  In London Alfie contemplates Chinese family life , seemingly as he longs for a sense of community and/or family (as Alfie's family collapses around him).  As a stand-in for spirituality we get heavy helpings of a sort of Chinese relaxation philosophy:  "The old people in the park, doing their Tai Chi, moving like they had all the time in the world" (which, incidentially, is the best written sentence in this book).  Dozens of references are likewise made to Frank Sinatra ("One for my Baby," after all, being a Sinatra song itself; a story about a guy in a bar with a "story that he desperately needs to share").  "Listening to Sinatra," Alfie relates, "makes me feel that I am not so alone."  So, in the end, he trades his solitariness for the responsibility of caring for another (with a woman who doesn't really seem to be in love with him actually---whether Alfie's first wife really loved him either this book leaves open to debate too; by sharing so little herein).  Which seems apropo for Alfie too, though (if you accept the idea of the father character herein to be rather close to the author himself, as Alfie declares the following:  "My father doesn't know the first thing about love."  And neither does a single character in this book; a book in which , moreover, nobody is particularly likeable either.  Mind you, this isn't a totally unenjoyable read---notwithstanding the grating references (the sign of a lazy writer?) to such personalities as Rod Stewart, Hugh Hefner, Terry Wogan, Claudia Schiffer; and  to REM, Lethal Weapon, and the Bewitched TV program---but it is not a book particularly worth reading either.  The ball's in your court now. You decide. (05Nov)Cheers!
3 I haven't read Man and Boy, but it sounds like it may be better than this one. I enjoyed this one, though. It sort of reminded me of Nick Hornby's About a Boy in parts, although the two main characters aren't very similar.I gave it three stars because there probably are better books around, but if you happen to find yourself with this one in hand, it's not a bad read. There are some good characters in the book (the Chinese family who run the restaurant, The main character's parents and grandmother, the foreign students at the Churchill Language School, Plum and her obnoxious classmates, etc.)To wrap up, I liked it enough that I was willing to do enough research to track down Man and Boy, another book by the same author. I guess that's a reasonably decent recommendation.
3 &quot;One for My Baby&quot; written by Tony Parsons centers around Alfie, an English as Second Language instructor who has to deal with the tragic loss of his wife, Rose. Alfie returned to Britain after residing with Rose in Hong Kong for several years. Without Rose, Alfie never seem to fit in and frequently wallowed in self-pity. On top of that, his family was torn apart when Alfie's father left his wife for a younger woman.I read &quot;One for My Baby&quot; after reading &quot;Man and Boy&quot; which I was very impressed. I didn't enjoy &quot;One for My Baby&quot; because I feel that the story seems to drag itself. At times, the main character Alfie seems to be forever wallowing in self-pity and after 50 pages or so, it can get tiring. Regardless of that, the Tony Parsons's writing is still remarkable and he has the ability to make his readers identify with his characters.
4 "Totally real" could truly be described in any review of Tony Parson's work.  This is the most recent book I've read of his, and it did not disappoint.  He has a gift for laying out these totally real people (as opposed to "characters") on the page.  I didn't always like Alfie; but I understood him, and knew deep down he had a good heart and wanted to be a better man.  I loved Jackie's drive to be independent; I could go on but suffice it to say that all the people in this book were explored really very well and I had a total picture of who they were - even Josh, his "friend" that was one of the lesser people in the story.  At the end, I was wishing Alfie well.  I will continue to read Tony Parsons as long as he deigns to write.
5 Language teacher Alfie Budd leaves Hong Kong after several years there to return home to London fueled by grief for a lost loved one.  However, London may swing, but no where near the way Alfie remembers the town.  Everything is different, but mostly his parents act strangely.  Alfie thought they shared a loving relationship, but now his father piteously discos with a foreign au pair younger than his son while his mother has a love affair with her rose garden.Stunned, Alfie fears he will never capture what he once had in Hong Kong so he wanders through meaningless sexual encounters with his students (once a taboo, but more acceptable in this amoral 1993 London).  As Alfie wonders about living without love, he descend deeper into a cesspool of immorality that gives him no solace except through the wizened teachings of Mr. Chang.Alfie is a solid center of this well written character study that leads to fans feeling empathy towards the lead protagonist still suffering from his loss and coping through hollow encounters.  The secondary cast enables the readers and Alfie to see that life without love is empty.  ONE FOR MY BABY raises philosophical issues of how to live (not just survive) and forge or keep relationships after a loved one dies yet the entertaining story line fails to truly respond to the concerns posed by Tony Parsons; thus readers will ask what's it all about Tony?Harriet Klausner
5 An interesting book on getting back into life after being hurt. In this case, a young man finally marries after searching for Miss Right for many years, only to tragically lose her. After two years he finds other people in his life falling apart. And at the same time begins to straighten out his own life.Written by one of England's best up and coming writers this is not exactly a new concept, but in his hands there is wit, wisdom, love and recovery. It is most interesting in that this theme is more often handled from the female point of view, but not in this case. It's an exploration of men's feelings that is much less commonly seen.Yes, men have feelings too. But as one writer said, men tend to put their feelings in a room, close the door to the room and not visit it very often. This book is a refreshing change.
2 This is a well written book with a poor story.  I got the Chinese translation edition and enjoyed reading it at one setting.  The character seemed to be thinking too much of himself and did not realize the fact he was taking advantage of the student and teacher relationship to sleep with his students.  I just don't see how one can love another person so much and still behave like an teenager.  Too much self-pity and self-justify irresponsible sex acts and the confession of his best friend just made the perfect wife picture looked ugly. This has to be a man's fantasy of love story. I think it is a unrelistic self-portrait of the author himself.
2 This book is horribly repetitive. The main character isn't very likable and is distractingly inconsistent in his thoughts and actions. And a cleaning lady who wears hooker clothes and stilettos to work is just ridiculous.All in all it's just a mess.
4 I bought this dictionary when teaching the Wilson Reading Program.  The definitions are very child oriented and they understand the meanings of words so much better.
5 PROS- Each word entry has an example. It is drawn from Collins' bank of English with 2.5 billions of real Englis words. This help the readers to use the word in natural expression and grammatically correct. So far, it's the only dictionary that offers this useful feature. It has saved me from hours of frustration while writing technical documents andcorrespondence.- You get two dictionaries for the price of one! It comes with a Dictionary CD rom containing the printed copy of the dictionary TOGETHER WITH pronunciation and 5 millions words of real English. This means you can look up the words, pronunciation and examples veryquickly. This is a unique offer.- It is well organized. Each word entry is printed in blue. Its definition is in black.- The price is unbeatable for such a good and comprehensive dictionary.CONS- Once in a while, there is a word with unclear definition or not listed. At that time I have to consult another dictionary. But after that I have to come back to Collins dictionary for examples.- The paper back copy probably won't last long if you're using it a lot. It's better to buy the hard cover.To sum up, this is the BEST that YOUR MONEY CAN GET. I wish I had it while I was in school. It would have helped me understand my lessons quicker. Every high school and college student should have one copy.
5 I found the Collins Cobuild Dictionary to be an excellent source.  I am using it as part of lesson buildin for an Orton-Gillingham based program, Wilson Language and have found it resourceful.  It lets you know how common (usage) every word it and even further identifies all words via a star rating at the end of the book.  The definitions and sentences given are very comprehensible as well.
5 If you teach kids, or have kids, this is the dictionary you want.  Webster's is fine if you have a strong vocabulary to begin with, but the co build dictionary is helpful for those students with weaker vocabularies and reading skills
5 If you have ever struggled to understand the dictionary definition of a word or figure out how it might be used then this is the perfect dictionary for you. If you have an upper elementary, middle school or high school student this dictionary offers a broad range of words with easy to understand definitions and example sentences that make it very easy to understand the words. The usein sentences can be a HUGE help to using the words in context.
5 This is a very enjoyable book that explores the ancient history of Britain from a perspective not often found in other works.  As the other two reviews written here do an excellent job of detailing what you'll find in this enjoyable volume, I'll save you the time of reading my review and simply say "I concur".2010 09 15I just finished reading this book for the 2nd time, and I enjoyed it very much.  A long time fan of information about the British past, I've always been a bit annoyed with how little we know about that portion of Britain's past which came before the arrival of writing.  When I found this book, I was really excited, as quite a few of the other volumes I'd come across which dealt with the pre-Roman British past were very dryly written and uninteresting for me.  I found this book very easy to read, both in terms of content and style, and it provided at least one man's well supported point of view on some of the major themes of the human occupation of Britain for the half million years or so leading up to the arrival of the Romans.  As one reviewer pointed out, this is not an anthropology book, focused on the details of the daily lives of pre-Roman Britains.  But, as it's written by an archaeologist, I didn't find that inappropriate or surprising.  I've long had an interest in archaeology, so I found some of the detailed discussions of how that science approaches studying Britain's past very enlightening.Pryor's perspective on ancient British life seems focused on the continuity of "Britishness" as compared to the view he grew up with in school, where Britains were portrayed as the offspring of wave after wave of foreign invaders, with little chance of anything truly ancient surviving to today from the long distant past of the islands.  What he believes he and others have discovered is a very different view, which suggests that Britains of today, while clearly influenced by many forces from the continent, are fare more deeply connected, both genetically and culturally, to their ancient ancestors than the previous generation of scientists had believed.Is he right?  I don't know.  But I felt that Pryor made his case well, and enjoyably, and provided a look into Britain's past which made sense in ways some other views I've heard didn't.  Will his theories prove correct?  Only time, further investigation and further evidence from many fields (genetics, archaeology, anthropology, and more) will tell.  But if you're looking for a book which shines some light on the dimly lit chapters of time in Britain before Rome, this book may provide what you're looking for.And as with all books, think about what you want from the book before your purchase.  Read all the reviews and get a feel for yourself if this is the sort of book that will deliver the kind of information and perspective you're looking for.  There's no point in blaming the author for writing the kind of book he enjoys writing if it's not the sort of book you think you'll enjoy reading.
4 This is a dunting tome but it is filled with many revelations.I always wanted to know where the other peoples of Europe came from; the ones who weren't Greek or Roman.When Caesar invaded Britain, who was he trying to beat up? I now know who they weren't.Who built Stonehenge. Here the book is less definitive, but does endeavor to tell you what actually can be discerned.Good points: Very readable and experienced writerBad points: I wish it had maps, but I knew it didn't when I purchasesd it.Overall, if you like Archaeology and don.t mind digging in, you'll enjoy this book.
5 As the other 3 reviewers have provided brilliant reviews about the topics, the author and information provided, all I will add, like my fellow reviewer above is:Pryor's: Britain BC is very comprehensive for the home history buff (with no prior archeology knowledge required .... phew !!) and incredibly interesting, and at times completely mind blowing.I feel intellectually richer having read this book. And in all honesty, for the small price it costs here on Amazon ..... if you 'dig' (pardon the pun) this type of stuff - BUY IT !!
5 Francis Pryor's Britain BC is one of the most readable and certainly one of the most enjoyable archaeology books I have ever read. Pryor brings Britain's prehistory to life, no small task given that he is dealing with nonliterate peoples, vast amounts of time and, given the nature of the field, data that tends to be scattered at many sites. He has been criticized for both his "at-ease" writing style and at the same time for being too technical in parts. I find that he walks the line between archaeological scholar and archaeological popularizer extemely well. He is a fluid writer who must at times dig more deeply into the data to make a point. One needs to be aware of his goal in this book. In the several archaeology courses I had in my college days, I became aware of what a solid archaeology text is like. It is the combination of the latest data and methodology organized in a way so that a student can bring the work to bear in future courses or careers. Such books are often "dry" but that is not a criticism if the goal is to lay a firm groundwork for future field work or coursework in archaeology. But Pryor's goal is not that. It is, as he puts it in the Preface, to get across to the reader his fascination with the "story" of early humans in Britain. His readership is not primarily intended to be future archaeologists, though they would also learn a great deal here. His goal is to get the general educated reader to experience the excitement and, frankly, the fun of the dig, the joy of discovery and the amazement at our ancestors' accomplishments. Understandably, Pryor views the Romans as destructive of an indigenous people, though he points out that the early prehistory of Britain continued to live on. As a result, I found the very last part of the book on the late Iron Age written with somewhat less "elan" than the earlier periods - even with perhaps a touch of the tragic. But that is what happens when a people that one has come to love is invaded by the likes of the Roman Legions.Britain BC is as fine a work on British prehistory for the general public as there is on the market. As Pryor hopes, it brings the ancient Britons out of the twilight zone of history. I highly recommend it.
5 I have little to add to the five good reviews posted so far, but a few notes may be worthwhile.  I'm an anthropologist, not an archaeologist but a confirmed archaeology junkie, and I took this book along on a trip to Scotland.  It was a great book to have.  It was particularly valuable for the Orkneys, whose Golden Age seems to have been around 3000-4000 BC (an odd time and place for a Golden Age, but the stuff is literally monumental).Pryor seems to write his popular books by turning on the tape recorder while telling tales in the local pub.  He has a great British yarn-spinning style, and (more in the wonderful Medieval volume than in this one) he tells you all the good pubs to visit after you see the sites (pun irresistible).  You learn about his wife (an archaeologist specializing in ancient wood), his sheep farm (re-creating old methods), his sheepdog, and much else, all charming.Be warned of some biases.  He interprets the record as one of evolution in place with a few outside influences trickling in, rather than a series of invasions.  I generally agree with him (I know the literature pretty well), but some do not, so read e.g. recent works by Colin Renfrew and decide for yourselves.One really interesting item surfaces on pp. 149-151:  amazingly beautiful and carefully made "axe-heads" in lovely stone.  I thought he might be exaggerating--he loves even a few squiggly lines on a Neolithic object--but a visit to the Museum of Scotland convinced me that he is, if anything, understating.  These axeheads have never been used.  They are in mint condition, not even showing handling wear.  They are among the most stunningly beautiful pieces of stonework I have ever seen--perfect in form, exquisitely polished, and clearly intended to be consummately beautiful.  Some were made of jadeite (hard as quartz) and traded all the way from the Alps.  They are as fine as any Chinese or Maya jadeite pieces.  They were found in burials and other presumably ritual contexts, and clearly hold a lot of secrets.  They show that even the European Neolithic, notable otherwise for some pretty sorry pottery, had high aesthetic standards.One place we visited in the Orkneys was Maes Howe, a huge domed communal tomb made of giant slabs of rock around 3000-3500 BC.  In the Medieval period, some Vikings got caught in a storm and took refuge in it.  Two of them went insane during the night. Watch out for those Neolithic spirits.Pryor is writing partly to get more support and conservation for archaeological sites.  I thoroughly support this, and wish him every success.  One reason why we need them is that they show how similar people are in all times and places.  I love archaeology because it is so unsurprising:  it shows us that people lived, ate, wore clothes, loved, had children, butchered pigs, died and were buried, pretty much as they have at all times and places.  Those flashy differences in art and politics seem unimportant beside the loving and caring burials, the worn clothing, the carefully worked wood, and the fire-blackened cooking pots emerging from peat bogs and clay pits.  The bones of our ancestors reminds us that what matters is that we are all siblings beneath the skin.
5 I like Francis Pryor's prose style. He is quite readable and takes the time to explain and give the backstory as he goes. He was thoughtful enough to use both English and Metric measurements and to explain his Britishisms so that Americans can follow the story.He brings the archaeology of the British isles alive, telling about the important finds, putting them into a modern perspective and telling the story of who found them, how they did so and what the findings meant. Not only does he discuss the artifacts, he tells how they were made and how they were used. And when he doesn't know how artifacts were used he doesn't waste the reader's time making up some deux ex machina to explain them. Nor does he fabricate any anthropogenic causation for the Holocene climate optimum, a blessing in these troubled times.The book is well illustrated with line drawings and with two sections of color photos. It proceeds in more or less chronological order from the first paleolithic findings and on to the iron age. Sometimes there are repetitions and sometimes it backtracks but those add to rather than subtracting from the interest.In general this book reminds me of lectures by two of my favorite teachers, one who taught seventh grade world history and another who taught college medieval history. These two, and now Pryor, wrapped the dry bones of information in enough flesh to make them dance alive so that even the most narcoleptic students would pay attention.Bravo!!
5 A walk with Francis Pryor. He talks to you like a friend and I loved the lack of pretense. Excellent.
4 I'm a Jack Higgins fan, so I'm inclined to be supportive, BUT, this character  strains belief to the limit....with actions bordering on superhuman and a villainous depiction of "friends" and lovers, you end up saying "unbelievable".
5 I love any book by Jack Higgins. This is a good one. Great to have it in ebook format. Would buy more when they come down in price...
5 Jack Higgins is a master at describing his characters feelings and folibles and how they relate to others. I am a true Jack Higgins fan.  His books concerning World War II are wonderful.
4 I have all of Jack Higgins works and although they are getting a little &#34;long in the tooth&#34; he is still one of the best mystery writers around.  Although he could think of getting Sean a girls friend........
4 Jack Higgan's strays from his usual style to write a first person book that has a very exciting ending.  The main character is flawed, but very adaptable to situations.
5 The story is well done and moves along fast. The topic is one people of a certain (like myself) can remember hearing. Michael Jayston does a superb job reading. He makes the characters and action come alive.
5 Thank you and your publisher for re-printing this book. I think I have read every book by Jack Higgins and his other names he has published under.I have to admit I am hooked on Ellis and wish there were more book featuring this character. Like most books this one was a great read and had my complete attention. Most of the time I am reading about three books at any given time, but with this book, I just could not put it down.PLEASE, start a Ellis Jackson series.
5 Great read a typical Jack Higgins book. Love my kindle and E-Books Amazon does a great job all the time
5 Very well written, typical Jack Higgins.  I would have liked to have seen a bit more of Sean Dillon in the story, but an all around good read.
3 Overall, the book was OK......not the usual style of Jack Higgins. The story was dis - jointed, it took things for granted.The story jumped around making it difficult to follow. Read the book if you have nothing else to read.
3 This was an interesting book. While reading it, I didn't know if what was happening was real or a dream.The different situations that he found himself in was mysterious and exciting.
2 This is an early Jack Higgins book (1971). I have enjoyed many of his early books but this one was quite disappointing. The story was ridiculously hard to believe and at times the story read like a "B" movie action script. Nevertheless the story moved at a quick rate and had plenty of action.
4 Higgins' carries on with one of his several themes, and yet each is unique in its own way.  And when you think you've &#34;got it&#34;, .....surprise.  And once again, he has you captured within his tale.
4 Let's face it --- I'm a sucker for Jack Higgins adventure stories.  This one had a few nice twists I didn't see coming right away..
2 Bradbury is one of great masters of the genre. Before anyone else did it, he probably did it. He set the standards by which all else is still judged. And The Illustrated Man is supposed to be among his best works.Only I didn't like it. I liked the set up-- the man covered in tattoos that come to life (so to speak), with each one a short story in the book. But too many (the vast majority) were too depressing without any offer of hope. Granted, Bradbury was writing these stories in the wake of World War II, so he had good cause to be pessimistic. But every story seems to be a case of meeting a character we like/dislike, something really bad happens to them, the end. No hope for even a positive outcome."The Veldt" starts it off. And it is one of the great classics. And I like the story, despite the horror of it. But it's followed by story after story where things end just as badly.One very interesting exception (and there are a few exceptions in the book), is "The Other Foot." Written before most people were even thinking about Civil Rights, it's about a thriving community on Mars comprised of black people who escaped oppression on Earth. Now, rockets with white people are set to arrive, and everyone is determined to treat them exactly as they themselves were treated on Earth-- separate drinking fountains, back of the bus, and interestingly, a minimum wage-- while others are already making nooses... only, it doesn't end up in bloodshed, and it is the rare bit of hope in the book.
5 The recent passing of Ray Bradbury was a very sad loss for the writing world, as we lost not just one of the foremost science fiction writers of our time, but one of our greatest storytellers and writers period.  But even with his loss, Ray Bradbury will continue to be read and enjoyed by many fans, as well as be discovered by new readers for the first time.  The Illustrated Man is an excellent example for those looking to give Ray Bradbury a try and find out just how good he is.The book is told with the framing story of the illustrated man - a man covered in tattoos that when stared at by others come to life and tell their own stories.  Stories of a future high-tech nursery where children play amongst real animals, but when their parents threaten to take this supreme toy away, they have a plan to take care of them once and for all.  A story of a future Mars colonized by black people, but now Earth is on the brink of obliteration and the white man needs a new place to live; will the colonists of Mars allow this immigration?  There is the moving story of "The Rocket Man" who loves his wife and son ever so much, but continues to feel the yearning  pull of space and can never remain on Earth too long.  In "The City" some space travelers discover an abandoned city on a planet, but as they search through it, it seems the city is not uninhabited after all.The stories in The Illustrated Man will move you, they'll make you laugh, they'll make you cry; they'll make you terrified and also make you think about the way your world is and about the way it might one day be.  This is Bradbury at his best and no fan of the short story - no matter the genre - will want to skip this one.Originally written on July 17, 2012 Alex C. Telander.For more reviews, go to [...]
5 This is the kind of book that will still be read and enjoyed hundreds of years from now. I would read this to my grandchildren and (hopefully)great-grandchildren. Y~
2 If you are not a die-hard Bradbury fan do not waste your time with this book.  It is pretty much a campy (ie. rockets, space, mars, etc.) collection of space stories.  There are a few stories here with interesting views and/or concepts, but for the most part it's a poorly written, redundant, and slow paced book.If you are going to read Bradbury for the first time or are new to his writing I would recommend "Fahrenheit 451".
1 I need to preface this review by stating that I love The Martian Chronicles - it's one of my favorite books. I was excited to read The Illustrated Man, because hey, more Bradbury.I'm pretty disappointed. I can't generalize because there are exceptions, but it seems as if each story starts the same. Each seems to have the same characters - moody, thoughtful male leads, violent male or robotic villains, and two or three fat, clingy, ditsy women with too much makeup thrown in for good measure. Oh, yeah, the wise martian, the racist, and the sprockets and gears and springs and other robotic miscellanea that made Bradbury tick. Sound familiar? I've almost written a Bradbury short story here - I've covered all the main points. Just let me include the word &#34;rocket&#34; a few hundred times, and some beautifully crafted poetic imagery, and I'm done.I wound up skipping stories because I've heard it all before. He even re-wrote a few stories that appear in other books.Come on, man, you could write better than this.Now I just need to end this review with me staring up at the stars wondering about something and we're good.
5 Any one of these words can describe what I thought of this collection: terrific, amazing, excellent. Any one of these words can describe why: inventive, creative, imaginative (to say the least), and of course, entertaining. However, the word I like best to describe both what I thought of this book and the reason why, is fantastic. Of course, the stories were fantastic, because they were mostly stories that could be described--just like Something Wicked This Way Comes is on the cover--as "Darkly Fantastic."Over the last two weeks or so, I've done nothing but devour short stories, rotating The Illustrated Man, Just After Sunset, In The Flesh, and 20th Century Ghosts. They all hold their own, special in their own way, but each time I picked up The Illustrated Man, I was more a little more excited than with the others. One of the reasons why is because these stories can take you ANYWHERE. To different planets (namely Mars and Venus) and different time periods, both in the future and in the past. A couple stories deal somewhat with religion (though only lightly, not in a preachy way), as well as a futuristic story concerning racism.The first story I read was The Long Rain. This story is a perfect representation of Bradbury's potent imagination, as he mixes science fiction and dark fantasy. This a disturbing story that takes place on Venus. Instantly this collection was something I knew I had to read, and I was only one story into it. I struggled with whether to read The Illustrated man or The October Country (which seems to be his most popular collection). I went with this and was not at all disappointed. After reading The Long Rain, I went back and read the prologue, which is probably the best prologue ever written for a short story collection--I honestly believe that.I could go on for a while about the brilliance of these stories, but I won't. I do want to point a few really memorable moments. The very last line in Zero Hour is one of the most chilling closing sentences I've ever read. If anyone thinks Bradbury is just a sci-fi writer they should read that story. Other creepy stories include: The Veldt, The City, Kaleidoscope and again, The Long Rain.The Exiles contains a few characters that I'm sure you've heard of, namely Edgar Allen Poe and Charles Dickens, among others.Even the shortest of the stories, ESPECIALLY Marionettes Inc. (six pages long), and also The Last Night of the World (four pages long) had quite an impact on me.The collection closes with an Epilogue that so perfectly caps off this incredible collection, sending one last chill down the reader's spine before they close the book.Look, I am not naive enough to consider myself a tough critic, simply because I love reading so much, but these stories truly are that freaking good! Any fan of sci-fi/dark fantasy who doesn't read this collection is seriously missing out.
5 These are stories that go beyond &quot;science fiction.&quot;  The technology aspects are part of the canvas, but these stories are powerful because Bradbury paints with emotion and metaphor.  He builds more empathy with characters in a few short words than other authors do in an entire novel, and his descriptions return us to a time when we were young, and simple objects filled us with awe and wonder.There is something here for everyone.  Read them for yourself.  Read them for your children.  This short book is a celebration of the art of storytelling.
3 it is good but not great-some short stories depressing-science fiction fans will enjoy it-iam not one of those though -
4 The Illustrated Man is a collection of eighteen pieces of short fantastic fiction by Ray Bradbury, one of the masters of the craft.  Not all of the stories here are classics, but a surprising number of them are.  A few are Mars stories that didn't quite fit into the overall narrative structure of The Martian Chronicles, but are very good and make good additions to this set---for example "The Other Foot", in which Bradbury anticipated the civil rights movement by a decade or so (much like his pal Hugh Hefner, who originally published Fahrenheit 451 in the early issues of Playboy) by positing a situation in which blacks (having been sent to Mars first) constitute a majority and whites a minority.  There is also "The Exiles", a tale of censorship which prefigured Fahrenheit 451.Some other highlights include "Kaleidoscope", about a group of astronauts drifting through space to their deaths after their rocket explodes; "No Particular Night or Morning", about how deep philosophical skepticism ultimately amounts to solipsism and leads to death; and "Marionettes, Inc.", a very funny about the consequences of using a robot double to do your dirty work for you...actually it's really hard to pick standout stories, as several of the others are very good too.There are a couple of stinkers as well, though, in particular "The Man", a really ludicrous story about Jesus visiting other planets after Earth...but on the whole, this is a solid collection of material from Bradbury, and well worth reading if you haven't already, and re-reading if you already have!
5 This book is a glorious masterpiece.  Ray Bradbury, in a particularly twisted bit of insight, set out to analyize what was then his background and culture of modern times, then tear it asunder with the withering majesty of the extraordinary.  Is it any wonder that EC Comics in the 1950s greedily set out to gobble up anything Bradbury oriented?The Illustrated Man is what should be called 'a linked-story story collection/novel,' some complicated mish-mosh of related themes and on-going narratives, a sort of The Crypt Keeper, yet with deeper insight, setting up the tales.  Many of the stories are just marvelous--"The Veldt," "Kaleidscope," "The Other Foot" for a study of an issue many people hold desperately tight to the chest.  The majesterial masterpieces: "The Long Rain," "The Last Night of the World."  "The Exiles," "The Concrete Mixer," "Marionettes, Inc." "Zero Hour," "The Rocket."  Even "The Illustrated Man"--still, in essence, a gimmick with an appropriate, semi-chilling end--even this narrative has its terrifying moments.Ray Bradbury, in this as well as several other of his books, serves as a chilling prophet of the future and as a vicious but ultimately good-natured guy laughing at death and destruction and having a hell of a time.  Highly Recommended--
4 The book is a good read with the short stories and the relevance to today's world is striking is some of those stories.  The stories are mainly from the late 40's and early 50's and show a haunting look at what could be.  There are, however, some stories that do drag and really don't hold the readers attention, but, thankfully, these stories are few and far between.Overall, the book is a great read and has excellent re-reading potential.
5 I first read this book in high school and loved it.  "The Long Rain" is probably my favorite story, followed closely by "The Veldt".  Whether the stories are set in the farthest reaches of outer space or on Earth, the melancholy and often terrible side of humanity generally takes center stage.
2 The Illustrated Man is a below average piece of dull 50's writing from an overrated writer. Ray Bradbury includes in all his short stories, his hidden sanctimonious Christian ethics. He spreads his tedious message in little spurts here and there. I was expecting science fiction but found nothing of the sort.&#34;The Veldt&#34; -- Two parents use an artificial &#34;nursery&#34; to keep their children happy. The children use the high-tech simulation nursery to create the predatorial environment of the African veldt. When the parents threaten to take it away, the children lock their parents inside where they are mauled and killed by the &#34;harmless&#34; machine-generated lions of the nursery.&#34;Kaleidoscope&#34; -- A bitter astronaut feels he has accomplished nothing worthwhile in his life as he and the rest of his crew fall irrevocably to their demise in outer space because of a malfunction in their ship. The story illustrates the collapse of the sanity and logic of the crew members as they face their death. Ultimately, the lamenting narrator is incinerated in the atmosphere of the Earth and appears as a shooting star to a child after wishing that his life would at least be worth something for someone else.&#34;The Other Foot&#34; -- Mars has been colonized solely by black people. When they learn that a rocket is coming from Earth with white travelers, they institute a Jim Crow system of racial segregation in which white people are to be considered second-class citizens, in retaliation for the history of wrongs perpetrated on their race by white people. When the rocket lands, the traveler tells them that most of the Earth has been destroyed in a war and asks for their help. The people realize that discrimination is harmful in all its forms, and reverse their planned segregation.&#34;The Highway&#34; -- A simple-minded family living by a highway in rural Mexico go on living their normal, idyllic lives as the highway fills with people fleeing a nuclear war. The story ends with some travellers they help telling them about the nuclear war, and how the world is ending. After the travelers leave, the confused resident briefly wonders what &#34;the world&#34; is, and then continues with his life.&#34;The Man&#34; -- A group of space explorers land on a planet to find the population living in a healthy state of bliss. Upon investigation, they discover that an enigmatic visitor came to them. Further description leads the two spacemen to believe that this man is Jesus (though he is never named, leaving room for other religious personas). One decides to spend the rest of his days on the planet, living and rejoicing in the wake of the man's glory. The other continues in his spaceship, &#34;chasing 'him' always a step behind, never fast enough to catch up to him, constantly trying to achieve the unachievable.&#34; Other members of the crew decide to stay on the planet to learn from the contented citizens, and are rewarded by the discovery that &#34;he&#34; is still on the planet.&#34;The Long Rain&#34; -- A group of astronauts are stranded on Venus, where it rains continually and heavily. The travelers make their way across the Venusian landscape to find a &#34;sun dome&#34;, a shelter with a large artificial light source. However, the first sun dome they find has been destroyed by the Venusians. Searching for another sun dome, the characters, one by one, are driven to madness and suicide by the unrelenting rhythm of the rain. At the end of the story, only one sane astronaut remains, and manages to find a functional sun dome.&#34;The Rocket Man&#34; -- An astronaut's job keeps him away from home for long stretches of time, so he has little time with his wife and son, only visiting them for a period of three days at a time. The story is told from the perspective of the son, who holds an interest in becoming an astronaut too. However, his father explains to him that while the stars are beautiful, what he really wants is to be with his family. Sensing that his wife is unhappy with him being at home so little, the father makes a promise to the son that he will be quitting his job after his next mission to spend more time with them. At the end of the story, the son and his mother learn that his ship fell into the sun, and from then on, they do not venture outside during the day in remembrance of him.&#34;The Fire Balloons&#34; -- A priest travels to Mars to act as a missionary to Martians. Once there, he discovers that the natives are actually entities of pure energy. Since they lack corporeal form, they are unable to commit sin, and thus do not need redemption. Another message Bradbury conveys through this short story is that the vision of God is the same as that of his worshippers.&#34;The Last Night of the World&#34; -- In this story, the entire planet awakens to the knowledge that the world is going to end that very evening. Nonetheless, they go through their normal routines of going to work, eating, brushing their teeth, and falling asleep, knowing and accepting the fact that they will not wake up. This is in strong contrast to the looting and riots typically expected in this situation.&#34;The Exiles&#34; -- Numerous works of literature are banned and burned on Earth. The fictional characters of these books are portrayed as real-life entities who live in a refuge on Mars. However, they are vulnerable, as when all the books on a character are destroyed, the character itself vanishes permanently. When the group of characters learn that some people are coming for them, they stage a counterattack, but are foiled by the astronauts who burn the last remaining books from Earth, unknowingly annihilating the entire colony.&#34;No Particular Night or Morning&#34; -- Two men in a spaceship are having a discussion about how empty and cold space is. The first man is a little bit insane and keeps asking questions about how there is nothing sure in space and there is no night or morning. He refuses to believe anything about reality without sufficient evidence and soon becomes skeptical of everything he cannot directly experience. He said that he doesn't believe in stars because they are too far away. The second man is wandering about the ship when he learns that someone has left the ship, and it is the first man. The first man is still talking to himself and has killed himself by letting himself fly freely through space.&#34;The Fox and the Forest&#34; -- A couple from the future tires of the war in their modern lives, so they go on a vacation to the more serene past in an attempt to escape with the help of a company called &#34;Travel in Time, Inc.&#34; They go to Mexico in 1938, but are pursued by a government agent who forces them to come back to 2155.&#34;The Visitor&#34; -- This story takes place on Mars, which is used as a quarantine for people with deadly illnesses. One day, the planet is visited by a young man of eighteen who has the ability to perform thought transference and telepathy. The exiles on the planet are thrilled with his ability and a violent fight breaks out over who will get to spend the most time with their visitor. In the struggle, the young man is killed and the escape he provided is lost forever. Because of the man's abilities, it is possible that he caused the men to hallucinate his injury, or even the entire struggle, and escaped when they believed him to be dead. The facts that he encouraged the fighting and seemed calm and amused throughout the story points to this outcome. Regardless, he is dead to the people of Mars.&#34;The Concrete Mixer&#34; - A reluctant Martian soldier is forced to join the army as they prepare to invade Earth. However, when they arrive, they are welcomed by a world at peace, full of people who are curious rather than aggressive. The protagonist meets a movie director, and it becomes clear that the people of Earth have planned to exploit the Martians for financial gain. He tries to escape back to Mars, but is run over by a car and killed.&#34;Marionettes, Inc.&#34;-A man attempts to escape his marriage by replacing himself with a robot to fool his wife into thinking he hasn't left and tells a friend about it. The man comes back and tells the robot to go back into the box, and the robot disobeys him saying he has fallen in love with the wife. The robot then proceeds to put the man in the box and goes to visit the wife. Later, the friend discovers that his wife has left and that he has been living with a robot version of her.&#34;The City&#34; -- A rocket expedition from Earth lands on an uncharted planet to be greeted by a seemingly empty City. As the humans begin to explore, they realize that the City is not as empty as it seems. The City was waiting for the arrival of humans; the contingency plan of a long dead civilization, put in place to take revenge upon Humanity after their culture was wiped out with biological weapons by humans long before recorded history. Once the City captures and kills the human astronauts, the humans' corpses are used as automatons to finalize The City's creators' revenge; a biological attack on the Earth.&#34;Zero Hour&#34; -- Children across the country are deeply involved in an exciting game they call 'Invasion'. Their parents think it's cute until it turns out that the invasion is real and aliens are using the children to help them get control of Earth.&#34;The Rocket&#34; -- Fiorello Bodoni, a poor junkyard owner, has managed to save $3,000 to fulfill his lifelong dream of sending one member of his family on a trip to outer space. The family, however, finds it impossible to choose who will go because those left behind will inevitably envy the chosen one for the rest of their lives. Bodoni instead uses the money to build a replica rocket from an old mock-up, and sets up a 3D theater inside the cabin and convinces the children they are actually going through space.
2 The Illustrated Man is a below average piece of dull 50's writing from an overrated writer.  Ray Bradbury includes in all his short stories, his hidden sanctimonious Christian ethics.  He spreads his tedious message in little spurts here and there.  I was expecting science fiction but found nothing of the sort."The Veldt" -- Two parents use an artificial "nursery" to keep their children happy. The children use the high-tech simulation nursery to create the predatorial environment of the African veldt. When the parents threaten to take it away, the children lock their parents inside where they are mauled and killed by the "harmless" machine-generated lions of the nursery."Kaleidoscope" -- A bitter astronaut feels he has accomplished nothing worthwhile in his life as he and the rest of his crew fall irrevocably to their demise in outer space because of a malfunction in their ship. The story illustrates the collapse of the sanity and logic of the crew members as they face their death. Ultimately, the lamenting narrator is incinerated in the atmosphere of the Earth and appears as a shooting star to a child after wishing that his life would at least be worth something for someone else."The Other Foot" -- Mars has been colonized solely by black people. When they learn that a rocket is coming from Earth with white travelers, they institute a Jim Crow system of racial segregation in which white people are to be considered second-class citizens, in retaliation for the history of wrongs perpetrated on their race by white people. When the rocket lands, the traveler tells them that most of the Earth has been destroyed in a war and asks for their help. The people realize that discrimination is harmful in all its forms, and reverse their planned segregation."The Highway" -- A simple-minded family living by a highway in rural Mexico go on living their normal, idyllic lives as the highway fills with people fleeing a nuclear war. The story ends with some travellers they help telling them about the nuclear war, and how the world is ending. After the travelers leave, the confused resident briefly wonders what "the world" is, and then continues with his life."The Man" -- A group of space explorers land on a planet to find the population living in a healthy state of bliss. Upon investigation, they discover that an enigmatic visitor came to them. Further description leads the two spacemen to believe that this man is Jesus (though he is never named, leaving room for other religious personas). One decides to spend the rest of his days on the planet, living and rejoicing in the wake of the man's glory. The other continues in his spaceship, "chasing 'him' always a step behind, never fast enough to catch up to him, constantly trying to achieve the unachievable." Other members of the crew decide to stay on the planet to learn from the contented citizens, and are rewarded by the discovery that "he" is still on the planet."The Long Rain" -- A group of astronauts are stranded on Venus, where it rains continually and heavily. The travelers make their way across the Venusian landscape to find a "sun dome", a shelter with a large artificial light source. However, the first sun dome they find has been destroyed by the Venusians. Searching for another sun dome, the characters, one by one, are driven to madness and suicide by the unrelenting rhythm of the rain. At the end of the story, only one sane astronaut remains, and manages to find a functional sun dome."The Rocket Man" -- An astronaut's job keeps him away from home for long stretches of time, so he has little time with his wife and son, only visiting them for a period of three days at a time. The story is told from the perspective of the son, who holds an interest in becoming an astronaut too. However, his father explains to him that while the stars are beautiful, what he really wants is to be with his family. Sensing that his wife is unhappy with him being at home so little, the father makes a promise to the son that he will be quitting his job after his next mission to spend more time with them. At the end of the story, the son and his mother learn that his ship fell into the sun, and from then on, they do not venture outside during the day in remembrance of him."The Fire Balloons" -- A priest travels to Mars to act as a missionary to Martians. Once there, he discovers that the natives are actually entities of pure energy. Since they lack corporeal form, they are unable to commit sin, and thus do not need redemption. Another message Bradbury conveys through this short story is that the vision of God is the same as that of his worshippers."The Last Night of the World" -- In this story, the entire planet awakens to the knowledge that the world is going to end that very evening. Nonetheless, they go through their normal routines of going to work, eating, brushing their teeth, and falling asleep, knowing and accepting the fact that they will not wake up. This is in strong contrast to the looting and riots typically expected in this situation."The Exiles" -- Numerous works of literature are banned and burned on Earth. The fictional characters of these books are portrayed as real-life entities who live in a refuge on Mars. However, they are vulnerable, as when all the books on a character are destroyed, the character itself vanishes permanently. When the group of characters learn that some people are coming for them, they stage a counterattack, but are foiled by the astronauts who burn the last remaining books from Earth, unknowingly annihilating the entire colony."No Particular Night or Morning" -- Two men in a spaceship are having a discussion about how empty and cold space is. The first man is a little bit insane and keeps asking questions about how there is nothing sure in space and there is no night or morning. He refuses to believe anything about reality without sufficient evidence and soon becomes skeptical of everything he cannot directly experience. He said that he doesn't believe in stars because they are too far away. The second man is wandering about the ship when he learns that someone has left the ship, and it is the first man. The first man is still talking to himself and has killed himself by letting himself fly freely through space."The Fox and the Forest" -- A couple from the future tires of the war in their modern lives, so they go on a vacation to the more serene past in an attempt to escape with the help of a company called "Travel in Time, Inc." They go to Mexico in 1938, but are pursued by a government agent who forces them to come back to 2155."The Visitor" -- This story takes place on Mars, which is used as a quarantine for people with deadly illnesses. One day, the planet is visited by a young man of eighteen who has the ability to perform thought transference and telepathy. The exiles on the planet are thrilled with his ability and a violent fight breaks out over who will get to spend the most time with their visitor. In the struggle, the young man is killed and the escape he provided is lost forever. Because of the man's abilities, it is possible that he caused the men to hallucinate his injury, or even the entire struggle, and escaped when they believed him to be dead. The facts that he encouraged the fighting and seemed calm and amused throughout the story points to this outcome. Regardless, he is dead to the people of Mars."The Concrete Mixer" - A reluctant Martian soldier is forced to join the army as they prepare to invade Earth. However, when they arrive, they are welcomed by a world at peace, full of people who are curious rather than aggressive. The protagonist meets a movie director, and it becomes clear that the people of Earth have planned to exploit the Martians for financial gain. He tries to escape back to Mars, but is run over by a car and killed."Marionettes, Inc."-A man attempts to escape his marriage by replacing himself with a robot to fool his wife into thinking he hasn't left and tells a friend about it. The man comes back and tells the robot to go back into the box, and the robot disobeys him saying he has fallen in love with the wife. The robot then proceeds to put the man in the box and goes to visit the wife. Later, the friend discovers that his wife has left and that he has been living with a robot version of her."The City" -- A rocket expedition from Earth lands on an uncharted planet to be greeted by a seemingly empty City. As the humans begin to explore, they realize that the City is not as empty as it seems. The City was waiting for the arrival of humans; the contingency plan of a long dead civilization, put in place to take revenge upon Humanity after their culture was wiped out with biological weapons by humans long before recorded history. Once the City captures and kills the human astronauts, the humans' corpses are used as automatons to finalize The City's creators' revenge; a biological attack on the Earth."Zero Hour" -- Children across the country are deeply involved in an exciting game they call 'Invasion'. Their parents think it's cute until it turns out that the invasion is real and aliens are using the children to help them get control of Earth."The Rocket" -- Fiorello Bodoni, a poor junkyard owner, has managed to save $3,000 to fulfill his lifelong dream of sending one member of his family on a trip to outer space. The family, however, finds it impossible to choose who will go because those left behind will inevitably envy the chosen one for the rest of their lives. Bodoni instead uses the money to build a replica rocket from an old mock-up, and sets up a 3D theater inside the cabin and convinces the children they are actually going through space.
5 &#34;Eighteen illustrations, eighteen tales.&#34; &#34;The illustrations came to life...&#34;A man is encountered who has skin Illustrations all over his body. Each illustration represents a tale from the future. The illustrations come to life and tell a tale of doom or impending doom. In this way ray Bradbury can tell related but different tales in this book. Its Bradbury's writing style and dialogue that holds you as much as the storyline.At first they are intriguing and fresh. Later they don't as much repeat but are similar in form and function.One of the best &#34;The Veldt&#34; is first. Of course everyone will have a different favorite.I suggest that you make your cats leave the room if you read aloud.The Veldt (Classics Stories of Ray Bradbury)
4 A creative rich imaginative vision,well described,,conceived and resulting in an enjoyable, unique read.Goes places you haven't been and you're glad you went.
5 "The Illustrated Man" is one book that I have been wanting to read for quite awhile.  If you've ever heard anyone talk about Ray Bradbury's books like their "amazing", don't judge it, until you have read his stuff. The guy IS "amazing"!The fact that all these stories were written before 1952 is really "amazing"!Ray Bradbury's obession with space, astronauts, Mars, peoples overall greed, laziness & reliance on computers/technology in the future were rampant throughout all the stories, but he makes it work well, as usual.Personally I'm not a big fan of science fiction or space stories, but these stories draw in you easily.The book has 18 individual stories, the prologue, the very last story in the book, which is titled "The Illustrated Man" and the epilogue are only three times the (illustrated man) is mentioned.The stories are all individuals, they don't run together to make one final story or anything.A few of the stories are so, so, but there were several that after reading them, I was left thinking, WOW!, they are:KaleidoscopeThe Other Foot (5 star quality)The Man (5 star quality)The Long RainThe Fox and the ForestMarionettes, Inc.The City (5 star quality)Zero HourI really don't know how Ray Bradbury slept peacefully with all these stories and all the other stuff he wrote swirling around in his mind.The only other Bradbury book I have read is "Fahrenheit 451", which was also really thought provoking and good.Looking forward to reading more of Ray Bradbury's novels when I get the chance......
3 A collection that is again basically science fiction, at least of Bradbury's particular Martian variety, among others.  The most entertaining of which is 'The Exiles'.  Again, all very old-fashioned.There's an old prologue introducing 'The Illustrated Man' who sets out to recount the stories.  Not sure there's a lot of point to doing that in such limited fashion.Basically a 3.25 book, but rounding down in this case.Illustrated Man : The Veldt - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : Kaleidoscope - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Other Foot - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Highway - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Man - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Long Rain - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Rocket Man - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Fire Balloons - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Last Night of the World - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Exiles - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : No Particular Night or Morning - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Fox and the Forest - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Visitor - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Concrete Mixer - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : Marionettes, Inc. - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The City - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : Zero Hour - Ray BradburyIllustrated Man : The Rocket - Ray BradburyWhy did we come here again?3 out of 5Mean ship space end falling star.3 out of 5White man arrival decisions.3.5 out of 5Atomic war dispersal.3.5 out of 5Locals not too impressed by space travellers.3.5 out of 5Venus very wet.3.5 out of 5Planetary road trip father.3.5 out of 5Earth sin Mars.2.5 out of 5What to do at the end.3 out of 5Scary little dude.4 out of 5Clemens-Hitchcock space meteor mash.3 out of 5Time travel holiday.3 out of 5Hypnotist victim of Martian isolated projectile overenthusiasm.3.5 out of 5Earth invasion advice witchy pulp reinforcement problem.3.5 out of 5Stuck puppets.2 out of 5Long wait war trap release.3.5 out of 5Time To Burn.3.5 out of 5Nifty ride for the kids.3 out of 5
4 Continuing my practice of revisiting Ray Bradbury I came to The Illustrated Man. What drove me to this book originally was the film based on the collection in 1969 with Rod Steiger. It dramatized three of the stories and fleshed out the framing device of how the illustrated man became illustrated. I knew it wasn't a great film, even at the age of thirteen. However, it did capture a mood and it led me to check out the collection. This was my first introduction to the work of Ray Bradbury. I was fourteen and this was the most literate fiction I had read up to that point aside from required school reading of certain classics.Upon re-reading it, I found that I had no recollection of reading many of these at all so it was as if I were reading them for the first time. The premise is intriguing--a former carnival man turned hobo is cursed with a body full of tattoos which he insists are called skin illustrations that come to life as people watch them become dramatized. People are disturbed and see their fates; he loses another job and is disliked as the `bearer' of the disturbing images. This is merely a lead-in to the collection of stories. The concept of paintings coming to life or telling stories wasn't new when Bradbury wrote this book and it continued with the premise of Rod Serling's anthology TV series Night Gallery (his earlier series Twilight Zone was also very similar to Bradbury).Many of the stories deal with travel to Mars and could be seen as additional episodes in the saga of The Martian Chronicles. "The Other Foot" is a more successful treatment of the black/white racial relations modified by Martian colonization than "Way in the Middle of the Air," which was included in the original Martian Chronicles. In contrast to many of the Martian Chronicles stories in which the Earthlings migrated to Mars and modified the landscape and a dying civilization to meet their needs, in "The Concrete Mixer" Martians invade Earth only to be corrupted by a homogenized, crass, materialistic culture.Other stories in the collection deal with the unprepared for terrors of space travel and the unexpected challenges of navigating alien landscapes. "Kaleidoscope" and "No Particular Night or Morning" deal with humans becoming miniscule flotsam in the vast and infinite void. "The Long Rains" tells of men trying to survive and retain their sanity in a Venusian world of perpetual rain.Many of the stories depict scenarios of virtual reality or manipulation of reality in some sense. One of the most well-known is "The Veldt," which tells of a playroom for children that becomes a bit too sophisticated when the children are given too much control of it and facilitates the darkest tendencies of their fantasies. "The City" tells of an automated city on an alien planet setting a trap for visitors from an Earth it recalls destroyed its civilization.There are many brilliant fantasies in this collection and others that have not aged as well since the time in which they were written. Upon reflection I think Bradbury could have expanded the theme of these stories as illustrations and paced them a bit more effectively. The collection begins with some of the darker stories such as "The Veldt," "Kaleidoscope" and "The Long Rains" but then the stories acquire a lighter tone, ending with the ode to the imagination "The Rocket Man." On the heels of this optimistic story, the sardonic and sinister epilogue is a bit jarring. The tone is not evenly sustained or modulated throughout the collection. Perhaps if Bradbury had chosen to revise this book as he later did with Martian Chronicles he might have rectified this imbalance. Nonetheless, these stories survive as expressions of a prolific and bold imagination and also serve as potent emblems of the post-World War II era.
5 This book is good reading for all ages...I have recommended it to all my friends (although most of us read &#34;The Illustrated Man&#34; when we were younger)This book touches on many subjects and is incorporated with stories that leave the reader with &#34;food for thought.&#34;Ray Bradbury is classic good - he is an author that &#34;challenges&#34; his readers to think.
5 
5 This group of short stories outshine the rest in its class. On its surface, its a collection of stories that relate to the tattoos on a wandering man. As his new companion looks on, the tattoos come to life and each of them has a powerful story to share.The overall idea for this collection is perfect, and it really works to tie all of the stories together. But the real gems are the stories themselves. In a few short pages Bradbury uses each story to reveal timeless truths about religion, God, race, fear, the future, and much more. The first story, The Veldt, is a haunting tale that highlights the dangers of technology. Written fifty years ago, it is nothing short of prophetic and it perfect for our times.There are a couple of stories that are slower than the rest, but only because the are compared to the other brilliant stories contained in the book. Highly recommended.
4 this was my first ray bradbury novel i have ever read and after reading a few of his others...I saw this is the one that makes the most sense..the others were just plain confusing.  Anyways, this book is about man with tattoos that come to life and tell stories about the future...its a pretty good book and you should check it out.  Don't stop reading after the first story; it's a little demented (to me) but it's still great and i loved it.
5 Conceptually, The Illustrated Man is brilliant from the get-go, including its novel premise of 18 stories as told through the moving tattoos on a man's body; in addition to weaving intricate webs, the Illustrated Man's body art predicts the future.And, oh, what stories are told.  As a science fiction writer, it is no surprise that the majority of Bradbury's stories have to do with space and the future (heck, all of space was in the future when these stories were written in the early 50s).  Additionally, the majority of the tales are pretty bleak, dealing with dark themes of revenge, futile searches for paradise, and Armageddon.  However, save for their near-universal excellence, thought-provocation, and prescience, the similarities end there.Among them: Mars is colonized by black people who have left Earth's prejudices, and await with apprehension the arrival of a white-piloted rocket ship from their former homeland; another planet's soldiers attack Earth and are surprised at the warm welcome they receive, only to learn that they can be conquered by Earth's lousy diet, sedentary ways, and shallow culture as easily as by the planet's military; an assembly of priests travels to Mars to learn about Martian sins, so as to spread God's word and earn converts of the Red plant; an entire city is built with the concept of vengeance in mind, by its citizens who were to perish before being able to exact that revenge themselves; the authors of classic tales of horror, whose works are banned on Earth, are themselves exiled to Mars and only kept alive by the few remaining copies not burned for censorship.There are a couple of lame ducks herein, but even those are salvaged by the beauty of Bradbury's writing.  His metaphors and descriptive devices flow from the pages and grant a macabre beauty to even the most desolate of landscapes.
4 I usually do not enjoy fiction stories, mostly because fiction authors I did not enjoy were tossed down my throat every day of my undergrad, with professors shouting "THIS IS GOOD WRITING!!!".  However, when a professor suggested I read this book, I really enjoyed it, and remember reading a few selections during high school.  This is a collection of science fiction short stories, connected through this idea of an illustrated man.  Again, the only reason I did not give this five stars, is because fiction/science fiction isn't my favorite.
5 no mars or scratches good condition good pricing nice cover everything came as expected very nice i like it yea
4 I would love to see this tattooed man!  The descriptions sounds so amazing.  With the popularity of tattoos today, I can say, once again, that Bradbury was a literary visionary.What a genius idea for a collection of short stories.  A man wanders out of the woods one day.  He is completely covered in beautiful, brilliant tattoos.  As the narrator looks at him, each tattoo starts moving, coming to life and telling a story.Bradbury is a master of science fiction and the stories in this collection range from terror-filled to tragic to just plain weird.  The 18 short stories do not have interconnecting scenes or characters but are only connected through the skin of the tattooed man.  My favorite story was the first one called "The Veldt".  It's about a family who has two kids who watch too much of their 3D TV.  When the parents try to discipline the kids and take their TV away, the children retaliate by turning the channel to an African veldt with hungry lions ad locking their parents in the room.  Some stories were so tragically awful.  "Kaleidoscope" was about a group of astronauts hurtling through space with no change of rescue.  "The Last Night of the World" is where a couple discover this one night is their last on Earth.  How would you spend your last moments? Not like them, that's for sure!  I also really like "The Exiles.  Any story with Edgar Allen Poe and other famous classic authors as main characters is the story for me!Bradbury, always in fashion--no matter the decade!
5 While the cover of the paperback that I read states that Bradbury is "The World's Greatest Living Science Fiction Writer", I respectfully disagree. Science fiction is so broad a field that there is significant overlap with horror and fantasy. I would without question call Bradbury the best author ever in the field of horrific science fiction. For, while his stories are generally based on a scientific theme, the real power is in the horrific aspects of the events.When I was young, my favorite short story was "The Veldt", the first one in this collection of Bradbury's best short stories. A modern house contains what we would now call a holodeck, and instead of the children conjuring up delightful images, they are interested only in a scene of the African veldt, where lions pursue and devour their prey. Complete with the smell, sound and heat of the plains, the parents of the children are concerned that it is unhealthy. The parents try to do something to stop it, but they end up being consumed by the lions conjured up by the room.Most of the other stories deal with the same theme, technology gone wrong. Atomic and biological warfare appears in many of the stories. However, the best part of all the stories is the tension and the unusual endings, often based on the frailties of human psychology. The intertwining of science fiction and horror makes these stories unique and I see a lot of similarities between Bradbury and Stephen King. In this area, he is better than King.
5 If you are interested in stories revolving around space, alternate futures, etc., you will absolutely love this collection of short stories by Ray Bradbury. A true classic!
4 As a newly-minted high school reading teacher, my introductory book to spoon-feed to the young'ns was Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451. It was a really good one to start with, as it had a fairly simple and uncomplicated storyline, a small cast of characters, and fairly well-defined themes and literary techniques. Therefore, teaching it to students who weren't native speakers (but whose English was really good nonetheless) was a good experience.I hadn't read a whole lot of Bradbury prior to that, and really fell in love with the book. F451 was a great read, and something I'll review here once I've let it settle down a bit in my head. After all, I've spent the last couple of months teasing every shred of meaning I could out of it, and that's not the kind of review I write here, now is it? Reading the book gave me a new interest in reading Bradbury, so I picked up a couple of short story collections and started to make my way through them. While I was talking to my department head about it, she recommended that I read The Illustrated Man, a copy of which she just so happened to have sitting around.The Illustrated Man is a collection of eighteen short stories, more or less unrelated, but brought together under the larger, over-arching story of the Illustrated Man himself. Our narrator, you see, meets a large man on the road. The guy is covered with tattoos, of the highest quality. Their colors are vivid, their details are lifelike, and the man says that, at night, the tattoos come alive. They tell stories, if you watch them long enough. And if you watch them too long, you may see your own future as well....Well, the narrator decides to watch as the Illustrated Man sleeps, and what he sees are the stories that are presented in this volume.By and large, the stories are unconnected to each other, which means we can go from a strange future where one family's house takes care of all their material needs to a poor farmer who manages to avoid the end of the world by being in one of his own. Still, there are a few thematic threads that run through the book that are interesting to look at.One of these themes is the way we relate to technology. Nowhere is this more obvious than in the first tale of the book, "The Veldt." In this story, we meet a family who are completely dependent on their house. It's a technological miracle, where everything is completely automatic. The thought of actually cooking a meal is tantamount to barbarism, and their idea of taking a vacation means just shutting down the more obsequious functions of the house. One of these is the children's nursery. Akin to the holodeck, this room can replicate any environment that the users want. The children's fascination with the savagery of the African savanna worries their parents, though, and the threat of having the room shut down eventually becomes more than the children - or the house - can tolerate.In "The Concrete Mixer," a Martian invasion force finds themselves overcome by the technology of Earth. Not the military technology, mind you, but the mindless, brain-destroying technology of leisure. Faced with TV and radio, casinos and bars, drive-in movies and fast food, the Martians discover that Earth is far more dangerous than they had ever expected. In "Marionettes, Inc," Bradbury weaves a tale worthy of Philip K. Dick, telling about a very special service that will create an exact android duplicate of yourself. This robot will do all the tedious things in your life, such as go to work, do chores and tolerate your spouse. But what if the perfect robot duplicates are too perfect, and decide that they don't really want to do the drudgery anymore? In "The City," a self-aware metropolis wakes up after twenty thousand years with the arrival of human astronauts - and immediately begins planning its revenge on those who left it so long ago.Another recurring theme in this collection is that of seeking happiness, through one means or another, and only occasionally finding it. In these stories, characters are looking for something that will make their lives worthwhile, or at the very least a little bit better. In "The Long Rain," a group of explorers on Venus want just one thing - to get out of the eternal, unceasing rain that pummels the planet. The Sun Domes are their only shelter, if they can find one before they die or go mad. In "No Particular Night or Morning," an astronaut searches for the only thing he can be absolutely sure of in this universe - nothingness.In "The Man," a group of interstellar explorers are looking for a being, who may or may not be Jesus Christ, going from planet to planet and always finding themselves just a little bit too late. In "The Rocket," a poor junkyard owner wants more than anything to fulfill his dream of showing his children outer space, and manages to do it in a slightly roundabout way. And in "Rocket Man," a father tries to find what he really wants - to live among the stars or to stay with his family on Earth, and ultimately realizes that he wants - but cannot have - both.The stories in here are all pretty good, and there were a few I want to touch on in more detail. The one that I took the most notes on was "The Other Foot," a tale of Mars and the shocking reversal of racial discrimination. In this story, Mars has been colonized by Black exiles from the United States, sent off-planet in an ultimate act of segregation. After decades of eking out an existence on that harsh planet, they learn that a rocket from Earth - probably containing a white astronaut - is on its way. The community reacts in a knee-jerk fashion, preparing a new apartheid on Mars - re-creating the worst of Jim Crow, only in reverse. When the rocket touches down and announces that nuclear war has destroyed everything the colonists had known and loved about Earth, and that white Americans had come to Mars to beg for the help of its citizens, the mob has a change of heart and decides to let bygones be bygones.As much as I hate post-modernism, I couldn't shut off my critic's voice while reading this story. I wondered if a story about Black oppression written by a white author must automatically be racist in nature, and I wondered if Bradbury's suggestion that Black colonists on Mars would, as a first reaction, try to re-create the worst conditions they had endured on Earth might not be rooted in a fundamental misunderstanding of Black culture. Then the Intellectual Machine That Eats Itself (i.e. Postmodernism) began to ask if perhaps these thoughts were rooted in my own unacknowledged racism, at which point I had to just finish the damn story and move on. It's a question that probably wasn't asked fifty years ago, though, which makes the story an interesting one to revisit in our slightly more enlightened age.Another story that I really enjoyed was "The Exiles," which has also been titled "The Mad Wizards of Mars." In this tale, the great writes of fiction - and their works - are living (where else?) on Mars. There you can find Edgar Allan Poe and Ambrose Bierce living with Charles Dickens and Shakespeare. They're on Mars because Earth has been systematically destroying their works, and thus depriving them of immortality. When a rocket arrives from Earth carrying the last load of books to be destroyed, the fictionauts launch a last-ditch attempt to save themselves. With Poe leading their armies, they pour all of their power into stopping the rocket. Shakespeare's witches fling curses at the astronauts, and Poe summons all the armies of fiction to defend their existence.It's a story that you can tell Bradbury had a lot of fun writing, and is full of wonderful references to the authors he loves. Just the image of Edgar Allan Poe screaming defiance at the air is one that I will treasure every time I read the tale.What's really wonderful about this collection is that it's aged well. Published in 1951, it does suffer from some of the mid-century sci-fi tropes of the day, and modern writers would never be allowed to get away with something like a rainy Venus or humanity calmly accepting the end of the world. But they're still great stories, and well worth the read. So go read 'em.------------------------------------------------------"I am a frightened and an angry man. I am a god, Mr. Dickens, even as you are a god, even as we all are gods, and our inventions - our people, if you wish - have not only been threatened, but banished and burned, torn up and censored, ruined and done away with. The worlds we created are falling into ruin.Even gods must fight!"- Edgar Allan Poe, "The Exiles" (Ray Bradbury)------------------------------------------------------
5 What can I say other than I love anything Ray Bradbury has written.  These stories are all different, and yet all tie in at the end. I love the surprise and sometimes shocking ending of each of these stories. They were all great. Now I am in the process of reading Ray Bradbury 100 stories....I have just begun; but know that I will enjoy all of them too.Christine Schulz.
3 Bradbury is a good story teller, though a lot more compelling in a earlier time when one is young.  Some of the stories are first rate because they deal with the timeless themes of human nature.  The Veldt (the first story in the collection) is the best in the book and I was moved as well by "The Rocket Man", a story about grief and loss beautiful in its simplicity.  Also, the device of the Illustrated Man still works on a second read and is a stroke of inspiration.Some of the stories are not good literature from a writing or character development perspective, but are extremely clever and fun -- neat ideas that would make (or have made) great Twilight Zone stories.  My favorite is the time traveler story.One story (No Particular Night or Morning) is deeply philosophical in nature.  The character portrayal is not convincing but the philocophical idea of space travelers who are compelled to question their own existence is about as good and interesting an exposition of a philsophical issue as you'll ever find.Many stories are clunkers, I'm afraid -- the situations are usually interesting but the characters are wooden and not believable.Also fascinating is how science ficition ages with time.  The vision of the future tells us more about the past than anything else.  No one seems to have foreseen cell phones, the internet, and the communications/information revolution (although Arthur C. Clarke in Childhood's End comes close).  You can harldy fault Bradbury for this, but it's interesting how the futurists simply extrapolate their current world into the future -- i.e., brute machines are the rage in 1950, so they imagine even better, more brutish machines in the future.For all his limitations as a writer, Bradbury has written some classic stories that I would include in a literary anthology for this period.  I therefore recommend that you read or re-read this book.
5 Bradbury was better at short stories than novels, I believe, as were many authors of his time such as Asimov. In this collection of shorts, a tenuous link is added which is that a young drifter meets a carnival worker who has a body covered with illustrations which move, if looked at closely, and tell stories. Quite possibly the title occurred to Bradbury first and he then set about drawing up the situation.The stories vary widely and the most memorable are:A story of a very realistic nursery in which the walls continually depict lions on the veldt, to the discomfort of the children's parents - the children control the images. But it's only TV isn't it?A group of soldiers are trying to make it across a planet where it never stops raining to a safe dome hidden in the jungle. The constant humidity and heat mean fungus sprouts on your food if you don't eat it quickly, and will the dome be intact when they get there?A planet is told that the world will end overnight. What would you do?  A couple are trying to come to terms with this and we realise that there is nothing they can do that will change anything.The other tales are less memorable but all give immense food for thought. This was filmed years ago and the above tales were included, though others were omitted.
5 Ray Bradbury has an incredible imagination!  This book is great!  I loved reading it.
5 This work from the greatest writer of science fiction's golden age contains legendary stories end to end. Set on the earth of the past, present and future, as well on a host of foreign worlds in the most distant reaches of space, Bradbury offers up a full range of tales from scary musings about mortality and human destiny, to fantastic glimpses into the reality that might lie ahead. Bradbury's imagination caresses the written word and gives his creations a power that won't be found anyplace else. The Illustrated Man is a life-affirming vote of confidence that (for good or for ill) other ages of man are yet to come.
5 This is a collection of 18 short stories, loosely tied together by the premise of The Illustrated Man, a man whose tattoos move and shift to tell the stories.  Some of these stories were published in various magazines between the fall of 1947 and 1951; others first appeared in this collection.  This book was ranked 10th on the Astounding Analog All-Time Poll in 1952, and was tied for 22nd on the same poll in 1956.  It was ranked 33 on the 1999 Locus All-Time Poll for collections.  It was also nominated for the 1952 International Fantasy Award for fiction.Almost all of the stories in this collection are outstanding.  There is a wide variety of stories, some are horror, some are fantasy, and some are science fiction.  He can create settings like no other author, as the feelings and emotions of the pieces are what set him apart from the rest.  This collection stands the test of time.
3 This collection of classic sci-fi stories from Ray Bradbury is a little dated, with rocket ships and Martians and a 1950s sensibility (and sex roles). There's no real unifying theme, despite the "illustrated man" who bears each tale as a tattoo on his body. Most of the stories are dark and more psychological than speculative fiction, Martians and spaceships notwithstanding. Don't expect any of the usual "twist" endings common to short stories from this time period, but if you're familiar with Bradbury's other work, you'll see his themes reflected here.I found the book moderately enjoyable, but it's not the best introduction to Bradbury, and it's not great sci-fi. Worth a read, but most of the stories just don't hold up well today; they were probably more thrilling and creepy sixty years ago.
5 Sometimes it's hard to remember that Ray Bradbury approaches the art of the short story in a very unconventional way. His collections of short stories are often tied together by common sub-themes or settings, although each story could also stand on its own. Such is the case here, though the running theme to the Illustrated Man collection is mostly an abstraction. Apparently the stories here are told by a man's haunted tattoos, but don't worry about that too much. The true theme holding this group of stories together is examinations of human nature and mankind's place in the universe. Bradbury's frequent use of Mars (and occasionally other planets) as a setting, with the obligatory spaceships and technology, is merely his method of creating alternate realities to bring human nature into bold relief.Bradbury's classic examinations of the dark and melancholy side of humanity are well represented here as always, with his trademark poetic writing style and underlying sense of creeping dread. The classic virtual reality tale &quot;The Veldt&quot; is found here, with the typical misuse-of-technology theme presented in an unexpectedly haunting fashion. More evidence that the stock sci-fi themes are merely a thin backdrop can be seen in &quot;The Other Foot,&quot; a chilling examination of race relations; or &quot;The Rocket,&quot; which deals with the yearning of regular people to reach beyond the confines of Earth. Other winning stories include &quot;Kaleidoscope&quot; and &quot;The Long Rain&quot; which are haunting tales of how human nature can still undermine the greatest achievements of cold technology. So don't concern yourself with the typical sci-fi backdrop, and get in tune with what Ray Bradbury is really talking about.
5 I read this Ray Bradbury anthology back in the 50s, and again in 2013.  Back then people with tats were drunken sailors or in side shows, not the kid (or girl) next door.  But again, this book isn't so much about tattoos as the universal human condition.  Bradbury is still among the top five science fiction short story writers of the 20th century.  His genius has not faded one bit.
4 This is the first collection of short stories I have ever read and I was not in the least bit disappointed.I really love that it wasn't just a dumping of stories, Bradbury actually took the time to connect them with the illustrated man.Some of the stories have the ability to remain with you past your initial reading. For me those stories were "Zero Hour," "The Fox and the Forest" and "The Rocket." Beautifully crafted and really just a fantastic read.
5 If you liked Bradbury's Martian Chronicles, you will love The Illustrated Man. This book is actually a collection of short stories, and while there's a main story (the actual illustrated man) it adds little value to the book and can be ignored. The short stories however are phenomenal.-The Rocket is a tale of father's determination to give his family a chance at once-in-a-lifetime adventure, brought a tear to my eyes.-Kaleidoscope and the Long Rain are great stories of human nature and loneliness.- Veldt is an interesting look at virtual reality and how we let the children be raised by tehcnologyBradbury brings to life new and original ideas - a planet waiting for ages to extract revenge on a race that was in war with its inhabitants, an alien conquest of earth via childrens' games, a man building a duplicate to deal with wife's nagging finds himself replaced...These will be fun for fans of sci-fi and classic fiction alike. Great stories for kids and adults, and excellent ideas to discuss in your book club or with kids.
5 Ray Bradbury is always a delight. While I'm a huge fan of his (sparse few) novels, it's impossible to deny that where he really shines is in his copious short works. He is, in my opinion, one of the 20th Century's great short story writers.The Illustrated Man plucks a character from Something Wicked This Way Comes and uses him as a set of bookends for this collection of 18 short stories. Like any such collection, there are high points and low points. The low points - the story about famous authors dying as their books are burned, for instance - are still fairly solid, though far from classics, while the high points - the rains on Venus, the father who is always away in his rocket, the astronauts floating to their deaths in space, the poor man and his fake rocket, the telepathic man among the sick exiles, the alien invasion via children - are high points indeed. Very, VERY high points.Bradbury never fails to impress. This is an excellent collection full of rich ideas, wonderful languages and stories you'll never forget.
5 Bradbury, like Jules Verne, uses his fiction as a telescope to look far into the future.  Then, to remind us of the human element, his words become a microscope, looking deep into our minds and souls.  "The Illustrated Man" combines these tools with chilling effectiveness.Although Bradbury penned these tales over fifty years ago, they still ring with cautionary truth.  The prologue and epilogue work as bookends, holding in eighteen stories of apocalyptic and visionary wisdom.  Through the moving and shifting tattoos on the illustrated man's back, we see glimpses of the future, full of technology, greed, strife, and the human propensity for selfishness.  Collectively, these tales remind us that our relationships will always supercede our computers and rockets.  When these elements lose perspective, danger lurks in every corner.Although some of the stories seem dated, "The Illustrated Man" educates while it entertains.  Bradbury is a master of his craft, and this is a masterpiece of science fiction.
5 A man meets another man who has "pictures" all over his body. They look like tattoos, but he relates that he was "cursed by a witch" and that the pictures move. Unfortunately, the moving pictures tell stories so disturbing he doesn't like to go out in public. The first man spends an entire night watching the pictures in the firelight and the collected stories in this book are what he sees. A good description of these tales would be "science fiction nightmares." They go a step beyond even cautionary tales to the greatest fears man has of aliens, technology, and space travel.Usually, when I review a short story collection I go through and say something about each one, but I feel that this is more of a cohesive whole than other collections, that I would be repeating myself quite a lot, and also not wanting to overdose on spoilers. These are also a little shorter than most short stories, but not quite short-shorts. (I'd say the difference between 1 cigarette and 3, if one was reading these on a smoke break).Definitely enjoyable, but certainly not for the faint of heart and those already scared to death of Martian invasions or sentient robots.
5 This book is pretty good and sometimes it can a little bit weird, especially the way that Ray Bradbury writes and how his books are written. A good collection to Ray Bradbury books if you like the author.
5 Ray Bradbury is one of those rare science fiction authors who writes to provoke rather than simply entertain. His short stories, like his novels, are always deeper than they might seem at first glance, and require careful reading if you are going to get the most out of them. Happy endings are supplied only when called for, and for mood, there are few better writers anywhere.The Illustrated Man may just have the finest way of connecting otherwise disparate short stories together that has ever been thought of. We have all seen those who have tattoos, and many of them, if you ask, have stories behind each of their decorations. But what if the stories are real? The setting, therefore, is not a place but a person, a body, a human canvas.The stories themselves are of high quality. Some, like "The Long Rain," still resonate; who among us hasn't been caught in a storm that never seems to end? The emerging madness of the characters is haunting, even if the Venus we know today is not the Venus of the story.Other stories are topical for the time of the book and are interesting for that reason. "The Other Foot," for example, deals with racial segregation reversed on a future Mars. But of course, the issue of race remains a challenge for Americans even today, and so the story is still relevant.Other works of note include "The Fire Balloons," which raises the question of the nature of sin: must it be physical? And the ideas found in "The Exiles," about the degree to which fictional characters actually exist (later revisited in fascinating form by Joanne Greenberg in a story from her collectionWith the Snow Queen), raise questions about what it means to be real at all.This is a collection well worth reading and rereading.
4 The Illustrated Man is a collection of 18 science fiction short stories by genre master Ray Bradbury circa 1950, loosely tied together as a series of living images viewed on the body of the title character. The stories are mostly cerebral, although you shouldn't expect hard science. Mars and Venus as depicted in these stories contradict what we now know about these planets, but these inaccuracy are largely irrelevent since the themes in many of the stories don't require a science fiction setting. Although it's easy to tell the stories were written fifty years ago, the stories themselves aren't really dated, but it is amusing to read a story where the author didn't put a technology far enough into the future to avoid the popularity of his work. Overall, it's a good book but it doesn't fall into the category of a must read. If you have trouble finding time to read, this is a perfect book for reading a story or two and then putting away for a while without losing any continuity.
5 This is Bradbury's best work.  Many of these stories just knocked me off my feet.  Especially the story about the hologram room.  Chilling.  He has a way of writing stories that do not evoke horror in the reader, but even better, shock.  They don't put a chill in your spine with every line, but the readers know that by the end they will have the shock of their lives!  I could easily read this entire collection again.  Unbelievable!
5 I highly recommend this book to any fan of Ray Bradbury's work, or to anyone who wishes to introduce his classic works into their library. He is a passionate visionary that writes not only about sci-fi, but his colorful writing style encapsulates the sometimes ineffable feelings that each and every one of us have had about every possible situation in life, and dare I say, in death. I always feel like a kid again when I read his books, I am taken away to warm, sunny Saturdays when I was still in awe of the newness of life. I can hardly force myself to read the works of others as I am convinced that no one can do with words the magic that Ray Bradbury has done.
3 The Illustrated Man by Ray Bradburry was interesting.  not near the quality of farenheit 451, but still not bad.  another series of short stories, this one was displayed as predictions of the future.  They were pretty good, and if you want to read short stories, i prefered them over one more for the road.  very easy to read and understand.  Most of them were a little chilling.  They definitely gave a view of Bradbury's love of horror.  Ranging from space travel to an african safari in your home, this book covered just about every futuristic thought.
3 A series of tales with varying messages of death and destruction, both personal and societal.  Emphasis is heavy on the Bomb (the stories were written in the 50s and 60s).The Illustrated Man: maybe knowing the future isn't so great after all.The Veldt: technology will kill you.Kaleidoscope: confessions while dying in space.The Other Foot: white people get their comeuppance.The Highway: it's useless to panic over the end of the world.The Man: you have to believe in Jesus, you can't see him.The Long Rain: humans need the sun.The Rocket Man: being an astronaut is hard on the family.The Fire Balloons: not all aliens need salvation.The Last Night of the World: it's the end of the world as we know it, and we all feel fine.The Exiles: reason banishes the supernatural -- literally.No Particular Night or Morning: Descartes' "Cognito ergo sum" in reverse.The Fox and the Forest: anywhere you run, they can find you.The Visitor: illusions have real consequences.The Concrete Mixer: the free market rules.Marionettes, Inc.: robots might *really* replace humansThe City: humanity get some payback.Zero Hour: children will help cause the death of humanity.The Rocket: a junk rocket turned into an amusement ride for the kids.Best of the bunch: probably The Last Night of the World.  It's like a condensed version of "The Stranger" set in middle America, and "The Nine Billion Names of God" from a different perspective.
5 You'll never look at a multi-tattooed person the same way again! The stories are gripping. If I aged as well as these stories have, I could go back to high school with impunity!
5 I would recommend this book for anyone interested in the workings of the human mind. The vehicle - a man covered with illustrations - Bradbury uses to give us insight into the strengths and frailties of the human psyche is ingenious and as always his literary expertise provides for a spell-binding read.
5 This book arrived in very good condition and on  time.  It is a timeless telling of short stories that make the reader think and the last story ties it all together.  At the end it reminded me of &#34;Le Jette&#34;  or &#34;The Terminator&#34;.
5 read this and change your mind.The narrator met a man covered in tattos, tattos that moved to tell  stories, eighteen of which are told in this volume.  The stories, many of which have been published separately, are:THE VELDT - overindulgence is bad for both parents and childrenKALEIDOSCOPE - doomed astronauts floating in spaceTHE OTHER FOOT - reverse discrimination with a vengenceTHE HIGHWAY - sometimes life passes you by and sometimes it doesn'tTHE MAN - is it the journey or the destination that matters?THE LONG RAIN - sometimes madness is the answerTHE ROCKET MAN - career vs. familyTHE FIRE BALLOONS - is religion the answer or the question?THE LAST NIGHT OF THE WORLD - the end with a whimper not a bangTHE EXILES - do people live for art or does art live for people?NO PARTICULAR NIGHT OR MORNING - again the answer could be madnessTHE FOX AND THE FOREST - you can run but you cannot hideTHE VISITOR - sometimes you don't know what you've got 'til its goneTHE CONCRETE MIXER - Mars invadesMARIONETTES, INC. - machines can be asked to do too muchTHE CITY - revenge can be served very coldZERO HOUR - parents need to parentTHE ROCKET - Desire, envy and the triumph of the human spiritAlthough these tales are hauntingly disturbing and many contain rather gruesome images Bradbury writes with a gentleness that takes material that could be shocking in another writer's hand and instead makes it poignant.  He allows the more subtle message of the stories to come through by taking the edge off the sensationalism.It is particularly interesting to read these stories and rember (or discover) what life was like in the fifties and then reflect (investigate) what changes took place in the subsequent fifty year.For those who have read this and didn't like it try it again in a few years.
5 Perfect to read right before sleep. Or at an Airport, waiting for your flight. I picked up this edition up at my schools store. It was two weeks later that I finally had the opportunity to read into the prologue. I didn't have much time, but found the reading easy, and loveable. I quickly devored the first short story. That of a holodeck dream room, which aloof children close themselves away in secret from their parents. I must tell you of my day afterwards. I was in class, during an important lecture. I must confess that the story played around in my mind, the descriptions had brought on images;clear and meaningful. After finishing my laborous day, I quickly fell into the pocket sized book, found my dog-eared page and read another short story. And another. Every story left me fascinated, In fact, I finished the book before the night. I remember looking online for all of Ray Bradbury's works. I had fallen in deep interests with the man. He had, in a short interval of roughly twenty pages apeice, puzzled together a fabulous, demensional exhistance of fiction that I had enjoyed, and would continue to enjoy. I've read this book over and over again. I've read it in semenar, I've recommended it to everyone I know. I hope you find this book.-jeff
5 i really do enjoy this book but now i am just writing our words that are required to finish this review
4 This is a marvelous collection of stories in which Bradbury offers glmipses of human nature as only he can.  His style and prose are at the highest level and the characters stay with you.  This book is not quite as strong as "Martian Chronicles" in my opinion, but is still better than anything most other authors could produce.  Bradbury fans and newcomers alike will devour this volume.  It is worth the price of the book just to read "Kaleidoscope," a remarkable story that has been acted out by countless high school literature and drama classes across the nation.  Highly recommended reading.
5 I have read The Illustrated Man by Ray Bradbury many times.  I will continue to read this wonderful little book.  Like most of Bradbury's work, one can never get bored reading his stories.  His stories are at times terrible, dark and they are beautiful, fascinating and in many ways a portal to the future. They are also a wonderful escape from the now.The Illustrated Man is more a short story collection woven together by a central theme.  The theme is The Illustrated Man.  I agree with many other persons that it is important to realize he is illustrated, not tattooed.  And how did he get the illustrations? A witch did the illustrations.  He has been on the road searching for her ever since she put them on every inch of his flesh.  When he finds her, he plans to kill her.  Why?  The illustrations are magical and move on his body.  They are magic.  If you look at theme for a period, they will tell you a story.The Illustrated Man moves through 18 stories.  "The Veldt" is my favorite story.  "The Veldt" is one of the best short stories ever written.  I also enjoyed "The Long Rain" (about rain of Venus) and "Marionettes, Inc."  (about an artificial intelligence body double being used where a man can go out on the town, but the double ultimately taking the man's place and wife).  There are so many great stories ranging from Sci-Fi to mild horror.  It is a great book I would recommend for all middle school age and older.Read and Reviewed by Jimmie A. Kepler.
4 "The Illustrated Man" is a collection of short stories that are loosely tied together as tattoos on the body of the Illustrated Man.  The title character gives the impression that the stories told by his illustrations are so horrid that he cannot retain employment.  But as the tales begin, the Illustrated Man becomes silent.  As a result, the frame of the short stories never seems complete.The focus of most of the stories is space travel which may disappoint some readers as the theme does not seem to fulfill the horror that is promised.  Still, there are several quality tales among this batch.  "The Long Rain" is a realistic telling of a hike to safety on the planet Venus. "The Veldt" is a tale of a children's toy of virtual reality gone mad.  "Marionettes, Inc" shows characters replacing themselves with robotic counterparts to vacation from their marriage.  The final story, "The Rocket," is the heart-warming tale of the group.  A father creates a trip to space for his children in the adventure.As an early work of Bradbury, it is certainly not among his best.  I was disappointed that the Illustrated Man was only used to frame the short stories.  I would have loved to have seen parts of his story spread among this short story collection.  In this format, it seems a good idea was lost.
4 Very diverse feel here, some scifi, some general fiction and fantasy.  The stories are evenly well done.
4 Very interesting book. Never gets dull, as it is really a series of very short stories almost all of them concerning the nature of God.Bradbury comes out strongly against both religious people who are inflexible in their definition of God AND atheists. As an agnostic, I was actually a little irritated with parts of it, but you know, it would be hypocritical of me to expect Christians to take it, but not accept a little bit of criticism myself. So, just read it with a very open mind and a lot of curiosity about the world, and you'll love it.
5 In "The Illustrated Man", Ray Bradbury collected 18 splendid tales of science fiction, fantasy and horror, whose literary quality demonstrated that he was as brilliant a prose stylist and storyteller as his celebrated predecessors Edgar Allan Poe and H. P. Lovecraft. Though some of these stories may seem a bit dated now, more than fifty years after they were written, their vivid imagination, and excellent prose are still quite spellbinding. One of his finest tales is the chilling "The Veldt" which opens this collection, putting a radical new twist on disputes between parents and their children. Another classic is "The Fire Balloons", which is a riveting tale of how some Christian clergymen find their faith renewed on the planet Mars. The most frightening tale is unquestionably, "The City", describing the fateful encounter by explorers from Earth who have stumbled upon a deserted, yet pristine-looking, city. In these tales Bradbury has exploited the themes and metaphors of science fiction and fantasy so that these have been universal, and frankly, quite accessible to a wider readership than those who are interested mainly in these genres. I regard Bradbury as among our finest short story writers in any genre writing in English; "The Illustrated Man" elegantly proves my point.
1 I admit that I am not a fan of science fiction. Bradbury has written some good stories but this book is not one of them. It is essentially 19 short stories put together by the idea that a man's tattoos come to life.But most of the stories are simply boring or silly. One or two might be worth reading but that is it.  I say skip this book and read his other work, especially if you are a science fiction fan.
4 I shouldn't like Ray Bradbury's stuff, for the most part - its all about ideas, its short stories, you never know if what you get will be horror or sci-fi or fantasy.  I like adventures, explosions, robots and rayguns.  And yet I love reading Bradbury.  It&#8217;s a mystery to me.The Illustrated Man is more than 60 years old now: it&#8217;s a fix-up of previously published short stories in a pretty flimsy framing: but even the frame is a nice little story (and a variant of an illustrated man turns up in Something Wicked This Way Comes - in fact, the more I read of Bradbury the more I realise everything references everything else).  There is horror here, and sci-fi, and some of it is really high fantasy that happens to be set in space: all of the 15 plus short stories are different.  The Veldt is a favourite, as is a story set on rainy Venus, and also a story about a couple on the run through time.  All this in 250 pages?  Yes, and well worth reading.Its typical Bradbury - not that there is any other kind.
2 A couple spoilers here, but only when needed to explain why I rated the way I did.The stories in this book are not related at all. In the beginning Ray Bradbury tries to make you think all the tattoos on some guy are all inter-related. After about the 3rd story, Ray Bradbury apparently forgets about the Illustrated Man and makes no mention of him again and it's just story after story until the very end when he's given a few more sentences. That doesn't take away from the book though. I like short story collections. I don't know why he felt the need to half-@$$ an attempt at making a cohesive novel out of a collection of previously published short stories. Anyway...The first story really caught me and set my expectations too high. The first story is the best and it's really downhill from there. Most of the stories are so bad I wanted to give the book a 1 star rating, but there are a few gems that kept me from doing so."The Veldt" - Set in a future world where a family has a 3D nursery that will fully immerse their children in a world of their choosing. The parents begin to worry when the children begin spending too much time on the African Veldt. 5/5"Kaleidoscope" - A ship malfunction sends astronauts hurling through space. 4/5"The Other Foot" - Total Crock. Mars is solely inhabited by black people. White astronauts land and the blacks think about doing their own version of reverse-Jim Crow laws but decide to live in total peace and harmony and rainbows and unicorns and glurg and everyone gets along and things are wonderful because they are so much better people than white people. Total crock and blantantly polical. Shame on you Ray Bradbury. This story almost made me throw the book away. 0/5"The Highway" - Another political story about the industrialization of native lands. This one was better than the last, but still a bad story. 1/5"The Man" - Astronauts land on a planet in perfect peace and harmony. Because Jesus lives there. Seriously. 0/5"The Long Rain" - Astronauts stranded on Venus and it's constant rain. They are searching for "Sun Domes" to get out of the rain and into some artifical sunlight. Very good. 4/5"The Rocket Man" - An astronaut fights with the desire to maintain his career (and be gone for months at a time) or have a normal family life. Great story. 5/5"The Fire Balloons" - Priests take a missionary trip to Mars. Seriously. 1/5"The Last Night of the World" - The world is going to end tomorrow. With this knowledge a couple goes through their normal daily routine. 3/5"The Exiles" - Books are being burned on Earth. The characters of those books live on Mars. Seriously, Ray Bradbury is hung up on astronauts and Mars. 2/5"No Particular Night or Morning" - Two astronauts. One of them going insane. 2/5"The Fox and the Forest" - A couple travel back to 1938 Mexico to avoid the post-apocolyptic world in which they live. A nice break from all the astronaut and Mars stories. 3/5"The Visitor" - And back to astronauts and Mars. Mars is used as a colony for diseased people. One day a man arrives with the ability to transfer thoughts and provide the illusion of being in another much more comfortable place. 4/5"The Concrete Mixer" - The Martian army is preparing to invade Earth but are welcomed by movie directors who want them to act. What? 1/5"Marionettes, Inc." - A man buys a robot wife because he is tired of his own. Pretty interesting. 3/5"The City" - Astronauts land on a seemingly uninhabited planet. I won't ruin it. I'll let the story ruin itself. 1/5"Zero Hour" - Children are playing a game called "Invasion". But it's real and they are helping Aliens take over Earth. Seriously. 1/5"The Rocket" - A poor man has finally saved up enough money to send only one member of his family into space. 3/5
5 What is there to say when you finally catch up on a bona fide classic after so many years? It's not as though I'm entirely new to reading Ray Bradbury; like any serious reader and/or science-fiction fan, I've enjoyed much of Bradbury's work over the years, from Something Wicked This Way Comes to Fahrenheit 451 to The Martian Chronicles and beyond. And, of course, I've read (and taught) several of his short stories. But somehow, I had never sat and read The Illustrated Man cover-to-cover...and now that I have, I find that it's every bit as good as its reputation would have you believe and then some. To be sure, Bradbury's writing is more serviceable than literate; he was a man concerned with story and plotting, and showy or elaborate prose would get in his way. (It's a common trait among classic science-fiction authors, and in some ways, I think it's prejudiced the genre against richer prose...but that's a discussion for another time.) Even so, the stories themselves are so good, so rich that it's hard, if not impossible, not to get swept up into them. From a racial role reversal on Mars to a city laying in wait for a special visitor, from the dangerous appeal of Earth culture to the story of astronauts adrift in space, Bradbury's imagination is a thing of beauty, and each story is good enough that it could anchor a whole novel. Even so, Bradbury never lets his stories feel rushed or cluttered; indeed, they're all completely distinct and unique, a feat that sometimes eludes short story writers. Add to that the way each story grapples with unique themes and explorations of humanity, while never letting the story fall to the side, and you have a master class in storytelling. It's also a nicely dark collection; there's a lot more fangs lurking beneath the surface than you might expect, and they have a way of pouncing when you least expect it. In short, it's a masterful collection from a legend of short story writing, and it's every bit as good as you would hope for. If you've read it, you know this already; if not, you owe it to yourself to check it out as soon as you can.
5 Of course this book is a classic, as is most of what Mr. Bradbury created. I read this first in my younger years and it has stayed with me all my life. Pulled out the same copy I've had since I was a teen and reread it again last week. This book is really a collection of stories as relates to the illustrations found on the body of The Illustrated Man. Bradbury's voice is incredible and his imagination knows no bounds. He gave us views on how things could be in the future, many of which seemed to have come true decades after he wrote this. Someone else wrote: "hypnotic and emotionally potent voice and vision of terrible beauty" which I think sums up this book perfectly. Great reading for all ages above 12.
1 I don't mean to offend Ray Bradbury, but I didn't understand half of this book. I mean, some of the stories are quite unique, but once I read on and on about the other stories, I got so confused and bored. I didn't like this  book much.
4 One hot summer day, our narrator meets the Illustrated Man. When the man strips off his stifling long sleeves, he reveals the Illustrations, which decorate every inch of his bare skin. But, as he warns the narrator, they are more than Illustrations: at night, they come to life, change, and spell out stories. That night, the narrator watches these stories--and each becomes a short story in Bradbury's collection. From living houses to ever-raining Venus to the Martian invasion of the commercialized Earth, these often-harrowing science fiction stories range on all topics and all skill levels. Some of the stories are incredible and haunting; others are bulky or uninspired. It is a mixed bag and not as good as some of Bradbury's other collections, but the framing of the Illustrated Man and the golden nuggets sprinkled within make it an imaginative and worthwhile read. Tentatively recommended.It is particularly difficult to review short story collections because quality can and does vary from story to story, making it hard to summarize and judge the book as a whole. The median quality of this book is not exceptional, and it is not my favorite of Bradbury's short story collections (that would be The Machineries of Joy and The Martian Chronicles, which is not quite a short story collection but is close). The reason for this is simple: some of the stories are uninspiring--neither harrowing or scientific, they're vaguely satirical but without cutting witticism, making them instead simply bland. These uninspiring short stories drag down the overall quality of the book.Some of the other stories, however, and the framing of the Illustrated Man, are simply brilliant. For me, these include The Veldt, The Man, The Long Rain, The Rocket Man, and Zero Hour, and make up about half of the stories in the book. They range from incredible concepts to haunting ideas to wistful, more personal stories, and are all written in Bradbury's clear, precise, honest prose.I recommend The Illustrated Man on the basis of these outstanding stories. As a whole, the collection is a bit wanting, but taken individually, there are definitely some stories worth reading. Fans of Bradbury's writing will especially enjoy this book, and the short-story format makes it accessible to all readers. And when it is good--it is very, very good.
4 The Illustrated Man is a  collection of Ray Bradbury's stories which are sandwiched between the account of the titular man whose tattoos come alive at night and set the scenes for the 18 tales in this collection. All of these stories are classic Ray Bradbury -- full of spacemen, Earth-Mars conflict, psychiatrists, spoiled children, bad marriages, book burning, domestic work-saving technologies, and nervous breakdowns. They deal with the fear of atomic war, loneliness, prejudice, madness, and the dangers of automobiles, junk food, and media entertainment (but smoking is okay).All of the tales are written in Bradbury's incomparable prose and most of them are emotionally touching. But, not surprisingly, they're almost all grim, making The Illustrated Man a book that you probably won't want to read all at once unless you want to have your own book-burning nervous breakdown.My favorites are:*  "The Veldt" -- a father and mother are concerned about the reality of their kids' virtual games.* "Kaleidoscope" -- a man reflects on his life as he spins toward Earth after his rocket blows up.* "The Other Foot" -- black people living on Mars prepare for a visit from white men.* "The Man" -- spacemen land on a new planet and wonder what important event could have overshadowed their arrival.* "The Rocket Man" -- a boy and his mom receive a rare visit from his Rocket Man father.* "Marionettes, Inc." -- a dissatisfied husband purchases a clone so he can escape to Rio for a month without his wife knowing.* "The Rocket" -- about the best father in the world.This is a great collection (by Tantor Audio) for Bradbury fans who'd like to listen to his stories. Scott Brick's pleasant and enthusiastic voice is deft enough to realistically portray an old black woman named Hattie, a gum-smacking blonde California bimbo, and an entire Italian family. I recommend this version!
3 I heard about the book because it was a book one of my favorite characters Dr. Reed on Criminal Minds really liked, the character liked  the  book and gave a brief description of the content. I thought it was a pretty good book. The individual stories were not to long and they all actually reminded me of things you might see on that series The Twilight Zone , ya know the really old black & white show from back in the day with that dude in the suit with the weird voice. So if you wanna see a persons view on different topics from back in the day or you liked that old Twilight Zone show your prolly gonna like it alot.
5 Off of the top of my head I can think of five Isaac Asimov stories I like better than 'Nightfall'. 'Nightfall' is considered one of the more famous stories in all of Sci Fi. To write the story, editor John W. Campbell asked Asimov to consider what would happen if men lived on a world where they could see the stars only one night every thousand years. Thinking back on the story 'The Long Rain', included here in The Illustrated Man, I had to picture an editor asking Bradbury to write a story about a world where it never stops raining. Over time I've come to remember this story 'The Long Rain'. My review will be about this story.The Long Rain is a rain so constant it drives men mad. Bradbury places this story on planet Venus, and begins with (quite out of style for Bradbury), "It was a hard rain, a perpetual rain, a sweating and steaming rain; it was a mizzle, a downpour, a fountain, a whipping in the eyes, an undertow at the ankles; it was a rain to drown all rains and the memory of rains." It was originally published as 'Death by Rain'. I didn't notice on first reading, but had to wonder in hindsight if the rain was meant to be a kind of metaphor. I had forgotten the title and author and so have only recently read 'The Long Rain' a second time.Wow does this story stand for something else. The subjects of the story, four astronauts crash landed on Venus, are driven mad by the rain. Entirely mad. At one point, I felt the image of the crazy black man, standing on the corner, talking to himself, being conjured. But it could be any 'crazy' man. The story isn't really about that. It's about enduring the impossible. One of the astronauts reveals it's known the Venusians sometimes come out of the water and capture stranded astronauts, "I hear they have a delightful way of drowning you. It takes about eight hours to drown the way they work it". Eight hours being about the length of time men would be required to work. The second clue, perhaps, they story may relate to events in the real word. Later in the story an astronaunt says, "All I want is a roof and some quiet". His partner replies with, "That's only eight hours off, if you hold on".The men wander across the landscape seeking a Sun Dome. Domes have been set up across the planet for stranded astronauts. They are desperately seeking a way to find shelter from the rain. Three of the men don't make it but the fourth makes it to a Sun Dome. One reviewer, perhaps on Wikipedia, says the final astronaut may just imagine he reaches shelter. I didn't see it that way. Didn't see any clues that Bradbury intended the Sun Dome to be a mirage. The story starts out sharp with a sense of foreboding. Towards the middle it does becomes more vague and dream-like. At the end there is a sense of immediacy. The final paragraphs are the most real part of the story. At the very end, the final sentence, when the castaway drops his clothes and heads to the center of the fire I felt he was embracing a woman.The story that follows, 'Rocket Man', is about a wife's dedication to her husband. And a son learning to appreciate his father. When the husband dies, with his rocket crashing into the sun (not the way they feared), they refuse to come out into the daylight for quite some time. The Long Rain is included in The Stories of Ray Bradbury, which I would recommend over this one, The Illustrated Man. In The Stories of Ray Bradbury, 'The Long Rain' is followed by 'The Great Fire'. A story about a woman coming of age. It's not a coincidence the Long Rain is followed by these two other stories.
5 This was a great book if you have any sort of imagination! Written a long time ago but the ideas still relate to modern day. Makes you want to keep reading and reading and reading.
3 'The Illustrated Man' is a collection of futuristic stories by Ray Bradbury.  Although the stories stand by themselves, most are set in the near future when Mars is colonized by humans.  The stories typically have a humanistic/social angle rather than much in the way of action, although a couple fit decidedly in the horror genre.  It is these futuristic horror stories that were most enjoyable.Bottom line: a hit and miss collection of early science fiction stories that, I suppose, might be best left to Ray Bradbury fans.  Weak recommendation.
5 Ray Bradbury traz maravilha &agrave; vida.  Para o autor, a maior fora do universo &eacute; a natureza humana.  Suas coletneas de contos so, normalmente costuradas por um tema em comum.Nos 18 contos desse livro, a tecnologia desperta os intintos mais primitivos e os sonhos tomam dimenses inimagin&aacute;veis, num caleidosc&oacute;pio de magia, imaginao e verdade: tatuagens que criam vida, uma chuva de milhes de anos, rituais da &uacute;ltima noite do mundo...Um homem &eacute; encontrado com tatuagens em seu corpo - cada uma respresentando um conto do futuro.  18 tatuagens, 18 contos, 18 vises do destino da humanidade.Ele era um cen&aacute;rio de foguetes e pessoas, em tal detalhamento intrincado e colorido, que podia-se ouvir murmurando, as vozes das multides que habitavam seu corpo.Bradbury se apresenta como um narrador annimo, que se encontra com o Homem Ilustrado - cujo corpo inteiro &eacute; coberto de tatuagens ex&oacute;ticas.Cada ilustrao apresenta um conto:* crianas levam um jogo de realidade virtual &agrave;s &uacute;ltimas conseq&uuml;ncias,* astronautas entram em nossa atmosfera sem uma nave espacial,* aliens invasores conseguem aliados improv&aacute;veis em nossos pr&oacute;prios filhos,* Marte &eacute; colonizado por negros fugidos dos preconceitos da Terra e esperam com apreenso a chegada de uma nave terrestre pilotada por um branco,* guerreiros de outro planeta atacam a Terra e so surpreendidos e conquistados pelo sedentarismo e cultura rasa de nosso planeta,* sacerdotes viajam para Marte para estudar os pecados marcianos e espalhar a palavra de Deus,* uma cidade inteira &eacute; constru&iacute;da sobre pilares de vingana da mente de seus construtores,* autores de contos de terror que foram banidos da Terra s&oacute; conseguem se manter vivos pelas poucas p&aacute;ginas que restaram de seus livros censurados.Apesar de ter sido escrito entre 1940 e 1950, as est&oacute;rias esto atual&iacute;ssimas.As id&eacute;ias de Bradbury sobre o lado melanc&oacute;lico da humanidade esto muito bem representadas com sua marca pessoal e po&eacute;tica.  Os contos so apenas formas de apresentar estas id&eacute;ias ao p&uacute;blico leitor.O pano de fundo de fico cient&iacute;fica &eacute; apenas um detalhe, para suas fantasias e sonhos.
5 A sad, decorated wandering man stumbles into the life of another drifter.The tattooed wandering man is a terrifying canvas of brillant skin art and darkened dreams. A hated circus performer "condemmed to be free" as a morbid living gallery- each tatoo moves and glows animately; this anthology treats us to the best of the pulp Bradbury of the fifties. As Rod Serling told us in his TWILIGHT ZONE introduction we are transported from the depth of our fears to the heights of our imagination. Rocketing from the past to the future to the subconscious we are invited to a world where...A holographic Africa is so consuming that it...well... consumes.Time travellers from the totalitarian future must travel to 1938 for vacation only to find that they can never escape the future.An explosion rocks a spaceship... disgorging astronauts- making its crew satellites left to face their personal angst and collective end.An artifical sun provides respite from the grey rain world of Venus, but only if the spacewreck survivors are willing to pay a price finding it.A used rocket never travels to space but reveals the heart of a poor kind father,not the solar system,to his long suffering wife.A man heals and performs miracles in world after world, yet can only be met through faith not a rocket trip.A playground becomes a portal to the hell of childhood.A couple go to sleep on the last night of the world and forget to set the alarm clock.A man's robot duplicate has ideas of his own on where to vacation next.Poe gets revenge against future thought police from a die hard fan who manages to make others die.Long oppressed blacks find out that their former oppressors have nothing left to oppress.A psycho find respite in the void of space...and meaning as well in a sci-fi replay of Sartre.A city lives beyong the lives of its former inhabitants to exact revenge.A highway in Mexico becomes a river of life at the death of the civilization to its north.Are childhood imaginary friends always imagined? The earth finds a new nemesis in a suburban front yard.This book is a rocket simmering in the red martian sun. A rocket that darts wildly between the height of man's imagination and the depths of his fears as we were warned by Rod Serling in his TWILIGHT ZONE monologue. A rocket which darts with zen efficiency between the inner life of the soul and the outer space of the future.In the end the tattoo canvas moves...
5 delivered timelyHere is the original si-fi this author actually teamed up with Stephen King at one point, but is a genius in his own right, Rest in Peace Mr Bradbury, I think I have read all your books. This one was for someone who never heard of you.
5 Not that Bradbury's work needs any more reviewing, but this is one of my favorite short story collections.  While the stories themselves are fantastic as always, the narrative which ties together the book is the most intriguing story of them all.  The end of this book always makes me shiver, just a little, a power no other author has over his craft and readers.Second only to Fahrenheit 451, this book should be in classrooms, libraries, and homes everywhere.
5 I recently read this because I just got my first tattoo and I had seen the movie when it was released in 1976.  There are several other short stories here which are easy reads, Science Fiction, lots of space travel...back to the title story, I will see the movie again.
5 The book wasn't in the condition I expected it, but good enough. This is a fantastic collection of Bradbury tales, I had it years ago. One of my college profs was a Bradbury fan too and we used to argue which book was better, this or Dandelion Wine
5 Bradbury did it again with this masterpiece of a book! The Illustrated man begins with the intro about Bradbury's real life meeting with the real life illustrated man. This book is just the kind of imaginative brilliance expected of Ray Bradbury!!! Fans will be happy and new readers will be on the road to a new and exciting adventure,via The Illustrated man. Hooray for Bradbury!!!
5 These stories range from bizarre (The Exiles, The Fire Balloons) to thought-provoking (The Veldt, The Man, Marionettes, Inc., The Last Night of the World) to downright depressing (The Highway, The Long Rain, The Rocket Man, The City, Zero Hour).  There is a common whimsical element in all the stories that I found enjoyable, even if most of the stories don't have happy endings.  When I read a story, I had no idea where Bradbury is leading to until the last page or so.  I always felt a "gotcha" feeling behind each tale.  High recommendations for science fiction readers who want to read stories that don't take a lot of time but that are unforgettable (at least most of them endure in me in some form).
5 This is one of those &quot;must own&quot; books that you always hear  about, in a hundred years this and a handful of other Bradbury books will  be considering classics of American literature.  Basically a collection of  about a guy who has all this illustrations on his body that shows the  stories to an unnamed observer.  Personally I have no idea why he bothered  with the Illustrated Man concept, the stories stand on their own just fine,  though it does give him the opportunity to give a great sucker punch  ending.  And the concept is basically ignored after the second story but  hey when the stuff is this good who am I to complain?  The stories  themselves, like I said are all excellent, some more than others but it's  mostly the distinction between &quot;real good&quot; and &quot;really  really really good&quot;.  The highlights are the opening &quot;The  Veldt&quot; which is classic Bradbury and some story about some guys on  Venus who are going crazy from getting rained on and a few others.  Most of  his stories are science-fictional, often revolving in one way or another  around rockets but Bradbury deals less with actual science and more about  fantasy and dreams, leading to some real good touching moments, above all  his stories are about people, they just happened to be set in the future on  Mars.  Some are sentimental, some are creepy, some are funny but all are  good.  And it's quick reading, so you have no excuse.  Get it today
5 This was my first Bradbury book and it made me a fan.  I truly enjoyed the way this series of stories is presented through the tattoos of a stranger.  All the stories are very creative and keep your interest throughout the  book.  A work of extreme greatness to say the least.  It merits the title  of a 'Classic'.
4 With the passing of literary master Ray Bradbury on June 5, 2012, I decided to revisit some of his work (who didn't read Fahrenheit 451 in school). So I chose 'The Illustrated Man' and Bradbury StoriesBradbury Stories: 100 of His Most Celebrated Tales. In the new introduction of this 1951 classic he discusses his conversation with a waiter in Paris at the Champs du Mars near the Eiffel Tower. The young waiter explains his busy lifestyle and his love of dancing, he says, "To be asleep is to be dead. It is life death, so we dance as not to be dead..." The waiter goes on to ask what Ray Bradbury did and Bradbury says, "I write... so as not to be dead, like you."And Bradbury wrote until the day he died.His name will always be synonymous with prolific.The Illustrated Man is not perfect. It is dated. However, taken in context, it was unique, imaginative and ahead of it's time.Till this day, when I see a tattooed individual, which is quite common, I wonder to myself: what would their tattoos say? What stories would they tell if they were to become animated on their skin, like Bradbury's character.My fond memories transcend his written word, years ago when I worked at Borders, Ray Bradbury was always a great supporter of Libraries, book stores and literary events and festivals... if you lived in LA, you could meet Ray Bradbury.Dance on Ray Bradbury,Dance in the minds and hearts or your readers.
5 "Prologue: The Illustrated Man" and "Epilogue" are used as a binding element for this short story collection, linked together by images on the Illustrated Man's skin.The name of "The City" was and is Revenge, upon the planet of Darkness - and after 20 millennia of waiting, Earthmen have come calling."The Concrete Mixer" Ettil objects to the Martian invasion of Earth - he's been reading illegally imported Earth fiction, and knows how all such invasions end.Meet "The Exiles" - the reverse image of Bradbury's "Usher II"."The Fire Balloons" Father Peregrine and his colleagues have come to Mars as missionaries to the Martians. But there are two species of Martians - the dying race of the Martian Chronicles, and a species of fire globes that humans can't communicate with yet."The Fox and the Forest" Fleeing from a war-torn future, two time travellers have taken new identities in 1938."The Highway" provides occasional windfalls for Hernando and his family - tourists driving south into Mexico who want to photograph him as a picturesque poor farmer, for instance. The drivers always complain - until today, as they flee the atom-bombing of the cities."Kaleidoscope" Although the crew were spacesuited when the ship was torn open, none had propulsion units - so here they are, falling, scattered so that they mostly can't see each other, unable to do anything except talk to pass their last few hours. (One twist is that they aren't all caught by Earth's gravity - some go one way, some another.)On "The Last Night of the World", all the adults *know*, from having had the same dream, that the end has come. 'You don't scream about the real thing.'"The Long Rain" Bradbury's Venus is a jungle suffering near-perpetual rain - in this story, rain that *never* ceases. The planet's only continent has been seeded with Sun Domes for lost spacemen - but the natives occasionally manage to destroy them. The survivors of a rocket crash are trying to make it to shelter before the endless water torture cracks them up..."The Man" Hart, Martin, and the crew of their rocket have discovered a new world - but none of the inhabitants take any notice, because something *really* big has just happened - a messiah appeared the day before. Hart's first reaction is to ask if his competitors have beaten him here. :) ('I sympathize, Martin. I overlook your petty insubordination.' 'I don't overlook your petty tyranny.') Hart is driven to go on and on, so much so that he can't quite recognize what he's been looking for."Marionettes, Inc." Unlike _I Sing the Body Electric!_, here robots are illegally sold as replicas of specific people. Braling wants to escape his marriage, but gets more than he bargained for.Hitchcock lives only in the moment, rejecting the pain of both memory and anticipation. But in space, it's "No Particular Night Or Morning"."The Other Foot" - In _The Martian Chronicles_' "Way Up High in the Middle of the Air", African-Americans left Earth's segregation for Mars' freedom. Now the first rocket for 20 years brings the first white men the children have ever seen, while their parents aren't feeling charitable to these survivors of an atomic war. But Hattie Johnson doesn't want to see her husband turn into everything he hated."The Rocket" - The Bodonis dream of Mars - but have money for only one ticket.Doug's childhood memories of his father, "The Rocket Man", are of a man gone for months at a time without a word, for fear he'd want to be with his family, "home" for three days or so, then gone again. Doug's mother treats space as though it doesn't exist, wanting her husband to stay and have a life with his family - hard, knowing that you can see all the places where he's been, while they're forever out of reach."The Veldt" - The Hadleys live in the kind of automated-to-the-max house seen in "There Will Come Soft Rains" in _The Martian Chronicles_. The adults worry that the nursery, with its full-sensory storytelling experiences, has supplanted them in their children's hearts - and what with the African stories they've been reading lately, the screams coming from the lions' kills are unnerving."The Visitor" - Victims of 'blood rust' are permanent exiles quarantined on Mars, and they suffer most from homesickness. When a newcomer displays a gift for creating illusions of home, though, whose home will it be?"Zero Hour" - Children under nine have suddenly taken up a new game: invasion. It's creepy how Mrs. Morris' friends across the country *all* say their kids are pretending that the Martians are coming...
4 the only bad thing was that all the story was about space and rocket. but it was nice, and not that boring. special way of thoughts, and need some philosophical ability
4 I read this for a book club and don't ordinarily read science fiction. It made me realize what a great influence Ray Bradbury had on future science fiction (the TV program Heroes, the movie Gravity for two examples).
5 The Illustrated Man is my second favorite book by Ray Bradbury (Martian Chronicles being the first).  I have read it countless times and will continue to do so.  I could never get bored with it or anything Bradbury has written for the simple fact that reading his stories is a chance to see something terrible and dark and yet fascinating and beautiful.  Getting kinda zen there.  Bradbury does that to you.  The Illustrated Man, like The Martian Chronicles, is more a short story collection woven together by a central theme.  Here we have The Illustrated Man...not tattooed, but illustrated.  The illustrations were done by a witch and he has been on the road searching for her ever since she put them on evey inch of his flesh.  And when he finds her...he's going to kill her.  Why?  Because the illustrations move, they are magic, and if you watch for any length of time, they'll tell you a story."The Veldt" is probably my favorite here, as is "The Long Rain."  "The Other Foot."  "The Highway."  "Marionettes, Inc." So many great stories ranging from Sci-Fi to horror to whatever it is that Bradbury weaves for us.Dig it!
5 I was introduced to this book in middle school and have loved it and recommended it to many people since then, mainly because of the rich storytelling and beautifully crafted imagery that only Ray Bradbury could create. Admittedly, it can be just a little confusing in some places, but there are very few classics that can be read in one sitting and completely understood. One of the best stories, and my personal favorite, is &quot;The Veldt&quot; because virtual reality is no longer the sci-fi topic it was when this story was written. This makes the story all the more chilling, especially considering all the time kids spend in front of the computer and tv! All in all, this is one of the best books I have ever read, and I would recommend it to just about anyone over the age of 12 or 13.
3 A strange man's magical tattooes weave stories while he sleeps, stories that amaze, excite, and horrify. And when the moon is risen and the tales are told, the dark marks may tell the most horrifying story of all.Bradbury isn't for everyone, and several of his stories aren't for the squeamish. This collection of short stories is mostly tame, and as uneven in quality as most short-story collections. "The Veldt" and "Zero Hour" are brilliantly-stirred blends of sci-fi and gothic horror, while "The Man" and "The Fire Balloons" are dull and meandering improvisations on religious themes. Among Bradbury's most intriguing stories are the psychological dramas of "Kaleidoscope" and "The Last Night of the World," balanced by the tedious moralizing of "The Other Foot" (a story which probably had much greater punch in the years before desegregation)."The Illustrated Man" is a product of its time, and is streaked through with the dialogue, assumptions, fears, and expectations of the mid-20th century. Some of the themes Bradbury explores still resonate, but he never rises to the timeless transcendence of a Dickens, a Hugo, or an Austen. However, as one of the most popular and devilishly clever American novelists of the 20th century, his short stories here collected deserve a look. But don't look too closely...the picture may begin to move, and you may see yourself...
5 The Illustrated Man arrived in excellent condition and was everything I could have hoped for.
5 The most obvious feature that sets this short story collection apart is the morbidity and darkness of it.  Almost every story is about something gone horribly wrong.  You don't see that too often, I think authors are afraid to write that kind of story, but Bradbury does it well, and has a good way to present the stories (via the illustrated man) that explains why they're morbid.I think two or three were feel good stories.  Many revolve around rockets and invaders from Mars, which is completely representative of that wonderful time before the Russians became our big enemy.
5 This has been one of my favorite books and writers for decades and this is a very convenient and enjoyable version.
3 Bradbury reigns as the quintessential craftsman of sci fi literature in the 50's.  This anthology represents stories which were published in several periodicals, mostly set in the distant future.  The locale ranges from Earth to Mars and Venus, or just anywhere out in space.  We witness Invasions from both points of view: Earth being invaded and Earth men as the invaders.  He presents different ways Earth men use the planets, as well as the concept of Christianity in alien worlds.  Some tales deal with time travel and a few would make wonderful "Twilight Zone" episodes.The introductory tale, which provides the name for the anthology as a whole, is grimly completed in a brief Epilogue.  A traveler in what might be a Depression era encounters a strange man along the dusty road and offers to share his supper with him.  He winds up spending the night in the open with this weirdly decorated man, who admits that he is shunned even by carnivals-where freaks are usually welcomed. His entire body is covered with colorful and bizarre tattoos--which he has spent a lifetime trying to remove.  What is the curse of these odd illustrations, which cause normal men to send him away or rush off screaming in horror?This is Vintage Bradbury, who inspired a generation of sci fi writers.  His fantastic imagination and knowledge of human behavior combine to produce entertaining trips to realms of fantasy and science fiction.  After the odd sightings and rumors regarding Roswell in the late 1940's, America was poised on the frontier of space exploration.  Thus Bradbury's anthology and an armchair provided readers with their own rocket ship to the skies.  Although these tales precede the term "Astronaut," this author will effortlessly launch you into astral realms of fancy and the inner sanctum of the human soul.  Fortunately the innate qualities that make us Human are still present even in the 22nd century.
2 &quot;The Illustrated Man&quot; consists of some of Ray Bradbury's many short-science-fiction-stories. While the first couple of stories may interest you, you will later find yourself bored by repeated subjects, settings, and characters.Ray Bradbury tends to write excessively about space, so if you are a space fanatic, this is the book for you. Otherwise, you will soon realize Bradbury's style, and constantly you will find yourself knowing what will happen on the next page.Bradbury's imagination and vivid descriptions are at times interesting, however. At times his writing style can get to be irritating. True potential, but not a thoughtfully put-together collection of Bradbury's works.
5 rip ray rip bradbury the best most talented writer we ever had  he will be missed by many have a great journey into the unknown. see you on the otherside. "ozzy osbourne".
3 The Illustrated Man is a collection of 18 short stories, written by Ray Bradbury sometime around 1950. Each of the stories is supposed to be told via an image on the body of the Illustrated Man.  There are many recurring themes to be found within the stories but they are otherwise unrelated.  Among these recurring themes are science and technology, religion, book burning, marital relationships, families, martian invasions and a whole lot of rockets.  My two favorite stories in this collection are &#34;Kaleidoscope&#34; and &#34;The Visitor&#34;!  If you read nothing else in this collection, be sure to check those out.  I also liked &#34;The Long Rain&#34;, &#34;The Exiles&#34; and &#34;The Rocket&#34;. While I didn't dislike the other 13 stories, I feel that these 5 definitely stand out as the best of the bunch.  3/5
4 This is a very good selection of short stories that between themselves are unrelated.  Bradbury came up with the theme of linking them through the Illustrated Man idea, which is very imaginative but doesn't quite tie them together closely enough.  Still, there is real magic in the stories, perfect gems of sci-fi that stand on their own and can enthrall a child's mind and even an adult's.  I remember reading with the greatest excitement 40 years ago and the stories stand today, though I have since moved on to more mature sci-fi writers, such as Octavia Butler and Frank Herbert.Warmly recommended.
4 This group of highly imaginative tales, written in 1948-51, do nothing if not illustrate that 1) it's extremely difficult to predict the future and 2) no matter how much we struggle against it, we probably are doomed to reflect our own times and cultural environment.  Over half a century after Ray Bradbury wrote these entertaining stories, we have a lot of answers to questions about the (then) future thanks to hindsight.  Bradbury's characters still smoke like chimneys, they still use clunky mid-20th century machines for the most part---lugging electrical equipment and card tables across the light years in their bronze spaceships.  There's only the vaguest hint of a computer ("The City") and then of the giant, controlling variety.  Above all, there is no vision of the infinitely varied America of today---the space explorers in these stories are nearly all white Anglosaxons who speak and behave as white people did in the early 1950s.  The cultural oppositions and arguments in the stories are those of mid-century America.  While it is true that Bradbury writes of human nature it is also true that the nature he describes is as we saw it half a century ago.However, Bradbury covers a wide range of topics: child psychology; machine vs. man; imagination and emotion vs. cold science; religion; time travel, and race relations.  Some of the stories are unbelievably poignant.  In fact, I would say that  poignancy---the ability to bring out that quality without being sappy or twee---is Bradbury's strongest suit.  If you don't like science fiction, this book probably isn't for you, but it certainly has made its mark on American culture, with 47 printings through 1990.  One story, "The Exiles", probably laid the basis for his later "Fahrenheit 451".  Bradbury wrote many stories which featured the "wrap-around-comfort, totally mechanized houses" that appear in several works in this volume.  How many Hollywood movies of the last 15 years owe a debt to "The Fox and the Forest", a story of people escaping through time from a bad future to a quieter or more prosperous present ?  THE ILLUSTRATED MAN is a minor American classic in a perennially shortchanged genre, science fiction.  The dated technology and cultural styles may seem primitive today, but even they add a dimension of telling us about the times in which they were written as well as about the future as they saw it then.
4 This was the first Bradbury I've ever read, and was much better than that horrible show on cable.  Essentially, this is an anthology loosely linked by a wrap-around story involving the titular "Illustrated Man".  A carnival worker laid up by a broken limb, he decided to get fully tatooed in order to get another job.  Unfortunately, the artist who turns our hero into a walking canvas is something of a witch.  It's peak season for carnivals when, on a later summer afternoon, he meets our narrator...... and there doesn't seem to be a carnival in America that will hire him.  His tattoos become living stories when stared at by customers.  With spaceships, monsters and other oddities covering every inch of his body, he has become an unwitting page on which Bradbury writes his awesome stories.  (None of the fictitious carnival-goers care for the stories since, we're told by the Illustrated Man himself, they all end with the viewer's horrible death).  As night falls, the illustrations come alive, and the narrator comes to see tales of:- astronauts forced to confront their doom as they drift in space after their spaceship suddenly explodes (years later, this would be parodied in the movie "DarkStar".)- a living city built by a race of aliens annihilated by Earthlings and unwittingly discovered by exploring humans;- Human explorers seeking their outpost on Venus where it never stops raining (this was a strangely prophetic take on Vietnam, right down to references to congressional funding for additional outposts)- A mother and son driven to desperation by the occupational hazards of the husband's/father's job as a rocket pilot;- A community of African Americans driven to colonize Mars in an effort to escape earthbound prosecutions now confronts survivors of Earth's last great war;- Tourists who are really refugees from an oppressive future and will do anything to keep from having to back (or forth I guess);- A family in a future age in which artificial intelligence and virtual reality affect almost every aspect of their daily existence ("The Veldt"; this cautionary and visionary tale of AI and VR run amok seems to have provided the basis for far too many episodes of ST:TNG, none of which have come close to matching its subversive quality.)And other tales of exotic aliens, distant planets, rocket ships and the end of the world.  This is what science fiction sounds like when your characters can't mask what's going on with meaningless techno-babble.
5 Listening to this audio version of the book, I was reminded of how scary these stories are.  Narrator Scott Brick's light touch makes the tales all the more devastating--from "The Veldt" to its chilling bookend "Zero Hour" (with it's horrific, tossed-off line, "Mom, I'll be sure you won't be hurt much, really!")  These stories while nominally science fiction, can also be considered horror stories, especially when considered with the "Illustrated Man" framing device. (This audio edition comes with the full, final story of the Man which doesn't appear in earlier editions.  It also has Bradbury's 1997 preface.)  Anyway, these stories are very much likeThe October Country; I would only listen to these CD's with all the lights on.
5 Ray Bradbury really wrote in my opinion the perfect book.  I first read it in high school as a mandatory reading book, but have shared it with my daughter growing up and it never ceases to captivate both our imaginations and interest when re-reading it.  Each story is unique and intriguing in its own way.  I highly recommend for all ages between 10-99!!! THIS IS ONE OF MY FAVORITES OF ALL TIME BOOKS!!
4 Although it's not his best work, it is certainly up there. This book is as twisted, thought provoking and ironic as any other of Bradbury's work. This book is an intricate entanglement of carefully concocted stories that range  from creepy to depressing to simply wonderful. The only problem is that  after awhile you start to guess the end and that's very unlike Bradbury. I  recommend it for everyone...Not just adults.
5 as good as ever . i wore it years ago. but how convenient on my kindle. i love that i don't have to find a place for my books
4 I love these stories and have since I was young. There is a sense of wonder and amazement to Bradbury's work that just grabs me. I would suggest this to people whether or not they like sci-fi.
5 I read this when I was in my teens, was riveted by the vivid imagery, suspense, imagination and flow. More than 30 years later a few of the story lines have stayed with me... particularly the one about the rainforest, so amazingly vivid and touching.  So when my niece mentioned she likes scifi I ordered this for her immediately, and she told me she loved it, even chose it to write a book report about!  Other works by Bradbury are also good, of course Fahrenheit 451, but this one, with a series of diverse imaginative short stories tied into one book, is my favorite.
4 book came in good condition and very quick.  Farenheit 452 is one of my favorites so I wanted to read another Ray Bradbury.  It was okay, not as good as Farenheit.  Great selection of books on Amazon
5 This fine collection of short stories is my favorite by Bradbury. Bradbury writes humanistic stories with a poet's heart, using the sci-fi genre to place people into circumstances not otherwise possible in the here and now. By putting people into alien surroundings, Bradbury can render the human essence - sometimes noble and other times ignoble. Each of the stories comes alive in turn and exhibits a different aspect of humanity.
5 This is a diverse collection of short stories framed around a character from Something Wicked This Way Comes.  I liked the overall composition of stories and individually they are great too.  Nice turns, unpredictable.
5 I was actually waiting for a while to get this for my kindle. I'm glad they finally added this wonderful book.The story starts with a man who has these illustrations on his body (made by a woman from the future) that come to life and tell different stories. There's also a catch, they sometimes show the observer how they are going to die.But this book is not so much about that than the 18 stories told via the "illustrations" on this man's body. They are brilliant, witty and humorous. It is hard to pinpoint a favorite but a must read classic for any science fiction fan. I'm not very gifted with words so I will not ruin the experience of this book by prattling on but READ THIS BOOK...Miss you Ray Bradbury!
5 great sci fi action from a mind of the mid 20th century.  gives me nostalgia for original Star Trek.  good read to cultivate sci fi imagination.
3 The Ruby Knight is certainly at a disadvantage - it is the second book in a series and it has a cliffhanger ending. The plot is an almost hap-hazard pile of different things that is hung on the repetitive storyline. Eddings even adds some horror-y elements, but the attempt fails - he reveals too much too soon.What holds the book together? The crew of original, interesting characters that travels to find the Bhelliom (oh, yes, that's the entire plot; I just said it). Naturally, the characters do get stale after a while: we all know that Sephrenia is always mysterious, that Talen pickpockets anyone he meets, and that Kalten is going to lop off a few heads and then complain. I suppose that we have to take that with gritted teeth.Marten is completely absent from this part of the trilogy, and so is the damork. However, we do get yet another generic supernatural creature to think of as the immediate villain: the evil, insectoid &quot;Seeker&quot; is constantly at the motley band's heels.In all honesty, I read this volume just because I can't fathom starting a series and then not finishing it. This was not a reading experience that I might treasure.
4 Unfortunately, the &quot;middle child&quot; syndrome continues its time-honored tradition here. Although there is some action, for the most part &quot;Ruby Knight&quot; is a place-keeper, marking the time between when Sparhawk figures out what he has to do and finally does it.At the end of &quot;Diamond Throne&quot;, it was revealed that the only thing that would save Queen Ehlana was the Bhelliom, a legendary sapphire of enormous power. Once it was a part of the Royal Crown of Thalesia, but was lost during the monumental Zemoch War several centuries earlier. Now Sparhawk has to track it down, dig it up, learn how to control it, and get it back to Ehlana, before the spell preserving her life fails, and those of his friends who are supporting the spell die with it.So Sparhawk and Co. trek across the continent, fighting a few battles, meeting a few characters (some of whom will become important later, so pay attention), avoiding the Bad Guys (as led by Annias, the churchman who's seized control of Ehlana's kingdom and is looking to take over the Church as well, and Martel, Sparhawk's nemesis) and learning much more than they planned about the REAL history of their world. We finally find out what the heck is the deal with Flute, the Styric orphan Sephrenia adopts, but as I said, this book mostly exists to keep Books 1 and 3 from bumping into each other.
5 I have never picked up an Eddings book I have not enjoyed and this was no exception. I had read these stories prior to purchasing the book and was eager to revisit the friends I had made in its pages.
5 In his sequel to The Diamond Throne, Eddings spends more time developing the characters as well as taking the reader on a whirlwind quest for Bhelliom.  This book was one that I couldn't put down.  I took it everywhere with me and read it until it was DONE.  It left me wanting more. I recommend it to all you fantasy readers out there. I liked it much more than The Diamond Throne!
4 After some innovative medical research (use violence when in doubt), some help from a nine year old, flute-playing sorceress, and a visitation from a dead king, Sparhawk finally knows what is wrong with Ehlana and how to cure it.  Now all that remains is finding the cure (Bhelliom, the sapphire rose).  Not only must Sparhawk retrace his steps, but he is due for a confrontation with some deadly sendings from Azash, and an argument with an extremely ugly troll.  One can only hope that Ehlana will live up to expectations and put a stop to Annias's efforts to become head of the Elene church.And so Sparhawk, Sephrenia, Kurik, and a small crowd of other knights set about a quest that in all likelihood will kill them all.  Of course, 'supposed to' and 'does' are two very different words, but they definitely have their work cut out for them.  Have not fear with enough enemy hacking, enemy magicking, and a bit of divine intervention hope will spring eternal.  After all, how else would Eddings be able to write the next volume of this story.Sarcasm aside, The Ruby Knight continues to prove that the Malloreon was just sophmore slump.  This time the story, filled with detail and personality, continues to be entertaining throughout.  More characters, honest and not will appear, and new friends increase the complexity of the novel without bogging it down.  Eddings is an up and down author, so there is always a hitch somewhere, but thus far nothing serious has materialized.  I wouldn't call The Elenium innovative writing, but the series is good fantasy, and very pleasant writing.
5 These books are so good you have to read the lot , I am working my way throuh them, I have read all David Eddings books .
4 The Ruby Knight (Book 2 of the Elenium)OVERALL SCORE: (B+)READABILITY: (A-), PLOT: (B+), CHARATERS: (A), DIALOGUE: (B-), SETTING: (A+), ACTION/COMBAT: (C+), MONSTERS/ANTAGONISTS: (A-), ROMANCE: (C), SEX: (Light), AGE LEVEL: (PG13)This is a very entertaining fantasy story, by one of the best fantasy writers of today, while it may not be quite as good as his "Belgariad" or "Malloreon" series, it comes close.The main character is Sparhawk, a militant knight, who is erasable and direct, (kind of like John Wayne playing a paladin). He and a group of Church Knights, his squire, a young thief, and a styric mystic, embark on a just to save the beautiful young queen, who has been poisoned by the evil Prelate. God's get involved and things get complex for poor Sparhawk!In Book 2, the group splits up and the search for the cure continues, but the action and plot slow down. This is a typical middle book, not as good as the first or last in the series, but a bridge between. Sparhawk, really gets to travel the world and meet some unpleasant characters. One Lady who likes to sacrifice children then eat them is particularly nasty.CONS:Some of the characters actions aren't always logical. They are very quick to kill minor character without much provocation, but major ones they let live when they should kill.
4 Book Review: "The Ruby Knight" by David Eddings. Book Two of The Elenium.I enjoyed "The Ruby Knight" much better than "The Diamond Throne." In the first book I think Eddings spent far too much time tramping all over the world, discussing politics, and meeting new characters in the first book, all of which were much better in this second book.While there is still a lot of travel, there is a lot more action. We have a small core group of people that we follow for most of the book. This makes it easier to form a bond with these characters and care for them, as well as follow them. Ten people to keep track of was enough.I loved Edding's writing style. The characters in the book knew each other well and joked endlessly among each other. This made for a light-hearted times to help offset the gory battles and the constant danger the group was in.I loved the ending. It had a good surprise. (Won't spoil it for ya.) Can't wait to read the next in the series. Wish it was available for Kindle.
3 Definitely liked the first book better. This one kind of bored me and felt like it was dragging on too much. The characters are still fun. I hope for a good end to the trilogy with the next book.
3 I read The Moon of Gomrath when it first came out, and I was 9 or 10.  It was the first fantasy novel I had ever read and I really enjoyed it.  I decided 40 years later to give it another go, and I was disappointed.  In the meantime I've read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, and they are so much better than The Weirdstone and The Moon of Gomrath that the Garnerbooks suffer by comparison.  Garner is using the same British and Celtic ancient legends that Tolkien did, and Garner's using the same Anglo Saxon naming conventions, so Garner's books come off sounding like ripoffs of Tolkien's books.Garner's 2 books are probably good for 8-13 year olds, who may be too young yet for Tolkien's works, but as an adult, I found them disappointing.  The most annoying part was that Garner uses a lot of pronouns in sentences where 2 characters are mentioned, so you never know who "he" or "they" refer to.  The characters change their minds too often, and flipflop on what they are going to do.  The children want into Fundindelve, and then when they're in, they want out.  They leave the house on their own at all hours of the night and run around dangerous quarries and mines.  The children can run miles in the night along unknown roads, and yet the same path might take adults days during good light.  Susan doesn't wear a watch, but she has no problem with 2 bracelets.  The maps are supposed to be of real places, but the same landmarks appear at different places on different maps, and the scale is unknown.  The only character that rings true is Gowther, and at the end of "Moon" Garner mentions that he was copied from a real life person.  The other characters don't seem to talk or act the way a real person would.  I realize Turner was trying to make it seem as though they used older language, and that doesn't bother me.  It's that what they say didn't make sense.  The climax of both books is very abrupt.  The stories just suddenly end.  Turner never mentions how old the children are, or even which one is the oldest, but they don't seem to respect any authority and they do what they please.  They try to find things without a clue as to where to even look.  I just find this too unbelievable.  I will not be reading any more of Garner's books.
5 Perhaps the biggest problem with Alan Garner's Alderly tales is that there are only two. Like the book before it, "The Moon of Gomrath" takes the ingredients of stereotypical fantasy, and gives them a slight twist. The result is a moonlit, mythical adventure with a rare power.While walking in the woods, Colin and Susan encounter an elf and a dwarf, near where Cadellin the wizard guards the sleeping knights. They learn that the lios-alfar (elves) are migrating to Alderly, because a mysterious force is causing some of them to vanish. Unfortunately, proximity to humans' pollution is causing the "smoke sickness" in the elves, and Uthecar asks that Susan lend him the bracelet that Angharad Goldenhand gave her.But Susan is suddenly kidnapped by an evil force, and reappears quiet and strange. She has been taken over by the malevolent Brollachan. The dwarves and Cadellin are able to help Colin restore her to normality -- but evil is still stirring in the form of the Morrigan and her sinister cohorts. And when Susan and Colin light a fire to keep warm on a hill, they inadvertantly set off the band of magical horsemen, the Wild Hunt..."The Moon of Gomrath" is less like a real sequel, and more like "Part Two" of prior novel "The Weirdstone of Brisingamen," with the same mythical storylines and quiet poetry of Garner's unique style. But this time around, warring wizards and goblins take a backseat to elves and ancient warriors straight out of old Celtic myth.Garner's writing remains poignant and rather saddening -- the elves are sickening, Susan is forever changed by the golden bracelet and her possession, and the industrial world is slowly driving away past magic. Garner tells us that someone who uses a magical horn "may not know peace again, not in the sun's circle or in the darkling of the world."Susan and Colin fulfil the archetype of plucky-British-kids-on-magical-vacation quite well. Although Susan slowly transcends that over the course of the book, Colin doesn't change much. Cadellin doesn't appear much, but his absence is made up for by the lios-alfar, an evil dwarf, and the malevolent witch Morrigan.The mythical beauty of "The Moon of Gomrath" is only really comparable to "The Weirdstone of Brisingamen," its predecessor. Magical, mythical, and thoroughly entrancing.
5 The moon of Gomrath is part of a duology along with the very highly recommended 'Weirdstone of Brisingamen'.I first read this book over 20 years ago, and having picked up a copy recently was as enchanted now as then.Garner's greatest strength as a writer (personal opinion) has been his ability to describe, to evoke the mood and time and place for his fantasy - and by doing so to juxtapose the real and fantasy elements of his world in a way that makes both seem somehow more real than either would be alone.In addition, if you move past his technical craftsmanship, he has managed to bring the world of Celtic myth to life in a way and with a realism that I have never seen equalled.Ignoring both of those factors, the two books comprise a fantastically good read that I couldn't possibly put down.My only regret in reading these books, is that given the time since their origional publication it seems unlikely that there will ever be a third, and there VERY definitely needs to be - there was too much story still to be told.Read, enjoy, love - I did!I must correct one thing in my review above - at the end of August 2012 the third volume in the series, BONELAND, will be published. Even with a space of some 40 years, I couldn't possibly be more eager!!!
5 This is the second in Garner's ALDERLEY books, and can certainly be read alone -although one will perhaps do better by beginning with THE WEIRDSTONE OF BRISINGAMEN.  In both books we are given a wonderful mix of the magic and the &quot;real&quot; and invited to share in a world that seems to hover at the edge of peripheral vision.  MOON is perhaps a bit &quot;older&quot; than WEIRDSTONE, my Clare admitted to being scared by some of the things that happen to the children around whom the book spins, and there is a feeling that Garner is perhaps aiming more at early teens, but Clare was enthralled with the book at six and wanted to hear it again at eight &amp; I suspect I will catch her reading it when she is twelve, and we will still be talking about it when we are both much much older.
5 I first read this in, I think, 1970. It remains a wonderful blend: ancient mythologies, the thrusting of a magical world into ours, and an intense consciousness of the spirit of place, the power of landscape. I've lived in Cheshire, though not where Garner lives, and while I really was conscious of just the mundane world of roads and towns, I can see how one could find it deeply satisfying to immerse oneself in its rich history.I like his skill in weaving in strands from other myths. Scotland lent him the Water Horse, the "Each Uisge."  Young Susan did not know that story, or she would have been suspicious of the friendly black pony that kept nuzzling her until she felt it wanted her to ride it, and she mounted...and the pony took off at full gallop towards the deep, deep, water-filled quarry..."No! Stop!" The pony turned its head and looked at Susan. Its foaming lips curled back in a grin, and the velvet was gone from the eye: in the heart of the black pupil was a red flame. NO!" Susan screamed.You'll have to read it to know what happened...Colin and Susan had seen the creature, the Brollachan, before without knowing what it was:"The hollows of the valley were in darkness, and a patch of the darkness was moving, darker than the rest. It flowed across the grass, shapeless, flat, changing in size, and up the cliff face. Somewhere near the middle, if there was a middle, were two red points of light. It slipped over the edge of the quarry, and was absorbed into the bracken."Then we have the Wild Hunt with Herne the Hunter (though not named as such) the golden Lady of the Lake, the magical bracelet, dwarves, elves, the evil Morrigan...and all happening around the old farmhouse with its oil lamps and stables and goodman Mossock and his wife Bess. When they go to town: "Among all the parked cars, the Mossocks' green cart, with their white horse, Prince, between the shafts, stood thirty years behind its surroundings." I think Alan Garner would have liked to have been born thirty years earlier, or maybe more, such is the sympathy for rural life that comes through his writing.As the old clich&eacute; goes, "for children of all ages" (well, let's say 9 and up...and up...and up...)
5 The Moon of Gomrath is a sequel to The Weirdstone of Brisingamen.  As with his earlier work, Alan Garner has created a rich fantasy that draws heavily from Arthurian, Celtic, and some Scandinavian and Germanic traditions.  Readers will find themselves reminded of J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, and Susan Cooper.  The vocabulary is advanced, but children who read and appreciate Garner's books will be introduced to a marvelous world which will enrich their lives.Colin and Susan are two modern British children who are staying with an elderly couple in a tumbledown farmhouse in a remote corner of England.  They find themselves inadvertently drawn into a magical world filled with elves, dwarves, and a wizard who are preparing to continue a centuries' long conflict between good and evil.  The two children learn they have a magical talisman that can be used by the forces of light, but at the cost of great danger to themselves. The action is fast paced and exciting, with a satisfactory but somewhat sad ending.Like the best works labelled "children's fantasy" The Moon of Gomrath can be read and enjoyed by adults as well.  Children fortunate enough to read Alan Garner's books will never forget them, reserving a special corner of their hearts for them alongside other most treasured memories.
5 "The Moon of Gomrath" is another great fantastical tale - perfect for young teens and adults alike!  I agree with one of the other reviewers that the only problem with this series is that there are only 2 books in it - as I would glady devour several more!This is only the second book of this genre that I've read - which I would categorize as "fantasy".  I never thought I would enjoy such books, but after these 2 by Alan Garner, I realize that I was wrong."The Moon of Gomrath" continues the story of Susan & Colin's journeys through a paralell world of magic (their journeys begin in the first book titled "The Weirdstone of Brisingamen").Once again they are inadvertantly pulled into a fight between good & evil - one that will have major consequences for both the magical world, and the one they actually live in.The old-world language, coupled with the amazingly vivid details, work together to pull the reader in, and keep you turning pages to the end.A nice addition to this book was a note at the end which explained where the author got his ideas from, and the fact that all of the geographical areas used in this book (with the exception of just one) actually exist.Overall, I would highly recommend this book for anyone who enjoys using their imagination - you won't get bored with this one!
5 In this modern era, elves fare poorly.  Creatures of light, the air is no longer clean to them, and they are too crowded by human construction.  Atlendor's people are on their way north beyond the Bannawg to far Prydein, to aid the last kingdom of the elves.  But they must stop to rest and recover with Cadellin Silverbrow in the caves of the Fundindelve.  And thus unsuspecting, they are drawn into battle when the Brollochan, an ancient terror, is inadvertently set free.In this is the sequel to 'The Wierdstone of Brisingamen' we finds young Susan and her brother Colin still staying at Highmost Redmanhey.  Their time with Gowther and Bess Mossock in Cheshire has been peaceful since the defeat of Selena Place (the Morrigan).  Now that time comes to an end, when, seeking to speak with Cadellin, they become part of the hunt for the Brollochan.  For the first time they meet with Albanac, one of the elder men, and the dwarf, Uthecar Hornskin.  And proud Atlendor who is impatient to continue north.Shortly thereafter, the Brollochan seizes control of Susan's body, and it is only by virtue of her bracelet, the Mark of Fohla, that it is driven off.  Then Colin must undertake a quest along the old, straight track to find the magic that will bring Susan back to the living.  But unlike the first volume in this series, this time there is a price for the use of Angharad Goldenhand's bracelet.  It calls on an older magic than that of Cadellin, and soon ancient forces walk the land.  And this is only the beginning, as the children find they must once again do battle with the Morrigan to protect the human world from the dark powers that lurk on its edge.Once again, Alan Garner creates a world half from his own imagination and half from the vivid tales and legends of the British countryside.  Evil palugs and fierce bodachs course through the night in a landscape filled with strange places and names that seem to have double and triple meanings.  Best of all, the Old Magic is awakened, and the Wild Hunt rides again.  There is so much in this short volume that the reader is literally stunned into belief.Garner does not people his books with an excess of characters, and all, from Colin to Cadellin are larger than life.  Everyone plays true to archetype, but all are individuals with their own wisdom.  And so there are few players that one cannot come to love.  In a tale that is a conflict between good and evil, Garner does not let the good become shallow or too monochromatic.  The Moon of Gomrath is a powerful story at all levels, from child's adventure to morality play, and resonates long after the last page is turned.  Garner proves once again that magic is never really lost.
3 I just completed reading the entertaining, but still oddly lacking "Moon of Gomrath". It was when I had almost completed the book when one of the central 10 or so characters dies that I realized what was missing - any emotional investment in the characters. The book would probably have gripped my 12-year-old self far more than it did the million-year-old me. Pity, because it began with a roar. Still, I can't wait to read "Boneland" ... when I can find a library copy, that is!
4 As a teen I first read the &#34;Weirdstone of Brisingamen&#34; and never knew there were sequels. It doesn't have as much of an impact now that I am old and cranky but, a fun follow-up.
3 Book two in the &#34;Weirdstone&#34; trilogy, it seems more adult in its tone than Book one but less than Book three.  When I first read it, I didn't like that about it, but upon re-reading, I find the tone fits perfectly.  It's just that when I first read it I was still the same age as I was when I read &#34;Weirdstone...&#34;, whereas the book takes place later in time.  You might say that the book and its characters had grown while I hadn't.Now that I'm older, I understand better.
5 History books that cast light on what were effectively side shows of main battles always provide revealing insights to the wider war. Fergal Keane's Road of Bones is no exception and he has written a very readable and informative account of the Japanese penetration of Burma, the resulting fleeing of thousands of civilians and allied soldiers towards India, and the final battle of Kohima, India, in 1944. The human and civilian cost of the war is well described as well as the humanity of many Japanese soldiers -  a Japanese soldier is described comforting a seriously injured, probably dying, teenage English soldier and asking about his parents and where in England he came from. The strategy of the Burma campaign is well described and the country's importance to the overall allied position in the far east during the early days of WW2. Overall, an excellent read, well written and informative. Gripping throughout and a difficult book to put down.
5 It is possible that you have read something about this battle (Kohima), but, for sure , you have never find such a complete book about this subject, indeed for every person, Japanese or English, that played a role in this battle , the author reconstructs all his/her life to explain why he/she took a certain decision during the battle.What has really shocked me about this campaign in Birmania on 1944, it is how the Japanese Command could have decided to start an offensive into the jungle, crossing some mountains , sending no supplies with the expeditionary corp, but hoping to feed the soldiers with the supply captured from the english army ! Anyway this is what happened and the Japanese soldiers starved to death.The book is written with a very lively style as if the author would have been with the troops involved in the fightings.The siege is told with the help of a lot of first hand accounts and of very detailed maps.If you are passionate about the war in Birmania or in the Pacific, this is a book that you can't miss.
5 Rorke's Drift,Tobruk,Gloster Hill,Dien Bien Phu,Khe Sanh. The siege; a town or a military outpost held by a vastly outnumbered force against a persistent and determined enemy is one of the most stirring and enduring of war stories. Most will have heard of at least two of the aforementioned examples, but the battle for Kohima is one that may be new to many. It, along with the battles for Imphal and the Admin Box, turned the tide against the relentless Japanese Imperial Army in Burma and signalled the beginning of the end of the war in the far east.Much of the war in Burma was fought around a series of towns, villages and junctions on the all-important Lines of Communication - roads - running through the jungle between Burma and India. In 1944, The Japanese Army launched a 15,000 man offensive to take India from the hands of its Imperial masters and one of the battles focussed on Kohima, a tiny town in the Naga hills that was defended by a paltry 1,500 men of the British and Indian Armies. Even at the beginning of the two week siege, the perimeter was barely a mile in circumference and by the end it had been reduced to less than two hundred yards across. The battle was fought, as are all sieges, with great savagery and persistence on both sides, but the level of that savagery is remarkable. One of the most hotly contested areas in the town was the District Commisioner's tennis court, and it's sobering to read the description of this part of the battle which sounds more like something from the Somme, thirty years before..."Lance Corporal Dennis Wykes was also dug in with A Company at the tennis court, In old age his heart would quicken as he described the Japanese attack. 'They came howling and screaming and full of go. It was terrifying but the only good thing was the screaming let you know where they were coming from and so we got our lines of fire right and mowed them down. Wave after wave, we cut them down with machine guns. I didn't know if I was killing one or a dozen. I just swept the machine gun through 'em and that was it.'"Keane's account may not be the first and perhaps it says nothing new, but it brings the story of this terrible battle to a new generation of readers. It is very very well written; readable and compelling, and as clear a description of a confused and hellish military encounter as one could expect. It not only provides an account of the battle itself but also describes the political situation in the Far East and the wider campaigns leading up to the crucial moment. There are plenty of maps (although they are distributed rather randomly through the paperback version) and a nice mix of tactical description and personal account. There are some fine pen pictures of the leading personalities of the battle, including Generals Slim, Sato and Mutaguchi, and also of the humble squaddies who did the killing and dying... on both sides. Importantly, Keane has gathered accounts from the Japanese, Indian, Gurkha and Naga combatants as well as the British. The accounts from the Japanese soldiers are expecially poignant and give the lie to the misconception of the robotic Jap killing machine that endures to this day. The description of the operations by the Naga hill men (led by the indomitable Ursula Graham Bower) make a truly fascinating - and tantalisingly brief - addition to the story."An (Assam Regt) officer moving into his position at the tennis court found several (West Kent Regt) men leaning on the parapet in firing positions. He ordered them to move and then he pushed one. There was no response. They were all dead."Highly, highly recommended
5 An outstanding book well deserving of the critical acclaim it received. Keane skillfully weaves personal accounts from both sides by participants of all ranks into an engrossing narrative. Strongly recommended.
5 A moving in-depth look at one of the most tragic, horrifying and important WWII events in NE India. Lots of personal stories from both the allied side and the Japanese soldiers. A must read for anyone interested in history and the men who made it.
4 I guess I had heard initially of the battles of Imphal and Kohima while watching the Documentary World at War as a kid. Over the years I became obsessed with Burma campaign and its literature and narrative histories and have built up quite a library on the campaign. There is a lot here to write about... a battle of titans at the edge of empire in the twilight of empire. Jungle diseases, British county regiments far from home (regional accents replete from a different time), Indian cha wallahs and sepoys -- the backbone of the British Empire - fighting Japanese soldiers and Indian malcontents in the Indian National Army. All in a land ruled by headhunters and ruled over by benevolent and condescending British Officials thin on the ground.While General Bill Slim expected a Japanese offensive, he did not expect the thrust to virtually cut off the 14th Army in the Imphal plain by hitting it so far behind their lines that the entire Army was cut off on the Imphal plain. The key pivot was the hill station of Kohima -- the entire battle hinged here. The Japanese arrived after an arduous march through 100s of miles of jungle with an entire division against a small garrison of Kentish men which numbered as little as 700 men at one one point.The events, people and personalities, British, Indian, and Japanese are the focus of this narrative. Their bravery and seeming ability to simply endure in ways that perhaps modern armies cannot endure. I have been a fan of Mr. Keane since listening to his reports on the BBC.This is not a narrative about grand movements or strategy - those are kept brief and descriptive. This is a narrative of peoples, their experiences and the thoughts marching into a meat cauldron in the middle of jungle. It is a story of disparate men and women coming from around the world, eventually partaking in this battle with focused at times on charges and counter charges over the commissioners tennis court. Where gore, mud, drugery and sheer terror crystalised men to action or broke their minds and spirits on a battlfield that resembed the Somme.There are many stories here told by Keane. Of the an obssessive battle plan, marching three Japanese divisions through jungle with little preparation and not enough supplies - assuming they would survive on captured British supplies as they always had before. How Japan may have just about carried it off but for a small band of British and Indian soldiers who did not yeild Kohima. Eventually Japanese power wained and the supply and men deficit of the British Army eventually was succeeded by brilliant logistical planning of Slim and his staff access to American Dakota aircraft to ferry men into the Imphal plain.The British stood and fought it out. They endureed. They did not run as in the past. The result was predictable. The Japanese Army furiosity was contained and eventually lack of suppplies turned a retreat into a route. With no hope of resupply and little hope of actually making their way back across the Chindwin River the Japanese fought and died - and died well - with a spirit accepting death as "light as a feather."Keane adds a lot to the personal record in his book. Accounts from British, Indian and Japanese are a measure of his splendid research. He does little in adding to the general overview of the battle and does not advance any new ideas. But this is not that type of book. For people having a good background the personal narrative is interesting, but there is little new here. In fact almost no one will have a good understanding of the Burma campaign.... much less even knowing where Kohima is. In this sense Keane has done us a great favour in reminding us in a easily approachable volume that the modern world we live in is separated not only by forgotten battles in Indian and Burmese hills, but also modes of thought that may appear quaint, prejudicial or sheer barbaric are removed from us by a very small amout of historical time. The world is of course a better place for the defeat of Imperial Japan and Indian Independence was surely inevitable, but one wonders at times about the fortitude and perseverance of men for each other and for an idea. Surely those old soldiers --  British, Indian, Japanese -- deserve our consideration. Surely what they did and what they endured should never be forgotten. Keane's book reminds us of the importance of them all...
1 It's a shame..., that this whole nexus of confused thought ever became such a cottage industry.  Baigent, Leigh, and Lincoln basically started it all a few years back with a couple eccentric "noble" (read:inbred) pals of theirs, all of whom have/had certifiable mental problems coupled with way too much time on their hands; and now every non-educated pedant in the free world has this miasma of lunatic tales-told-out-of-school to waste his worthless life pondering.  Oh well, it's either that or Star Trek conventions I suppose.  Nobody capable of sober thought will give these matters more than a cursory examination before passing them by with deserved contempt.  For my part, I have a controversial theory regarding the authors of these overblown trivialities, half-truths, and wild fabrications: I think they smoke too much ... before hitting the library.  But I have no problem leaving fools to their folly.  What s[tinks] is that this "Rex Deus" (give me a break) franchise has effectively appropriated a diversity of subjects, including Rosslyn Chapel, deserving of legitimate research by qualified and responsible scholars, to the extent that virtually everything being written on these subjects consists of little more than a tired rehashing of the same series of absurd myths at the hands of semi-literate ....
1 I thought the book was going to be about Rosslyn Chapel, hence the title. But it was not. The first half of the book was spent dragging christianity down. The second 49% was about other cathedrals in France and Spain. A few pages at the end were about Rosslyn, but didn't say much. In fact neither did the rest of the book, more a ramble of thoughts and ideas. Nothing moving in a solid direction that lead to any insight you could believe in. What was the point??
3 I was expecting the book to cover the mysteries of Rosylyn Chapel, but it barely touches on its history.Rather is delves into the world of the Templars and the early Catholic Church, which, facts and myths aside, in itself is interesting.If you want to know more about the Templars, then this is a good book for you.If you were looking for a book on Rosslyn Chapel, this might be interesting, but will leave you still seeking.
5 Finally, someone manages to interpret Rosslyn - and to uncover and interpret a lot more than that.I can accept that a lot of critics will read this (the book, not my review!) and try to discount a lot of what is stated, but read it with an open mind and you might find something that has been missing - and I don't mean anything from the book.I would love to hear from anyone who reads this book and to discuss their interpretation. I'd love to discuss where it leads them and what their next book was after reading this one.dougridge@prodigy.net
1 SAVE YOUR MONEY. Since reading The DaVinci Code I have been in search of the &quot;grail&quot;  of info about the Templars and their relationship to Rosslyn Chapel. In spite of the title of the book listing Rosslyn prominantly it barely touches on it. I had hoped to learn the meaning(s) of the statues and the carvings. Forget it. These 2 writers(they collaborated) regularly use unfounded rumors to jump to what they then treat as irrefutable fact. For example they say that when Robert the Bruce,King of Scotland, defeated the English King it was rumored that horse mounted knights entered the field of battle just as Robert's forces were about to be defeated............note I say it was rumored. They built upon that and say in the book that the knights were Knights Templar and they galloped head long into battle and right for the hill where the English king and his generals were watching the fight. Fearing capture, the English king fled and his troops seeing him leave fled also. What a leap to a conclusion. Now for the humor. If these 2 didn't have the words esoteric,enigmatic,gnostic,and apocalyptic in their vocabulary they could not have written this book. They use one of or all of these words at least every 3 pages. All in all this book was a lot of phony mumbo jumbo,such as Jesus was a twin...........now that's a new one.......and darn little about Rosslyn Chapel. What a dis-service to those who bought the book.
5 If I were only allowed to recommend One book, Rosslyn would-have been the  book I chose to review! I opened it, while contemplating which book I would  sit down with, and suddenly realized I'd read twenty pages! This one will  be a timeless treasure and a perfect gift for the Mason or  Templar-buff...but, you will be pleasantly surprised when you find  substantial, historical discussion of Religions, Culture and myth vs.  history. Rosslyn will cause many debates and many individual shifts in  consciousness. This book is not for the easily-distressed fundamentalist.  Of course, if you have not studied about religion, culture, society, et  al...you will not understand this masterpiece of truth-seeking research,  yet it may inspire you to Delve-Deeper. This work contains a concise  chronology of the development of the religion of Christianity, with many  references at the back of the book to continue your research, if you are  inclined to seek the light. I found the writing style of this book to be  very captivating and flowing, unlike some of the  less-researched/more-embellished works on the market, which are not so  articulately and poetically drafted. This book should be compared with the  other important works of the genre, and I suggest looking-into the works of  Graham Hancock. &quot;Astrological Lore of All Ages,&quot; by Elbert  Benjamine will be handy to have around, while reading this one, as well.  Don't pass Rosslyn up...you'll regret it, later.
3 I read this book after reading 'The Hiram Key' by Lomas and Knight, so my views on Mr. Wallace-Murphy's research were a bit biased.  However, after reading through the entire book, I have found it to be very informational concerning the physical layout and surrounding area(s) of Rosslyn.  The only thing that 'tainted' the read is that he places too much emphasis on his esoteric views and tries to make history fit his beliefs instead of the other way around...otherwise, a great read with some really great pictures of the Chapel.
1 Horrendous and so derivative that I felt like I was in statistics class.  Man, this was horrid.  Boring, plodding, wasteful and not surprisingly, outclassed by every other book I've read in the genre--which isn't anything to brag about considering 95% of this stuff is garbage.
5 This is one of the books sold by Rosslyn Chapel bookstore; it is very good, and the "ancient" teachings about the Galactic alignments that can be very conducive to our enhanced consciousness are just recently corroborated in John Major Jenkins new book, Galactic Alignment.  So, Rosslyn is one of the very good books on this part of the grail; it's just that the Inquisitors don't want you to think that!!
1 Many will come across this book in the same way I did -- as follow-up reading to the best-selling "Da Vinci Code."  Although titled as a book on the Rosslyn Chapel, it covers much of the same ground regarding early Church history, the Knights Templar, etc.  Unfortunately, it is perhaps the most petulant and self-serving book I have ever read.  The authors seem to have written the book as a vehicle to express rage against the Catholic church.  You don't have to be a fan of the church to be put off by the transparent force-fitting of the facts into the authors' agenda.  I bought the book because I wanted more factual background relating to the "Da Vinci Code" material, but after reading Wallace-Murphy's work, I did not feel that I could rely upon his information.  Many of his most challengeable statements are footnoted, but the footnotes simply refer to early writings by the author on the same subject matter.  There is also much argument of the "hey can you believe this?" quality. Readers looking for dispassionate historical information will want to look elsewhere.
5 This book changed my life 3 years ago. It was sent to me by a friend and Ob/Gyn physician. I read it on the way to an out of town wedding and was committed to being gluten free by the time we got there! I've been so happy with the results of being off lortabs, advil, etc. and adding Magnesium as well as other vitamins to my diet. I certainly can tell with my pain level if my stress or eating habits aren't managed well. I have been clinically diagnosed with endometriosis, suffered through two surgeries and multiple medications. This book taught me more about endometriosis and managing my symptoms than I had learned in the previous 7 years. I still follow it today. It's an essential book!
5 This book is excellent for Endometriosis sufferers who want to learn how to manage the disease through diet and a holistic approach. Very informative, a must have!
5 This book was a gift for my daughter and she is reading it on the recommendation of one of her new care providers.  She is finding non medical ways to treat which is great and her medical doctor is okaying them.
5 This book is really informative. I have reduced my wheat, dairy sugar and soy products because of the information in this book.
5 Being someone who suffers from Endometriosis I was looking for anything that works. Having a basic knowledge of how nurtition affects you is a great place to start. If may not work for everyone because they symptoms affect everyone different. I will say it's a horrible thing to have to deal with and if a person is willing to chane their diet to try to help the symptoms than read this book.
5 This book is very helpful. I've been reading it very slow so that I can absorb the wealth of information. I highly recommend reading this before you try any other treatment for endometriosis.
2 Sorry, but I didn't get much out of this one.  Hard to read and boring.
5 If you only have one book to assist you in your treatment of this disease, this is the one to have.  Detailed explanations of symptoms and their causes and effective treatments.  The book is peppered with anecdotes from fellow sufferers that address all of the emotions, feelings, and concerns about this disease.
5 With medical conditions, such as endometriosis and hypoglycemia, doctors are limited to prescribing medicine that contains severe side effects and surgery that causes more disability and pain. Books written by Dian Shepperson Mills and Edward Krimmel is providing patients with a much needed look outside the proverbial box. Rather than limit treatment to pills and surgery, they suggest changing the foods we eat and drink as well as manage stress in our daily lives. I highly recommend this book, as it provides hope where western medicine cannot.
5 Of the books I have read, I found this one to be the most useful for me. It's an easy read, and full of great information. I found the best link with my experiences with the diet in this book. Really good read and I keep it by my bed as a reference. Excellent! Anyone wit this condition should have this book in their library.
5 As a sufferer of endo, this book is by far the most informative and explanatory that I have come across. The book explains importance of certain vitamins and minerals and how lack of these can negatively impact the body and effect pain levels. For example book states if you suffer from PMS that invovles abdominal bloating, breast tenderness, weight gain-sufferers need diet rich in Vit E, B6 & Magnisium; PMS that you experience cravings, increased appetite, fatigue-sufferers need B6, Mag, & Chromium. Books explains how endo can impact your body system outside of reproductive health, how stress impacts this disease, and a comprehensive approach to this disease. This book gives very practical advice and provides easily understandable info for a complex medical issue. I really appreciated this information. 3 docs told me my options were, cut out my uterus, go on birthcontrol (not an option, I would stroke), have a baby(give me a break) or just suffer. I highly recommend this book.
4 I have used this book as a reference for several years. It contains a lot of very scientific information, which I actually like to read because I want to understand the disease that at times has burdened me with pain daily. I agree with those who say this book can be life changing; through this book I realized my wheat sensitivity/intolerance. I don't mind going out of my way to eliminate that ingredient, because I feel so much better without it!This book is the best I've found for recommending a supplement program for women with endo. She does not recommend brand names, just strengths/dosages, so it makes it difficult. You have to find brands that contain the right amounts on your own. Quality supplements are important. I take 7 vitamins/minerals every morning, but it is worth it, as I feel much better when I'm on them.I have found vitacost to be a good place to purchase my supplements, along with many organic personal care items and greener cleaners, which are all recommended for women with endo. I also highly recommend consulting with a Dr. who specializes in bio-identical hormones (check out books by Dr. Michael E. Platt for more info.) Another option is to find a physical therapist who specializes in women's health, who can provide myofascial release for adhesions and help manage pelvic pain. You CAN live with endo without having to frequent the OR. I know - I had three surgeries for stage 4 endo before I tried finding alternative ways of coping.I live a much more comfortable life now that I've modified my diet, added supplements, use bio-identical progesterone, and have weekly appointments with my PT. I credit this book with giving me the 'kick' I needed to become an advocate for myself. Please note that I deducted 1 star because Ms. Mills contradicts herself frequently with her dietary recommendations. After reading through this book several times, it's unclear if she recommends eating soy or not. Same with dairy, wheat, and sugar. There are paragraphs that tell you not to eat these foods, but then she includes them in recipes. I have figured out by trial and error what affects me, and maybe that's her point - everyone is different so do what works for you. When you figure out your sensitivities, find cookbooks geared towards eliminating the offending foods, and cook in quantities over the weekends (Gluten Free Gourmet and Grain Free Gourmet  cookbooks are good places to start.) The baked goods will be different from anything you've ever eaten, but you will get used to it, and even love it, when you realize how much better you feel. Ingredients for gluten free and grain free baking can be costly, look for flour blends that are already mixed, like the multi blend flour from Authentic Foods.Overall, this is a great book for those wanting to know about their disease and how to help control their symptoms. I got wordy with my review, but that's because I've spent so much time trying to help myself - I hope that time spent can help others as well.
3 Unfortunately for me who have done lots of research on Endometiosis, this book did not provide me with much new information.  Also found that too much time was spent on the biological aspect as compared to the nutritional areas. I believe that more time should have been devoted to nutritional healing.
2 This book was not very helpful for me at all. I am glad to have it among my endometriosis arsenal, but the intense recommendations for all the nutritional changes you need to follow were just too much for me. I have taken several supplements and changed my diet a little, but had already done that prior to reading this book. There was nothing in here that really helped me. If you are someone who is willing to put in a LOT of time and effort and changes with your food, then this is an excellent book for you. Otherwise, unless you are just curious, I would suggest skipping it.
3 This book *is* written for &quot;A Witch Alone&quot;. It presents a different view of Witchcraft for solitary practitioners.Many Americans won't care for her style of writing, and those who live in places that are environmentally different from England might find some of her 'simple cost-effective supplies' a bit daunting (many of the trees and herbs she lists in her book do not grow in southern Arizona, for instance. And here it is quite illegal to go out and cut a staff from a tree (at least not without paying for a permit, if the state even decides to issue one for that purpose in the first place) unless it is on your property and is not a 'protected species') she is a strong proponent of not paying for magickal supplies, which makes sense, but it doesn't make sense if you can't get something she suggests getting yourself in the woods, if you don't have woods (or if it takes 2 hours of driving time at least to reach 'woods'. Most wild areas in this state are state parks, and there are rules regarding cutting of trees).Her suggestions are wonderful for those in England or places with four definable seasons, and for those who don't live in cities. (I don't have a garden. I wish I did. Gardens are hard to maintain in the desert - I know folks who do, but they have their own houses, and can afford the water bills.)There *is* a lot of useful information in here. The section explaining the tools makes a lot of sense. She's not a proponent of lots of fancy Ceremonial magick tools (neither am I), and suggests a staff, cup and serviceable knife (like a Swiss Army knife). No pentacles, athames, swords, altars, or anything else.Note that she does tend to criticize the modern Craft movement, esp. that in the US, but it may be deserved, and she doesn't 'bash' anyone.Her history is a bit skewed, but a lot of Witch/Wiccan authors have their own version of Witchcraft history. (History, cultural or otherwise should be gleaned from history books and scholars, not from religious authors IMHO)*I* can't use the book (There isn't much in here I haven't already been doing by myself, so I don't have much use for it, and at $16, it's too expensive to sit on my shelf gathering dust), so I'm reselling it.That doesn't mean you might not be able to. ;)Blessings
3 She teaches how to be a witch in 13 moon which is a good idea and she has some great excersizes and ideas but she teaches her way of being a witch. There is nothing wrong with that but the reader has to realize that there are many other ways to practice witchcraft and her way is not THE way to do it. Sometime I get the feeling that she feels like her way is the only way. I enjoyed the book because it had some new ideas in it and some of the excersizes helped me along my way but I would not reccommend this book to a begginer. At least read 5 or 6 other books from good authors (not Silver Ravenwolf, please because she will mislead a begginer more than any other author I can think of) before tackeling this one. I would recommend it to anyone that has been studying for a year or so because it helps understand just how different the practice of magic can be.
3 This is a very low-key, gentle treatment of a subject many books treat with more flash and less depth; it isn't a difficult read but it does encourage the reader to think, and although it presents a great deal of material it makes it clear that what can be found in books is only the smallest piece of available knowledge. The lessons are designed to be taken slowly, and are accompanied with both exercises and a list of additional readings. There is a specific lack of emphasis on tools--the idea of "natural magic" is stressed throughout--as well as a related general lack of emphasis on spending money (a very good book for the Witch on a budget :)). I particularly liked the chapter of divination, which focuses on some uncommon techniques, such as the pendulum, and gives instructions on making ones own set of divinatory sticks; I also found the visualizations presented to be lovely, comfortable to do, and not at all pretentious. Definitely worth a look.
3 I have to agree with some of the other reviewers. This really is a type of witchcraft not many can follow. I've been reading many different books about the Craft and I found this the least helpful. She recommends all rituals be done outside and that a staff be used instead of an altar. For many, especially in urban areas, this is difficult. Her way of practicing is a very beautiful one but it is not for everyone. There are some good points to draw from it though, beginners often get wrapped up in the technical and proceedural aspects of the Craft and not in it's connection with nature and the Earth. It presents a wonderful Nature-centered practice for those willing to try it.
5 Maron Green is a highly respected author and workshop facilitator.  I've never met her but I have a great deal of respect for her reputation.  Overall, I think it's a pleasant read, despite my disagreement with some of the material in the book.Even so, this would NOT be the book I recommend to newcomers to Paganism or Wicca.The reason is that while much of what is in the book is very good, some of it may be confusing for newcomers.  It's not that the material is advanced, it's more that many of the authors stated opinions in the book are not opinions shared by all Pagans and Wiccans.  This is not to say they are not popular opinions, but I think it's optimal if the newcomer is aware of the diversity of thought within the Pagan religions.Here is random example, on page 61:  "Real witches do not, and never have, called themselves 'witches'; that is a term applied by others."  Someone learning about Paganism might read this as gospel, I personally have known several people who proudly refer to themselves as witches, and would take offense if anyone tried to say they really weren't.  As a Pagan my experience is not uncommon.  There are many similar examples throughout the book.I heartily recommend this book for a discussion group.  Experienced Pagans might enjoy discussing the author's opinions, whether they agree or disagree.  An interesting topic of discussion might be that the book seems to reveal some differences between the English Pagan experience and the experience of those of us who live in the U.S.I also would highly recommend it for people who wish to teach a Paganism 101 class.  An experienced teacher would be able to find and make good use of the many gems within this book, particularly the exercises.
5 A WITCH ALONE, by Marian Green is an excellent place to begin studying the oldest religion on Earth.  Green is an English witch who does not appear to follow any particular tradition - a solitary or hedge witch. Because many individuals follow the solitary path, material from others, especially one as experienced as Green is quite welcome.  A WITCH ALONE is comparable to works by Rae Beth (Hedge Witch), who is also English, and the late Scott Cunningham (Solitary Witch), and addresses the needs of those who follow an more or less eclectic path of their own making.Green covers basics such as descriptions of the Lord and Lady as well as the Sacred Cycles (pretty much determined by seasonal change in the Northern Hemisphere) and she also explains the circle between the worlds and the journey to the other world which dwell more on the spiritual aspects of witchcraft..Green demonstrates that if you search for it, you will find plenty of evidence concerning the old ways - or Pagan traces. Sections of her book explore the cumulative knowledge of other witches covering such topics as the healing arts, Moon magic, divination and dowsing, and the ancient wisdom passed along from the elders. She also provides good references at the end of every section.Although I've been studying this material for sometime, I found Green's book truly inspiring and filled with good suggestions. She lays out the steps one needs to take to learn the basics of Witchcraft one month at a time - over the 13 Moons that occur in any Solar year.
4 I regret that it took me so long before I discovered and read this wonderful book!  Divided into monthly chapters, the book explores the wonders of natural magick and the nature of wicca.  It is not written to be read cover-to-cover, but rather to be gradually digested, each chapter discussing an aspect of wicca with ideas and concepts to be meditated on and thought about over the course of the moon before the reader goes on and reads the next chapter.If you are interested in wicca or natural magick, or are simply curoius about the goddess tradition, this is the FIRST book I would recommend you read.  (After which I strongly recommend Starhawk's The Spiral Dance.)  It is easy to read, the concepts are clearly written, and it is an excellent starting point for  a solitary practitioner.If you are already a practicing witch, A Witch Alone is a fantastic book for reconnecting and recharging one's spiritual energy, as well as for providing focus points for meditation and thought.  Truly a great book.
5 Love this book. If your a solitary Witch and need guidance this book is for you. I found it to be very helpful and a good read, you'll have trouble putting it down.
5 This is a wonderful book for many reasons, but what I liked best about it is the way history is incorporated into it. I was able to place sticky notes in certain chapters and pass it on to friends or family who wanted to know more about the history behind pagan religions.Everyone has their own path in life, but having a knowledge of history is, to me, very important in the ability to make up one's mind about true spirituality. This book gives that knowledge, as well as some very concrete pointers to progress along the witch's path. It is certainly not for everyone, but I greatly enjoyed it.
4 I'll be honest, I was ready to give this book 3 stars, but the reason I wanted to was unfair to the author. The book has much information useful to the Solitary practioner, whether a beginner or not. It is not the standard &quot;Wicca 101&quot; books that many are use to reading. This book will not touch on many different topics, it will instead delve into the heart of basic knowledge that all Witches should have.The reason I wanted to give it three stars was this, it was written by a British author, which is not a bad thing. I just found it difficult to read it. The language did not lend itself well to me as an American reader. The book took me awhile to read through, but it was worth it. Buy this book.
5 Careful reading, re-reading, and application of the information and suggested exercises in this book will prove invaluable, no matter if you call yourself Wiccan, Witch, or anything else.  With a deliciously relaxed  pace to the writing, just reading this book can help you slow down and  realize what beauty and serenity--and of course magic!--is to be found in  the natural world.  This would be the perfect companion for those who  prefer to take gentle steps into a new philosophy, as well as those who are  rather stressed and burnt out by their current practice and wish to renew  their centeredness and love of the Craft.
4 I liked this book though it must not have been my writing style b/c I seemed to put it down a lot more than the two other beginner books I purchased.  This does not mean I take away any credit from it as I think it may just be one of those books I need to come back to as the time was just not right yet, at least for some of the exercises.
3 While this book does raise some valid points about the throw away nature of today's Pagan movements, I'm not sure it isn't part and parcel of the self-same movements. I didn't find her condescending, but i did sort of get the feeling that she considered solitary practice a lesser one-good enough for the readers, but not for the author.
5 Aside from the once popular belief that only a 'witch' can make another 'witch, that the opposite sex must be employed when initiating, and/or training, Greene takes this, and simply steps up, over, and across such doctrines, no doubt founded by old Gerald, when he invented Wicca, in the 1950's.'A Witch Alone', and 'Wild Witchcraft' are two books that I would recommend for ANY Witch, Wiccan, Pagan, etc.Long gone are the days when Solitary worship were frowned upon.I myself, a Priestess of the Old Religion for over 25 years, have spent a good 2/3rds as a Solitary, BY CHOICE. While I do NOT agree to self initiation, a self Dedication ritual should suffice, merely getting 'the attention' of the gods and goddesses of witchcraft, and the Occult in general: Hecate, Diana/Artemis, Athena/Minerva, Lilith, Isis, and many, many more...this books strips away the Wiccan doctrines and dogmas, and simply gets to the bones of the Craft. Very empowering, and one of my highest reccomendations, as well as one of my required reading lists for my own students/acolytes, one who is now a High Priestess herself of her own coven, albeit Mohsian, an offshoot of Gardnerian Wicca, but what isn't? (Wiccan tradtions that is).In summary, I'll end with this:BUY THIS BOOK!!! LOL
5 this book is great for any witch solitary or coven. and beginner or advanced. it has exercises that go by the 13 full moons. she discusses divination,the deities,sabbats,healing,herbs and plants,the moon and  sun,etc. i highly recommend this book
5 I don't actually own this book but ohmigods I want to! I have read it about, oh, five times, and it keeps getting better! I don't believe there is a better guide for the solitary Witch on the market! 'A Witch Alone' is best suited to the beginner -&gt; somewhat experienced solitary Wiccan interested in ritual work. A practical but still beautiful workbook, it tops my recommended list, as even though it was written by a British Witch, it does make comments on southern hemisphere practices, something most 101 books do not! Gotta love that!Blessings.
5 This is a great one-year primer for those who want to learn not so much spellcraft, but rather how to live mindfully and in tune with the world.  There is an emphasis on becoming familiar with your local area, with plants, and with your intuition as well as paying attention to moon cycles etc.It's well written, calming, and trustworthy.  If you are a serious student of paganism, do add this book to your collection and refer to it over the years.  It's an excellent reminder of what, exactly, is important.
5 'A Witch Alone' is one of the first few witchy books I ever bought,and I often refer to this book, time and time again, for the wisdomcontained within it. One Reviewer complained that this book was "too poetic"or contained too many references to "the olden days", in which the Reviewerfelt he/she be sitting around the campfire (listening to tall tales?)To me, it is exactly 'the old days', the old tales, which teach ushow to be! "How to be" for today, and "how to be" for tomorrow.
5 This is a book I am enjoying completely.  Very well written and so much information.  This is a book I will keep nearby and read many times.
2 I bought this book because I liked the idea of a moon based cycle.  Though coven life is structured around the moon, most of the literature out there today is based on the Sabbats and the sun cycle.  As a high priestess, I was looking forward to reading a more lunar perspective.  But Witch Alone is not really based on a lunar cycle.  It is simply thirteen lessons.  They don't really connect to the cycles of the moon, or the wheel of the year for that matter.  And there are much more basic than I realized reading the description.  Basicly, it is a 13 lesson wicca 101 book, and not a great one at that.  The exercises are quite basic.  It is of course good to ponder what your conception of what the goddess is, or what the sun cycle means to you.  But these are things that most wiccans do anyway.  There weren't any ideas presented that I hadn't done before.
4 For the Witch following a Solitary path, this is a great book. It is also not an easy book.It's very readable, and the material is presented in a way that is not hard to follow, but the lessons are sometimes challenging. As the title suggests, the book will take you a year (13 moon cycles) to complete and &quot;master natural magic.&quot;Recommended for the serious student.
4 Shirley Trevena's work is stunning. After I got the book and did an overview, I decided her DVD would be helpful. I've now watched the DVD and I think that while she does a lot of demoing, she doesn't always explain what she's doing in much detail. For instance, she doesn't name the colors she's using (i.e., cobalt blue, lemon yellow, etc.) This is fine for intermediate painters (such as myself) who can identify colors and already know a bit about how watercolor behaves. I love her style and watching her paint is beneficial to me. But buyer beware...a stark beginner won't know what she's doing. In her demos, she doesn't draw the subject, rather, starts painting in shapes. I'm surprised she doesn't ever identify the importance of shapes, although she does talk specifically about line making. All told, I this book and the DVD and expect to spend much more time studying both.
5 Most watercolor books are just the same old same old.  Ms. Trevena presents new ideas and inspirations.  She incorporates different mixed media techniques.  She is more about making art than perfecting traditional watercolor techniques and subject matter.  If you want to know what colors are needed to paint the perfect lemon go else where.  If you want to know how to make a bowl of lemons look unique than take a look at this book.
5 Extremely beautiful illustrations and easy to understand instructions. The use of vivid color and her technique are a delightful change from the usual watercolor books.
5 I am totally addicted to Shirley Trevena.  It is nice to have the books to sit and peruse at my leisure. I don't paint florals but she is the master of loose painting, no matter what the subject is.
5 I love Shirley Trevena's work and unique style. She describes her paintings and the materials she uses to create them. She shows a step by step process of how she paints "Pink Pears Red Flowers," as well as tips and hints from other paintings. She talks about the use of still life props and photo reference. The book is worth buying just to see her wonderful paintings.
4 I've got so many art interests, watercolor being one, that I sort of wander hither and yon. Well, in November of 2012, I received this book, was disappointed as I paged through it because the format and illustrations do seem small. I stuck it in my big ol' art library, though, and went on to something else. Lately, though, I've cycled back to watercolors, particularly the loose, imaginative variety of Ms. Trevena, and I was thrilled to find I still had her book! So, I spent the better part of a day reading closely, cover to cover, digesting all the techniques, and I must say, it's a book worth having. Her directions are easy to follow, and illustrations are clear enough to give a good grasp of her points.She does one complete painting, in depth, from inception to final stroke, broken into segments that make perfect sense and are interspersed with additional techniques. This isn't a book where the artist gives a specific color palette and brushes, but I actually like this better. She suggests types of brushes and color harmonies along with creative tools you might not have considered. It's a book that might be confusing for beginners, but even they can pick up some excellent pointers and keep the book for later reference. Of her 3 books I know about, this one seems to be the best for technique. Glad I finally read it!
4 This is a great book i love the fact that she has an "out of the box" point of view very creative fun!
3 I was hoping for a great book that really showed good techniques. I think the author just wanted to write a book rather than share. You really need to be a more advanced artist to read between the line.
5 I know I will refer to this one a lot in years to come for my own teaching. She is a great teacher. Love the way she plans a painting.
3 Shirley is a interesting person.  I like her way of thinking.  She shows you how to look at your subject for three different views and make a painting using all the different views.
5 Although the title of the book refers to watercolour painting only, artists using other mediums will get inspiration as well.Shirley Travena dives into the medium with enthusiasm (no tepid, sepia palette here!) incorporating watercolour with mixed media (including of all things, oil pastels and collage) using imagination, flair and ingenuity.  The illustrations are vibrant; a feast for the eyes.  While tonal values, composition, alignment and other basics are covered, they are presented in an innovative way.  No boring lectures here.The author shows a delightful candour - admitting how hesitant she was when first starting - and even daring to show some of her early works, on which she has since improved.  But then she provides creative ways of overcoming problems, including the initial, daunting feeling of confronting a blank piece of paper or canvas.  In addition to trouble-shooting, there are numerous ideas for achieving great effects with very simple techniques.  Her use of masking tape to create different planes, for example, is very creative.This is an experienced artist who nevertheless insists there is no 'right' way to create pictures, which is borne out by such headings as "Daring combinations" and "If a picture needs something, feel free to invent it."  Whatever medium or style you use, doing some of the experiments and explorations in this book could well give a new lease of life to your paintings, as well as provide inspiration for new works of art.
4 I like the style of painting and this is a good guide on how to adapt the style and make it yours.
5 I own all of Olivia Goldsmith's books even though I hadn't been as happy with her later works as I was with the earlier novels but this one made me love (and miss) her all over again.The heroine was more realistic and relatable than a lot of the women in her stories but the story still had a kind of fairy tale quality to it.I liked the message of success achieved by being true to yourself, making the most of your talents and treating other people with kindness and respect.  If all of us managed to live our lives this way happy endings would be a reality and not fiction.A lot of the work situations and relationships (the toxic co-workers, the indifferent parent the ridiculous crush and the unexpected friend) will ring true and the depictions of London, its people and scenery are like a mini-vacation.I think that Ms. Goldsmith achieved something very special with this book and I wish that she'd lived long enough to create more like it.
4 I have to take a contrary view of this book to the others who have reviewed it.  I liked this book a lot, particularly so because the story takes place in New York and London. A quick and smart read.
5 I absolutely loved this book. I think the Book Description on Amazon does the author and novel a great dis-service...it reads like a fairytale chick-lit review. The main character and story have a lot more depth and pathos than just &#34;finding Prince Charming&#34;. I have to admit I'm an anglophile, and I love reading about London (especially now that, as a retiree, I can't afford to to travel there). Once the main character started her life in London, I was hooked. Far from a privileged &#34;fairy tale&#34;, I thought the story of her life in London (as a woman with very limited funds and no work papers) was very realistic, touching and uplifting. I could easily imagine myself living this way.It doesn't appear that this book was ever published in the U.S., which is really unfair to Olivia Goldsmith's fans. Another reviewer complained about there being so many 2cent copies available on Amazon. I think I'm going to take advantage of that, as I've already loaned my copy out, and I have a feeling that some of the readers I share books with will love it enough that it will never make its way back home to me! This one is definitely a keeper, to enjoy more than once.
5 This is a small story about a quiet woman that packs a powerful punch. I gave myself over to Claire and fell in love with her fairy-tale journey. This isn't realism, and I was fine with that. Watching this woman come into her own and find the life that belongs to her was so much fun and deeply emotionally satisfying.
1 I can see why there are 52 used for $0.01.  This book is purposeless.  What was Olivia Goldsmith's editor thinking?  The first novel I ever read by Olivia (and my only one other than this) was her first book, The First Wives Club.  Which was absolutely brilliant.  I snatched this up for $2 at a second hand shop because I was hoping to read more of her wonderful writing.I like takes on fairy tales.  And the tale of Cinderella is one of my favourites.  This, combined with my thoughts on The First Wives Club, made me excited to pick up my second Olivia novel.But this is TOTALLY DIFFERENT from FWC.  Its like its a different author.  Its like she got bored of good writing, like she couldn't be bothered with decent plots anymore and did this half-a*sed job just to make a quick buck.The story really does start out kinda dull.  It's readable, it's not really that boring or sluggish, but I question why, from the pages of 90 to 300 (the current page that I'm on) there is no plot other than Claire's days around London.  That is seriously all it is.  Just a diary of her days. What she eats for breakfast, which shop she goes into, how she rearranges Mrs Patel's dairy, which character she tries to bludge off.  I don't really like Claire as a character either.  She's a loner (which is okay - loner's can be cool - I'm an extroverted loner), but she keeps only to herself and would RATHER be alone than with anyone else - at all.  In London she makes a few friends but she really just uses them.  Seriously.  I don't know why Olivia would write about a supposedly nice "good guy" character that uses people.  Claire befriends people to get a job, or a flat, and when they don't offer those things to her, Claire gets upset and annoyed and wonders why she bothered making the effort to travel to that shop at all.  One thing that really annoyed me (and I don't know why - do other people agree?) is that when Claire is in Mrs Watson's flat she takes a bath twice a day.  If I was Mrs Watson I'd be annoyed that someone was using hot water like that twice a day as well.What is the point of this book?  I have no clue.  For over 200 pages there is no love interest, no excitement, no nothing.  Its just Claire's day to day life in London.  This book has no meaning or purpose or ANYTHING.  I can seriously say do not bother paying full price for this book, and possibly don't even bother reading it.  Nothing happens.  This is what I would call a throwaway book.  If you do manage to pick it up for $0.01, make sure you read other books you've been meaning to read first.  This should be a very last resort in your collection of "to read" books.I can't believe Olivia would write something as fabulous as First Wives Club and then move on a few years later to this dull, unexplainable book.
5 I read this book again and again. Though I am not a knitter or an ardent fan of London, I relish the heroine's delight in them and in Mr. Wonderful, her triumphs in London, and her new friends, and I found the book extremely satisfying. I didn't care much for her roommate or for Nigel, but I am willing to concede that her tastes differed from mine. There were a whole list of characters I was quite fond of, and I like reading about them.
5 Impressed by astounding cinematography of LOTR? I am. "The Art of The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings)" by Gary Russell shows the amazing art behind the movie is more than pretty pictures.From "The Siege of Gondor" to "Shelob's Lair," Russell walks us through the stages of design that created a real and surreal world of Middle Earth.With Shelob, for different artist's reasons for the balance of spider- and crab-like characteristics. Part of the problem was in trying to stay as close to Tolkien's own version while bringing plausible life to Shelob that would work in a movie.Some of the pictures are pencils. Others are full-color, finely detailed views. Various angles are provided as in the many scenes of Mordor. There are photos of early models, both colored and plain, giving a 3D perspective of what the artists were thinking.The insight here will intrigue nonartists like myself who are amazed at how complex the making of LOTR was, and serve as a primer for character and building studies. There are elements of technical discussion, but I felt I learned about the relationships of style and message.I fully recommend "The Art of The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings). It is a beautiful book, with interesting text. Having recently watched the movie, I appreciated both Tolkien and the makers of the movie so much more.Anthony Trendleditor, HungarianBookstore.com
5 Any sweeping epic is going to have tons of concept art, and &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is no exceptional. In the third collection of movie art, Gary Russell introduces us to the images and models that helped Middle-Earth come alive, and the excellent people behind them.&quot;Return of the King&quot; introduces us to new civilizations, new monsters, and lots of new enemies and allies -- even more than &quot;Two Towers&quot; did. So the concept art ranges from armor and clothing (Faramir's regal armor, the Haradrim, Eowyn's masculine disguise, the archaic &quot;Dead&quot; armor), the perfect pirate ships, different kinds of Mumakil (prehistoric elephants), weaponry (different sketches of the Grond battering ram), and monsters like the hideous spider Shelob, whose sketches take up a full six pages.On a more sweeping scale, there are full-fledged paintings, mattes, models and special effects shots.  Among the artists are the excellent Alan Lee and John Howe, who both paint and sketch their usual beautiful material. Jeremy Bennett also does a good job, although his stuff is substantially rougher. As for models? Try the ghoulish head of the dead king, different Fell Beast models, the Mumakil, and much more.It's nice to see the concept art in all its stages. For example, one Witch-King sketch from 1996 shows (Ben Wootten apologetically says) D&amp;D-influenced armor. At the same time, an early sketch of Gandalf confronting one of the Black Riders is shown in nearly identical form in the finished movie. Okay, Pippin isn't there -- but the pose and setting are similar.The comments from the many artists also give a greater insight into how the various things in the film evolved. Some things (like battering ram Grond) were pretty thoroughly described in the original novel. With other things, like the Fell Beast, the concept artists had to be a little more creative. So it's intriguing to see how their designs shifted and changed, ranging from the grotesque to the silly to the final designs used in the movie.&quot;The Art of Return of the King&quot; is a good insight into the making of the epic film, and the concept art behind everything from spiders to siege towers. Well worth having.
4 I always thought that an ideal Art of book should include powerful imageries that capture the movie's best scenes in initial stages. Yet this book leaves out many of those elements in favor of blurred panoramic art pieces that I found rather wasteful to the content of the book.Don't get me wrong, I like this book. Most of the artworks are astounding, it's just that I found many of the splash pages should've been devoted to more breathtaking images such as the Fell Beasts attacking Minas Tirith or Sam fighting off Shelob.
5 I've been waiting since December to get this! They kept delaying the dates 'Dec. 2003' to 'Jan 2003' now at last it's February and it SHOULD be available to buy online AND in store. I must say, the wait is worth it. As one would expect, this is a great book which continues where 'Art of The Two Towers' left off. A really great conclusion to the 'Art of Lord of the Rings' books. I find these books great companions the Extended Edition DVDs.
5 The final in the "Art Of" series, Gary Russel does a good job of tying up the loose ends, mainly concerning the conceptual design and final presentation. Daniel Falconer's concept art is of particular interest here, and Randy Cook as well, showcasing their excellent and experimental work well here. I really enjoy taking a few hours off, sitting down and reading a really good movie book cover to cover on a warm summer day and this one fits the bill admirably. With character and costume sections covered well, this book has become one of the best. A good price tag means you're not looking too hard for any flaws (And there are none) aswell. Informative and always fascinating, this is perfect coffee table reading. A Must-have for LOTR fans who want every single piece of movie making history.
5 This is a great book about the artwork created for "The Return of the King" part of "The Lord of the Rings" that one will enjoy reading over and over again.
5 Mr, Fraser has written a really good book, which makes a lot sense and was fun to read. One gets tired of hearing from the P.C. and the "Caring Brigade", so when I started reading this text it really was a joy to these tired old eyes.Not that I don't agree with everything with the Author. For example his oppostion to the 4th Afghan War. But Mr. Fraser has earned his right to opposed that war. (Anyone who fought under Slim in Burma has my respect) He also put forth ones of the best arguements against the EU that I have ever read.I also liked reading about Mr. Fraser's movie career especially about the Musketeers series in this tome. All in all it's one of his better books that I have read of his since "Flashman in the Great Game. I am really looking forward to "Flashman on the March" and just hope that he will get Flashy's involvement in the American Civil war edited soon!
5 This book is on the shelf withRadical Son: A Generational Odysseyand"I Heard You Paint Houses": Frank "The Irishman" Sheeran and the Inside Story of the Mafia, the Teamsters, and the Last Ride of Jimmy Hoffa. This is a great memoir that illuminates both the man and his times. Regarding the man, if one would read Frasers,Quartered Safe Out Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma, IMHO one of the great war memoirs,and see the suffering, the privation, death and destruction related there; well, it might give some insight to the personality, the nature of the man many reviewers here find off putting and embarrassing. I guess when you run across an open field to take a Japanese position and you see friends fall dead around you, it may affect you. How then to deal with that? One way I feel is to come to believe (if you didn't earlier), that this suffering and loss must be for something big! Something worth fighting for.Perhaps England?As regards the times, as the years pass and one watches the country and way of life you fought for and your friends died for, spin down the drain like so much dirty water, well maybe if you had a set of balls you'ld be irate. Fraser sure was and from the outside looking in it appears he had good reason. The book is divided into three main themes, Angry Old Man (my favorite), guess what that's about? Interlude (second favorite), it's a kind of AOM lite, and Shooting Scripts, about his Hollywood days. This is a great memoir by an Angry Old Man. Deal with it!And if anyone from ESPN/Santana Sports sees this, how 'bout covering the SignPost race?
4 "I write as a convinced Imperialist - which means that I believe that the case for the British Empire as one of the best things that ever happened to an undeserving world is proved, open and shut ... We did what we did, and it was worth doing, and no one could have done it better - or half as well."Bravo! Well, said.George MacDonald Fraser, author and film screenwriter, has delighted fans for decades with his Flashman series, his Private McAuslan series (THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN, McAUSLAN IN THE ROUGH, THE SHEIKH AND THE DUSTBIN), his history of the Anglo-Scottish border brigands (THE STEEL BONNETS), and his autobiography of his World War Two soldiering with General Slim's 14th Indian Army in Burma (QUARTERED SAFE OUT HERE). For those acquainted with these works, THE LIGHT'S ON AT SIGNPOST presents a Fraser not before seen.This book's thirty chapters are assorted, ten each, into three categories: "Shooting Script", "Angry Old Man", and "Interludes". In the first, Fraser reminisces about script writing for such films as the Musketeers trilogy, PRINCE AND PAUPER, SUPERMAN 1 and 2, FORCE TEN FROM NAVARONE, OCTOPUSSY, and RED SONJA. In the second, the author is at his outraged and irascible best as he rails against Britain's participation in the post-9/11 Fourth Afghan War, the contemptible incompetence of Members of Parliament in general ("government from the gutter") and the New Labour government in particular, the abolition of the death penalty, political correctness, women in the armed forces, the race relations industry, unrestricted foreign immigration, the dismal state of British print journalism and television, greed and dishonesty in professional sports, and Britain's membership in the European Union. Finally, in chapters headed "Interlude", Fraser ruminates on such diverse topics as the Act of Settlement, which bars Roman Catholics from the throne, boyhood trips to Scotland in the family caravan (trailer), the Anglo-American "special relationship", a trip to Russia, the British Empire, and ..."... the modern craze for garlic and peppers is symptomatic of Britain's decline. Time was when both were unknown here, and the atmosphere was not rendered hideous by a stench reminiscent of an inferior Paraguayan bordello. (I have never been in Paraguay; I merely surmise.)"For me, the best parts of THE LIGHT'S ON AT SIGNPOST are Fraser's political and social commentaries. Indeed, he uses such language that would cause Liberals to gnash their teeth and rend their robes.  Luckily, I'm not a Liberal, so enjoyed his rants immensely. Less absorbing were his remembrances of the film industry, perhaps because I only saw one of the movies mentioned, although his descriptions of the personalities of Burt Lancaster, Oliver Hardy, Edward Fox, Robert Shaw, Harrison Ford, Steve McQueen, and Arnold Schwarzenegger were enlightening.The book's title refers to the grandstand scoreboard which monitors the Isle of Man's annual Tourist Trophy cross-country motorcycle race. As each contestant passes Signpost Corner, about a mile from the finish line, a light illuminates next to his slot on the scoreboard. Fraser recognizes that his life is coming to its natural end, and he's perhaps just passed his personal and last milepost.Fraser's books, particularly the McAuslan trilogy, occupy a place of honor on my mental shelves. He's one of the most enjoyable authors I've ever come across, and I salute him as he approaches his finish line. And it's good to know beforehand what a Paraguayan bordello smells like.
4 The book is in three interwoven threads, Fraser's screenwriting experiences, 'interlude's, and 'angry old man', a series of essays about what's wrong with the world.  Much has been made of one of the latter, a short rant by an old soldier opposed to Britain's involvement in the 'Fourth Afghan War,' but these essays cover a range of topics, and there is plenty of scorn to go around.  The book should be uniformly interesting for fans of Fraser, but not strongly recommended for others.  For me, the revelation that he is not done with Flashman was worth the price of admission.
2 I genuinely enjoy reading Fraser's fiction and think "Quartered Safe Out of Here" is one of the great memoirs of World War II. However, this book is just one extended rant and ends up making Fraser look silly. The few times he scores points it is on easy targets.  Most of the time he is simply trying too hard to be a curmudgeon. There is something pathetic about a wealthy white male feeling victimized by modern politics and one wonders, for all his railing against political correctness, if he doesn't have his own sacred cows that he never examined.  Still, his anecdotes are funny and, as always, he writes beautifully.
4 Fraser is a brilliant writer, and one of my favorites. I have written every book and story he published, and seen most of the movies he wrote for as well. His command and use of the language is phenomenal, and he is almost always is a gripping writer.His passing was felt deeply by all his fans. I had corresponded with him a bit, and I found him uniformly gracious and unassuming. He was pleased at my comments on Flashy and McAuslan, and seemed genuinely touched when I remarked on his chronicle of own service (detailed in "Quartered Safe Out Here"), especially as it came from a fellow combat veteran, though I think that anyone who has served can relate to his depiction of Army life and the colorful characters one comes across while in service.I was thrilled to find first "Flashman on the March" and "The Reavers" and now this!That said, he has had some less than stellar turns -- but I tolerate even these (not to mention his obvious imperialistic views and occasionally appalling social views), as one overlooks the idiosyncrasies of a sometimes curmudgeonly but good-hearted old friend.As for his comments on the 4th Afghan War and the other ongoing idiocies -- speaking as one who was a "mud Marine" whose service included close personal ground combat,  I agree whole-heartedly on his assessment.I might add that the comments about "Liberals" on here by some of the reviewers are IMO out of order. I am a liberal and a progressive, and in addition to my Constitutional rights to these positions, I earned my right to my political and social views -- unlike many I have encountered on the far right who have never seen he inside of a uniform, let alone combat -- which includes most of the neo-con chick-hawks who lied us into war -- and who make dismissive remarks like these.IMO, political views have no place in reviews (other than of political works), and I am fed up at seeing and hearing them from those who generally have no idea of who they are speaking to -- and who I strongly suspect wouldn't have the stones to say it to me in person...As for Mr. Fraser, he earned his rights to his views the same way I earned mine -- in uniform, in battle.I think this book has some very interesting material, and it is also interesting to see an "insider" view of Hollywood.
5 Ten people are invited to Soldier Island for a very strange vacation. Each guest is hiding a secret from their past. One of them may be hiding murderous intent. Could it be their host, U. N. Own? One after another, they fall. Who is going to be left in the end?  This is one of Agatha Christie's most famous mysteries. I loved this novel because it's a very smart whodunit with so much psychological suspense that it made me listen for footsteps at night. The characters are so unique that when thrown together in this surreal conflict, the reader will need to decide who they believe is the most guilty and the most innocent.
5 Agatha Christie's classic novel, And then there were none had me up late, reading in bed.  I developed the habit as a young girl to always keep a book by my bedside.  I got grounded a couple of times for reading past my bedtime but it was always worth it.  Christie's novel was well worth the late night hours, early mornings and even the tension right before I drifted off to sleep.  For those who don't know the premise of this classic, 10 strangers are invited to Indian Island, made famous by previous owners and constant rumors.  Once there, the guests become aware of the horrifying fact that they will never get off the island again - one among them is killing them off, one at a time.  Once the ball gets rolling the book doesn't slow down and in brief lulls of action the tension is tight with anticipation.  Readers who haven't read Christie will be awe-struck at the brilliant way she pulls off the murder mystery.  The murder mystery was published in 1939 and authors today are still attempting to master the art as well as Christie did.
3 I purchased this book because it was acclaimed to be one of the best murder-mysteries of all time. Although I did find the book to be mildly entertaining, I definitely would not give it a raving review.
4 It is too bad the original title is so racist. Otherwise, this is a very good book.Check out Lady Amalthea's great review!!!!!
4 And Then There Were None (aka Ten Little Indians), by Agatha ChristieThere is a classic murder mystery story known as "the locked room mystery". Someone is found murdered in a room locked from the inside. No one could have left the room! How did it happen? In this story the locked room is an island where no one can enter or leave. The ten people on this island are murdered one by one. An old nursery rhyme of "ten little Indians" provides a blueprint for the mysterious deaths. Logically, the last man standing would be the presumed murderer, by the process of elimination. But what if the murderer died before?This is an example of the classic English murder mystery. The murder exists to provide an intellectual puzzle to entertain the reader. The participants are mostly the middle-class, and not ordinary people. No one works on an assembly line or other manual labor; even if they may be the customers for this product. Children are absent. The scene is a large house owned by a rich man. Raymond Chandler pointed out the differences in his essay "The Simple Art of Murder". Most murders occur because of sex or money, to get it or to keep it. Chandler commented on the highly artificial murder plots which multiply clues that experienced detectives would see through. You can compare these stories to True Crime.Chapter XI references one locked room mystery in America. An old gentleman and his wife were killed with an axe. The maid couldn't have done it. The respectable middle-aged daughter was acquitted. No other explanation was ever found. Who killed them?
4 arguably Agatha Christie's best work. And it is good, and my favorite of hers, but upon rereading I found that the ending was slightly cheapened. There truly was no way to solve this mystery other than being told at the end just how it happened. And I felt the death of one of my favorite characters at the end was just not fitting. But it is a great premise (and I correctly identified the killer, though not the way but somewhat of the reason). And it is one of the finest mystery writers at her finest.
5 I've first read this book in high school, and this is one of the very few books I liked then and still like now! This is not a traditional Agatha Christie book, where a &quot;detective&quot; comes into the picture to  inverstigate a crime which was already a done deed, and comes along to find  the suspect. You see the crime being commited right before your eyes,  and  are aware of what everyone feels and thinks.
5 Simply stated, this is best mystery novel I've ever read.It all starts innocently enough; 10 guests are invited to a party on an isolated island.  One by one, they start to die.When the first few die, you think to yourself, well, ok, this is a mystery novel; one or two of them - perhaps three - die off, one of the rest figures it out, gathers everyone in the living room, the crimes are explained and the murderer cought.But the guests keep on dying, and as they die, your tension grows: which of the ever dwindling party is the guilty one?  who will be next?  Who (if any) will remain?  You feel yourself drawn into the speculations of the living, you form your own theories (only to see them dashed), and you try, much as the characters do, to make sense of what is happening.  Surely this must stop at some point?  Surely apprehension is just around the next page?  Look, we're almost at the end of the book - this _has_ to stop, right?  But it doesn't; the end nears, the list of living shrinks, and bewilderment, excitement and tension all grow.  And then you read the end.I am a fan of the mystery novel genre, and have read many books of different authors.  I must confess, I have _never_ been so blown away as when I've read the ending of "And then there were none".  So shocking and yet - and only in hindsite - so perfectly obvious, that I was absolutely beside myself.The impression this book left in me stayed with me for years.  If you read no other book by Christie (or any other mystery writer, for that matter), read this one!
4 Review originally published on the blog A Kernel of Nonsense.Christie has compiled an electric array of characters all burdened by differing degrees of guilt. Some deny any wrongdoing by either justifying or minimizing their influence over the murders they've been accused of, while others have accepted their guilt and are haunted by the lack of accountability. As the pile of bodies begins to rise, fear, denial, and in some cases relief set in for these not-so-innocent guests.The backbone of the novel is its commentary on justice and how limited it is by the letter of the law. While in a perfect world, those who cause the deaths of others would be prosecuted and sentenced, in this imperfect world, some people do get away with murder. As more and more is revealed about the characters' pasts and their motivations, as a reader you find yourself justifying the actions of the mysterious executioner.This is my first Agatha Christie novel and I am really glad I picked it up. Reading And Then There Were None was like revisiting my childhood when I played Clue with my cousins, guessing that it was the butler in the library with the candlestick. I was riveted and stayed up late reading because I needed to discover who was behind the mysterious murders.
2 This book was good once you got to the end but it dragged on way too much. It is very confusing and hard to get into because no action happens well in to the book. I would most likely not recomend this book to any one unless you have alot of patience.
5 This is one of the most read mystery books of all time, Agatha Christie was really a master at setting up multiple chracters and threading them through an  interesting plot, leaving you until the very end to find out what really happened. She is a pretty succinct writer, so even though some stuff may be predictable, its not boring, because you're always being moved to the next scene.  This book is a must read for any serious mystery reader.
5 This is one of Christie's best stories!
5 This was another Kindle purchase - only so that I could access one of my early favorites on a whim.  This is the quintessential murder mystery - especially fine, since Christie did not rely upon moving the plot forward via the work of one of her detective phenoms.  It is a delight ... I was thrilled, when as a kid, I figured out the murderer ... but still stayed a bit unsure until the bitter end .... If you are new to AC ... Try Murder on the Orient Express next, (which I would never have figured out) ... and then any Marple or any other Poirot thereafter.
3 Sure it was ok for me but I don't really like mysteries but of course this was a summer reading project so ya
5 I really enjoyed this book and couldn't put it down. I would not suggest being home alone at night after reading it as it is a little spooky. I was surprised at the end. I did not think it was predictable.
4 This was my first Agatha Christie and likely not my last!  I enjoyed how the clues slowly enfolded, causing you to rethink the identity of the killer.  This was a clever, well done mystery.  I'm anxious to see the movie now!
4 In this book, you can read the story of ten peoples that don't know each other. They are invited to the island by someone called U.N.Owen with different reasons.When all the character arrived to the mansion, U.N.Owen in not there. That thing is strange for all of them. He has given the order of take care of all his guests to his servants. They were two, a cuple.On the first diner, they are all enyoing the time...but later, on of them died...here it's when the panic starts to come. After the second person that died, all of them tought that someone has killed the two people...and the only posibility was that the murderer was between them.In each time that one of them died, a little indian (there were ten), of the ones that were in te living, disappeard.This book is like the ones that you can't close, before you know the end of it. I give it four stars instead of five because I didn't like too much the end of the book...but the trama and the characters are amazing!!!.
5 This was the first Agatha Christie book that I had ever read and I absolutely loved it. Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down until the end.The story was written in a smart way, the characters were varied and credible and the suspense became more and more  claustrophobic as I was getting closer to the end, a genius, completely unexpected, but very logical end.The plot is based on a song with puerile, funny lyrics on the basis of which more and more shocking crimes are being committed:Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine./Nine little Indian boys sat up very late; One overslept himself and then there were eight./Eight little Indian boys travelling in Devon; One said he'd stay there and then there were  seven./Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks; One chopped himself in halves and then there were six./Six little Indian boys playing with a hive; A bumblebee stung one and then there were five./Five little Indian boys going in for law; One got in Chancery and then there were four./Four little Indian boys going out to sea; A red herring swallowed one and then there were three./Three little Indian boys walking in the Zoo; A big bear hugged one and then there were two./Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun; One got frizzled up and then there was one./One little Indian boy left all alone; He went and hanged himself and then there were none.Ten persons - Philip Lombard (ex-soldier), Vera Claythorne (ex-governess), General Macarthur, Emily Brent ("an elderly woman"), Doctor Armstrong, Tony Marston (a rich young man),  William Blore (a retired police inspector), Thomas Roger and his wife (cooks) and the Judge Wargrave - are tricked into coming onto a deserted island, near Devon, by someone called U.N. Owen who knows each one's past. They don't know each other, the only thing that they have in common being the fact that each of them commited a murder without being punished. As soon as they arrive on the island, the game begins: ten, nine, eight...the characters die one after the other. Will anyone survive? Read and find out!
5 I'm approx. halfway through reading the complete works of Agatha Christie, and so far I have to say this book has been the most different from the rest of her mysteries. It was spooky to me, and a bit harder to figure out. Usually I have some suspicion of who the real murderer is, but this one got me. I didn't have a clue. There's a twisted sense of justice being served in this book, of a human who is putting himself in the judgment seat of God. I don't necessarily approve of those actions, but the book did make me think. It was riveting - I finished it in one evening. Didn't think I would like it as much since Christie's famous Poirot or Marple were not in it, but I really enjoyed it.
5 I remember watching the movie "Ten Little Indians" as a young adult and thoroughly enjoying it. As an adult I realized I'd never read any of Agatha Chistie's novels and settled on this one. It was so enjoyable reading the novel and realizing thedifferences from the movie. If you enjoyed the movie you should read the book!
5 We&#8217;ve all seen some &#8220;Scooby Doo&#8221; in our lifetime. Some of you may have read &#8220;Goosebumps.&#8221; &#8220;And Then There Were None&#8221; is a masterful collaboration of these stories styles, as well as the thousands of other mystery stories around the world. This book is truly one of the best books I have ever read. Although that might not mean much, it truly is a great read filled with mystery, drama, and suspense. It has you guessing and wondering more every step of the way. This book is just one of those books that makes you want to read on because you want to know who the killer is so badly. If you are instructed to not read ahead by your teacher I do not recommend this book.The characters are so diverse that you really are constantly guessing who the killer is, and right when you think you have it, you don&#8217;t. There are ten people on a mysterious island each told for a different specific reason by a man by the name of Mr. Owen. Then the characters begin to die one by one for different reasons that seem to be parallel to the poem of &#8220;Ten Little Indians.&#8221; When the characters realize that Mr. Owen has simply rounded them up to kill them, they understand that there is no way on or off the island, or anybody but the ten of them on the island. They conclude, &#8220;Mr. Owen could only come to the island in one way. It is perfectly clear. Mr. Owen is one of us.&#8221; Fear runs through each of their spines knowing they&#8217;re in the room with the killer. They begin to point fingers, but to find out what unfolds you have to read this incredible novel yourself.I highly recommend this novel because of its amazing suspense and mystery. It has some of the best mystery you&#8217;ll find in a book, and suspense that will have you up late reading on. It draws the reader on and on as a desire grows within the reader. That is the desire to know who the killer is. Do not skip to the last pages of the book as it will ruin the experience. This epic mystery is a must read for all. Can you pick up the clues?
5 Christie didn't earn the &#34;Queen of Mystery&#34; for nothing -- this is one of her BEST plots. I'd read it long ago, and in re-reading it now, still could NOT figure out who-dunnit or why. Exceptional.
5 I found this Agatha Christie to be slightly creepy. The suspense went on throughout the entire book. There were no clues as to who it could possibly have been.... Brilliantly crafted.
5 This classic Christie whodunit has borne three different titles, which has been the source of some confusion. Originally published in England under the title "Ten Little Niggers" in 1939, it was retitled "And Then There Were None" for its 1940 American edition for obvious reasons. However, the English stage version of 1943 retained the "Niggers" title while the American stage version ran as "Ten Little Indians." Even more confusingly, the first film version, released in 1945, bore the American "And Then There Were None" title, while the three subsequent adaptations (1965, 1975, and 1989) took the "Ten Little Indians" title! The original offensive title comes from a Victorian-era music-hall song, which itself was a rip-off of an American song by Septimus Winner, circa 1868. All of which is neither here nor there, but only to help clear up any confusion. I would note that the most recent French edition bears the title "Dix petit negres", which somehow does not surprise me...As for the actual novel, it's perhaps the ultimate whodunit of the "locked house" variety. Ten people are summoned to an island off the Devon coast, none of them know each other or their ostensible host. The story starts by showing the ten en route to the island and provides a brief character sketch of each as background. I have to confess that at first, some of the men kind of blend together, and it takes little time to keep straight who is who. Once on the island, the eight guests and two servants wait for their host, who never shows up. Completely cut off from the mainland, they grow restless until one of them dies. When another dies, it can be no mere coincidence, and they realize that one amongst them must be a killer. The rest of the book plays this cat and mouse game all the way out, leaving the reader guessing until the very end. Because of the number of characters, there's not a whole lot of depth to any of them, but the story is obviously plot-driven as opposed to character-driven, so that should come as no surprise. It's an incredibly elaborate (and thus slightly contrived) web that is woven, but great fun, especially in bleak, stormy weather!
3 I was a little upset that this book was changed from the original book. I mean, it is a good book anyway, but the reason that I dont like it is that it changes sooooo much. even the ending is different. I say stick to the way it once was.
2 Someone help me understand...this is my very first Agatha Christie book so maybe I just don't understand her style of writing...1) This was more of an old school &#8220;Clue&#8221; storyline just set in the 1930s.2) I wasn&#8217;t sure about the little boy who kept talking to the Miss. Claythorne, was that the kid she killed? Was he talking to her in her imagination? Was this just her guilt or was she insane?3) Positive: I listened to the audio version of the book and the sound effects were great and the characters were brilliant in their dialogue. It really brought the story alive
5 Unlike most mysteries you will read, this one will always stay with you.  Agatha Christie has surmounted the mystery form to provide a fascinating story of morality and immorality, in which justice plays an unusual hand.  The title nicely displays the mystery (which has a perfect plot from my point of view).  And then there were none -- who did it?  Agatha Christie wrote this in a spare and efficient way so that the story starts moving immediately, and speeds up as you go.As you can imagine from the book's age and the author, this is a classic English murder mystery. The murders are there, but the blood does not overwhelm. Violence and social niceties nudge one another for your attention. At the same time, there is hope. Agatha Christie adds her hope for the future in a most unusual way in this novel, that will leave you encouraged for the future of humanity after first causing you to despair.One of the beauties of the plot is that it expands on the famous locked room format to include an island where there is no access or exit, nor any way to communicate.  That gives much more room for interesting plot developments without losing any of the intellectual puzzle of a locked room.An unusual factor about this novel is that you will soon find yourself identifying with the guilty victims (even though you are not a murderer).  Usually, mystery novels have the reader identifying with the innocents or the detective.  That is accomplished by creating a gripping sense of paranoia as the numbers of those on the island rapidly dwindle.Don't miss this book!  Once you start you won't be able to put it down.After you are done and have savored all of the book's brilliance, reflect a little about how Agatha Christie explored stalled thinking about what was going on to make the plot so effective.  Then think about all of those places in your life and business where things may also not be what they seem.  If you can use this insight to locate your misconception stalls, you will be doubly blessed by reading this book.  --This text refers to the Hardcover edition.
1 I've heard a lot of good things about Agatha Christie books, and thought I give one a chance.  This was one of the most boring books I've read in a long time.  Very slow moving, predictable, and poor character development.  I was excited to see them get picked off one by one because it meant the book was getting closer to the end.  Not sure why people thought this book was so great, but to each their own.
5 This book was very entertaining and held my interest in true Agatha Christie style. Love a good mystery where the killer is a surprise.
4 I'd read virtually zilch mystery novels prior to this one, but found it most enjoyable. It contains a twisted nod to justice, lots of interesting dialogue, and an ending that could easily leave you hanging, but does not. There are several plausible scenarios as to "who-done-it" that will flicker through your mind while reading, but in the end you may find you were more astutely aware of the most plausible than you thought.  So definitely give figuring out the mystery a try; and oh yeah, I've given  just an itty, bitty hint in this review ;)
5 The thing that I love about Agatha Christie's is their uniqueness. No two are alike, even two that have the same detective."And then there were none" is in a class all of its own, though. It has been previously published under the name of Ten Little Indians and is set on an island where ten people die. One by one they are killed off by a madman and there is no detective in the main part of the story, and you get to almost the end and think it is going to go unsolved. Until the epilogue that is, where is solved.It is a lot different to the style of Ms Christie's other books, but still enjoyable. I believe this particular story has been made into quite many telemovies. The only telemovie I've actually seen is "Death on the Nile".
5 Absolutely the best mystery novel I have ever read.  The intricacies of the plot were incredible.  The way the ten suspects are eliminated one by one, keeps you guessing.  Even as I tried to outguess the author, I found  myself going down the very path she wanted.  I was trapped.  I was  flabbergasted at the end when the truth was revealed.  Ms Christie has a  superb reputation for creating such masterpieces and, believe me, it is  well-deserved.  I have read at least 15 Agatha Christie novels and this is  the best so far.  Make sure you read the book before reading any potential  spoilers in somebody's review!
5 The queen of mystery writing deserves her reputation. And this is her best book. I have read and reread it and have yet to find a flaw. Originally published as Ten Little Indians for reasons which will become apparent as you read it, this little gem should be read by all who aspire to write novels. The characters, the landscape, the background, the build up of action, the fantastic action -- all leave me breathless as well as enthrauled with the perfect narrative tone and control exhibited in this masterpiece. If you haven't read it yet, you are in for a treat. It is way better than the movie, the play, or any of her other works including The Seven Dials Mystery, Three Blind Mice, Witness for the Prosecution and Murder on the Orient Express.
5 I love all Agatha Christie's books but this by far my favorite!  The story keeps you listening well beyond your planned stopping point.  Hugh Fraser is simply wonderful as the reader!  His talent really shines voicing the numerous characters.If you're a Christie fan, new or old, you simply must listen to or read this!
5 And Then There Were None : A Novel is a classic who dunit story written by the incredible Agatha Christie. The story centers on a group of people whom have all been summoned to an island. The plot is thick with suspense, psychology and moral and ethical issues. The descriptors used are great and the story is multi faceted and one never is able to figure out the killer and when it is revelead I was quite shocked. This is how good who dunit stories work and "an then there were none" is one of the best ever written. Splendid, indeed.
3 Decent mystery book. Didn't have a chance to get into it fully as quickly as I would have liked, and it seemed to match something that I would find on any run of the mill television series which might have been my problem. Regardless, it conveyed a well written personal touch of each of the characters, and drew me into the story enough to lament their respective deaths, which is really the goal of the book anyway
4 Also published as "Ten Little Indians", Agatha Christie's classic mystery is still one of my favorites. Ten people come to a remote island, all vaguely invited under false pretenses. With their hosts nowhere to be seen, they have a quiet dinner until a disembodied voice accuses each of them of murder. Of course, everyone claims innocence, but when the guests begin to die one by one, the accusations seem to have some merit. And they can only conclude that there is a true murderer in their midst. This mystery is a fantasy about the art of crime, and is one of Christie's more famous ones. It may not be her best book, but it is quite a delightful tale.
4 Island winnowing.This is not one of the series detective stories, and in fact as far as the setting goes is rather more like a horror movie.  A group of people are invited to an island, and not longer after they start dying by violent means.No crazies in hockey masks running around or anything, but the people that remain have to try and work out who is doing the killing and why.An interesting enough mystery.3.5 out of 5
5 I have read this story several times and enjoy it every time I re-read it.  Saw the stage play and it was just as good as the book.
5 Re-reading an old Agatha Christie book. Such joy! My mother has her entire collection which she is leaving to me when she goes. I bought the kindle edition because the print in the actual book goes all the way to the edge of the inside part of the page and it gets trying to have to keep bending the book back to read the words. Besides, bending a book is a big NO NO for serious readers and collectors. Even paperbacks lose a lot of their trade-in value over this.
5 I saw the movie when I was a pre-teen and that got me hooked on Agatha Christie those many decades ago.  It has been many decades since I've read most of her books and I have been reading a few of them over the last couple of years.  And Then There Were None is a great book and remains my favorite.  It has a fantastic plot that is unlike any other. I just finished reading it again.Highly recommended.
3 I read this book because my friend recommended it to me and I'll be honest, I was bored at first. The book started by introducing ten different characters and a bit of their background. The fact that it was all rapid-fire led to me constantly flipping back to the beginning thinking, "who's this guy again?". But once all the characters were established in my mind and the first murder occurs, things started picking up speed. While you might guess what happens next, you won't guess HOW it happens. You'll have to read till the end before the last piece of the puzzle falls into place and you find out who's the murderer. This book is short and sweet (well, maybe not sweet but you get the point) but don't let the length fool you.Agatha Christie is an amazing writer and will lead you by the nose with her stunning style. It's just too bad that it takes half the book before she does it.Good: fantastic portrayal of the murderer, detailed writing, large cast of charactersBad: Beginning is boring, some murders are a bit unbelievable, spends a lot of time explaining things that end up not all that important
5 This book was amazing! This was my first Agatha Christie book and I think I'll probably read more of her books! At first it was hard to get into, but after you get used to the author's unique style of writing, it is very exciting. You hit a certain point in the book and you can put it down!!Ten people are called to an island for various reasons, however all their reasons have one thing in common: each person has committed a murder that the law can't touch.After only a few hours, one of their number dies. Was it an accident? No one is sure, but they let it pass. After a while, however, they're sure it wasn't a fluke.Maybe it's just me and I get too scared over murder books and movies, but if I were you, I wouldn't read this book at night. . .
5 Summary: Ten people are lured to an island and then killed according to a macabre nursery rhyme posted in each of their rooms.Thoughts: One of the best-known of Christie's many mysteries, I have also found this to be one of my favorites although with some qualms namely the killer's sense of justice. One character certainly deserved to die based on a callous disregard for the lives killed through a car accident while others I was less convinced. But it is brilliantly written; as I've done with many Christies, I question if the reader could have actually solved this. Also SPOILER the killer does not die or receive any punishment for killing these people. I think it's a bit like Dexter in that: latent psychopath kills other killers which is troubling to my morality END SPOILER. One difficulty at the start was sorting out all of the characters as they are introduced one right after the other. But then they start dying and that makes it a bit easier to sort them out.But it is a very quick read and enjoyable. I liked trying to puzzle out how they were committed and how they would be committed although I knew I wouldn't be able to figure out who did it. I flew through it even with my mom's persistent interruptions.Overall: 5/5 Despite my perceived flaws, obviously a standout and definitely recommended!
5 This book is chilling for two reasons-first, it is chilling because of how good it is.  Second, the plot is also chilling.Ten strangers are brought together on Indian Island.  They all wonder why they were brought  here.  They soon forget their worries and begin to enjoy their vacation.  But then all of a sudden they start to get murdered one by one.  The people  realize there is no one else on the island except for them.  That means the  murderer has to be one of them!  But who?  This question sticks in the  reader's mind from when the first person gets killed all to the last  chapter.  I couldn't guess who the killer was until the very end.  There is  so much suspense in this book!  If you need to do a report or love  mysteries, but this book!
5 this is by far the best book on my amazon kindle. once you get to know the characters you are drawn into a masterpiece of words. agatha christie says things that get right to the point. there is no extra fluff. all the words serve a purpose making reading it a treat that will make you pull away from whatever you are doing to read it. the suspense is masterfully established. you will never see the end coming. i ddi a double take when i learned the killers identtiy. this story is worth a hundred dollars
5 I had never read this classic, so my girlfriend bought me a copy to read for our vacation on a small island.  I basically read through it in one sitting and now I understand why Agatha Christie was one of the all-time greats.  The story is a real nail-biter, and the ending is stunning; and everything in between is just about perfect.  The only thing I'd say, in comparing this to other books I've been reading, is that Christie introduces A LOT of characters in the first few chapters, almost too many to keep track of.  I've noticed that more modern books don't do that.  I wonder if people had longer attention spans back in Christie's day.
5 This is a MUST read for any Agatha Christie fan. She weaves a tale of mystery, murder, and betrayal that is full of suspense at every turn and twist of the plot. Just when you think that you have finally solved the mystery you are shocked with the unsuspecting truth. I recommend this book to anyone who loves a good mystery.  If you have never read an Agatha Christie mystery this is a good one to start with. This was the very first Agatha Christie book I read, at the age of 12.  I have read it atleast 10 times and still continue to be amazed at the end of the book.
3 I enjoyed this &#34;period piece&#34; for what it was, an old fashioned, English, whodunit.  This was very early work for Agatha Christie and she was very good at keeping clear the ongoing multiple characters, making it a very easy read.
4 Wonderful classic mystery that will keep you guessing until the very end!  Christie is a must for all mystery fans!
5 Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None is the story of ten strangers who are invited to Indian Island by the mysterious U.N. Owen. The mystery starts once the guests arrive and find that Mr.Owen himself is nowhere to be found. Although I usually don't read mysteries (I read this one for school.) I really enjoyed this book. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes murder mysteries that leave the blood and gore out and focus mostly on the plot. The characters (all ten of them) were so realistic I couldn't help but hope that certain characters would be U.N. Owen's next victims. The only thing that I didn't like about this book is the fact I had already been able to guess who U.N. Owen was by the end of the book. I would recommend this book to anyone even if you have already seen the movie. ( The plot varies a little between the book and movie.)
5 I read this nearly 40 years ago and, although a bit old fashioned in modern times, it's still an interesting mystery. A classic Agatha Christie. Definitely worth reading again, and I was glad I was able to find a replacement copy.
4 I just received my Kindle for Christmas, and was sent on a mystery-reading frenzy sparked by the recent Sherlock Holmes movie. I started with the Holmes stories, and have made my way to Agatha Christie, whose books I have never read. The first I downloaded was And Then There Was None. I started reading it late last night and immediately continued this morning. Since my husband was out running errands, I found myself in the house alone right when the book was reaching its climax. I was so scared that every little noise in the house made me jump. I was quite literally on the edge of my seat! I have to say that it's probably the first time that a book has made me react in such a way. I cannot wait to read more, and will hopefully be diving into the Miss Marple series next. So, in short, this was a great afternoon read for any mystery lover!
5 Agatha Christie has set a new precedent for murder-mystery novels.  She has redefined suspence, and created a new level of unpredictable endings.  This novel is the most thrilling story I have ever endulged in.  The plot is classic, with a creative twist.  Using the common nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians" added almost a child-like atmosphere to the gruesome depths of the story.  The finale includes the most unexpected twist since the ending of M. Night Shamalyan's movie "The Sixth Sense."
5 Was truely a confusing mystery. In this I mean I thought I knew "who dun it" but of course I was wrong. Agatha Christie was amazing and in the end it was sooo worth the journey. Very clever mystery and she made it work nicely. A definite read.
4 What a great book to read, especially if you are looking for something quick and absorbing.  In "And Then There Were None", Agatha Christie delivers the classic whodunit.From the interrogation of the suspects and examination of the crime scenes Christie provides us the clues to start to make our own deductions on who is the murder.  Eventually, like most people I am sure, we need to reassemble our thoughts as our main suspect is killed off.  I found myself more than once going back to review the evidence and constantly rereading the nursery rhyme that makes available the plot.As stated above, it's a great book.  I read that over 100 million copies of "And Then There Were None" have been sold, making it the seventh highest selling book ever.  Also, only the Bible is said to have more books sold than Agatha Christie's collection.  In terms of authors, her name is readily accepted with Shakespeare's as among the best selling authors of all time.  Impressive.Enjoy the book.Ps.  Look up pictures of Burgh Island if you want to see Christie's inspiration for Indian Island.
2 I know this book is highly recommended, but I did not think it was that great. The setting and plot line really intrigued me, but I hated the predictable ending. Long before the end, it becomes obvious why no one can figure out whodunit. I also did not really like any of the characters. The use of the poem was clever, but overall I was disappointed with this book.
5 As a kid I read every single Agatha Christie book ever written, and I own every single one. Every now and then I go back and re-read one of my collection. And Then There Were None is one of my favorites. No one writes like Agatha Christie wrote, no one. Her books remind me of a simpler time when murder was unusual, not the norm as we are facing now on a daily basis. All this reminds me to pray and I want to share a new book which helped me greatly along those lines. Lin Tomasso's book Prayer Warrior: How to Get Your Prayers Answered showed me the mistakes I was making and how to correct them to get my prayers answered. I downloaded it to my laptop (you can download it to your computer or any other device) for $2.99 at smashwords.com. This new author is down to earth and on point and will show you the prayer formula that works. She also includes her real life anecdotes which are hysterical, and will make you laugh out loud. Kudos to the Dame and to new author Lin Tomasso. You have entertained and helped me tremendously.
5 Borrowed from the library, this was a great murder mystery. One of my favorite authors as a tee, Agatha Christie was able to create amazing "who done it" tales that kept the pages turning.
5 Our 7th grade class had to read &quot;And Then There Were None&quot; for Literature class. My older brother had read it the previous year for the same class, and he said that &quot;And Then There Were None&quot; was a  great book. He and I don't usually read the same type of books, so I  thought I might not like this book. But let me tell you, this book was so  suspenseful, and it really WAS a mystery... it's how a real mystery should  be written. It may seem obvious at who the killer is, and it may seem easy  to predict, but you will be shocked at the ending of the book... I know I  was!
5 I live the way the book was written. I like the fact that I disarmingly enjoyed the book but also learned from it. The way they speak is intriguing therefore pushing me to change my choice if words, often.
5 I love this book. The first time reading it I was truly perplexed. It is an amazing mystery that will have you guessing up until the shocking end. It's a classic in the mystery genre and everyone should read it, you won't want to put it down!
4 Almost universally admired, Agatha Christie's story of ten people lured to Soldier's Island on various grounds, only to find that one-by-one, they are murdered, is a seminal work of the genre. Each person has, in some way, been directly or indirectly, responsible for the death of another somewhere in their past, but each was beyond the reach of the law. At first, the supposed owner of the Island is an obvious suspect, but a search of the grounds reveals that no one else inhabits the place. The murderer has to be one of the ten. The plot builds slowly, as each surviving individual might well be singled out as the deviant until he or she is found to have taken a final breath. And each of them dies, in line with the nursery rhyme that permeates the book, Ten Little Indians.As always Christie's writing is somewhat ponderous, and there are a few dead spots along the way, but the scheme she devises wins out over any defects in her prose.
5 I've read many other Agatha Christie's book and I can safely said that this is the best I've read so far, and I think it would be hard to top this one, It keep you guessing starting from the first murder till the last sentence of the book. Anyboby can be the murder but who?I couldn't stop reading and in fact I finished the last 160 pages within 3 hours because its fascinating. The plot flows really well through out the whole story. Who's mr.Owen? biggest question of all.
5 I stayed up, on a weeknight, until 1 to finish this!Ten people are invited to Soldier Island to stay at the home of Mr. Owen.  But little do they know, a little justice is about to be served.  Who will die next and can they find the killer before the next one dies?Oh.  My.  God.  This book was frakkin' amazing.  I have never been so afraid to go to sleep in my life.  I have never had as crazy dreams as I've had when reading this book.  I have never stayed up so late on a weeknight finishing a book because I knew it would haunt my dreams and dammit, I had to know who was the murderer!If you peruse through many of my book reviews (specifically the ones of thrillers), you will see the complaint: "This was a thriller?!"  In my opinion, a thriller should be pulse-pounding, look over your shoulder, frantically turn the next page, stay up late into the night finishing the damned book.  Basically, everything that this book IS.The characters were varied.  Sure, they were all sorts of 1930's stereotypes (but the offensive n-word and "Indians" were dropped from the title/poem), but they were real, from the religious zealot, Miss Brent, to the slimy captain Lombard, to the officious Justice.  I was surprised at how attached I grew to each character (much more than in some more serious character novels I've read), and there were people I desperately hoped to avoid dying.And then we have the mystery, the reason you even read this novel.  Oh.  My.  God.  (Damn, this novel has elicited TWO slow-mo OMG's from me!)  It is slick, it is crafty, it is interesting, and I TOTALLY didn't see it coming.  Every word is a puzzle, a puzzle that you twist and turn and when you finally read the end, you go, "Ah ha, so that's how it was done!"  Christie says in the author's note how much work it was and how proud of it she was, and I must say, she should be.  I've not read a novel that surprised me like this one ever.I loved the mood of the novel.  I was constantly looking around in my bedroom (at night, big mistake, as I had wickedly weird nightmares one night) as if a murderer would pop out of nowhere.  And I totally feel that this should be more prevalent in thrillers.This novel blew my mind, even more than my previous favorite Christie novel, "Murder on the Orient Express".  I highly recommend you stop reading my review and hunt down a copy for yourself, so you can start reading!Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
5 I love buying books and especially like a book that has been well taken care of like this one I bought.  I would buy from this seller again.  Hopefully we who like HOLDING books and enjoy the books kept in FREE LIBRARY shelves.  Reading is a GOOD THING.
5 This is one of my favorite Agatha Christie mysteries.  It is such an engrossing tale and so cleaverly written that even though I've read it before, I hated to put it down before I was finished.
5 I love Agatha Christie books. This one really had me guessing. It's a great mystery. I highly recommend this to any lovers of good mysteries.
5 Easily Agatha Christie's best! A claustrophobic mystery par excellence! Supposedly this is the best-selling suspense novel of all time and I can see why. Not only is this an intriguing mental puzzle but it is also (rare among Christie's tales) a genuinely scary read. This creepy, almost supernatural book has a slightly tepid beginning but then heats up to where it cannot be easily put down.A seemingly impossible set of circumstances leads to a number of murders among ten total strangers all trapped on a tiny island off the English coast. One by one these persons, all out of contact with the outside world, each invited for the weekend by a host named "U.N. Owen" (say that name fast a few times and you get "Unknown") is accused by a mysterious Voice---that seems to speak out of thin air---of perpetrating a homicide for which he or she was never tried. One individual is said to have purposely drowned a child. Another stands charged with killing his patient during an operation in which he was too drunk to undertake the task. Still another, a forthright judge, is condemned for knowingly sending an innocent man to the gallows. As the plot boils, first one and then another of these unfortunate guests is "punished" by ghastly deaths that correspond to the verses of a children's rhyme about "ten little Indians" who meet grim fates until "and then there were none."How are these slayings being carried out? Is the killer one of the ten or is there someone else hiding in the house or on the island? By the mid-point of this book, trust me, you'll be dying to know.This is a fine novel of near perfect length and satisfying resolution. Christie gets away with an explanation that might stretch plausibility in other hands but here only seems exactingly perfect.  This is the sort of zephyr-paced book to spend a stormy evening reading. It's a lot of fun and doesn't hold a single letdown anyplace within.
5 AND THEN THERE WERE NONE is Agatha Christie's finest novel.  It's plot is fantastic.  Ten strangers are lured to an isolated island and then, one by one, get murdered.  If there has ever been a better mystery written, I haven't read it.
5 And Then There Were None by Agatha Christie is one of the greatest murder mysteries ever written. Putting aside the various updates of racially offensive wording within the pages (including the original title), this story remains a timeless classic.Ten guests are invited to a secluded island vacation home, all under false pretenses. When the island's mysterious host never appears and people begin dying one by one, the remaining guests realize they are caught in a sinister trap.Once you begin reading you won't stop until you discover whodunit.
4 A terrific novel with suspense at every turn. But the kindle version calls the island Soldier Island when the correct name is Indian Island, which fits the theme of the book much better.
5 Unbelievably, I can find nothing bad to say about Agatha Christie's "And Then There Were None."  It's a very interesting mystery with excellent writing, world, plot, pacing, and characters.  The only negative thing I can dredge up is that Christie's own preface to the book seemed a bit of a quasi-spoiler to me.  It didn't actually give anything away about the plot, but it did set up an expectation of how things would play out.  Trivial, really.  So, I'm very happy to rate the book at an Excellent 5 stars out of 5 and highly recommend it.
5 "And Then There Were None" by Agatha Christie,  1939, 1940, renewed 1967.This was a very strange story.  Of course, Ms. Christie is very good at writing, but to imagine this tale is impressive.  It is a simple enough story: ten people are invited to spend some time on an island; they find a poem, a take off of the 'ten little Indians'; then they are all bumped off, one by one.  You realize that these people are the subjects of the lines in the poem, but how to find out who is killing them is the question.  The answer is supplied, fortuitously, by a letter in a bottle found later.  It was a really amazing story.
4 "Ten little Indian boys went out to dine..."And so starts the nursery rhyme that was the basis for Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None (also published as Ten Little Indians). The story opens with 8 people from all walks of life traveling to Indian Island, where they have been invited for a summer holiday by the mysterious U.N. Owen. Upon reaching the island, they discover that their mystery host is no where to be found; the only other people on the island are the butler and his wife. The guests are soon confronted with the reason for their invitation: their host knows about the secrets of their pasts, and has decided that justice must be served.Truthfully, of the little Christie that I have read so far, this has been my least favorite. Don't misunderstand, however, I still greatly enjoyed the book! Christie's knack for misdirection is amazing, leading you to believe with utmost certainty who the killer is, at least until the next chapter when she sheds new light on a new suspect, and then you know for sure that they are the killer, again until the next chapter. What I didn't like about this book is the murders seemed too contrived and forced to match up with the nursery rhyme. Of course, these murders needed to fit the pattern of the rhyme, otherwise, what would be the point? It just came across as too convenient for me, yet I did enjoy flipping back and forth to the rhyme at the beginning of the book to try to figure out how the next murder would take place!
5 Agatha Christie wrote many mysteries, but And Then There Were None (aka Ten Little Indians) was her best.  This is a masterpiece of plot and suspense.  Some of her other books may have more memorable characters, or a charming, charismatic, quirky detective, but this book stands alone as her literary monument.  It has plot, atmosphere, suspense, irony, economy.  Highly recommended to any reader of mystery fiction.
5 Agatha Christie is the master of the mystery novel. Period. There is no question in my mind that she is the epitome of what mystery storytelling is about.'And Then There Were None' is, I believe, her all time greatest novel. Though with well over 70 novels in print, it is hard to read them all. I love the way her charectors develope in this novel, in the short time they inhabit Indian Island.The premis is simple. Ten strangers sent to an island for a luxorious get away. Mysteriously, however, one by one, they all begin to disapear...who did it? You'll have to read this wonderful novel to find out!Five out of Five
2 i chose this as my first time to try reading a mystery book.  the plot seemed cool to me.  but reading it, i didn't find the reading pleasurable.  the story is rather simple, and its setting is in england so the writing is all "british."  as we all know, americans and the british talk very differently.  in addition, it's set in an earlier time, where they talked in a fancy, rather annoying way.  perhaps this is a good book, but i lost my interest after a short number of pages.  i'd rather read a newer american mystery novel.  just a warning that while even if this book is great, it isn't for everyone.
5 I cannot say that I am Agatha Christie's number one fan in the world simply because I am not the number one fan of the mystery genre.  But I must tell you that when I do read a mystery I like the sort of story that features deductive reasoning in solving the mystery rather than the plethora of such novels involving scientific police procedures.  I think the term that suits me best as far as such things go is "reactionary," at worse and "old fashion" at best.  I am a big Arthur Conan Doyle fan for that very reason so even though "mysteries" per se are not at the top of my list, I do enjoy reading them from time to time.  Over the years I have read a number of Christie's book and have yet to be disappointed in any of them.  This, my third reading of "And Then There Were None." is no exceptionI will say that this work is a bit different than Christie's other work in that there is no detective to "solve the case."  The reader is put on the spot to supply their own deductive reasoning to work out "who done it."  I rather like this approach for a change.Ten people are invited to an isolated house located on Indian Island.  No one else is in the house or on the island.  One by one the guests, after each has been rather uniquely accused of murder.  And then one by one the guests begin dying...murdered.  One of the guests is the murderer!The author has done a very nice job, in my opinion, of putting this plot together.  While she possibly could have done better is the area of character development, this work, when you consider its length, is really not set up for that.  The overriding theme is murder and who did it.  I personally was unable to figure out who the killer was, but then I am not the brightest star in the sky and am most certainly not an expert on murder mysteries.  Perhaps others will do better.This is an interesting book for a couple of other reasons.  Since it was first published in England in 80 some odd years ago it has gone through at least three title changes and has, via various editions been bowdlerized - to the extreme.  This all has been done out of political correctness and belated racial sensitivities.  While Christie was most certainly a brilliant writer, she was also most certainly a product of her times when it came to racial issues and it shows. The original English edition never made it to this country, as far as I know, and if the original title was kept there is no way on earth that it would be published in this day and age.This is one of Christie's better known novels and there have been a number of plays and movies made from it.  Some folks love this novel; others are not so fond of it.  It is one of my personal favorites of her work but then I have not read every one of her books so I cannot really say it is the best or worse.  I do know I liked it and will quite likely read it again on down the road.Don BlankenshipThe Ozarks
5 "And Then There Were None" is one of the best audio books I've ever had the pleasure of listening to. Hugh Fraser gives what can only be described as a masterful performance. His reading is sumptuous, scary, and above all, intelligent. The story moves briskly and chillingly toward the shocking conclusion. Even if you have already read the book (as I have), Fraser's telling must be heard to be believed. This is the rare audio book that you cannot turn off. I highly recommend!!
5 Just within the borders of being believeable, which is essential in my opinion for effective crime fiction.  At first it can be a little hard to keep all the various characters straight, but it is a simple story line, and a fairly short book.  Its not really dated since its true to the historical era its set in
5 Agatha Christie is one of, if not the worlds most popular mystery writer, many of today's mystery writers have credited her as their inspiration. And 'AND THEN THERE WERE NONE' (aka TEN LITTLE INDIANS) is hailed as one of her greatest works, so I decided if I wanted to read something by one of the masters of suspense this was as good a place to start as any!'AND THEN THERE WERE NONE' is a mystery in its barest form.  There are no high speed car chases, no violent shoot outs, no glitz, no glamour.  Just the story of ten strangers lured to an island by a madman who is killing them off one by one.  What is the twist you ask?  The madman is most certainly one of the ten and it is up to them all to try to figure out who it is before they all fall victim to his whims.I love to read old books and I am so glad to have chosen Agatha Christie's 'AND THEN THERE WERE NONE' as my first aquatience with this acclaimed author. While I had my theories as to who this madman was the book definitely kept me guessing until the very last passage, where I found out that who I thought was the killer was completely wrong!  This is a must read for any lover of mysteries and good books.
5 This is a typical Agatha Christie - wonderfully written and mysterious to the end. It is so much fun to try to figure out who the bad guy is, and although I had this one fingered earlier, I could not figure out how. Christie always makes the ending different than what my imagination can come up with.Love mystery? Gotta read this one.
5 What a wonderful murder mystery! I did not want to put it down, and didn't aside from a lunch break which I would have read on then too if we were not in a restaurant! I have to admit I don't think I have ever read any Agatha Cristie novels but now I am hooked! I can't wait to read more.The ending was a huge surprise and I thought I had it all figured out. Fantastic book.
5 Unlike most mysteries you will read, this one will always stay with you.  Agatha Christie has surmounted the mystery form to provide a fascinating story of morality and immorality, in which justice plays an unusual hand.  The title nicely displays the mystery (which has a perfect plot from my  point of view).  And then there were none -- who did it?Agatha  Christie wrote this in a spare and efficient way so that the story starts  moving immediately, and speeds up as you go.  It will be impossible to put  this book down once you start reading it.As you can imagine from the  book's age and the author, this is a classic English murder mystery.  The  murders are there, but the blood does not overwhelm.  Violence and social  niceties nudge one another for your attention.  At the same time, there is  hope.  Agatha Christie adds her hope for the future in a most unusual way  in this novel, that will leave you encouraged for the future of humanity  after first causing you to despair.One of the beauties of the plot is  that it expands on the famous locked room format to include an island where  there is no access or exit, nor any way to communicate.  That gives much  more room for interesting plot developments without losing any of the  intellectual puzzle of a locked room.An unusual factor about this novel  is that you will soon find yourself identifying with the guilty victims  (even though you are not a murderer).  Usually, mystery novels have the  reader identifying with the innocents or the detective.  That is  accomplished by creating a gripping sense of paranoia as the numbers of  those on the island rapidly dwindle.Don't miss this book!After you  are done and have savored all of the book's brilliance, reflect a little  about how Agatha Christie explored stalled thinking about what was going on  to make the plot so effective.  Then think about all of those places in  your life and business where things may also not be what they seem.  If you  can use this insight to locate your misconception stalls, you will be  doubly blessed by reading this book.
5 I love Agatha Christie and I am never disappointed in her.  I love her movies and books! You can never go wrong with Agatha!  :)
4 This is a well done recording. I have read the book years ago, but listening to this CD felt like doing the story from the beginning again....
5 My wife asked me to order this book for her. She read it and thought it was very good. Would recommend to others.
5 It happens to be my first Christie and I must say I am thoroughly impressed.  The story is top-notch and it has you going till literally the last page.  Read it to believe it!
5 Ive read the book many times and listened to the audiobook version. The character development is superb and very believable. The story line does not drag. I'm sorry that the solution was revealed by Agatha Christie since hours of thinking about possible solutions would be great fun.
5 Review:In the beginning there were ten- an odd collection of strangers, all sent to the same private island off the coast of Devon on the same weekend as guest, just all for different purposes. Their host is an unknown millionaire, is nowhere to be found when the guest arrive. The only thing theses ten guest have in common is a wicked past they aren't willing to reveal- and a secret that will seal each of their fates. One by one they fall as prey; but to who? This weekend, just like the poem, will begin with ten and end with; And there there were none. Beware of the Red Harron.Education Value: 5 out 5 - This book is a very popular summer reading assignment for schools, and for good reason. This novel includes many literary terms and a mysterious plot. This book was very educational and people can learn a lot from it if they are willing to.Entertainment Value: 5 out of 5 - This book has a great storyline that gives you just enough to have suspicions but not enough to where your suspicions are correct! This book will keep you guessing till the very end. You will be shocked!This review was first published in Kindle Kids Corner @Kindle Nation Daily.@ebookbelle
4 Well I first saw the movie and now read the book.  It is a good read and it is one of my favorite classic movies.  This book gives you an introduction on the writer and how the story came about and the name that was changed on the title.  It shocked me a bit.  Still a favorite story, but not really my favorit ending.  But a story that keeps moving along.
5 &quot;And Then There Were None&quot; is an oustanding mystery story---perhaps the greatest mystery novel ever written. My biggest regret is that when I first encountered this book I could not resist temptation and I peeked at the last chapter before reading the book all the way through. Nevertheless, it is still one of my favorite books of all time.If you are most familiar with this book via the many movies that have been made from this novel, the original book will be a surprise. Most of the film versions have ruined the ending by trying to impose a &quot;happy ending.&quot; As a result, most of the power of the novel is severely dilluted. (A notable exception is the recent movie &quot;Identity&quot;, about which I will say nothing except that while it may stray from the letter of Christie's novel, it stays closest to its spirit.) Don't go to Blockbuster----read the book first!
5 If you have never read any Agatha Christie or if you have not really ever been interested in mysteries, this book is a must.  It will really get you interested in an entirely new genre of literature that you didn't think would spark your interest.  I first read this book in 8th grade reading class (so that should tell you that it's not overly difficult to follow or comprehend), and I was hooked.  The plot revolves around a group of people who go on an island vacation together...but if I told you anymore, I might have to kill you (joking of course, but it would happen in this book!).  This story is extremely captivating.  You'll never guess what's going to happen next, and that's one of the best aspects of the book.  The title of the book suggests what's to come, but the plot of the novel is cleverly entertwined with an old Indian rhyme...you have got to read this book.  You won't be able to put it down, even when your 8th grade reading teacher threatens you NOT to read ahead!  Great summer reading, a way to kick yourself in the butt and do the reading you promised yourself you'd do.
5 Excellent book. There have been a few movie versions. The best being the one with Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Houston. I could see and hear the characters from the movie as I read this book. To me its Christie's best. But to each his/her  own favorite.
5 In And then there were none, ten unaquainted people are lured out to an island under false pretenses. Upon arriving, they learn their mysterious host, a U.N. Owen has not yet arrived. In fact, they soon discover their host will not arrive. Through the use of a gramophone a recording plays accusing the ten people of certain crimes from their past.One by one the stranded visitors begin to drop like flies. The question is, who this elusive U N Owens and why have these ten random people been chosen as victims? The ending wasn't as shocking as in Murder on the Orient Express, but I still managed to remain somewhat in the dark until the end. Although, I had my suspicions, which turned out to be accurate!A word of caution, if you haven't read this novel, don't read too many reviews. Some of them, in my opinion, reveal too much information.  It's best to read an Agatha Christie novel with as little clues as possible. If you haven't read it yet, read Murder on the Orient Express, but don't scroll all the way down the page to read any reviews on Amazon. Someone thought it would be cute to reveal the identity of the murderer as the subject of their review.
4 Fast reading mystery. Lots of twists and turns. You don't know who did it right up to the end. I couldn't put it down.
5 This book is the most mysterious and also has stood the test of time. It was the first book that introduced the genre of "The Body Count Movie." Also, as a play, it is well-acted and well recieved. Agatha Crhistie was a true pioneer when it came to writing. She ranks right up there with Alfred Hitchcock and H.G. Wells. Enjoy!
5 This novel is a classic suspense story told by a classic story teller. The book introduces to the reader 10 murderers who are by chance put on an island for "vacation" by an unknown source. however, as soon as they got on the island things went deadly wrong. One by one, each one of the people got killed, the air was filled with suspense as the methods of the killings were so ridiculously cold-blooded. The killer has got to be one of the ten, could the remainder of the group figure out before they are all brutally murdered?This book reveals somewhat of what human beings face when they are reminded of what they have done in the past by a horrible incidence. People in this book became almost animal-like in the end, desperate and extremely suspicious; each suspecting the other. A truly magnificant book that will leave the reader hanging until the end!
1 I'm a tradionalist with Agatha Chrisie so this book just didn't cut it with me. Way too dark and depressing . It was a struggle to get through it. Will be careful in the future before purchasing an off beat book of hers. Shocked it got so many high reviews.
5 Agatha Christie's "And Then There Were None" is a superbly written mystery in the whodunit mode. It is invigorating how she is able to intertwine the ten characters, and suspects, within the novel and tie everything together. I also thought the ending was rather unexpected and made for a fantastic murder mystery.Ten people, all of whom have shady pasts, are all summoned to a private island known as Indian Island. Once they arrive their host, Mr. Owens, is no where to be found. A curious nursery rhyme about 10 little Indians is left behind in some of the rooms, and then an even more curious message is played to the guests by the butler, accusing all 10 people of murder in one form or another. From here, people begin to be plucked off one by one, and as the bodies mount, the secrets become revealed and more and more suspicion arises from the guests. Pay attention to the nursery rhyme at the very beginning of the story, as it is an intricate part of the story's plot. It was ingenious how Christie's develops the ending, especially those final three chapters.If you are a fan of mystery and suspense, and love to play the role of detective as you read, then this will be a unique read. It is also a very easy, quick read, as the pages just seem to fly by. I was quite impressed with this novel, and it certainly makes me want to check out more Agatha Christie novels.
5 This is a very well bound hardcover book that's built to last.  The fonts are also small but comfortable enough to read.As for the novel itself, coming from someone who has read too many Christie novels to remember, this is by far the best one that I've read.  The plot is brilliant and the perfect crime is committed so that the ending is truly unexpected and surprising.  In that sense, this novel is similar to "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd" with regards an unexpected ending but that's where the similarity ends.  Whereas in that novel, the rest of the story is pretty pedantic and boring, this novel in contrast is exciting from beginning to end.The tension and suspense builds as you go along and the climax is nothing short of inspired writing.  If you are looking for Christie's best work, this has surely got to be among the top 3 if not the best she's ever done.Highly recommended reading!
4 If you think you know this story by the Queen of Crime because you saw the movie, think again.There's no Poirot, no Miss Marple, but this is a good read, and not, I think, typical of Dame Agatha.  I suspect that she appears in this book disguised as the judge.  It's an inside out version of Murder on the Orient Express.  The changes to the plot and characters made for the movie version suggest that however &#34;conventional&#34; the English murder mystery may have been, it was never as conventional as Hollywood.
5 Agatha Christie's AND THEN THERE WERE NONE should be very close to the top of any mystery fan's &quot;must read list.&quot;  The novel concerns a group of ten previously unacquainted people who are lured via various pretexts to Indian Island, a resort home off the coast of Devon--and are promptly accused by their unseen host of having escaped punishment for past crimes.  Cut off from the world and fighting rising panic, they scramble to unmask the killer even as their number is reduced in macabre accordance with the &quot;Ten Little Indians&quot; nursey rhyme displayed in rooms throughout the house.Agatha Christie was already famous when AND THEN THERE WERE NONE (also known under the title TEN LITTLE INDIANS) was published--but this book put her career well over the top: nothing like it had seen before, it proved a sensation, and writers and film-makers continue to use Christie's basic idea to this very day.  Some critics argue the novel is mechanical rather than organic, but I say if this is mechanical, let's have more of it!  It is truly a can't-put-it-down, non-stop read, a spectacular turn by the genre's single most celebrated author.The success of the novel inspired Christie to adapt it for the stage, where it was a tremendous success, and there have been several film versions (most notably the 1940s Rene Clair-directed AND THEN THERE WERE NONE) over the years.  If you know the story only from stage and film versions, however, you are in for a surprise.  Christie felt the novel's conclusion did not translate well to the stage, so she re-wrote it--and most film versions follow the stage script, not the novel.  But whether you've seen the play and films or not, get ready for a shock!
5 I would definitely say this is Christie's best work of art! A complete masterpiece! I would read it over and over again.
5 Off the coast of Devon lies an island clouded in mystery. It carries the name of Indian Island because its form resembles an Indian. The silence surrounding the mansion is suddenly disturbed when eight guests arrive. Both Thomas and Ethel Rogers, the butler and the cook, are awaiting the guests. But they already have a problem. Their host hasn't arrived yet. And even stranger: there's a framed copy of the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians" hanging on the wall. They decide to go ahead with dinner in absence of their host. But when suddenly a gramophone record starts to play, it becomes clear that it is dangerous to trust anyone on this forsaken island.And Then There Were None is arguably one of the best works by Agatha Christie. Originally published in 1939, it still hasn't lost a single bit of its attractive power. The basic idea is as simple as it gets, but the denouement is simply a showcase of the inventiveness that is so characteristic of the English author. I have read this novel now for the third time and still I discover new aspects that show the ingenuity of the plot. Never will the reader feel unfairly treated, although it requires a very astute sleuth to predict the outcome at a first reading. The characters are quite stereotypical, but that cannot be avoided if you require that the reader keeps track of ten possible suspects and as such is easily forgiven.And Then There Were None is simply a must read for anyone with a liking for a good detective novel.
4 Didn't expect to like it as much as I did. Like most teens, I'm not really a fan of 'old' books. But, I've gotten more of a fan of mystery novels in the past year because of some mystery freebies from the Kindle store, so that helped.For the first twenty pages or so, when they were introducing ALL ten main characters, I have to admit  nearly put the book down. But glad I didn't, as as soon as the introductions were through, it sped up pretty quickly.I predicted the ending, but then again, I often do. Overall wonderful book, and I'm glad it was on my summer reading list. (Will be a freshman in high school in the fall.)
3 To paraphrase the old nursery rhyme: "Ten little, nine little, eight little suspects."  The suspects fall in rapid succession as the flying fickle finger of suspicion points to one after another.  This group of unlikely and unlikeable suspects find themselves marooned on a deserted island.  Each hides a dark secret, each is guilty of some past wrong.  An unknown avenger strikes them down one at a time, until . . . .  Christie pulls off her usual surprise ending and reveals a perpetrator no one would suspect.  Not her best work, but an entertaining read.
5 If you are part of the generation that has not thrilled to this classic piece of suspense writing, you are in for a treat. A number of people are invited for the weekend to a lone mansion on an island. When they arrive, their host, Mr. U. N. Owen, is not there, and they realize that his name means &quot;unknown.&quot; They try to leave, but there is no way off the island. Soon, they find to their horror that their host has filled the house with booby-traps that use a trait of each guest to kill him or her. As people die unexpectedly, suspense rises to a screaming level before the author hits you with a breathtaking finish. It may leave you limp at the end, but it's great fun.
5 So exciting to reread a classic mystery that catches you and makes you remember every detail and not want to put it down until you finish it.  What concentration of thought had to go into it by weaving the characters to fit each line of the old nursery rhyme!  It was so refreshing to read a mystery that did not have psychological excuses for the actions of the characters.  No having to worry that if they had been treated better in life they would not have done what they did made it thoroughly enjoyable.  Christie left no quandary in your mind about what was right or wrong and what was evil.Georgia
5 I'm an avid Mystery Fan and was glad to be able to find so many books available for the Kindle written by AC. Half-way through this book (a single evenings of dedicated reading) I realized I knew the story and then remembered I had seen the movie many years ago.  While I couldn't really remember the ending, I still had too much of a feel for the story---remembered from the movie---to allow me to completely escape to Solider Island. All-in-all, a wonderful read---even if I can never 'Guess Who Done it'.
5 If you are looking for a book to read at night to put you to sleep, look elsewhere.  You will not be getting any sleep with this one, and you will not be putting the book down until the very end.  I found it to be one of the most brilliant Christie mysteries, engaging, keeps you guessing, and frightening of the psychological sort.  This is one of her standalone mysteries - no Poirot or Miss Marple, but you won't be disappointed.  In fact the lack of a central livens this up and makes you less likely to expect what happens next.  Ten murders and all through to the end you have no idea who's the good guy or the bad guy.  Definitely one of the best!
4 Christie begins with a not-anything-special-but-it's-good sort of story line. Nothing an avid reader hasn't seen before. (I imagine Ellen Raskin got the idea of the Westing Game from this story). We are introduced to Indian Island, once owned by an American millionaire (yes, the story is British), who has sold his estate-on-the-island-- it's the hit of the news, and everyone wants to be there. Problem?--nobody knows exactly who has bought it. Rumors are flying and facts are few.In the meantime, 10 different people, all with various backgrounds are contacted in various ways, none connected directly with the new owner of Indian Island. Reluctantly and happily and angrilly, our guests come to the island and get to know each other during the boat ride. The shock comes after they arrive. It seems that Mr. Owens, the supposed owner of the estate, has not arrived. In fact, it does seem that he does not arrive for the entire duration of their stay!The guests are surprised, but carry on normally, some planning to go back home on the morrow, when the boat comes to the island. When the guests go to their rooms, they see a plaque on the hearth, the grotesque poem of the Indian boys (10, then 9, then 8, and etc, all dying in grotesque ways). They think nothing of this, some even fond of the old rhyme they knew as chidlren. Nor do they think anything strange of the 10 Indian figures placed on the dining table.The real shock comes when suddenly, during a quiet time, a recording booms aloud, stating each of our tenants, and a murder(s) they have committed. Naturally this angers/confuses/arouses suspicion/guilt from our tenants, and they demand explanations. It doesn't help when a guest dies, then another, then another, then another.....all like the ways described in the grotesque poem on the plaque.After the third or fourth death, the remaining guests decide that the murderer (they came to the conclusion that it was a murder), was one of them!!The conclusion is awesome, bringing you to the edge of your chair, with suspense ringing in the air. I can almost guarantee you will be shocked.Can you find the murderer before it's too late?
5 I read this book in my 9th grade English class and admittedly the guy who sat in front of me ruined the ending - but I know that I would NEVER in a million years have been prepared for that. Agatha Christie does an  excellent job with all aspects of this book: it is well laid-out and  planned, the characters are gripping in and of themselves, and the  situation is enough to make you shudder without reading the book. If you  like mystery this is the book for you.
1 I started reading this book because Crystal Lake Memories told me this is the model of every slasher film. What were they thinking? This book was BORING! I gave up after reading 30%. First of all, it's written in some British-style only a few people could enjoy, Secondly, Agatha Christie is not a horror writer, she doesn't know how to do it. I do find it funny that some people are criticizing the prejudices some of the characters have, really? Those prejudices were far more interesting than this crap of a book. I don't care if it's a best setter, I don't care if Agatha Christie is a big shot. If you like long-winded prose, go read this garbage, but if you want a pageturner, don't even bother.
5 And Then There Were None, the brilliant masterwork by the much imitated Agatha Christie is a complicated yet accessible murder mystery.  Ten guests arrive at an island, each with a different secret, and each uniquely mysterious.  When all the guests have gathered, a mysterious voice, U.N. Owen??? indicts each for a crime.  The bloodletting follows.  Good luck solving this mystery.  The Denouement is nothing short of brilliant.Required reading for Mystery fans.  A 5 star classic!
5 It took a while to get into this book but once engrossed I still did not anticipate the ending.  Enjoyed very much.
5 And Then Were None by Agata Christie - I love it. One of the best book written by A. Christie. Will read again:)
5 This book is so brilliant. This is probably Agatha Christies's greatest  novel; and yet there is no trace of Hercule Poirot. The reason for this  becomes clear as you read the novel.Ten uncaught murderers are invited  to a luxury island by the ethereal U.N. Owen. They are all alone.Then  they are murdered, one by one by one by one...until they are all dead. Yes,  ALL.  How, you ask? That's what's so brilliant.Before reading this book  I thought The Murder of Roger Ackroyd was Christie's best mystery. But  unlike that novel, and unlike most of her &quot;great&quot; novels (Orient  Express, Nile), here there is no trick plot. Everything is precisely what  it appears to be. And that's what's brilliant.I can only compare it to a  master conjuring trick, which you can puzzle over forever before it is  finally revealed.The writing quality is also brilliantly atmospheric;  and unusually for Christie, the characters here are unforgettable and  realistic. There is nothing lightweight about this novel - you can tell  Christie really took this one seriously.
5 And Then There Were None, by Agatha Christie, is a great book.  There are twists and turns, which make the book more exciting and pleasurable to read.  I think Agatha Christie is a talented author and makes all of her stories unpredictable.  I have read other books by Agatha Christie as well, but this one in particular was very suspenseful.  I also think this book is challenging and will make your mind work harder than other books would.  This is not an easy book fit for a fifth grader, although from its thin size you may think so.  There are hidden meanings in some of the phrases and words that even I had to look up in the dictionary.  The plot of this was great.  It was exciting how the whole story ties in with a nursery rhyme.  I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a suspenseful mystery.By Sarah
5 As of 2014, this shocking novel has reached its 75th anniversary.  The ominous plot is now a mystery genre clich&eacute;: ten British strangers are lured to an isolated island mansion, ostensibly by friends of friends, for a weekend house party.  Soon enough, with the guests now marooned, each one is eliminated by an unseen predator bent on living out a familiar children's nursery rhyme.  No, there isn't one of Christie's detective heroes (Hercule Poirot, Ms. Marple, Tommy & Tuppence, etc.) conveniently on site to save the day, as her chilling story has perhaps the most celebrated macabre ending of any mystery thriller.  More on point: "And Then There Were None" is not just a serial murder mystery.  It is about increasing intensity of psychological terror for ten seemingly ordinary people who are finally each being held responsible for cold-blooded sins the law can't touch.  Yet, who is the ominous, seemingly invisible Mr. Owen who has invited them to spend together the last weekend of their lives? And exactly why are his trapped guests now his prey?There are: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas & Ethel Rogers (a butler and maid); boozing playboy stud Anthony "Tony" Marston; elderly and virtually senile General MacArthur of World War I fame; old, tortoise-like, Judge Lawrence Wargrave; alcoholic Dr. Edward Armstrong; self-righteous, middle-aged spinster Emily Brent; strangely aloof Vera Claythorne; ruthless soldier-of-fortune Phillip Lombard; and somewhat dense ex-cop-turned-private eye William H. Blore.  Absolutely to her credit, Agatha Christie takes the necessary time to develop each of them as a distinctive character vs. simply a genre caricature.  Readers will feel the survivors' innate fear over the course of 72 long hours gradually progressing from paranoia into a sense of claustrophobic madness among them upon realizing there is no escape.  The few baffling clues (a stolen revolver, seaweed, a missing curtain) leave the dwindling cast at their unhinged captor's calculated mercy, forcing the hunted to become the hunters.  Hence, are the novel's cast members: victims, suspects, or really neither?  Christie wisely leaves that issue for her readers to ultimately decide, as some may develop sympathy for one character but not another.  Then again, one could also construe that, of the novel's main cast, there isn't one likeable character among them.Perhaps the most realistic, timeless element of this masterpiece novel is the presence of conscience; even more ingeniously, the diabolical lack thereof.  As the accused guests are each reminded of their supposed crime by their host, it is telling (without hinting at the solution) over who flinches and who doesn't.  It is as if the "ghost" of Mr. Owen is looming over them.  In fairness to readers, Christie's post-mortem epilogue reveals all (even the psychology behind why the wicked victims were slain in the order they were).  Perhaps this offering of a "message in a bottle" solution is reminiscent of her earlier Poirot work, "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd."With that said, this "locked island" mystery is a fantastic read by itself, or as a comparatively grim companion to its best screen adaptation, Rene Clair's 1945 "And Then There Were None," which transforms Christie's more upbeat stage play version into a classic black comedy.  Hopefully, the BBC will see fit to produce a contemporary film version (imagine ten strangers without access to the internet, cell phones, texting, etc.), or as one of its lavishly authentic 1930's period pieces (like David Suchet's `Poirot' series).In closing, I must also sadly acknowledge my one criticism: there is a shameful past behind why this book internationally has had multiple aliases, most commonly the British "And Then There Were None" and the U.S. "Ten Little Indians."  For all new readers, please beware that Christie's original 1939 British text blatantly utilizes a despicable racial slur, which was fortunately changed for later published editions.Rating: 5 stars (A classic mystery worthy of rediscovery).
5 Ten strangers from multiple walks of life are invited to Indian Island, Devon under false pretenses.  Each of them harbors a dark secret, for each may have committed murder.  And collectively, they become a target for a vengeance-minded killer, patterning their deaths after a counting poem, "Ten Little Indians."  As they die, one by one, it soon becomes clear that the killer is one of them, but only death can completely acquit them.I love a good mystery, but I have been hesitant to start reading the works of crime's high priestess.  I've seen a few films based on Agatha Christie's books, but given how prolific she was (80 novels and stories, many of which were "series" books), I just felt a slight panic at delving into her work.  So I started with her best loved novel, "And Then There Were None," a stand-alone work. Now I'm feeling a little stupid for waiting for so long.Christie knew how to set a mood (duh!).  She introduces her characters in quick and broad strokes, revealing bits and pieces of all ten before they reach the island, explaining why they THINK they are there, and hinting at their guilty consciences.  Not surprisingly, it's hard to get a good grip on these characters in the first couple of chapters, as Christie rushes them along to Indian Island.  Granted, since a couple don't make it through the first night, Christie's broad approach is completely understandable.  But once the murders start, Christie slows down, taking her time to superbly examine the characters' fear and paranoia, and desperation.Moreover, Christie does a beautiful job of revealing the minds of these characters without giving any hint of whom the ultimate monster is.  The reader is in many ways just as susceptible to the fear that the characters are dealing with (except of course that the reader is never in any danger).  Even considering that several of them are out and out creeps, the reader can't help but feel empathy for them as they spend the weekend in an absolute panic.  It's very easy to understand the isolation and impotency the ten must face as they try to outwit their would-be killer.After this suspenseful romp, I am eager to look into Christie's work more fully.  Even if I don't, this one book has already made it into my list of favorite books.  The quiet menace of "And Then There Were None" is an astounding, frightening, and wonderfully ghoulish delight.
4 Mystery novels are one of the most popular types of fiction. Anyone who loves the genre is, at some point, going to run up to Agatha Christie and her most famous mystery, "And Then There Were None". Of the eighty books she wrote, this one is the most popular for a reason: it's unlike anything else you'll read.On a sunny August day, ten strangers are summoned to Indian Island. What begins as a holiday in an exciting locale turns deadly when, after dinner, a record is played that incriminates each of the eight guests, along with the butler and his wife, of murder. Each of them has killed another person (or people) in a way that makes them untouchable by the law - a drowning that seems "accidental", a car accident, a death on the operating table, etc. Shortly after the record is played, one of the guests is found dead. Initially, the others think that is must be suicide, but when the bodies start piling up, they realize that there is a killer in thier midst. And the murderer is using the verses of a nursery rhyme, Ten Little Indians, to determine how each victim dies.As the number of people on the island begins to dwindle, the tension increases. The strangers, who initially cling to each other, begin to turn against one another as they realize the killer is still hunting. But what will happen when there is no one left?This novel is quite different from most of Agatha Christie's work because it does not feature either one of her two most famous characters, Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple. It also has an ingenious way of dealing with the murders - and the murderer. My only beef with the book is that the killer's name is printed in large font on the final page. If you're like me, and you like to see exactly how many pages are in the book you're reading, try to skip it on this one. You don't want to be spoiled for the ending like I was.
4 This was the first mystery that I read by Agatha Christie, and I am pleased to announce that I was not disappointed.  Ten unsuspecting characters receive invitations to go to a mysterious island, only to discover that someone among them is a killer.  The million dollar question is: &quot;Who is the murderer?&quot;  I didn't figure this out until I completed the novel.  Christie definitely has a great talent for writing mysteries that have kept readers' interested for many years.  Test out your detective skills as you attempt to solve the mystery, which is a difficult task.  All of the characters are unique in their own way, and they try to maintain their sanity even though they are fully aware that a killer is on the loose, and there is no escape route off the island.
4 This was the second Agatha Christie book that I have read. This one was great. It kept you guessing the entire time. If you like a quick easy mystery read I would recommended this book.
5 I've had this book on my Kindle for a while and kept ignoring it. Well, I finally decided I put it off long enough and started to read it. The very beginning has a bunch of introductions and it seemed like it would be impossible to keep up with who is who since all 10 characters are introduced right off the bat. But once things get going, you will know everyone very well. Or at least, you will THINK you do. This is definitely a masterpiece and i can see why its known as one of the best classic books of all time. Definitely worth your time. I had a hard time putting it down and was a little bummed when it ended. Murder/mystery at its very best!
5 Ten people on an island: each getting picked off one by one.If all are dead, who could possibly be the killer?This is the setup to A. Christie's most popular novel.Christie has always been criticized for breaking the codes of mystery writing; and here, she does.The 2 biggest rules in mystery fiction is that the reader should always be able to solve the crime along with the detective; and that there can be no slight of hand to fool the reader. Here, there is no detective and no foolproof way to pick the killer before he/she is revealed. Sure, one can GUESS who the killer is, but there is no way to know for certain. Why? Because there is definitely slight of hand.Personally, I prefer to have the wool pulled over my eyes. Then I can truly be shocked by the denouement.
5 I first read this 30 or so years ago and have since seen a couple of movies based on this story and have reread the book probably four times.  It is always good and of course no one ever wrote quite like Agatha Christie.
5 I prefer a mystery with comic relief and maybe a romance on the side and this has none of that. grim, really, but still a heck of a story. I was creeped out and did not guess who the murderer was, but then I usually don't. Christie is always able to show us fascinating characters; this time, none of them are very likable. still, I had some pity for them.
5 although some will say that Agatha Christie's 'Murder on the Orient Express' or 'The Murder of Roger Ackroyd' is her best work, I along with many others in her fan base say it is this book also know as 'Ten Little Indians.'  Imagine ten strangers stranded on an isolated island and all ten are murdered, but by who?  This books is both suspenseful and imaginative and contains many red herrings that lead the reader to a shocking ending.
5 This is flat out Agatha's best book ever. Despite the fact someone already spoiled who-dun-it for me, I was still stunned by the outcome. Tightly plotted, masterfully written, this novel has no peer.The premise is simple: ten strangers invited to an island with a newly built mansion for a free weekend. When they arrive, they discover the host is no where to be found, and a recorded message accuses each of them for murder in their shadowy past. And one by one they are picked off, just like the old nursery rhyme. "Ten little Indians went out to dine. One choked his little self and then there were nine." As each murder is carried it, everyone slowly suspects each other. And one by one, ten little china Indian dolls dissapear from the dining room... Wonderful, with a gracefull, stunning plot.
5 Great from start to finish.. I loved this novel it made me guess from the begging to shocking ending.I love how it ended, books these days would never end like it did. The characters are greatly written. I recomand this book. This book started the murder mystery books and if this book was not written I think books would be diffrent. A classic novel a must read.
4 First Agatha book I've read. Enjoyed it!  Will read more of her books. it's  English so you need to think on some words.
5 If 'The Murder of Roger Ackroyd' is Agatha Christie's best mystery, 'And then there were none' is her best story. You know the story. People have been imitating it for long enough. A group of people are trapped on an island. Slowly, they start dying until they come to the inevitable conclusion. The murderer is one of the group! Can they figure out who it is before everyone dies?Some people may accuse Christie of being a very simplistic writer, and they may be right. But here Christie shows off her talents, getting inside the heads of every suspect without making it clear who is the killer or proving someone isn't the killer. This is by no means an easy task. And packed on top of that is a sinister atmosphere and thrilling plot. This may very well be Christie's best work, and I would recommend it to everyone.
5 This is one of my favorite mystery books. It is so tightly plotted it fairly hums. There are no gaps in the logic. What is unusual is that you know after the first fifty pages or so exactly what is going to happen, yet the book cannot be put down. The characters are well developed and Dame Christie put a lot of thought into constructing a tight novel. In the long run that is what sets this book apart. This could be used as a role model ( and probably has been) for the logical construction and plotting of mystery books
5 I read this once or twice a year I enjoy it so much. It inspired the classic movie of the same title with Barry Fitzgerald, Walter Huston, et al. I've had it on my bookshelf for donkey's years and I've worn several editions out. Now its on my Kindle!
5 You won't see it coming. Brilliantly orchestrated and delightfully devilish. A true classic. It begins innocently enough but we are soon given a hard to put down mystery.
3 Very well written of course, it is agatha Christie, after all. Very detailed, I can't imagine ANYONE figuring this one out. That was my favorite part, I usually have the whole thing solved long before half way point. This one had me guessing until the end, and STILL scratching my head after learning the truth.
5 Great  book had me guessing to the end ,very well done,  trying to read all of them love Agather  Chrisie
4 The mystery is maintained throughout in true Agatha Christie style.  At one stage I thought I would never know what had happened but it is all explained in the end, and I never guessed it.  A very enjoyable read.Art of Your Mind
5 I really enjoyed this book.  It holds the reader's interest to the very end.  Agatha Christie is brilliant because, out of ten people with secrets in their pasts, all ten end up dead.  Who was responsible?  The book must be read all the way through to find out because each of them might be guilty.
5 This book is in my opinion one of Agatha Christies best. Set on a island where noone can escape they are being killed off one by one. The surprise ending was one of the best twists I have ever read. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and didn't want to put it down. Just when you thought you knew who did it, they too were murdered. I think this would make an excellent suspense movie.
5 I started this book in the morning on my day off and ended up finishing it by evening that same day.  I really could not put it down!  It is classically written with no foul language, and suspenseful for all readers!  I really enjoyed it, and I don't ever read murder mystery books but this one is an exception.
4 Ten completely different people find themselves invited to a private island for a vacation.  Once they arrive, they find out the real reason they were invited to the island as the guests start dying off one at a time.This is a great old fashioned whodunnit.  Although you may suspect the person that turns out to be the murderer at some point, I guarantee you'll be at least a little surprised with the ending.  I've always heard great things about Agatha Christie's books and I'm glad I finally got the chance to read one.  I see many more in my future.
1 Can Amazon tell me why the kindle version of this boom has replaced the nursery rhyme &#34;Ten Little Indians&#34; with Ten Little Soldiers?  I understand the change in title from &#34;Ten Little Indians&#34; to &#34;And Then There Were None&#34; but the cover of the book depicted still had the use of Indian Island (which is now Soldier Island) and the &#34;Ten Little Indian&#34; rhyme. That is how Agatha Christie intended this book to be read and how she wrote it. Are we now in the age of 1984/thought police where books are re-written and &#34;sanitized&#34;?  It is a disgrace and a disservice. If you might be offended by the use of the phrase &#34;Ten Little Indians&#34; then don't purchase the book. However, changing the name and then changing the words within the book is merely an attempt to avoid offending people and to maximize sales which results in altering what Christie had written. Shame on you.
5 I first read this book when I was in early high school and it made an impression on me as a "perfect" mystery (at that time I read it under the title, "Ten Little Indians").  I have re-read it many times since then and it is still one of my favorite mysteries of all time!  Christie wove the details of this story together elegantly and I loved how each detail fit perfectly into the overall story.  The characters were diverse and believable and the murders (while not gory) made me glance over my shoulder a few times as I read along.  I love that the "mystery" is finally explained at the end and each time I read it, I still flip back after I finish to see if it all "fits."  Love this book!
5 It's funny. After all these years of reading mysteries (among other things) I never read this one. I saw a few of the movie adaptations and thought I knew how it ended. Silly me, to think that Dame Agatha didn't have a few tricks up her sleeves that didn't correspond to what movie makers thought an audience could handle. Her work here is fearless and if you think you know how it turns out because you saw Barry Fitzgerald...watch out. A fine mystery presented in an utterly cold and calculating way.
5 AND THEN THERE WERE NONE (also titled TEN LITTLE INDIANS and originally another title that will not be listed here) is another story that was based on a nursery rhyme (others include A POCKET FULL OF RYE and HICKORY DICKORY DEATH).This 1939 novel opens with a varied group of eight travelers all bound for a weekend party on a fashionable island retreat.  Other than their destination they seem to have nothing in common, they don't even seem to have been invited by the same person!  When they arrive on the island they are met by two servants but no host.  The mystery deepens when a recorded message accuses all, guests and staff, with murder - murders that they had all gotten away with until now. Needless to say this cast a shadow over the party, a shadow that deepened with the first murder and increased with every subsequent one.This is an unusual story in that there is no detective/hero that is investigating the crime throughout the story.  Also the varied methods of each murder are predicted by the rhyme about the Indian boys.  It is interesting to see how the mishaps of the rhyme are translated into actual methods of execution.  Further the murder's identity is definitely kept a secret until the last page.This is one of Christie's most famous works, along with THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD, MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS, and DEATH ON THE NILE.  Like these other well known books, this one also has a very unusual ending.  Much was made during Christie's career by her contemporaries about the 'rules of mystery writing' - these rules included: no unknown, untracable poisons, or 'death rays'; no keeping the murder out of the story until the last few paragraphs; the butler did NOT do it; all clues must be available to the reader etc.  This novel, like the other well known mysteries previously listed, cut close to one or more of these rules but defintely did lay all the clues out fairly for the reader to find.  It will be the very rare reader, however, who does manage to solve this puzzle before all is revealed in the final chapter.
5 And Then There Were None (also, in other editions, titled Ten Little Indians) has simply the most brilliant mystery plot ever written.  A perfectly inscrutable mystery; a perfectly logical final explanation.  The  best whodunnit ever.
5 AND THEN THERE WERE NONE is Agatha Christie at her plot twisting best. In terms of public awareness of her work, it is right up there with MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS. Over the years I've read this story a number of times & I'm still satisfied at the ending.A group of people, unknown to one another, have been gathered together by a mysterious host to his isolated island mansion. There is a man servant & his wife--and even they're not sure who hired them. Just as the motley assortment of guests get a few drinks in them, a weird, disembodied voice speaks. The voice tells the group (including the servant couple) he has proof positive that each one has gotton away with murder in the past. From there the mystery (and murders) begin.A plot device involves a collection of indian stauettes, each one representing a line in a nursey story. The guests begin to get knocked off in ways described in the rhyme--and after each murder is discovered, one of the figurines strangely disappears. All the guests start suspecting each other, and that's when the fun really begins.Can you guess who's the murderer?Let me tell you, it's...just kidding!NOTE: The comedy CLUE was obviously based on this story. It even includes a Miss Marple character who's slightly incontinent. The disembodied voice? TRUMAN CAPOTE! Who else?
4 This was published in 1939.  You have seen countless movies and read countless books that have tried to recreate this story.  A classic mystery with great characters.
5 I really like Agatha Christie. I've seen some of the movies that were made from her books, and they are just as good. The book has an easy flow to it and it hard to put down. The ending caught me totally off guard . I look forward to reading her other books.
5 This was the first Agatha Christie novel that I have read. I was very impressed and wished I'd actually taken the time to read her in the past.And Then There Were None was a really good whodunit mystery. The ending kind of amazed me. The murder wasn't who I expected it to be, and the explanation of how they pulled off all the murders was pretty clever. I liked the premise, that all the people on the island were made to be suspect. Through their guilt of things they had done in their past they all had the ability to pull off the murders.The writing was really good. It was very fast-paced but it didn't move so fast that I was lost in what was going on. The murders happened in a way that as soon as I "recovered" from one another one had happened. That was the greatest part of this book, that it kept the suspense going and didn't really have any down time.I am very glad that I decided to pick up this one. I really enjoyed it and will be getting my hands on more Agatha Christie soon!
2 This book was probably a big hit in its day but it seems pretty cheesy.  My son needed to read it for his 8th grade English class.  There are much better books out there.  I am not quite sure why they picked this book.  The word &#34;queer&#34; is used quite often which would give these students a very low grade (if they were writing a paper) for repeating the same word not to mention it made them laugh every time they read the word.  At first, it is hard to keep track of who each character is.  It didn't hold my interest. Many people enjoy this type of writing, but based on this book, I would not read another one of her books.  I understand it had a original title different from this.  I didn't appreciate that and maybe it was acceptable during its time but it doesn't sit well with me.  Google it if you want to learn more.  Instead of ten little soldiers it was ten little Indians which was changed from ten little (not a word I would repeat).
4 I read this when I was 11 or 12. To me, it was very spooky and scary, more a thriller than a mystery. So the rest of Christie's novels always struck me as a little less spellbinding than this one. But I still enjoyed them! But even now, this novel seems a little less like the good humored, charming mysteries for which AC is best known. But it's a page turner! Overall, I prefer Christie's Tommy and Tuppence (my favorites) or Poirot. The gloomy, claustrophobic quality of this story doesn't really suit me, personally. But without a doubt, it is a brilliant novel, well told. Just avoid judging the rest of Christie by this one book.
4 Kept me guessing until the end almost.  Very easy to read, however, I had to return to previous chapters when I found myself forgetting some things.  Will read more from this author.
5 Whenever I'm going to be doing something labor intensive, but not very exciting, I enjoy listening to an audio book.  Some people like to point out every instance of failure as a novelist they can think of regarding Agatha Christie.  I, on the other hand, choose to overlook any defects in her stories and just enjoy them.  When you add the narration by Hugh Fraser it makes the experience all that much more satisfying.  I did not find any defects or glitches in this recording and Fraser has a warmth and intimacy to his voice which makes it seem that he is right there in the room with you, almost telling you the story personally.Ten people were invited to Indian Island, Sticklehaven, Devon.  Ten people who didn't recognize the name of their host (or in some cases, their employer) but who went nevertheless for their own personal reasons.  Everything seemed to be going well until the recording was played which accused each of them of the crime of murder.  In each bedroom was a large framed piece of parchment, a poem which most of them recognized from their childhood.  When the deaths began to happen, they realized that the poem was put there as a warning of what was about to happen.  And they were trapped on the island.Even if you have read this story by Agatha Christie you will still enjoy the narration by Hugh Fraser.  He is so permanently linked in my memory with the Hercule Poirot stories presented on PBS that I feel as if I am visiting with two old friends, Fraser and Christie.  Highly recommended by a Christie fan and a fan of audio recordings.
5 This is the first Agatha Christie mystery that I have read and I chose to start with what is perhaps her best known novel.  Seeing the book corrupted in newer editions to remove all references to Indians seems like covering the privates parts of Michelangelo's David.  Changing the title was offensive, but changing the content is just plain wrong.Compared to many modern tales of mystery, this story is somewhat simple.  There does not seem to be any twists in the plot just for the sake of including a twist.  The suspense builds as to the identity of the murderer as fewer of the ten are among the living.  At some point, the reader may begin to suspect that the murderer is not among the final three.  The nursery rhyme on which the story is based openly tells of a red herring.More than a mystery, this book makes suggestions about social justice.  Not every crime falls in the explicit classifications of the law.  However, this does not make the injustice any less of a crime.  While becoming a vigilante seems to be a hypocritical response to any injustices, the idea certainly raises ethical and moral questions worthy of discussion.
4 This is the first book I have read by Agatha Christie and I can see why it is a classic of the murder mystery genre. Christie managed to make me suspect pretty much all of the characters at some point in the book...brilliantly done! However, like a lot of mystery novels, I'm not sure if there would be a very high re-read value.
5 A classic! It's a must read for those who love to be on the edge of their seat. It's a book everyone will love
5 Surely everyone in the world has read this book by now!  Surely it tops the best-selling list of a best-selling author!  Older readers may not recognize it by its current title, its original and a later replacement having been deemed too racist.  Nothing racist, I hope, was picked up in my school English classes, where I used it to help develop pupils' appetite for reading.Agatha Christie's achievement is remarkable. She creates ten characters, all suspected of murder, who are lured to an island.  She has them meet their deaths one by one as nominated in the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians" which is displayed in their rooms.  She has each murder occur in a situation where almost all the other island guests might have had opportunity to commit it.  As if devising all this were not enough, she also frequently takes us into the minds of the various characters - something that the whole nature of detective fiction usually prohibits.  This construction is not only intricate but also compact; it is one of her shorter novels. Built on this scheme, the book must exclude Mrs Christie's regular  sleuths, Poirot and Miss Marple. Instead, the dwindling number of island guests generate their own investigation.So here is a book that offers double the pleasure that murder mysteries provide.  As well as challenging you to solve the mystery, it also amazes you that so ingenious a mystery could be contrived.
5 My favorite Agatha Christie, this is a thriller with such an ingenious plot, such memorable characters, such pithy dialogue and a setting that is so chilling and fascinating, that it all adds up to first-class murder thriller entertainment. In fact I used the idea of an island setting myself forMerryll Manning: Trapped on Mystery Island, my first book in the "Merryll Manning" series. I like the cover of this edition too!
5 This is the best mystery ever written and I have read all the others. I suffered through their illogical plot twists, characters and facts introduced in the last 10 pages, hackneyed conversations, impossible and incorrect technical events, enemies turned best friends for no reason, and actions totally out of character.None of that here. Ten people go to an island and all end up dead and no one knows who is responsible. I read it twice and did not have any idea. Then a clever literary tactic is employed to reveal the secret. It all fits together perfectly, there were clues, I should have figured it out, but Dame Christie is too good and too clever for any of us.The 10 Indians are all implicated in crimes for which they can not be punished in a court so instead they will receive their just rewards in this world and the next on this forsaken island.But what to do when a majority of your housemates are already dead? Whom do you trust to form a possible alliance? Finally, what if it is you and one other person whom you thought you could trust. Pay particular attention to the nursery rhyme reference to the red herring.Read the book and skip the film. There have been several versions, mostly under the title of AND THEN THERE WERE NONE. In a fit of sheer irresponsibility and lunacy, the movie makers changed the ending. They thought it would be more clever and easier to film, but they were wrong. Why mess with perfection?
5 How many times have I read this book?  Fifteen&#65533;?  Twenty&#65533;?  I really couldn&#65533;t tell you.  I read this novel for the first time in the 6th Grade and have read it countless times since.  The amount of plotting and planning Agatha Christie had to do in preparing to write this book boggles my mind.  It seems that every time I read it I discover some new, subtle clue to the killer&#65533;s identity that I missed before.  It&#65533;s not a traditional Murder Mystery, where the reader is privy to everything the detective sees and hears.  There is no detective, so the book is written in an omniscient third-person style that frustrates some readers who think they can solve the crime using standard Murder Mystery logic.  I recommend you approach the book as a thriller, just relax and enjoy the sweet frustration this book brings.Oh, yeah&#65533; and anyone who claims they knew who the killer was before the final pages is either lying or made a lucky, unsubstantiated guess.
5 This book is the best mystery novel ever written as well as the best mystery play. The suspense as we watch the Indian figures destoryed is nerve wracking. The characters are great and the final chapter is  breathtaking. An excellent fastepaced read.
5 I don't see how anyone who relishes a quality 'whodunit' could fail to love this book (even though a few Amazon reviews below show that it is the case).  I am familiar with quite a number of Agatha Christies (including classics like Roger Ackroyd & Orient Express, etc.), and this one clearly takes the prize.  Everything about it is delicious:  the inescapable island setting, the strange circumstances, the unfolding pattern, and the overall feeling of a growing and inevitable horror.  Most excellent of all is the plot, which is brilliantly conceived and executed.  And at the end of the day, the author has played fair (I'll make one complaint below).  What more do you want?!There are only two (mostly minor) criticisms I would make.  IMO, the first keeps this story from being the perfect murder mystery.  Namely, there is an early scene in which the killer THINKS a deceptive thought (I won't type it here and ruin the story for any prospective reader), and the reader reads it.  This is an unfair slip on Agatha's part.  Sure enough the murderer might indeed SPEAK such a deceptive sentence, but to have him/her THINK it silently (and then have the reader simply read it at face value) -- I felt this was stretching credibility too far.  For a perfectionist like me, it is a pity that it's in the text, and if only it could be excised!  Secondly (and AC probably had no control over this), I prefer the British title of the book - Ten Little Indians - over the American and more popular one, which sort of anticipates and gives away too much (albeit subtly).  Admittedly not a huge issue, just a quibble.At any rate, mystery lovers you're in for a treat.  Enjoy and savor the Grand Dame at her finest!
5 Even though she has a household name, I didn't know about Agatha Christie's work until I read Amore Towles' "Rules of Civility." Until then I probably would've assumed she was the founder of the famed auction house. It's disappointing to realize her name was never mentioned in any of the various English Literature courses I took in college. It probably has something to do with the snobbery that's unfairly issued to genre fiction. Nevertheless, when I learned of the Queen of Mystery I delved in to her work immediately, starting with "And Then There Were None." Reading of its premise reminded me of the board game and movie "Clue." This was no mistake. Her most widely read book certainly influenced pop culture, and having read it in a two day span I can see why. This is a book that sucks you. I stayed up until 2 AM on a weeknight just to finish it, something I almost never do. The thought of reading about ten different characters might daunt those who want to know everything that lies inside the hearts and psyches of those they read about. Had Christie provided such details I probably would've skipped the book. In Christie's work murder victims get about a half-page of background and that's it. Only detectives and survivors will ever warrant more. At around 250 pages the work is palatable and brisk. The various murder scenes aren't too gruesome for today's tastes and even at age 71 the book is fun, dark, and suspenseful without manipulating its reader.
5 one of the best mystery book i`ve ever read. read this or the murderer might get you. better hurry up.
5 Ten people mostly unknown to each other are invited to a barren island cut of from the mainland by heavy seas. There is a modern house for accommodation but at the end of the story there are ten people dead, murdered. But who is the killer. So well written that I doubt that anyone could pick the person. There 3 clues. A real page turner as they say.  Can you pick the murderer?
1 ....which is to say, wonderful if you happen to enjoy these types of books. I, for one, DO NOT, and only read it as a requirement for school. The only thing I can say I liked about it is the ending and the explanation of how these things came to pass. No lie, I suspected him halfway into the book. Otherwise, UGH, the whole thing was sickening.
3 This book's cover proclaims And Then There Were None to be the world's best-selling mystery and quotes one publication as naming it "Agatha Christie's masterpiece." Christie wrote an author's note preceding the story, in which she notes that she was really pleased with this book because only she knew how difficult it was to write.Difficult to write because Christie set out to tell a murder mystery in which ten people were killed without the story becoming ridiculous or the killer becoming obvious. Christie accomplishes that task cleverly as ten men and women are lured to a lonely island off the coast of Devon, England. Once there, each of the ten is immediately accused of past crimes for which they were never committed. For those evils, each must now die. As the ten learn they cannot escape the island, they race to uncover the murderer's true identity, knowing it must be one of their own number.Darkness permeates every page of this tale, as you likely guessed from the plot synopsis. Each character struggles with their sordid past, while outwardly justifying themselves and denying guilt. The ten attempt to socialize and dine with one another, despite the fact that they know one of their number intends to murder them all.I appreciated the book's epilogue, in which Christie explains (from a voice within the story) the entire scheme and how it was pulled off. These 300+ pages flew by as I hurried to uncover the killer's identity, but I didn't guess the solution before Christie wrote it out for me. This is a great, fast-paced mystery, although its dark subject matter and dialogue wouldn't make the best bedtime reading.
5 "And Then There Were None" has got to be one of the best books of all time. It puts the "thrill" in "thriller" and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I was so engaged in reading it that my fingers felt stuck to the book by the time I had to place it down. Agatha Christie had a great story put into this mystery, and I know that this is a mystery that lives up to its genre. For those of you out there who love mysteries, this should be one of the books that is a must-read.
5 This is the first Agatha Christie novel I have read since I was a child.  Although I don't think that many people will consider it "great literature," it is nevertheless a compelling read.  Christie's best plots - like Murder on the Orient Express - take the mystery genre and turn it on its ear.  This one will keep the reader guessing until the end (unless the story has been spoiled for him).  Usually, there is only one murder to solve - here, there is quite a big body-count.  Usually, to find the guilty party, one must simply look for the least-likely suspect.  I don't think that formula will work here.  The setup: ten party-guests (the titular "Little Indians") are invited to an island off the English coast.  They are informed by an unseen "Mr. Owen" that they are about to be punished for their crimes.  Saying anything more would be too much.
5 This, as much as anything, really made me love the mystery and suspense genre. This is a tremendous book that is as classic today as it was when it was published.
4 "And Then There Were None," by Agatha Christie is everything it is supposed to be. It is a classic mystery about a series of events that transpire on an island of ten people. I got sucked into this book a few chapters into reading it and stayed awake late one night to finish it.This book has what I consider classic storytelling. I love how the telling of the story is almost basic, and simple, such that my imagination was allowed to fill in all the details. In more recently published mystery and suspense books there is painstaking detail about how the story unfolds. Christie leaves the details to the readers imagination. For example, there is not a lot of detail or descriptions of the deaths of the residents of the island. There are not any vague descriptions from the victims point of view like "She now recognized the killer. He took the axe and..." Rather the residents of the island found the body and had no idea what happened. This left me backtracking and following the story closer because I was just as clueless as the characters.I do not think I could have deduced who the killer was. I had thoughts throughout the book on who it was; but, of course that changed multiple times.I recommend this book for anyone that is interested in an entry point into the world of mystery created by Agatha Christie.
5 A friend at work needed a book to read on the train. I was thinking and thinking and asked him if he liked mysterys. He said &quot;they're ok.&quot; Then I told him to read Agatha Christie's &quot;And Then There were None.&quot; I told him I had read this in seventh grade and still remembered the whole plot; he looked at me like I was some freak. I finally got him to read the book.  If he could figure out who the killer I would pay for the book. He read it and said,&quot;That was the best mystery I've ever read! No wonder you still remember it!&quot; Read this book if you like mysteries! It stuck with me since seventh grade. How well do you remember a book you read sixteen years ago?  Yeah, I thought so.....
5 I have to admit I had not read any of Agatha Christie's books, but have seen lots of movies made from her books.  After I received my Kindle as a gift, I began to look for some of the older books.  I downloaded "And Then There Were None" and enjoyed it so much.  The details of the mysterious U N Owen's  plans for his house guests keeps you wanting to see what is on the next page.  Anyone who likes a good mystery will like this book.
5 CLEVER -- I couldn't believe how well this book dragged me through it trying to figure out "who did it".  You will never guess!Luckily, you do find out at the very very very end.  What a ride.  One of the most clever murder mysteries I have read.
5 Just to add my 2-cents' worth, Hugh Fraser does a fantastic job of reading this book for audio CD presentation.  When the roles are convincingly distinguished, and the voice work is more than carefully managed, one sees the theatrical art in the reading.  This was not only a classic whodunit, besides, but one with sufficient clues to mine one's way into the morass - before the epilogue-like confession.Thoroughly enjoyable, and my favorite of all the Christie audio titles (. . . with special fondness for the story of the Blue Train.)
2 I do not understand what the hype surrounding this book is about. I did not find the "plot twist" at the end surprising in any way. The characters were very flat and I was not attached to any of them.  However, the book was pretty well paced but did drag in several places.
4 And no, I don't refer in my title to the dark secret of who the murderer eventually turns out to be!  (Although it's a good one, and a surprise!)  I refer instead to what many here are unaware of, which is that this book had two previous titles.  "Ten Little Indians" is the one people are most aware of.  But the FIRST title of this book -- a PUBLISHED title, not just something Christie proposed and had rejected -- was "Ten Little Niggers."  And the poem in the book was originally the same, referring to "niggers" and not Indians.  I purchased the "Agatha Christie Companion" for my mother as a gift and we discovered that as we were flipping through it.  They even included the original poem!  We both remain fans of Christie, chalking this up to the fact that she was a product of her times, but it's still something people should know!  I took one star off for it myself, although Native Americans might still be offended by the second title, and the revised poem.  Maybe as the world gets more PC, they'll update the book again so that the poem is called "Ten Guilty White People" . . . or would that give too much away?
5 This classic Who-Done-It by Agatha Christie reads as well today as when it was first appeared in 1939.  Ten different persons are invited to spend a weekend on remote Indian Island, guests of a mysterious host.  At dinner on the first evening a recording is played that accuses each guest of serious wrongdoing.  Soon Anthony Marston drops dead from poisoned wine.  By morning, another guest lies dead.  The boat from the mainland won't be returning for days, so the surviving guests are in a fix and rightly terrified.  A search of the island proves that nobody else is on the island - but which guest is the culprit?  "We must be very careful," warns one guest, but still their numbers decline.  The author reveals more about the surviving individuals as their numbers dwindle; their thoughts, desperation, and guilt for which they were accused.  Christie gives a couple clues, but only tiny ones.  Will the killer be discovered in time?  Will anybody survive?  Don't peak at the ending - this classic is worth your best effort.Agatha Christie (1890-1976) was a mystery-writing legend, and at this writing she's sold more books worldwide than anybody other than Shakespeare. This gripping mystery is one her best - and some say she was the best.
5 I had never read a mystery novel before so I didn't quite know what to expect.  I loved this and will definitely be reading more Agatha Christie.
5 Agatha Christie is at her best in this novel.  It is the story of 10 seemingly unrelated people who are lured to an isolated island under false pretenses.  A copy of the poem &quot;Ten Little Indians&quot; is posted and there are 10 figurines representing each Indian.  Soon, deaths begin to occur and each time a figurine is smashed or disappears.  The guests soon come to the conclusion that nine of them will die and the perpetrator is the only person who will survive.  They begin to regard one another with suspicion and they all fear for their lives.  Each person has a secret to hide and each has been directly or indirectly responsible for the downfall of another human being.  This cleverly crafted novel will keep you riveted and puzzled at the same time.  It is definitely one of Agatha Christie's best works.
3 It has been over twenty years the last time I read this. Just as good as I remembered it and a surprise ending I did not see coming. I've actually never read any other books by her and plan to read more of her in between authors like Hardy and Dickens.
5 Agatha Christie is a master of story telling, especially with murder mysteries. While this story has a lot of characters and it can be tricky to keep them all straight, it's still fantastic. I was intrigued from the first page and never knew what happened until it was disclosed in the epilogue.
5 She doesn't need my say so to convince anyone she's a terrific author.  And her stories are always filled with surprises.
5 I guess most people follow authors they like, and are usually well rewarded for it with active imaginations and new ideas.
4 I really enjoyed this one. Having trouble getting into some of her others, but this was good to the end.
4 A VERY GOOD WHO DONE IT MYSTERY . IT WAS HARD to put the book DOWN . I did not figure out who DONE all the murder until reading the VERY end of BOOK . AGATHA CHRISTY is a great mystery writer.
5 I first read And then there were none in fifth grade (my older brother was reading it for class and I picked it up) and it scared me to death.  It was my first Christie novel and although the plot totally freaked me out, I got hooked.  Despite everything I loved it and years later when I finally got over my initial fear in middle school I reread it.  And I got started on all her other books.Now in high school, I look back on a year where I have made quite a dent into Agatha Christie's mysteries.  I have been literally gobbling them up and enjoying each and every one.  Some I like better than others, and this one will always be at the top of that list.  It was my first and it is my favorite.And then there were none has had an abundance of titles.  From 10 Little Indians and something even less appropriate, the title has gradually changed until it settled on this.  The story is of ten people, gathered on an island by someone they don't know.  One by one they are done away with according to the nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians.  (That was the part that really creeped me out but Christie uses the nursery rhyme plot device in quite a few of her mysteries.)  The first dies at dinner the first day and everyone else slowly follows suit (according to the rhyme of course).  The murders are sometimes quite gruesome.  A search of the island reveals that the killer is one of the ten, and tensions mount as ten becomes nine, then eight, then seven...and then there were none.My favorite character from the beginning was Vera, so I was able to stick with the book until the end.  It seems slow at some parts, especially in the beginning, but soon it has you hooked as the murders come faster and closer together.  Overall, it is a total masterpiece, and I still don't understand how Christie managed it.  The solution was just amazing - a total surprise.  I never guessed and I doubt anyone else would either without help.One more thing: the book has been blamed for bigotry, etc.  If you're really really touchy about it you might want to avoid it, but otherwise put up with it.  It was the time period, remember.  I didn't catch much of it when I first read it, but I was young, and I'll accept that there's probably some there.  So be forewarned, but if you decide to buy or read it, enjoy!
5 Arrived at this one very late, but it lived up to its reputation. A good book to take a break with.
4 This book definitely kept me interested till the end, but it wasn't my favorite mystery novel.  Its missing the aha moment, where everything is tied together, and you think &#34;I should have known it was him/her!&#34;
5 Agatha Christie is one of my favorite authors.  I have read all of her books over again several times in my life.  This book really surprised me in the way it worked out.  I would have never guessed!
3 Mystery is not my favorite genre by far but I just had to read at least one Agatha Christie novel.  And Then There Were None is one of her best, if not most famous book. It centers around the arrival of ten strangers to a secluded island where one by one they're picked off. The killer remains anonymous to the end and as a reader you're going to try to guess who's it is and just when you think you have it solved, surprise-you're wrong! This book is the basis for the 80's cult classic Clue. One of my favorite movies, so if you've seen that you basically know the entire book but why not read the original. Just when you think you know what's going on A.C. has some nice surprises in store for you!
4 Without giving away the ending, I venture forth. I had seen the black and white American version of this and it was called Ten Little Indians and if memory serves it ended differently. Having said that I did some digging to see why the name change, and well frankly with today's times, the name change was helpful and in some areas necessary as 10 little Indians is not the original title.Having said that, the book does keep you wondering who the killer is. If you are a mystery fan who likes waiting till the last page to have the mystery solved, then this is the book for you. I also enjoyed that fact that there were just people here, no high self centered or elderly detectives. This my friends is the first murder mystery party!
5 Ten strangers receive an invitation to come to Indian Island off the coast of Devon.  None of these people have any real idea who owns the island and the locals find the situation very mysterious.  These ten people soon discover they have been invited to this island under false pretenses and each is accused of something awful they have done in the past.  Suddenly these ten people begin to fall prey to murder and a very mysterious madman pits each one against the other in a game of cat and mouse and ultimate survival.Agatha Christie has been given the worthy title of the Queen of Crime and her novel, plays and short stories have captured readers for years.  She is one of my favorite mystery writers and I always enjoy her books.  And Then There Were None is a wonderful psychological thriller that captured my attention from the first page.  The way the characters interact with each other is fascinating and how each one begins to suspect all the others is also very interesting.  What happens to these people and how they try to make sense of what is going on around them is wonderful.  The mood of the book is creepy from the first page and I always find that the book keeps you guessing until the end about how things are carried out the way they are.I believe Agatha Christie paved the way for other mystery writers and began a mystery writing industry that created an environment of gripping and intense storylines and unique studies of human behavior, perverse justice, and social interactions.  I could reread her books over and over again and find new and different ways that she makes her books unique and exciting for readers
5 felt i was a fly on the wall. this waz my first from the author and i truly enjoyed it and the characters
5 One August evening, ten guests meet at a mysterious island mansion-owned by an even more mysterious Mr. Owen. They soon discover that they're not on the island for a relaxing summer holiday -- they're there to die. Each one has been accused of a murder -- a murder that couldn't be proven and prosecuted by the courts -- and Mr. Owen is taking justice into his own hands.One by one, guests turn up dead -- each a carefully planned murder. After a search of the island, it's obvious that no one is hidden there -- so the murderer must be one of the guests. But which one? Is it the bitter old maid? The doctor, who could easily possess the deadly chemicals required? Mr. Lombard, who admits to bringing a revolver to the island? As guests try to protect themselves from the murderer, they're forced to decide who can be trusted -- and who can't.In the six-and-a-half hours it takes to listen to this recording, you'll second-guess yourself repeatedly -- and you'll never guess the conclusion. Ten Little Indians is an excellent, captivating mystery written by an extraordinary, well-loved writer. It's hard to imagine a cheery little grandma writing about such sinister murders -- but Dame Agatha Christie did it with refined style.
5 I read this book when I was 13, and it may have been one of the first books I read that I've never been able to stop thinking about. The twist at the end is so genius, I've been recommending it for years. In some ways I'm sorry this was the first Christie book I read because I haven't felt any of the titles I've read subsequently have been as good, but I know that's due to this being one of the best mysteries ever written.
5 Most of the Agatha Christie books I've read have been awesomely bad, but this book is just awesome.  Ten strangers trapped on an island, being slowly murdered by one of their own for their past crimes.  In true Agatha Christie fashion, when you take a step back and look at how many coincidences had to work out just right for all of the pieces of the killer's plan to work, it's an absurd concept, but internally, it's consistent.  Considering that there are only about 200 pages and ten main characters, Christie does an admirable job drawing out the complexities and personalities of her characters, and the tense scenes after the suspect list narrows to four are especially well done.  Christie even manages to avoid most of the rampant classism so present in her other works (although there is a fair amount of gratuitous anti-Semitism - the killer's henchman is Jewish, so of course everyone needs to bring that up in a derogatory way when they talk about him).  Yes, the whole thing is a little ludicrous, but it's a great quick read, and I highly recommend it to anyone who thinks he doesn't like reading mysteries.  This one is a classic that has earned its reputation.
5 The very best Agatha Christie mystery,ale that the best mystery ever written! Start with Ten Little Indians...A MUST read!!
4 Being a book lover and an avid reader, I've obviously heard of Agatha Christie many times. For whatever reason, I was scared to pick up a book from her and read it, but i'm really glad I did. While I didn't love this book, I still really enjoyed it, esp. the concept of the book. I knew once hearing about Gretchen McNeil's retelling of this story, that I needed to read this classic first, to get a full understanding of the re-telling., which I will be reading very shortly to see the similarities and the differences between the two authors, and their different writing styles.Agatha Christie def. has a great writing style, and the characters and the writing were both addictive. I know Agatha is known to be the Queen of Mystery and I guess I wanted more mystery from this story, instead, the ending kinda felt left open and not having a consise and solid answer, but more of a :take what you will" from it kind of resolution, and I had expected and wanted more. I felt like I saw all the twists and turns coming which in my opinion a great mystery makes you think something's going to happen, but then takes you in the complete and opposite direction.I definitely want to read more from Agatha Christie, and like I said, I did enjoy the book, and It was a quick read, I just amped it up to be something that fell a bit short for me in the end.
5 Agatha Christie is truly the Queen of Mystery like the cover claims. This was my first read by her. I can definitely say there will be many more.When I finished And Then There Were None, I had such a satisfied, childish grin on my face. I'm still baffled. Throughout the book, I thought I had it figured out about 5 different times. This story literally keeps you guessing until the very end. It was amazing.Agatha Christie's writing is so clever and criptic. I was so entertained for the entire book. I love her style. I feel like a kid reading Nancy Drew. Why have I never read Agatha Christie before?
5 I have been a life long fan of Agatha Christie's writing and her storytelling abilities. I first read "And The There Were None" several years ago now.... I thought "And The There Were None" was a great mystery novel then as I do now. In fact, I feel "And The There Were None" is one of Dame Christie's best novels ever written for the following reasons:* Great Storytelling By Dame Agatha Christie.* Quick Read That Is Difficult To Put Down.* Interesting Plot, Which Takes 10 Strangers & Lures Them All To An Island Where Killer Kills All Ten Strangers Off One By One.* All Ten Victims Are Stranded On The Island With No Means Of Leaving The Island Or Communicating With The Outside World, Which Intensifies The Storyline.* Lots of Red Herrings & Misdirection Keeps The Reader Guessing As To Who The Killer Really Is & How The Murders Are Being Executed.* Great Ending.
5 Although I had head about this story all of my life, and had seen the movie decades ago, I had forgotten most of it.  WHat I liked is that in reading the book, it was all new.  It was great.  It had the right amount of character development and didn't bog the story down.  And speculation continued throughout most of the book, as to whom the host(s) was, and who the murder might be.  I was not disappointed at the end.
5 I recommend read this. It has a great vocabulary and a surprising end I just love it and I hope u do toooooo
5 This is one of the most original of Agatha Christie's plots.  I read it as a teen, and it still scares me.  This mystery novel demonstrates why Agatha Christie is the best-selling author of fiction of all time.  It is one of Christie's darkest and most ingenious plots.  You may pick it up and not be able to put it down until its shocking conclusion.  It is considered one of her best mystery novels, if not the best book she wrote.
5 Arguably Christie's masterpiece, and certainly her darkest tale, And Then There Were None takes you to Indian Island where 10 strangers have been lured to face the unspeakable crime each has committed and gotten away with....until now. As each of the 10 die one by one, the other realize the net is closing in and there's no way to discover their unknown avenger or escape his or her unerring execution of justice. Brilliantly written, you can feel the atmosphere of suspicion and dread growing with each death and a twist ending that only the most astute will see coming.
5 Once again another one of her suspenseful, incredible stories.  My very best author. I have been a fan since my teenage years.
5 &quot;And Then There Were None&quot; is thoroughly intriguing and mind bending.  You will become so engrossed, you will not want to put this book down - take it from someone who experienced this.  Just when you have an inkling about who &quot;Mr. Owen&quot; is, you're thrown a curve-ball that will send you back to reread passages.  Read the book before you see the movie version, &quot;Ten Little Indians,&quot; although both are excellent.  Whether you're a mystery fan, or not, this book is a must read.  I recommend.
5 This novel should have come with a warning.DO NOT READ IF YOU'RE SEVERELY PARANOIDBecause the machinations at the heart of this novel is that there are no secrets, even between strangers. And who knows, maybe one day, someone very evil and demented will happen upon the very thread that linked them all and pull at it. With devastating consequences.Strangers stranded on an island is nothing new in the literature world, but strangers on a comfy island and getting nicked one by one is new, not to mention when after a while, no one else is left!Toying with this plot, which Agatha Christie claimed to be the most taxing plot of them all, the story unfolds with a very energetic, very handsome man speeding down a road in a new shiny car with the women swooning after him. A few chapters later we see him choking on his drink while dining, and seconds later died. The first line of the nursery rhyme has been realised, and there are nine more to follow...Christie's toying with the rhyme is very delightful, albeit cruel and frightening. There was a moment where the characters were discussing about the rhyme and wondering where in the world would their demented tormentor find a red herring or a bear, as suggested in these lines:Four Little Indian boys going out to seaA red herring swallowed one and then there were three.Three Little Indian boys walking to the zooA big bear hugged one and then there were two.Without giving anything away, suffice to say that Agatha Christie got her bear and red herring just the way she wanted them. And the ending is simply haunting and depressive. Not your usual Christie, but her best ever.
4 I have found this book listed among the best mystery stories ever writtenTen carefully selected people from different walks of life are lured to spend a few days of vacation in an island off the England coast, and then murdered one after another until then there were none, the murdered understands that these people deserved to be killed due to some actions performed in their pasts. This quick, witty, read, features the classical whodunit structure, explores each person individual fear and the worsening of the relationship between the characters as the murdering process progresses killing one at a time employing different methods. It gives no clue at who might be the killer, who is disclosed in the epilogue
4 This is the first book I've read by Agatha Christie. I've watched Poirot and Miss. Marple series, but have neglected to read any of her novels until now. And I'm glad I made the leap.And Then There Were None is a thrilling story about ten strangers that are invited to a mysterious island by a mysterious host. There they are each incriminated for murder by the mysterious host. That very night a guest/victim dies. The strangers are freaked out and vow to leave the island in the morning. Only they can't. And more people keep dying.This is a really fantastic novel. It will keep you guessing until the end. I enjoyed the way Christie laid out the story; the background she gave us of each character adding to the thrill. And of course it dabbles with the question of whether we should take justice into our own hands. If you've not had an opportunity to read this book, I recommend it. It's perfect for a rainy afternoon!
5 There was a time when I loved to read Agatha Chistie. In those times her books meant everything to me, and I almost didn't read another author. In one year, I read 67 of her books. And believe me, among these 67, AN THEN  THERE WERE NONE is the best one.The plot is one of those you  don't find anymore on detective books. Ten people that don't know each  other hide something terrible of their past. They are invited to spend  sometime at a man's house - a man that no one know. And suddenly, one by  one, they are murdered in a very suspicious sometimes, sometimes terrible  and bloody way. Most of all, the ending is one of the best I've ever read.  Agatha Christie was really a wonderful writer. Her books will certainly  remain forever, since she is the Shakespeare of detective fiction. And this  book is for sure her best work. If you haven't read that one yet and you  enjoy Agatha's books, hurry up and take that one!Marco Aurelio.
5 My daughter (11) loved reading this book and I am going to read it again: such an interesting concept, all the characters die, but who murdered them?
5 This is the first book that I read of Agatha Christie and I thought that it was great. A story of ten people who have questionable backgrounds that are asked to join a Mr. U.N. Owen on a island for an unforgettable time. From start to finish this book is a good read. I really liked Agatha Christies writing style and am looking forward to reading another of her many books.
5 This book is an excellent classic.  You don't need to be a Christie fan to admire the brilliance of the plot and the flow of the story.  The only possible downside of this book is that it was so good that it if some of the story seems cliched it's because there have been so many who have tried to copy the story.  Don't be fooled.  This original is a keepsake.What makes this book so enjoyable is that while it is a relative short book by today's standards it is more enthralling.  It is not burdened with the gore or the sex of so many mysteries today, but has a solid suspenseful story that will keep you guessing until the end.Read this book whether you're a Christie fan, a mystery lover, an avid reader or even if you pick up a book only once in a great while.  You won't regret it.
5 I read this almost by accident, and once again, I found that this classic is better and more timeless than many of the newer books I read. The book is relatively short and an easy read, and certainly most entertaining.
4 .Good read. It was an different type plot and kept my interest to the endll kept my interest
2 Admittedly, I am not a big fan of the mystery genre, but I do read them from time to time.  This book was my first foray into Christie, and will almost certainly be my last.This book was highly recommended by a friend who, up until now, has been right on the mark in terms of suggested reading.  I mentioned to him that I preferred mysteries where there are enough clues throughout that the reader can try to figure out who the murderer is on his or her own.  My friend warned me that Christie is decidedly not like that; in fact, I think his wording was "she cheats: she'll introduce a crucial clue in the last few pages that the characters should have known all along."  However, he said that if I can get past that -- and I can -- the total was greater than the sum of the parts in that all other aspects of her books made up for this subjective stumbling point. With that, he told me her best book was "And Then There Were None," so I checked it out.  Like I said, this is the first bad call I've seen him make.At no point did this book actually pique my interest, let alone hold it. Characters began dying, and I couldn't care less about them one way or another. The fact that the title tells you the book's pattern didn't help. Less than half way through, I was consciously aware that I was reading on just to finish it and get it over with.  That is NOT a good sign.My major complaint, though, is her prose.  Very rushed, dry, sparse in description, and completely unengaging. Stylistically, she makes a number of remedial faux pas, which at first were mildly irritating but became more grating as the book trudged on.  The most egregious example is exclamation mark overkill: the first chapter alone averaged two or three a page. Just from that I would have guessed that this was one of her first books, as her style struck me as amateurish and unpolished, but to my surprise she wrote this well into her career.Obviously, and for reasons currently beyond me, Christie has a large fan base.  I don't doubt they'd say that I'm either missing something or am an unenlightened philistine who "doesn't get it."  However, a prime sign of a *good* book is if a relative outsider like me can come in on it cold and go with it.  That obviously failed here, and I cannot recommend this book, except to Agatha fanboys or someone looking for a sick drinking game -- take a shot every time she uses an exclamation mark.  Be warned if you try that, though: you'll have cirrhosis of the liver 10 pages into it.In all candor, the more I thought about this book, the more it annoyed me - I wouldn't have written such a harsh review otherwise.
3 This book will have a grasp on you as soon as you open it. Ten strangers, a curious assortment of men and women from different walk of life, are summoned as weekend guests to a private island off the coast of Devon by a mysterious man U. N. Owen. Each guest identifies common relations with Owen and yet Owen is unknown to them. It is a pre-announced murder spree. One by one, the house guests fall prey to an unknown, myseterious killer in the house, according to the scheme walled up in individual guest room-the rhyme of ten Indian boys. This is a book that fills up with suspense, panic, and thrill. As more house guests fall prey, the remnants escalate vigilance but also distrust. Speculation and doubts roam in of their mind. And only the dead are above suspicion. This is definitely a page turner. I finish the book in a day, with perspiring hands, accelerating pulse and a cloud of speculation in my mind. Good read. 3.3 stars.
5 I read this after playing the PC game so the end was blown for me but still a fun story, I would recommend reading this book and then playing the game.  (don't think the game ends the same way the book does)
3 Each of the ten guests are invited by U.N. Owen to spend a weekend at Indian Island which is located one mile off the coast of Devon. None of the guests know anything about U.N. Owen but they take the offer anyway. When everyone arrives at the island, U.N. Owen is no where to be found. No one is on the island except Mr. and Mrs. Rogers which are the guest&#65533;s butlers (they are included as the ten guests). Anyway, each of the ten guests spend a little time to get to know one another, and get settled into their rooms. And in each of the ten bedrooms a framed poem hangs on the wall entitled Ten Little Indians. It says:Ten little Indian boys went out to dine;One choked his little self and then there were nine.Nine little Indian boys sat up very late;One overslept himself and then there were eight.Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon;One said he&#65533;d stay there and then there were seven.Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks;One chopped himself in halves and then there were six.Six little Indian boys playing with a hive;A bumblebee stung one and then there were five.Five little Indian boys going in for law;One got in Chancery and then there were fourFour little Indian boys going out to sea;A red herring swallowed one and then there were three.Three little Indian boys walking in the Zoo;A big bear hugged one and then there were two.Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun;One got frizzled up and then there was one.One little Indian boy left all alone;He went and hanged himself and then there were none.This is pretty much how the entire story goes. Each of the visitors die off one by one (each dying in a way somehow related to the poem) until there are none. After the first death occurs, all the guests prepare to leave on the boat which is supposed to come each morning to deliver food and other goods, but the boat comes once (to bring all the visitors to the Island) and never comes back again. From the very first night all the guests arrive, strange things start to occur. First, they hear a gramophone that accuses each of the guests of committing murder (which for some of the guests is a surprise) and then someone actually dies the first night. At first, everyone thinks the people die from committing suicide, but later they realize that&#65533;s not the case. Someone (one of the guests) is indeed the murderer killing all the houseguests, one by one. And the horrible thing is that there is no chance of escaping the Island because the boat will never return. Who is the murderer killing all of the house guests? Will anyone on Indian Island make it out alive?
5 Her storytelling doesn't get much better than here in the midst of murder and or mayhem. A classic that deserves reading (and re-reading) just for the sheer pleasure of the setting, the words and a superb plot that really does deserve the reader's attention. What a delightful read.
5 I loved every part of this story; I was very surprised at the ending.  Also, I think I need to read more of Agatha Christie's novels.
4 And Then There Were None is reportedly the best-selling mystery novel of all time, and judging from the many five-star reviews here, it continues to be a favorite. So why only a four-star review from me?Well, to begin with, let me acknowledge that I understand the accolades. The story premise is one of the most inventive and intriguing ever constructed. A mysterious stranger invites a group of ten individuals, all with a murder they have supposedly gotten away with in their backgrounds, to an isolated island where he then begins to dispense justice by knocking them off one at a time based on a nursery rhyme (which had a very unsavory original title that gave the novel its original British title, later changed both in England and America).The group soon realizes that the mysterious stranger killing them is actually one of their number, but which one? As the bodies pile up and the list of suspects therefore dwindles, the drama intensifies. You can't help but be hooked.But here's my quibble, which is serious enough that I docked the review one star: it's just too damn perfect, too mechanical. Strict adherence to the premise overwhelms any sense of reality as the necessities of the plot require the characters to act in dumbfounding ways.What really are the odds that someone can bring ten people to an island and start murdering them--all in accordance with the strict requirements set down by the nursery rhyme and in that order--and keep doing it through to the end? Even after the group clues in to the fact that the nursery rhyme--which is posted in all their rooms--is the template, they do very little with it. Just as an example: the butler, after knowing that the next killing will involve "chopping up sticks" decides to...chop up sticks...by himself...in the early morning. This is no different really than the airhead teenagers in a slasher movie deciding to investigate the basement in the middle of the night (in their underwear usually if they're girls) after being told there's a killer about.The killer is preternaturally competent and flawless--and lucky--because the plot requires it and no other real reason. After you finish, ask yourself what are the chances that the killer actually could have physically and psychologically done these things so perfectly. Plus, that message-in-a-bottle "How I Did It" coda is pretty clunky even by Golden Age detective fiction standards that required a full explanation at the end.I love mysteries, but what I love most about them is how they affect interesting characters, and how those characters interact. Here, the characters are mostly stock types (the adventurer, the old military guy, the old maid, etc.) who are not very well rounded out. Christie's short chapters don't help. You only get superficial glances at each person. The plot requires them to be pretty stupid or it wouldn't work.Compare And Then There Were None with Raymond Chandler's The Big Sleep, published around the same time. Chandler's plot is not nearly so flawless (in fact, he neglects to account for at least one murder) but the characters are fascinating and the dialogue crackles. Look, I'm not telling you not to read And Then There Were None. In fact, I urge you to read it if you are a mystery fan. It is one of the most influential books in the genre ever written. And you won't be bored. But I just prefer a little more realism, fewer wires showing.
4 395 Reviews (as of  March 9, 2003)! I must admit to being impressed. "And Then There Were None" is a solid whodunit from the old school. We have all experienced the storyline before, most likely because others have "borrowed" it from Author Christie. The proverbial "mysterious stranger" invites ten individuals to an island. Each has a definite skeleton is his or her personal closet. One by one they die. The plot thickens as the group realizes that the murderer is one of them! This reviewer won't reveal the ending -as some fellow amazoners have!- but I believe it is plausible. The resolution certainly completes the circle. ATTWN has the added value of being highly readable. No doubt many have consumed it in one sitting, pulled along by the momentum. There are two soft points to ATTWN. 1) The reader must accept the initial premise that the ten accepted a mysterious invitation from a complete stranger and 2)its' brevity precludes the development of any of the characters.  A few of these were "characters" in their own right! Another 30-50 pages would only have bolstered the suspense. Those who like mystery/crime/ murder novels should not be disappointed. With 80 novels and 14 plays to her credit, Ms. Christie is a low risk author, especially at paperback prices. A final word of warning: Do not be fooled, as this reviewer was, by the classic 1945 movie version with Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston. Though equally satisfying, the endings are NOT the same.
4 This is Christie with some existential substance. Ten people on an island, each with a morally ambiguous past, watch in mounting terror as they dwindle one by one. And then there were none. While it borders on silly at times -- and that's to be expected of the genre -- it grips and doesn't let go until the very end.
5 Timeless, majestic, terrifying, breathtaking. The masterpiece by the British lady. You read it. Then you can read it once again even knowing the ending. And you read it again. It's that kind of book. Marvellous.
5 The classic "who done it!" What most people have come to think of when a murder mystery is mentioned. Most modern day "murder mysteries" bore me as I usually figure out early on who the culprit is and how the crime was committed. Although I had the "who" figured out in this mystery, I could not figure out the "how." And one thing I absolutely love about a mystery is trying to keep solving it...all the way to the end!Ten people whose lives are not connected in any way, are invited by a very mysterious host(ess) to a luxurious house on a somewhat remote island for a brief getaway. Very soon after their arrival, each is accused of having brought about the death of another person and for that they are to pay. When, one by one, they are discovered dead, it is time to try to figure out who - and where - the killer is and try to stop him or her from continuing their murderous rampage before all are killed!This novel is evenly paced and easy to read. Agatha Christie seems to have covered all of her bases on this one to leave the reader attempting to figure out the clues. The book keeps the reader involved, tracing over the clues and the guests in the house, while moving through the story and wondering - who might be the next victim? And exactly who can the killer be?A well thought out mystery, very well done!
4 AND THEN THERE WERE NONE is often listed as mystery or mystery-suspense. Actually I'd call it and out-and-out horror novel. Why? Because horror is "the anticipation of a terrifying outcome" and that's precisely what this book aims to be.The plot is fiendishly simple. Eight people are invited to remote Soldier Island for a party. Waiting for them are a maid and butler, who inform the guests that their mysterious hosts will be arriving shortly. In the mean time, each person is handed a copy of the infamously gruesome little poem "Ten Little Indians.*" While waiting, one of the guests plays a gramophone, but instead of music the recorded voice announces that each member of the party -- including the maid and butler -- have committed, and gotten away with, some terrible crime, and that punishment is now at hand. The guests believe it's all just some macabre practical joke...until the first one of them dies. And when they realize that there is no way to communicate with the mainland, no way off the island until the scheduled boat arrives days later...panic begins to set in...and paranoia. Are they trapped on the island with a murderer hiding in the shadows...or is the murderer hiding in plain sight among them? Either way, the bodies are piling up fast, and for the dwindling number of survivors, the "anticipation of a terrifying outcome" grows both more unbearable and more certain with each passing moment. There is, it seems, no way to outrun your sins on Soldier Island...AND THEN THERE WERE NONE is a startlingly good book. Christie uses clever writing technique to introduce a very large cast of characters quickly, and also establish just the vaguest trace of menace from the very first pages; also to create numerous "red herrings" and to misdirect the reader at every possible turn as to the killer's identity. Despite a shortish length and a lightning pace, the characters -- Lawrence Wargrave, Vera Claythorne, Philip Lombard, General John Macarthur, Emily Brent, Anthony Marston, Dr Edward Armstrong and William Blore, and Thomas and Ethel Rogers -- are finely drawn and, in some cases, decidedly sympathetic because they actually regret their sins, which of course only makes the horror-suspense element of the novel all the more effective. The killer partially agrees, arranging the earliest deaths for those who are the least villainous, and the final ones for those who deserve to suffer agonies of suspense as they wait minute by minute for their own end to come.No book is perfect, and the main flaw here is the last part of the novel, which consists of a large set-up to letting the killer explain their motives. The set-up is quite unnecessary and overly expositive and a single sentence introducing the actual confession, such as "The following was recovered in a bottle which washed up on a beach in East Anglia" would have sufficed. I feel Christie went a bit too far "behind the curtain" here, but the flaw is relatively minor.AND THEN THERE WERE NONE was my first Agatha Christie book, but it won't be my last. Minor flaws aside, it's a terrific little novel that not only needs to be read, it needs to be read twice!(* When the book was originally published, the poem was actually called "Ten Little N*****s"...as was the book. Then it became TEN LITTLE INDIANS. When that too became politically unacceptable, the name was changed once more to AND THEN THERE WERE NONE. Hopefully this is the last change...but you never know.)
5 This was fun to reread. I think it has gone through a name change from 50 years ago.We used LitLovers questions at the book club and got a good discussion. Several were surprised by the ending, but it all came together.
5 Arguably the best Agatha Christie book. Excellent plot, LOTS of murders (heh), perfect. You will read this book in less than a hour because you will really stick to it.Recommended not only to Agatha christie fans (who MUST have read it already) , but also to everybody else.
5 Christie really outdid herself when coming up with characters and building the suspense of this book. This isn't one of her mysteries where you get the chance to solve the case before the solution is revealed. The clues necessary for that are just not made available to the reader. The solution does make complete sense within the context of the story, but nothing hints at it at all. But, that's part of the wonderful suspense of the story-- who is going to die next, and who on earth could possibly be the killer? You might have your guesses, but just like the characters, each will be proven incorrect. The suspense builds and builds as there are more bodies and fewer suspects, and seemingly no possible way for everything to be happening the way it is. Like the characters, you wonder whose testimony and actions you can really trust. Truly a masterful work of suspense.
3 And Then There Were None is perhaps the most "closed-room" of the many "closed-room" mysteries Agatha Christie wrote.  Ten people are invited to a privately-owned island by a mysterious and unknown party.  Each is harboring a guilty secret from their past, which is revealed on the first evening by a phonograph recording supplied by -- again -- an unknown party.  Each person vigorously insists on their own innocence and almost immediately the deaths begin.  Over the course of the next few days each person dies, one after another.This is almost the only Agatha Christie of the many I read years ago, in which I remembered who the guilty party was.  So that ruined the suspense for me somewhat, since I knew all along who was behind all the deaths.  However, even had I not known I think the excessive improbability of the whole plot would have turned me off a bit.  One doesn't expect an Agatha Christie mystery to read like a true crime story -- they are read for entertainment, after all.  Still, this one was contrived to the point of ridiculousness.  The behavior of the ten people, too, was ridiculous; it is not until there are only three or four people left that they begin to act a little bit as you would expect.  Throughout the first several murderers everyone seemed totally non-plussed, taking it completely in stride and turning amateur detective.  And then there was the gimmick of patterning the whole thing after the nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians, which all of the characters got completely caught up in.  It was truly eye-rolling.This is probably the most "creative" of Agatha Christie's plots, but not the best of her mysteries.Hugh Fraser, however, is one of the best narrators.  I have listened to him on several Agatha Christie books and he always does an excellent job.
3 What if someone outed a shameful secret that you held?  What would you do?  What if you were isolated with several other people and they started getting murdered?  Then what would you do?  This is what happens in And Then There Were None, basically a blueprint for many mysteries to come.Agatha Christie is an icon.  The name alone conjures up intrigue. Her many works gave birth to television shows, movies and contributed to the murder mystery genre.  Christie also wrote a play of the same title which was adapted into a movie that I saw when I was little.  This movie never left me.  So, I was pretty thrilled when I saw the audio book in the library.The problem for me in this book is the telling.  At the start it seems necessary to describe each character and how they are lured to Indian Island, but it is not engaging.  Also, the over explanation into certain people's thoughts did not grab me and the epilogue and finally the confession, while beneficial to the story was not appealing.The narration by Hugh Fraser was pretty good.  He has a very pronounced British accent and it was kind of amusing to me that such proper sounding speech is used to describe horrific crimes.  In other words, a very civilized voice talking about very uncivilized acts.  For the most part, the voices are distinguishable and while I didn't feel it the most inspired narration of a book, it did lend itself to the setting, the time period and the characters.Ten people are invited to an island under questionable circumstances and soon they are all accussed of being responsible for the death of someone (or more than one person).  Then one by one people begin to die.  Because I had seen the movie, I was pretty sure I knew who the killer was unless of course the movie was different than the book which often happens.  It is different in a few respects, but the killer ended up being...well, I won't give it away.I love the way each death occured to reflect the nursery rhyme about 10 little Indians and the plot device of having one of the 10 figurines disappear each time someone got killed.  All the while there is confusion, suspicion and helplessness at being trapped on an island at the mercy of a deranged murderer.Each character is so different that it wasn't difficult to keep track of all the players.  The only ones that I kept interspersing were the Judge and the Admiral.  Perhaps because they were both older and the voices seemed similar to me.  I really enjoyed Vera's story...that backstory would have made an amazing novel.  To me, she is the most interesting character.  The way that Christie gave her history pieces at a time had me intriged with her.This audiobook is only 5 cds, so it was a quick "listen."  Although I may not count this in a list of "must reads" I would put it in a list of "should reads" if for nothing else than because it was written by Agatha Christie, one of the most famous mystery writers of our time.
3 "Nodding his head in approval of his logic, Mr. Justice Wargrave allowed his head to nod...""She screamed and screamed--screams of the utmost terror--wild, desperate cries for help."I first read "And Then There Were None" when I was nine and ordered it from the Scholastic Book Club. (It had been retitled "Ten Little Indians" as a promo for the movie of the same name starring Hugh O'Brian and Stanley Holloway, based on "And Then There Were None.") I did not yet realize that being a great genre writer didn't necessarily mean you were a great writer, and I also didn't know about editors and how even they can sometimes be asleep at the wheel. But, in any case, those two sentences--which even to my fourth-grade eyes seemed awfully inept--were what stayed with me from the book, more than anything else. "And Then There Were None" is widely considered to be Agatha Christie's masterpiece, the sheer ingeniousness of the plot mixing with an aura of impending doom to make an overwhelming reading experience. I guess that's true, and maybe I'm just too picky, but I keep thinking how much better the book would have been if written by, say, Raymond Chandler, or someone else who knew how to write a decent sentence. This is the main reason why I prefer film adaptations of Dame Agatha's books to the books themselves. Give me Albert Finney, David Suchet or Peter Ustinov as Poirot any day!
5 I think this is the scariest mystery I've read so far. It was terrifying but it was very good. Agatha Christie is always great.
5 THis is by far my favorite mystery story! and it's an excellent buy at this price! I recommend it to everyone!
5 Probably the best book The Dame ever published. The story has been copied thousands of times ever since in movies TV and novels; but this is the blueprint.If you have seen one of the several movie adaptations or the Theater play you still have to read this; you are in for a surprise. The Dame rewrote some parts of it for theater including adding a different ending.Great characterization, a water-tight plot without holes and incredible atmospheric tension makes this one a readers delight; and a perfect entertainment for a rainy day at home.And remember; whatever you do, DO NOT look at the last page.
4 Wow, this was truly a book I couldn't put down. Great ending...  a must read for anyone who loves murder mysteries.
5 I became interested after watching Family Guy's &#34;And Then There were Fewer&#34;.  This book was very entertaining and I read it fast.  I could not put it down.  And the ending was a shock.
5 AND THEN THERE WERE NONE by Agatha Christie is the best of the best in the thriller field and she wrote it in 1939.Ten people travel to an island and those ten people are murdered. When the bodies are discovered there is no one else on the island. A classic who did it.Nash Black, author of SINS OF THE FATHERS.
3 I did not really like this book. It was too wordy and wasn't suspenseful at all with all of the accusations thrown around by those still among the living. It was further ruined by who I actually figured out was the murderer. There was no climax, no fear, nothing. The poem sounded so suspenseful, but didn't deliver.Everyone is so flat. And it's hard to remember who is who, and I felt like I spent half of the book trying to remember who each one was. Sometimes Christie reminds you, but most times she doesn't. I found myself hopelessly flipping through pages of repetitive dialogue to get to the next murder, only to be disappointed it was no big spectacle. I understand that things were more "conservative" when she wrote it, but I've read more suspenseful things during that time period than this.Needless to say, I will not be picking up another of her novels.
5 I've read this book and watched dramatizations a number oof times, and yet enjoy it more each time I encounter it.  The theme of punishment of those who caused another's death and yet evaded legal punishment is especially engrossing.  Agatha Christie is the mistress of the twist ending and remains a major influence on what is now known as a "cozy" style of mystery.
4 This was my first Agatha Christie book.  I knew she was the famed  &quot;best selling mystery writer&quot; and I guess when you hear all the  hype your expectations soar.  While the book wasn't bad, I found some of it  perplexing and somewhat difficult to swallow.  While the motive was sneaky,  I didn't feel that Christie persuaded me enought to make it believable.  None the less, I tried another book...&quot;The Murder of Roger  Ackroyd&quot;.  Please look up that book to see my review on it.
5 At first there were ten and then there were none....There are some books that are timeless and never grow old.. And Then There Were None by Agatha Christie is one such book which though written some seventy years ago still has the power to shock the reader and leave him at a loss of words!!Ten ordinary people are invited, each by their supposed friends to spend a week on the famous and much discussed, Indian Island. Although these people seem ordinary, each has committed murder and got away with it!! Once on the island, they learn that their host is held back and wont be joining them. Cut off from the mainland, one by one they start dying all according to a nursery rhyme &#34;Ten Little Indians&#34;..In a race against time, they have to find the murderer (who it seems is one of them) and also get off from the Island before any more deaths occur..&#34;One of us in this very room is in fact the murderer.&#34;This book was first published by the name &#34;Ten Little Niggers&#34; which was then changed to And Then There Were None because of the racist nature of the first title. It also has the distinction of being the best selling mystery ever. Definitely the best work of Christie and supposedly her favorite too, it has everything namely suspense,mystery,tragedy,drama, psychological reasoning, emotionally packed scenes and also some bone chilling and nail biting moments.Agatha Christie spins a tale that is unusual and definitely never heard of before. The treatment of the story and its ending is entirely new. Every tool is used to heighten the tension, terror and suspense in the story.Each character plays his/her part to perfection whether it be Rogers with &#34;fright in his eyes, dry lips, twitching face&#34; or Vera Claythorne, who was &#34;frightened of the dark&#34;!!The description of the house on Indian Island is exquisite and very admirably done using comparison as the tool to heighten the drama.'If this had been an old house, with creaking wood, and dark shadows, and heavily panelled walls, there might have been an eerie feeling. But this house was the essence of modernity. There were no dark corners-no possible sliding panels- it was flooded with electric light, everything was new and bright and shining. There was nothing hidden in this house, nothing concealed. It had no atmosphere about it. Somehow, that was the most frightening thing of all.'The nursery rhyme, &#34;Ten Little Indians&#34; is expertly and very beautifully used in the book as a blueprint to the murders that happen. Its an ingenious plot that leaves the reader spell bound and speechless with no clue to what might happen next!&#34;I don't know. I don't know at all. And that's what's frightening the life out of me. To have no idea....&#34;&#8220;In the midst of life, we are in death.&#8221;All through we are shown the reasoning of the murderer but still I couldn't make out his identity till the very end and then also I was shocked because as it says in the book, the murderer was totally unexpected.&#34;Many homicidal lunatics are very quiet, unassuming people. Delightful fellows.&#34;A brilliantly designed and executed book with a plot that leaves its effect long after we have finished reading it. Its a once in a lifetime book. I have no words to explain everything that I am feeling after reading it but hope that my rating says it all.I give And Then There Were None a shining 5 on 5 and highly recommend that everyone read it. Books like this come once maybe in a century or more and are not to be missed at any cost.This review is also available on my blog Njkinny's World of Books & Stuff
5 I had never read an Agatha Christie novel before this one.  I chose it since it had the highest reviews on Amazon.  It's a good &#34;who-dunnit&#34; novel from the 1930s.  The only complaint I would have is the long cast of characters (10) that were introduced in Chapter 1.  I got psyched out about reading further, feeling that I wouldn't enjoy it -- as I couldn't remember each of the characters.  I was almost ready to go back and take notes about them.  Alas, I was unnecessarily worried, as their fully detailed backgrounds weren't that critical and AC worked them into the story well.  Recommended.
5 As an avid peruser of most Agatha Christie novels, I must state that this is one of the Queen of Crime's superb mysteries. Set on the mystical, deserted Indian Island, eight people are invited by an unknown host to stay at a house complete with a butler and and cook, Mr. and Mrs. Rogers, who are completely clueless of the identity of their employer. In each of the guests' bedrooms, there is a poem pinned up to the wall: and old nursery rhyme featuring ten little Indian boys. It is then that the murders begin, revealing that each guest (including Mr. and Mrs. Rogers) is concealing deep, deadly secrets connected to murder in their past (accidental or on purpose). Who the culprit is is the case which causes commotion and suspicision among the house's occupants and fright. But all is not lost since a pattern develops following the content of the poem. Soon only two people remain alive on the island, Philip Lombard and Vera Claythorne. Which one is the killer? The solution is quite a twist since both die anyway as predicted:  &quot;Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun;  One got frizzled up and then there was one.  One little Indian boy left all alone;  He went and hanged himself and then there were none.&quot; So get your hands on 'And Then There Were None'; it's grand fun and suspense and if you are that a great of a sleuth like Hercule Poirot, the solution is quite a clinch and erratic, yet highly expected of Agatha Christie.
3 I have to admit, I read it all in one or two days because it was an easy read that kept your attention and interest.  However, I wish the book had a little more ideas, a bit more meaning.  Is that too much to ask even of a mystery, and supposedly one of the best mysteries ever?  I think authors should really communicate some "ideas" in their novels, whether on life, death, spirituality, human relationships ... and this book just lacked that.  Potential ideas that were not really developed include how people deal with fear and prospect of death, justice, and conscience.  Anyway, I don't think it's too much to ask for some ideas and themes from such a world-renowned author and book.
5 A deserted island, 10 guests all with suspicious backgrounds, all being murdered one by one.  Who's doing it?  Not till the end do we find out.
5 Ten soldier china figures in a house on Soldier Island represents the ten people that have come to the island.  One by one the china figures disappear, but who has removed them?  Why does Anthony Marston choke himself, and who is the murderer?'And then there were None' refers to last line of the poem by Frank Green written in 1869, and then it probably cannot be a secret what the book is about.  We hear about the various deaths, but as the book progresses, it becomes more and more difficult to find out who the murderer is.  The first chapters are more or less just something you need to read in order to get to the more interesting chapters, but then I was really concentrating, because Agatha Christie manages to hold the reader's attention and also let the reader try to figure out for himself who the murderer is.The book is concentrated on a single spot -- the island -- which makes the book easier to follow; you don't have to concentrate on the various settings, and therefore it's the question of who the murderer is that gets the reader's attention, and the question that keeps bothering you as the story progresses.I can highly recommend this suspense novel, which I have read before, but which deserves a second reading because of its brilliance.
5 It's Agatha Christie - what else do you need to say?
5 This is, by far, hands down Agatha Christie's best novel. I'm a sucker for a group of people stranded somewhere (House, island, wherever) when suddenly a murder occurs.Christie gives some brilliant and insightful background information to her shady suspects and unravels the story as carefully as a ball of yarn.A fantastic read that gets better every time I pick it up. Highly HIGHLY reccommended.
4 If you like thrillers, Agatha Christie will never disappoint you. This novel is well written, the plot is complex and skillfully developed and, in the end, there is a logical answer to the many questions you cannot but ask yourself while reading. Magic and the supernatural are left out and this makes the novel even more fascinating.
5 This is one of the best by Agatha. Ending is just a masterpiece. Must read if you a mystery fan
3 Fascinating but not comparable to her series.  Easy read, and I will go back to some of her other books.
4 And Then There Were None Book ReviewFor my most recent book club book we chose &#8220;And Then There Were None&#8221;. Overall it was a good book with an interesting story line. I enjoyed the book and discovered how good Agatha Christie&#8217;s writing is. I look forward to possibly reading more of her work at some point.I enjoyed the book mostly due to the plot. The mysterious plot line was very intriguing. The story is about a bunch of people from all different walks of life being called to an island for many different reasons. After all the people arrive at the island they find all the reasons they were called to the island were lies and none of them, including the employees, know why. The owner who invited the people was named Mr. Owen who was unknown. &#8220;Mr. Owen could only come to the island in one way. It is perfectly clear. Mr. Owen is one of us.&#8221;(Christie127) As the story proceeds characters are killed off by someone and the characters strive to find out who the murderer is. So the overall plot is extremely exciting and thought provoking.I also liked the ending. I will not give it away but the ending is satisfying. After the investment you put into the book the ending brings the story to a pleasant level of completion. It leaves everything wrapped up nicely. I especially appreciate a good ending like this.In conclusion this book is worth the read. It included an enjoyable plot line with a satisfying ending. The story keeps you entertained throughout and the ending brings the story to a great level of completion. I would give this book a four out of five. Overall the entire book club experience with this book was a very enjoyable experience.
5 Ten people are summoned by letter to Indian Island off the  Devon coast. All are accused by a voice on a gramaphone recording of murder, all crimes which for one reason or another  escaped punishment by the law. They are trapped on the island and since this is a Christie novel the murders begin and with a vengeance. There are little indian figurines in the house, each time someone is killed a little indianfigure, yes there are ten of them, disappears.Every murder follows, in order,the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians", which reads:Ten little Indian boys went out to dine;One choked his little self and then there were nine.Nine little Indian boys sat up very late;One overslept himself and then there were eight.Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon;One said he'd stay there and then there were seven.Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks;One chopped himself in halves and then there were six.Six little Indian boys playing with a hive;A bumblebee stung one and then there were five.Five little Indian boys going in for law;One got in Chancery and then there were four.Four little Indian boys going out to sea;A red herring swallowed one and then there were three.Three little Indian boys walking in the zoo;A big bear hugged one and then there were two.Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun;One got frizzled up and then there was one.One little Indian boy left all alone;He went and hanged himself and then there were none.This classic novel vibrates with themes of guilt, conscience, and justice. "And Then There Were None" is one of the strongest mysteries in the genre.
5 Quite possibly the best mystery novel ever written.Ten people from varying backgrounds are invited to an isolated island. One by one, each one is murdered until there are none left.Christie doesn't leave the reader hanging. She explains everything in the end. Only then does the reader see the common threads connecting these people with the murderer.A must read for people who love plot twists and surprise endings.[...]
4 In this day and age of extreme mystery stories, this Agatha Christie warhorse seems a bit strained. It is all talk, talk, talk. The revelation is not very satisfying, and, frankly, I guessed it long before. However, it is among the most published books in the world, so it has attained a kind of classic status. Moderately recommended.
5 And Then There Were None id s great book, and my favorite Agatha Christie.  It will keep you guessing from start to finish.  The book is very suspenseful, and I know you will enjoy reading it.  If you are looking for a good mystery, this is a must read.
5 This is one of Christie's best!  I would recommend it to anyone.  She must have had one heck of an imagination!
4 Book arrived in good condition as promised.  Very safely wrapped and only minor damage.  The picture was completely accurate and advised me of flaws.
5 How can you not love this story?  Ten people on an island and one of them is a murderer.  Lots of twists and turns.
5 I recently had the pleasure of re-reading this story, not really by choice.  A chapter into the story, I was so happy I had been "forced" to read it.  Agatha Christie is the master of mystery, and this is one of her finest stories.  Read it.  Then read it again!
5 I enjoyed reading this title very much. It was very engaging the whole time, and not one bit of a bore. I just wish the answers to the mystery weren't given so matter-of-factly and in such a simple manner at the end of the book.
5 Christie has some many books which could be termed "her best" that the title becomes somewhat cliche. Almost all Christie's book could be considered her ebst, from my personal favourite "Death Comes As The End", to the one i liked least "Passenger to Frankfurt" which i am sure many other people loved.All of her books are ingenious, intriguing, and feature a mind-bending puzzle or a fast-paced adventure.This is no exception. this is porobably one of her most famous, and it's easy to see why. it's completely original and the solution is so unexpected...The plot runs at such high speed...there's practically a death per chapter...and each person who pops their clogs is murdered in tune with the rhyme "Ten Little Indians". there is a subtle build up of suspense and terror until the final two people remain on the small island, isolated from the world, convinced the other is the killer. paranoia runs rife among the final few victims, and when at last the final ones gets it, we think it's all been sorted out. but oh no.In the final chapter christie pulls of a brilliant twist, and one that i totally did not see coming. she really pulls the wool over the readers eyes.a very enjoyable book. highly reccomended
5 Can anything be said about this book that hasn't already been said a thousand times?  It's a classic and it's been given every accolade possible for a mystery novel.  It set standards that are almost impossible for other mystery writers to reach.  But those kinds of comments can make it seem stuffy and inaccessible.  The exact opposite would be true. It's extremely readable, pulls you into it's world immediately and is hugely satisfying in it's conclusion.In case anyone has somehow missed the plot of this book, it's set on a island off the coast of Devon.  10 strangers are invited or hired to be there and when they arrive, their mysterious host in nowhere to be found.  Weather prevents them from returning to the mainland and one by one they are murdered until there is no one left.  Since everyone is dead, who can possibly be the murderer?This was my first introduction to Agatha Christie. I read it when I was in 5th grade.  I bought it through the Scholastic Book program and it is still on my shelf to this day 40 years later.  It's the scariest Agatha Christie and it left me scared to walk down the hall in my house when I first read it.  I remember my mom calling me to supper when I was in the middle of reading this book and running down the hall to get to the dinner table because I was so spooked by what I had been reading. I've read it at least 10 times since then and I still find myself looking over my shoulder when I do even though I know whodunnit!Whether you're a mystery lover or just a lover of good writing, you have to give this one a try.  In my world, it truly is the standard by which all other mysteries are judged.
5 This is without doubt the best Agatha Christie book, easily one of the best detective stories ever written. Intriguing, evil, suspenceful, with interesting and well drawn characters. Read it and you will fall in love with this wonderful author of great puzzles...
5 This may be the greatest mystery ever written.  Among Christie's books I prefer the elegant solution of Murder on the Orient Express, but the atmosphere and suspense of this book are greater - people being picked off one by one on a remote island was a great conceit and as you read you will yourself to read faster.A great place for a novice mystery reader to start.
5 And Then There Were None is my all time favorite Christie book. In fact, it's the only book of hers that I actually like. I don't normally care for her stories with Ms. Marple or the  Inspector Poirot. This mystery was filled with many twists and red herrings,all the while not becoming confusing. It kept you guessing till the end. Maybe that is why I prefer this mystery. It is different than all the rest!
5 Taken at face value, And Then There Were None may as well have been the basis of the 1985 movie Clue. Of course, as funny that movie was, this novel was anything but.But the premise is very similar. Strangers made to come together in a remote place by an invitation from an anonymous sender. However this is where the two works of fiction diverge. The movie Clue revolves around a plot with characters who have received the same letter/invitation (as in verbatim). In And Then There Were None however, each letter is eerily suited to a particular person. Some were enticed by the prospect of a good time or the promise of meeting old acquaintances (as what they have been wanting to do or have), others were lured by financial opportunities (as was their pressing need); whilst others still had vague motivations for coming.The author is unrelenting in building the suspense - from the first bits in the train/carriage ride bearing the arriving guests - up to the climax. Snatches of thoughts from each character make it helpful for the reader (to a certain extent) to pin down which is which. There's the judge who can lie still as a stone but whose pale eyes are razor sharp, always taking everything in. The self-righteous and religious fanatic middle-aged woman whose demeanor is rarely ruffled. The younger female who looks sensible but whose thoughts are haunted and chaotic. The general whose disdain for the brash, younger generation is hard to miss. The doctor whose seeming contentment with his career is nevertheless shadowed by a past controversy. And then others more whose presence in Indian Island certainly make the group a strange mix of persons.The first solid chilling clue is the presence of the Ten Little Indian Boys rhyme set in each of the guest's bedroom. (I had to write it all down as a guide...No, really. It's a requirement)The guests themselves have barely been reluctant acquaintances upon arrival when a strange, disembodied voice blasts over the whole drawing room where they have all retired after dinner. And then the chills creep in all over again.Each of those present is accused of murder.Well then of course one just has to read on. Because that's the beauty of Agatha Christie novels. It's all up-front murder but the mastery lies in her exposition. Who and how was it all done?I again thought that it might be the same as Clue, in which the presence of deadly weapons is a silent command that all characters finish each other off.But no. In this novel, the characters have no reason to kill each other. And yet all of them, because of those accusations, deserve to die.And if this is not your first Agatha Christie, then I guess my saying that it's useless to make any guesses is understandable.Just sit back and let the narrative do the work for you.And if you still find yourself guessing every so often, I can't blame you. And that's why I'm loving this author.
3 This is an Agatha Christie book that everybody raves about. My wife like many others thinks the sun rises on Agatha. I am not one of them. I love mystery books but I just don't get the love for her books. I have read a number of them and find they make better TV shows or movies then a read. I give it 3 stars because it did keep my interest but in the end I carded for no character and found the ending anticlimactic.
3 I have ot say it had been around  30 years years or so since I first read it as a kid. i was looking forward to reading it again.  I was a little let down  after finishing it. It is a quick read and i understand that it is 75 years old. I thought the dialogue  was al little weak and how the characters behaved  seemed very non-life like in certain cases. The butler acts pretty normal after he finds his wife dead-goes on cleaning cooking without missing a beat and at times some of these characters were very naive or almost card board characters. how the characters acted in the book they were very simple. It was an ok read but I do think it is over-rated.
4 After years of enjoying Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple on PBS, I've finally read my first Agatha Christie novel, which is also her most popular. The novel is set on the private island of Mr. and Mrs. U.N. Owens off of Devon, England where one by one the ten guests are murdered. Their host is mysteriously absent. The guests are the only ones on the island and are unable to leave. Therefore, one of them is the murderer. Possible suspects are winnowed from the innocent chapter by chapter.Are any of the guests really innocent? We meet each in turn. Some are there to work, like Mr. Rogers as a butler and his wife as the cook, while others were invited for a vacation. We learn early on that every guest has either been directly or indirectly the cause of the death, but not necessarilly the murder, of others. Each guest has eluded justice...until now.The nursery rhyme "Ten Little Soldiers", framed on the wall of every guest's room, figures prominently in the story. The rhyme describes the deaths of ten soldiers and foreshadows those of the guests. For example, "Ten little Soldier boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine." The poem ends with the titular "...and then there were none." Besides the methods of murder, other clues can be found in the rhyme.I don't normally read mysteries. I want to solve the mystery, before the murderer is revealed. A great deal of concentration is required, since every sentence might contain a clue or a red herring, and I'm a little too lazy to keep it all straight in my mind. But, every time I finish a mystery, whether I solve the crime or not, I find that I enjoyed the ride. This is no different with this novel. As with a good magician, there is enjoyment to be had in being deceived.I especially enjoyed the literary device of the rhyme. Through the rhyme, she practically hand delivers clues that a lesser writer would not want to reveal so early in the novel, and then she delivers a whole new layer of mystery. You might expect that as each guest dies, the mystery would simplify, but instead it only becomes more confounding.I didn't figure out who the murderer was. However, a good mystery writer provides enough clues for you to ascertain the murderer, and Christie does. The denouement was admitedly much more complicated than I would have expected, but one can still identify the murderer. In retrospect, there were clues I missed and words I misinterpreted. Hopefully, when you read this novel, you won't.
5 Among Agatha Christie's massive collection of published books, three titles stand out:Murder on the Orient Express,The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, and this, "And Then There Were None". Widely considered to be her very best novels, these three titles are notable not just for the ingenuity of their plotting, but for the way they shaped the mystery genre itself. These days, the idea of a conspiracy or an unreliable narrator are commonplace, so much so that readers forget that such tropes had to start somewhere - and that Christie was responsible for creating (or at least popularizing) most of them.In the case of "And Then There Were None," the story follows a familiar premise. A group of strangers are lured through deceptive means to an isolated location. There seems to be no obvious connection between any of them. Yet as time goes by, murders begin. One by one they fall victim to an unknown killer...It's a plot that every mystery-lover knows; one that originated in its most recognizable form with Christie herself. Previously titled "Ten Little Indians" (and before that, something even more offensive), the book was first published in 1939 to rave reviews. It has since become her #1 best-selling mystery, and the one that has undergone the most stage, film, television and radio adaptations. There's even a video game!In this case the isolated location is an island, and the ten guests have all been brought there by various invitations and job offers from a man who signs himself U.N. Owen. The guests are surprised to find that the luxurious modern house is empty except for the help, a husband-and-wife team who are also clueless as to their host's whereabouts and identity. They settle down to wait, only to be shocked and appalled when a gramophone recording informs them why they've all been gathered there: each one of them is guilty of murder, but until now, has managed to evade the law. Now, the time has come for justice.The guests respond with everything from vigorous denial to self-righteous indignation. Among them is a governess accused of deliberately drowning her charge, a doctor who botched an operation, a judge who wrongly sent a man to the gallows, a religious fanatic who cast out a pregnant servant, a hit-and-run driver, and a retired colonel who sent his wife's lover to his death, among others. As their ordeal begins, they soon reach an undeniable conclusion: that with the rest of the island deserted, the killer must already be among them.Counting down the murder victims with the "Ten Little Soldiers" rhyme that is hung prominently on each bedroom wall, the remaining guests desperately try to outwit the killer. As time passes, the psychological strain and inevitable degeneration into suspicion, fear and ruthlessness marks each character's actions as they fight for survival. Guilt weighs heavily on many of them, and issues of class and gender come into play as each guest attempts to pinpoint the identity of the killer.As the cast is gradually whittled down, the palatable sense of dread grows into a genuinely terrifying atmosphere that quite simply *prevents* the reader from putting the book down until the final pages have been read. With its short chapters that are in turn split into smaller divisions, combined with its relentless pacing and Christie's ability to not waste a single word, I guarantee that you'll be amazed by how quickly you devour this book. Without distractions, you may even manage it in one sitting.Its dark subject matter may throw many readers off guard, for this is about as far away as you can get from Christie's usual "cozies" that star the fastidious Poirot or fluffy Miss Marple. More of a suspense thriller than a mystery story, the novel is notable for not featuring one of Christie's usual detectives (or even a sympathetic protagonist). At the time of its publication, there had never been anything like it written before, and even now its devastatingly simple premise is riveting.Of course, if you look closely, it is possible to pick several holes in the murderer's plans. The levels of coincidence and contrivance in getting everyone to the island and keeping them there are high, as is the complete infallibility with which the murderer oversees and controls the victims in his plans. At times, it feels as though Fate itself is at work. However, the plot is so well-constructed and the suspense so brilliantly raised over the course of the sixteen chapters that it seems mean-spirited (and self-defeating) to quibble over details.As mentioned, the book's title (and accompanying text) has undergone several changes since its first publication. I believe that some issues still use the terms Indian Island and the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme, but my copy had been changed to Soldier Island and Ten Little Soldiers. I suspect collectors will enjoy the challenge of getting their hands on the older versions of the text, but casual readers can rest assured that the changes in terminology don't affect the story in any way (kept intact are several characters' racist remarks and attitudes, all of which *do* impinge on the plot).I vividly recall the first time I read "And Then There Were None" and how shaken it left me. If you're reading it for the first time, do whatever you can to avoid being spoiled, and try to savor every chapter. You'll only get to read it for the first time *once*, and though a subsequent read is just as rewarding in appreciating Christie's misdirection and marvelous plotting, it will inevitably be a less terrifying experience the second time around. Whether you are a long-time Christie fan, or have never read a single one of her books in your life, "And Then There Were None" is an absolute must-read. Rest assured, this is an unforgettable book.
4 This story was a lot of fun to read. It reminded me of the murder mystery dinners I've been to, but times 10. It had a surprise ending,  and I was sure it was someone else who did it.
4 Having read this book a few times, but not for some years, it retains its grip on the reader.  However, there are still a couple of points which don't seem to add up (to me at least!).....I won't say what they are for those who have not yet read the book!
5 The mysterious U.N. Owen lures ten people, unknown to each other, to the isolated Indian Island. When they arrive, the guests find a nursery rhyme in their room, but no host. All are accused of murder. All proclaim their innocence. And one by one, the guests suffer the deadly fate of the `Ten Little Indians'.Written in a deceptively concise but clear prose, Agatha Christie shows us the foibles of each character. The plot moves fast, and the mysterious deaths keep you guessing until the end. Considered as one of the best in the genre, And Then There Were None is the classic prefect-murder mystery.
5 What can I say.  Back to basics, an intelligent, intellectual read .  I highly recommend this book and author.  You not be disappointed.
4 I BOUGHT THIS BOOK BECAUSE MY GRANDCHILDREN NEEDED IT FOR READING IN SCHOOL. IT IS NOT THE TYPE BOOK I USUALLYREAD. WHAT I HAVE READ SO FOR IS INTERESTING.
5 Stayed up all night reading it.  It is scary actually but I didn't believe the ending.  There is a party weekend at a mansion house that has just been built, and when they get there, they find out they are all going to die and a record behind a clock accuses them all of horrible crimes.  Except one of them is the murderer and they have to find out who it is.
5 If you've read a lot of Whodunit mysteries, it may seem like you've seen this premise before:  Several unconnected people end up together in an unusual situation only to have them start dying off mysteriously.  How will they stay alive and find the killer?However, this is the original and probably the masterpiece of this type.  It sets the standard and is often imitated and rarely duplicated as well.If you haven't read an Agatha Christie novel before, this is a great one to start with.  It is a stand alone novel without any of her recurring characters and it also gives you a chance to get used to how she writes (about 200 pages per book with an even balance between character and story development).If you are very familiar with this genre, you may find it cliche but you also might enjoy reading the story that started those cliches.THE BASIC PLOT:  Ten people are on an island with no way off and no other people on the island.  One by one, they are killed off in a matter similar to a children's poem found in the house where they are staying.  What is the reason for these ten random people to come together in this place and why are they being murdered?  And can the killer be stopped before they are all dead?
5 This has to be one of the best book I've ever read. It was suspensful and scary, without using any stunts to try and frighten the reader. I was barely able to put it down. The ending's plot twist suprised me and left me  thinking afterwards. I highly recommend this book to anyone who craves a  good mystery novel. The only bad thing about this book is that it kept me  awake at night.
5 I bought this book because I hadn't read a mystery in a while and the  title caught me (it's too bad the title gives away what eventually happens  in the book, though.)  I can't say how amazingly well written this book  was.  This was the first book I ever read by Agatha Christie, and I know  that she's a wonderful author already.  It will keep you guessing until the  last few pages, when at last you learn how he (or she) did it.  Buy this  book-- you won't regret it!!
5 The setup is delicious: ten strangers are lured to an island on the promise of various things, employment, fun, etc. only to find that the hosts are not there and that the large, empty house only contains the guests and a couple of servants. After dinner on the first night, a recorded voice on a record player proclaims each one of them a murderer who has escaped their crimes - but no more! And then people start dying, one by one...I've never read an Agatha Christie novel before, thinking that they would be corny or somehow like another popular writer whose work I disliked, Ellis Peters, but I was very, very wrong. This book was published in 1939 and is labelled "thriller" and yet 80+ years later I can attest to it remaining a thrilling read.The elements of the story: that the guests have no way of leaving the island; that they slowly realise that one of them is the deranged killer with a warped sense of justice; the nursery rhyme which tells them how they're going to die but not the order - it's all so masterfully plotted by Christie, I was barrelling through the book, devouring the chapters eager to see who would survive, who was the killer, and why.What's also surprising is the overarching sense of dread you have when reading. I read it at night, alone, with the rain pounding the windows and I found myself more terrified reading this than I'd been in years. This isn't just an amazing thriller, it's a truly scary horror novel too. As the number of guests dwindle, the claustrophobic atmosphere is palpable and the paranoia ramped up to such an extent that you can't help but keep reading at a ever-increasing pace until the final page.The only real critique I have is the way the final guest snuffs it, before the big reveal. It seemed a bit contrived. But I suppose it was possible for it to happen that way... a long shot, but possible.This is one of the finest mystery thrillers I've ever read which still manages to have an enormous pull on the reader decades after being published, an astonishing feat in itself. I wish I hadn't waited so long to read a Christie novel, this one was so good. I'll definitely read more and highly recommend this to all fans of great fiction.
5 Agatha Christie is the unwitting and morbidly fascinating chronicler of her own demise - the gradual fading of her milieu, her period, its mores and values, beliefs and superstitions, dreams and aspirations. The mirror of pre-Hitler Europe crack'd and then there were none. She was there, an indefatigable and uncannily observant documentarist of a dying era. sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.
4 Agatha Christie is so well known for all her stories. They always have a twist in the tail and are always baffling to guess who dunnit.
5 I purchased this book for my son because it's one of the books that the school requires them to read.
5 There are not many books i enjoy that i have to read for school, but i enjoyed this one. The beginning started off slow, but once the murders began it became a page turner. The ending was so unexpected but it was a great way to end the book!!!
5 My first Christie novel and it was a damn good place to start. Though I've been told her mysteries are so unpredictable, I did find that my speculations and guesses were actually right at the end of this specific novel, but hey, I still have the rest of her writing to explore. I would definitely recommend to any one who loves mystery or who wants to start reading mystery.The plot follows an old nursery rhyme/poem in a sinister yet almost comical way. After every big plot point I was physically flinging my book down and throwing my hands in the air. Because I did guess the conclusion the ending was a bit disappointing but it's no big deal, as I said, I have Agatha's life's work to explore
4 I won't go into the premise of the novel, as so many have already done so.I've delayed reading this one for many years...perhaps because it didn't feature one of Christie's familiar detectives and perhaps because the premise was too unsettling. How or why was one to invest in a story where you can be virtually sure everyone dies and the murderer is never caught? Now that I have read it, I'm sad I cheated myself so long. Somehow there's such atmosphere to it...just a rich, awful suspense that gradually creeps up on you as the plot develops. It was wholly unsettling. It's not that the characters were particularly sympathetic; they weren't, given that the murderer had them all pretty well pegged. But there's something naked and human about anyone looking inevitable death in the face, and especially facing perhaps violent murder. I had to have a black chuckle or two at some of the irony, too.There are a few distinct implausibilities, and somehow it seemed a tinge too easy for the murderer, like these people were just a bunch of sheep that could be cut off one by one from the others and destroyed at will. It was almost as if the murderer were omnipotent. (Given who the murderer is, the insight into people makes some sense but I kept on expecting the characters to do something the murderer didn't anticipate or somehow throw a wrench into the murderer's plans.) One of the things I've appreciated about Christie is how her mysteries were always complicated by real life...unfortunate coincidences the murderer or detective has to cope with, secondary and even tertiary agendas that obscured the truth, even sometimes the murderer's own preconceptions and biases.And yet, I was soon engrossed in the book and any flaws seem pretty minor. My overall impression is of a tightly plotted and even devilishly tricky plot, but something seems to transcend that. What of each of these characters? What does one make of the things they've done and how they've lived with those decisions? What different degrees of guilt are there, and where does the law draw the line? Where should the law draw the line? Can you escape from crossing a moral line, even if the law won't punish you? What of the murderer stalking these victims? Are they getting their just desserts or is someone simply indulging blood lust? Is the murderer any better than the victims? How do people face their end, especially with something on their conscience?
5 'And Then There Were None' is the harbinger of today's horror.  Written in 1939 by Agatha Christie, the novel skyrocketed the Mystery Mistress's career.Ten people are mysteriously summoned to a infamous island retreat.  When the launch leaves them on the landing at the isolated house on Indian Island, they are cut off from the world.  Their mysterious host is missing when, after a lovely dinner, a harsh announcement from a recording permeates the room, accusing each person of a diabolical crime.Cradled in fear, everyone wants off the island immediately but there is no way off.  One by one, people begin to die.  With each suspecting the other, they must wait for the launch to show up, or for their own death.'And Then There Were None' still holds a certain charm for me, and remains one of the absolute best 'whodunnits' of the century.  The prose is simplistic enough for young adult reading, and for the advanced reader it's a bullet-though-a-gun read that you won't be able to put down.  Perfect for reading on an airplane or at the beach.I first read 'And Then There Were None' as a young adult, and while re-reading noticed that though the prose is not very stylistic or grand, the plot alone is enough to keep you turning pages.  This short, smart novel is a 'must read' for any mystery or horror lover.  Enjoy!
5 I have been a fan of Christie's for years.  This is possibly her very best of all.  As the figures vanish from the mantelpiece and the characters vanish from the scene one by one, the suspense she builds is almost  unbearable.  And the solution is dazzling (this from a lady who was an  expert at &quot;surprise&quot; endings); you simply won't believe it until  you read it!  Superb.
5 This was a great cliff notes of the book.  It has some really great reading sections and helped our daughter understand the plots and materials.  A+
5 This book is so awesome! I was guessing until the epilogue, though I vaguely remember the movie. I kept thinking of what Agatha Christie said in the prologue of how hard it was to pull this book off and it was brilliant. Bravo! :) P.S. this is the first fiction novel I read on my Kindle 2 (I read it in 2 days).
4 Agatha Christie has been an expert at tricking readers into finding a murderer. And there is no exception in this book. Christie was an author with big brains. This book features a murderer using the 'Ten Little Indians' poem to kill ten guests gathered around from mysterious letters. In the beginning, it starts up with each character introudcing themselves, thinking of what they would be doing.It is a great book: and the killer isn't who you think until you get to about the 3rd person. The only reason I gave it 4 stars was because some of the characters were beyond crazy. A previous Christie book I'd read: the dialogue was more calmed and stretched out, while this was all in a rush. That shouldn't stop you from buying the book, though. Another reason I gave this only 4 stars was because the killer was pretty obvious by the end. It has happened in some of the other Christie books, but there was also more to the story.But, in the end: you cannot put this book again. I'd thought someone else was the killer, and someone else had the motive, but it seems that was definitely true. Christie models her books like professionally carved sculptures. Just remember: the obviously stated isn't always obvious.Overall Rating: 4.6/5Pros: Very great book, you can't put it down, based on the Ten Little Indians poemCons: The dialogue is stretched out, and everyone is frantic, and frightened so much, the killer is obvious
5 10 people meet for the first time at a house on a island. They were all invited by the owner of the house. As they get to know each other, they begin to wonder where the owner is and strange circumstances follow. First they find a morbid poem about ten Indians who die one by one in specific ways, and then people start dying under the same circumstances as the Indians in the poem.I was a little afraid when I started reading this book that I would have to remember every detail of the characters being presented, but that wasn't necessary. It was a quick read and fast paced, and I never guessed who the killer was in the end. It was also complicated, but not so much that I didn't understand what was going on. I had never read anything by Agatha Christie, and this was a good one to start with.
5 I'm a little late coming to this author and this book but I'm glad I finally got here.  I didn't figure out the killer until it was finally explained at the end.  Of course in hindsight it makes perfect sense.  If you're hesitating to read this book because it was written so long ago...don't wait any longer.  You'll be glad you invested the time.
5 While I loved the movie, I was not prepared for the difference in the endings between the book and the movie.  Reminds me of the two movie versions of The Vanishing, American and German.This is a must-read for mystery writers.  A true old-fashioned thriller and if you love Christie, this is her best.
4 There is a reason that this is the best selling mystery novel of all time. And that reason is that it will successfully fool all but the most vigilant of readers. The premise is simple enough - ten strangers are trapped on an island and one of them is a murderer who picks them off one by one. A major strength of this novel is that the protagonists share a curious trait with the reader - they seem to be pulled into a more passive role and just watch with horror as their inescapable destiny approaches. What seems to be lacking in the book is character development. Because the motivations of the characters must largely remain secret, the narration does not probe too deeply into the thoughts and feelings of this lot. This may leave the reader wanting for the author to more fully explore the hysterics and the paranoia that may develop in this kind of situation. There is little richness to the writing, but the plot is propelled well by quick and natural dialogue, which also forms the majority of the insight that the reader gets into the victims. Overall, the plot and the conclusion are quite fantastical, though do not at all feel contrived, and so this is an enjoyable read that will leave you guessing until the very end.
5 And Then There Were NoneI read And Then There Were None by Agatha ChristieThis was an amazing book! Ten strangers are brought to an island by a mysterious U. N. Owen. At dinner, one of them dies. The very same night, another person dies. They realize quickly that one of them is the killer, and that a nursery rhyme is counting down their deaths one by one. They band together to figure out which one of them is the killer. As they die one by one, they begin to form alliances between themselves. Here is the rhyme. They try to find out who is innocent and only the dead are above suspicion.This books plot was so huge and amazing. In the epilogue it says that it took the author months to figure out the plot. I want to reread it again and again. This is by far the best mystery book ever. Thumbs up for Agatha Christie. I read the entire book on a day when I  was sick. The book's plot takes over your mind. You choose who to sympathise with. I personally chose a character named Lombard to side with, he survived to final three. I was stunned by the end, which was insanely brilliant.
5 Having never read a book by Agatha Christie before, I had no idea what to expect. It was such a small book, when compared with the several-hundred-page books I typically read. I didn't know what I was getting into!The story starts off quite slowly, as the author introduces us to a group of ten, previously unacquainted people, who have all been invited or hired to spend the weekend on Indian Island off the coast of Devon. Not one of the ten strangers knows who has invited them, and none of them has ever been to the island before, but for various reasons, they all accept the invitation. When they arrive, everything seems in order except for one thing-- their host is not there. Thus begins the mystery, and it only deepens when they each discover the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme posted on a wall in their bedrooms.One by one, people begin to turn up dead, and with each death, the panic increases among the remaining guests. Which one is the killer? As mystery readers, we try to figure it out before all is revealed at the end. Anyone who actually gets it right in this book, is either lucky or an incredibly good guesser!
5 I have always heard that this was a great book so I went down to my school's library and checked it out. The librarian confirmed the reports I had heard about the book being good. I sat down and read and read and read and it was great! I have always loved mystery novels. I began reading mystery novels with The Cat Who... series by Lillian Jackson Braun (yes even big, tough, male, 17 year old, high-school seniors can love books about mystery solving felines) and I used to only read mysteries. This book reminds me of why I love mysteries so much. I couldn't figure out whodunnit!
3 This book came free with the PC game of the same name (it was originally titled Ten Little Indians) and even though playing the game (specifically, playing the end trailer) does give away the mystery, it was still a good solid read.  Though you don't see as much into each of the characters as you might expect, I don't think story is hurt by it.  I hesitate to say that it's not a character driven story, because in a way it really is, but the main focus is how the characters interact with one another - not... who they are on the inside, if that makes sense.  And though I disagree with a lot of the utterly sexist clap-trap spouted in the book by the male characters, well, you have to remember that it's a much older book!  Times have indeed changed.  I wouldn't say this tops my list of Agatha Christie books, but it's not bad.
5 An epic book on mystery. Have read it multiple times but still the way of writing and mystery doesn't feel old.
5 When you start a mystery novel, you expect to be intrigued. Christie though does it with panache. Her unfailing ability to keep you guessing is her strongest suit. Even when you think you know, when you think you figured it out, she finds a way to thwart your reasoning. Creative license allows an author to twist plots and slip out of tight corners with unreasonable solutions. Not so with Christie. To the very end, she makes it plausible and fluid.A Mistress of Sleuths, never disappointing.An easy read for a stroll if listening or with a cup of tea before a fire. Whichever way you see fit to read this treasure, it will delight you with its simplicity, twists and turns. Don't try to figure it out. Never mind! Do and pit your mind against Christie and see where it gets you. It is not enough to know who it is. You have to find out why it is that person.Happy reading a wonderful story.
5 I think I was the only person on earth who didn't read this book! I am absolutely chagrined to admit that as a mystery buff, I haven't read it. After finishing it, I gave myself a mental head smack for not reading this book YEARS ago, let alone leaving it on my "To Read" pile since 2011! I, for one, shy away from anything that has a lot hype and a marked lack of substance (Fifty Shades of Grey & Twilight come to mind), but this book deserves the hype and the acclaim!This is by far one of the BEST, if not, THE BEST mystery book I've ever read in my entire life! It had me guessing - until the end! You will not be able to figure out the identity of the killer until the last page! It's rare that I end up staring, dazed, at the same page after learning the identity of the killer, but this book left me staggered! I have read many mysteries and often I am able to figure out who the culprit is, but I simply couldn't do it with this book. By the epilogue, I was STILL colossally confused and uncertain of who the killer was! It's THAT good!And Then There Were None has interesting and eccentric characters and it was masterfully-plotted. I can now see why it was copied by so many. It reminded me of the movie "Clue" (based on the board game) starring Tim Curry and Christopher Lioyd and "Murder by Death" starring Peter Sellers. (If you love a good mystery, I recommend these movies, too!) Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, is it not?If you enjoy mysteries and sleuthing, then don't miss out on this masterpiece! I am on the lookout for other reads by the Queen of Crime - I have become a fan! I hope you enjoy reading this book as much as I did and marvel Agatha Christie's ingenuity!(I would like to note that the copy I read was the edited version. It was brought to my attention after I purchased the book. I wish I had read the unedited version, since I absolutely hate it when editors taint with the original version. The edited version has solider island/solider boys instead of Indian island/Indian boys.)
5 This is the grandaddy of all murder mysteries.  This is the story that created an entire genre of "a group of people locked in an isolated location and one by one, they all start to die?  Who is the killer and who will make it out alive?"It's an ingenious premise that's been copied and ripped of in other novels, movies and board games in the nearly 80 years since it's been written.  Imitation is the best form of flatter and none do is as well as Christie.  Movies like Clue, Murder By Death, The Last of Sheila and many others have paid homage to this fantastic book.Christie paints vivid characters, each with a dark secret.  The story is a fantastic metaphor for anyone who has a secret and the price that's eventually paid for it.  We've all been there.  We've all thought, "I wonder if anyone else knows about this and what if they do?"  Christie weaves a terrific dark tale of the prices that are exacted for dark secrets.Just when you think you know who the killer is, that person fall prey to the killer and you find yourself starting all over again in your deductions.  It's a mystery that's nearly impossible to figure out but that won't detract for the fun you'll have has you turn pages faster and faster as the suspense amps up as you near the finale.
5 Mystery at its very finest.  Taut, compelling, absorbing.  Ten people are brought to an island under rather odd circumstances.  They're welcomed in the absence of owner "U. K. Owen" and after their shock at the playing of an audio recording accusing each of them of murder, one of them dies.  Then another.  Then another.  The remaining survivors do their best to defend themselves and identify the person killing them, addressing the issue of whether it's one of them or someone hidden on the island.  The rapid-fire beginning introduction of characters is supplemented well by their words and actions on the island, so they become clear.  The clues are there, but this reader found them subtle enough to miss sometimes, and only obvious in the retrospect of the ending revelations.  It's different than the modern mysteries I enjoy, but is simply sparkling.  Yes, a bit unnerving, but amazingly well constructed and a complete pleasure to read.  I will definitely be looking for more.
5 It took about a week's worth of reading "And Then There Were None" a couple hours each night to complete, but this is the kind of novel you could mow through in a single day. I was hooked by page ten in no small part because of Christie's ability to revolve swiftly through the cast of characters in setting up her story's premise. That premise has been so overused in Hollywood movies (John Carpenter's "The Thing," Arnold Swarzenneger's "Predator," and this year's "Identity") it is truly remarkable to note that it all began with Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians/And Then There Were None in 1939.This is one of those books that you should read in your lifetime, man. It played a key role in elevating mystery/detective fiction to a level that has not been duplicated nor surpassed in more than a half century, and despite many charming and flamboyant egos that have climbed to the highest heights of popular fiction charts none have matched what Agatha Christie brought to our public consciousness when she published And Then There Were None. It epitomizes the word "classic" in its truest sense. It is _the_ book for you!Staceyauthor ofCLAWS: A Suspense Novel
5 This book was very clever and has a great ending. Once I started reading this I seriously couldn't put it put back down.
4 Good buy.  Not only is this audio version of the book but a production of the book.  What you lose in the reading of the text verbatium you gain with acting and less air time of this classic.
5 This book will keep you guessing, keep your heart pounding, and keep you page turning untill you finnally reach the end. The nice part about it, is that the plot is purely original, unlike many mystery books, and is  unpredictable. Many authors like Agatha Cristie get into ruts and keep  writing the same mysteries over again, except they cange it a bit. I  guaruntee, this is nothing like any mystery novel you've ever read! Ten  people are invited to an island by one mysterious host. And one by one they  die...
3 Great book but I wish it was tagged correctly. The author is listed as Christie,Agatha (no space after the comma) so it shows up as "Christie,Agatha" instead of "Agatha Christie" on Kindle. I know it is a nit; but for $5 I expect things to be formatted correctly. Alas, you can't change the tagging--a feature I wish Amazon would add.
4 This was my first experience of reading a full-length Christie novel, and it was very enjoyable. I love the period, and the characters are easy to visualize (although I wish I could get eating tins of tongue out of my head). The only real criticism is that a book with so many characters to develop fully could easily have been lengthened. There were times when I felt the plot rushed for the sake of getting to the end. It was great though. Hey, I bought Murder on the Orient Express upon finishing, so mission accomplished.
5 Dame Agatha makes a jarring departure in this grim and intricate tale.  There is no sleuth, the pace is fast, frenzied and breathless, and rather than "types," she takes pains with characterizations.  The body count is high, and the mode of death frequently untidy.  "And Then There Were None" is among the most favored of Christie's books.  It has gone through a few title changes; I knew it as "Ten Little Indians," and before that it had even a more politically incorrect title.  Be forewarned, Ms. Christie is neither enlightened nor tolerant. Some of the passages and references are bigoted and might offend some readers.A group of ten strangers is invited or hired for a long weekend on Indian Island, a mile off the Devon coast.  It is somewhat improbable that these ten would all accept such a vague invitation from a host they do not know to a place they have never seen before, but each for his or her own reasons accepts.  They include a doctor, a games mistress, a soldier of fortune, a rich playboy, a retired policeman, a judge, a spinster, a retired general and a married couple who are to be the servants.  They arrive on a bleak rocky island to a completely modern house with all the amenities.  The fires are welcoming, there is an ample supply of food, the servants are impeccable, but their host is absent.  In each of the bedrooms, the Ten Little Indians nursery rhyme is posted on a prominent wall.  It begins:"Ten Little Indian boys went out to dine;One choked his little self, and then there were nine.---Drinks are served, and one guest chokes, turns blue and falls over dead.  The tension builds, the fright of the stranded people is palpable as one by one, they are picked off, each in accordance with the nursery rhyme. As the number of victims increase, the survivors' suspicions of each other reach a frantic pitch.  In an epilogue, the police arrive and find them all dead.  Who is the murderer who has to be among the victims?"And Then There Were None" is told in short choppy chapters that build suspense and tension.  I would call this Christie's one and only thriller.  None of the characters are even likable and once again (see "ABC Murders"), Christie toys with the idea of the serial killer long before such an animal was even heard of.  She is a good profiler too!  This is an excellent story, and the author is miles ahead of you at all times, If you can figure out "who" and "how" before she lays it out for you, you deserve the Sleuth of the Year Award!
5 This is one of the best murder mysteries, of all time. I mean, once you start reading it. You won't be able to put it down. There are some pretty scary moments in the book. But, that's what makes it so good. Please check it out, you won't be sorry.
5 Christies none Poirot or Marple books are usually my favorite but this book is  a complete winner. Great mystery with a shocking ending. you'll have to reread it again. Will have to guessing until the very end.
5 I would recommend this mystery to any mystery reader as a quintessential Christie novel. The pacing is excellent and the characters are well developed, every day people.
5 This is a classic Agatha Christie murder mystery/suspense novel.  Ten people are invited to Indian Island by an anonymous host.  They all come to the island for various reasons: employment, friendship, entertainment.  When they arrive, they realize they've all been summoned there to account for crimes of murder they've committed but were never sentenced for.  As they begin to die, one by one, they realize the deaths follow the pattern of the nursery rhyme, "Ten Little Indians."  Fear turns to suspicion as the guests turn on each other, sure that the killer must be one of them. Who will remain when the last little Indian is alone?I've taught this book to my junior high PreAP students with excellent results. Some of the topics we have used this novel to explore include: synonyms, metaphors, idioms, theme, motif, symbolism, SAT vocabulary, and the mystery genre.  I found an online book trailer to engage my students in the beginning.  Once the murders begin, the action is fast-paced, and students engage in a guessing game trying to see who can figure out the killer's identity.  Fortunately, the ending cannot be predicted, and it comes as a great surprise.  I loved it, my students loved it, and I'm sure any lover of suspense will love it, too.
4 Another fantastic &#34;whodunnit&#34; by Mrs Christie. I hadn't read this story since I was a teenager and I found myself enthralled and once again, surprised at the twist at the ending! She was a master of literature.
5 Here is a classic murder mystery by Agatha Cristy.Eight people get letters to attend a free vacation at a home on Indian Island. Plus there is a new butler and his housekeeping wife. Turns out these ten are past killers who have escaped punishment for their crimes. A systematic elimination of each of them takes place done in step with the "Ten little Indians song" by a mad killer. Is the killer on the island or is it one of the ten in the house?The story reads fast and the book is a page burner. I read the 194 page book in one day. The reader wants to read on as he/she tries  to find clues who the killer might be. Just look at all the 5 star reviews. I'm going to get more Agatha Cristy used mystery books to add to our family library. And Then There were None.... 5 stars
5 I think this is an excellent book from the master of mystery. It is a good read. I like comparing her books to the movies that are based on them.
5 This is the best mystery of all time.You will love this novel. the ending  will blow you away.Make this the first book on your list.There is no way  you could not like this book.You will be in tense suspence.You will read  100 times you will love it  so much.The ending is impossible to figure out.
5 Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; one choked his little self and then there were nine...One little Indian boy left all alone; he went and hanged himself and then there were none...This old nursery rhyme is the foundation of &iexcl;nd Then There Were None,&quot; by Agatha Christie, who is also known as the Queen of Crime. This mystery is teeming with suspense, thrills, and surprises.The story begins with the rendezvous of ten strangers on Indian Island, a private island off the coast of Devon, England. An unknown host or hostess has invited the guests there for the weekend. However, the host never appears; instead, the sinful past of each guest is unwillingly revealed. One by one the sinners are punished for misdeeds from their dark past. Suddenly, the livings are amidst the dead and the guests are murdered in the same manner that the Indian boys die in the Nursery rhyme. Another element in the story that makes the hair raises on your neck is that there is ten Indian figures on a table in the main lobby. As each guest dies, one figure disappears...Agatha Christie manipulates the personalities of the characters well. She depicts their fear and sense of desperation through her clever usage of words. As the only ten people on the isolated Indian Island die one after another, Christie shows the helplessness and desperation of the survivors and she beautifully grasps the human emotions of the characters well.Another interesting technique of writing used by Agatha Christie is that she portrays the guests like normal people who have amiable and caring personalities. The readers will definitely a connection to them and even begin to like them. However, when the awful crimes of these seemingly innocent individuals are revealed, the readers will face a conundrum &iexcl;V whether to fear for the lives of the characters or to fear them.This mystery also deals with the theme of justice and law, and how if ending the lives of the guilty out side the law are justified.Each of the guests on the island are found not guilty by the courts for crimes they had committed. The murderer, by killing these ten individuals, seems to seek justice where the courts had failed. Through this dilemma, Christie forces the readers to ponder whether seeking justice outside the law is morally acceptable, especially for cases in which the courts have failed.
5 One mor of Christie's masterpiece. Interesting, fun, timeless. I also enjoyed her use of the UK English language. Great read!
5 Thus is book is the king of mysteries. It was so cleverly thought out by Agatha Christie. I am normally good at figuring out mysteries bit this one is absolutely impossible to solve right up until the epilogue. One boy in my class was driven so crazy by not being able to solve it that be googled it (which by the way is a BAD I repeat BAD idea.) I highly recommend this book for anyone who likes puzzles and mystery.
5 This is the type of mystery that keeps you guessing until the very end! I'm also in love with the old-fashioned English style of the writing and the characters. Everyone is always so polite! Well worth reading if you are intersted in a quick and entertaining read!
5 The book AND THEN THERE WERE NONE has to be on every mystery lover's list.  It started out with a curious assortment of ten, all unwilling to tell their history.  Their host, Mr. Owen, has arranged for them to come to Indian Island.  When they arrive, the sun is up, the birds are singing, and everything seems to be in order, but danger is in the air, and knowing Christie, in the air it will stay until all fates are met.  In each of the guest's rooms, is a poem hanging on the wall.  It starts-"Ten Little Indian boys went out to dine;One choked his little self, and then there were nine."It ends with the five most dreaded words to all the guests... Or at least most of them.  "And then there were none."This was my first Agatha.  I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN!  I finished it in a day, and I think you can guess what I was reading the next day.  This book is probably more for young adults and up.  I think you need to be old enough to fully appreciate this book and Agatha's unique style of writing.  It also may be a little scary for younger children.
5 This terrified me as a child, and still holds remarkable power to this day.  The collection of characters, the remote island, the charming rhyme that turns sinister...no one plots like Agatha Christie!
5 I picked this book from the library as it was in "staff picks" section and once i began reading it, i just could not put it down. I finished it the very same day!Amazing mystery and a classic thriller. The charaters are intriguing and engaging and the story moves very rapidly.Enjoy.
5 Why i love Christie's books? because they are colorful. I once had a short argument with my dad, who claimed that her books are childish. Maybe. could be. But they are colorful. They are vivid and alive. He said that it's not the books, but my vivid imagination, but then i have never had the same feeling reading any other detective story.Christie is different. and this is one of my most favorite books of her. I am a very big Poirot fan and missed him in this one, but the story was great. Love it.
5 I could read this over and over again!  Its timeless and a classic and a must read for everyone!  My own daughter read it for school and she highly recommended it.
3 Agatha Christie's 1939 story idea captures the imagination. Ten strangers who each, in his or her own way, have gotten away with murder gather by invitation at an isolated mansion. Then their unknown host systematically and mockingly murders them one by one. The idea was adapted into a film in 1945, 1965, 1974, and 1989, as well as a TV adaption in 1959 and a Russian production (often credited as the truest to the book, though hard to get a good copy of that is not too dark and muffled).  Variants of the plot are perennials in movies and TV, appearing, for example, in Harry O, Quincy, and Remington Steele. As someone who has read all of Christie's work and admires it as running the gamut from diverting to entertaining to inspiring, I had high expectations. Unfortunately, neither Christie nor the filmmakers succeeded in bringing this brilliant idea to life in a truly fulfilling story.  Occasionally, a mystery plot can be so ingenious and powerful that it can be a satisfying story in itself. Most often, the best that is achieved by plot alone is an amusing but arid puzzle mystery. For the depth and richness to engage, a novel usually needs to develop to some meaningful degree the characters, their backgrounds, their interaction, their dialogue, the setting, the tone, and any larger themes.The premise of Christie's book is fascinating. As to plot, the book is clever in conception and careful in execution. Compared to the films, the book's assortment of past crimes and depictions of the characters' attitudes toward them are more varied, subtle, and interesting. The order of the crimes has some meaning.  The book does the best job of presenting the characters in ways in which the reader could actually see them as the murderous host. It is the least sentimental, treating all of them vaguely and suspiciously. This is not necessarily enough to make them convincing killers, but at least it maintains more of a sense of menace, suspense, and purpose than the film versions. The book does the best job of explaining why and how the host carried out the scheme.Yet, even the plot has definite shortcomings. Once the imaginative premise is established, the story becomes thin and formulaic. There is little plot or character development. The characters in the book engage in less deductive reasoning and survival techniques than in the 1945 film. The only real plot twist creates a major logical problem, which the book tries to overcome by implausibly suggesting that the ploy would either trick or "rattle" the murderer. The guests' murders are designed to follow the nursery rhyme, but, aside from some cosmetic frills, the poisoning, stabbing, shooting, and head-bashing that go on in the book show, in themselves, no special cunning, skill, strategic advantage, or plausibility. The killer strikes crudely without detection too effortlessly.The storytelling seems flat, frigid, and, at times, slow-paced. There is no lead character to care about. Characters are described largely by catch-phrases (the judge's "tortoise-like" appearance; Lombard's "wolfish smile") or hardly at all (Marston, the Rogerses). Their backgrounds and motives are sketched in summary fashion. The past crimes vary widely in originality, depth, and genuineness. Some -- especially Claythorne's and the general's -- are more subtle, interesting, and powerful than others. Some, like Blore's, Dr. Armstrong's, and Lombard's, are utterly trite, unexplored, and ineffective.However, the book's and films' worst failing is that they have nothing serious to say about the powerful themes that are at the very heart of the story. The story is inherently an observation of human nature in a desperate situation. How do the characters behave? How do they try to reason? How do they try to survive? Also by its very nature -- as the book's last pages acknowledge -- this story is a morality play. How is each of the characters a "criminal"? How is each "beyond the law"? Does each get "justice"? Is justice the point, or simply a "lust" to torture and kill? Is the story about breaking the law or enforcing it, about mistakes or abuses in pursuing justice? None of this is meaningfully addressed.The films are worse in some respects and better in some respects than the book. Each is worth seeing as an attempt to bring to life a compelling but at the same time confining plot concept. Each, like the book, fails to fully realize that idea as a story.Briefly, the 1945 film develops the plot better in some ways than the book and is more entertaining. The cast is outstanding, except Mischa Auer. But the film presents the general and his past crime ineffectively and changes others. Its attempts to make the characters entertaining come at the expense of their plausibility as villains and of the story's seriousness. The climactic scene revealing the host's identity, means, and motives is short, sedate, and unsatisfying.The 1965 film is enjoyable and energetic. But it is not as tightly and richly told, nor as well-acted, as the 1945 version, despite good casting. As in 1945, attempts to make characters comical or appealing sap the suspense. The final scene has more explanation than in 1945, but remains thin and undramatic.The 1974 film takes a different tone than its predecessors. It captures more of a sense of fear, dread, and suspense. Yet, overall, the movie is less substantial and entertaining than the prior versions. The storytelling is so spare and unartful that it is sterile and uninvolving. Other than Stephane Audran, the outstanding cast is unable to breathe life into the characters. The final scene is less effective than before.Everything about the 1989 version seems low-budget, from the cast to the script to the set to the production values. The casting of the doctor is even worse than Frank Stallone as Lombard. And not until Donald Pleasance's final moments on screen does he play his character with any coherence. But Herbert Lom is excellent as the general. And it is left to this film to finally present a dramatic end scene.
4 Ten people are invited to stay all isolated on Indian Island by a mysterious Mr. Owen. The guests however, discover that there is more than meets the eye with the ten people invited. They all have a mysterious past that links them together and shall fall prey to Mr. Owen's plan one by one.This book is a great murder mystery that should be read by anyone with sense. It shows that Agatha Christie is truly the Queen of Crime. This story is no different. The plot is intriguing. Who wouldn't want to read a murder mystery where a mysterious host invites ten people then kills them off one by one? In the end, you get to find out the murderer too. This book might be a bit boring to those with either no or little patience since all of her books tend to start off quite dull. By chapter 3 or 4 the story should get interesting. So all you people out there that haven't read it before, read it. Read it before but stopped cause the beginning was boring, read it again. This book deserves a special place reserved in your bookshelf for years to come.
3 I really enjoy the tension and suspense the book creates especially in the last few chapters (from Ch 13 onward when the few people left were so frightened and alert). That I think is the strongest point of the book.The confession of the murderer(s) in the epilogue is ok, though I did expect something more surprising and ... convincing. There are a few points in the murderer(s)'s plan and in the story development itself that are not very believable. [The butler still prepared breakfast after the second murder, as if there's nothing particularly unusual happen???] That is, the book is a bit too contrived.But over all, if you have 5, 6 hours to spare and like detective stories, why not?
5 I knew who the murderer was before I had read this book.  Nevertheless this book was wonderful.  It has beautiful plot and Christie knows human psychology very well.  Only if I hadn't known who'd done it!!!
5 And Then There Were How Many?And Then There Were None is one of my favorite stories I have ever read. The combination of mystery and horror is a perfect tool to keep a reader&#8217;s attention. The story is based around eight people that were invited to an island called Indian Island, but when they get there they aren&#8217;t meet by the hostess but by the hostess&#8217;s butler and house keeper. After the group decides that they don&#8217;t particularly want to stay there they, realize they can&#8217;t leave because of the lack of about around the island.  That&#8217;s when the story starts to get very interesting.This story is based on the famous nursery rhyme 10 Little Indians. For people who don&#8217;t know what this rhyme is, it basically describes how ten different &#8220;little Indians&#8221; die. The first line to the rhyme is &#8220;Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine&#8221; .As You could guess this just happens to be how the murders occur through the story.Like I said before, this story keeps your nose in the book. Wither it&#8217;s talking about the murders, who committed them, or the extreme detail that the author takes time to use all through the story.Agatha Christie is a great writer which is prevalent in her other two stories Murder on the Orient Express and The Mysterious Affair at Styles. She has a gift for writing mysteries because of that gift I highly recommend reading this story.
5 Excellent historian.  Labor of love.  Check out television production made in parallel to writing book.  Also recommend his works on Western Front in WW1.
4 Richard Holmes's "Wellington - The Iron Duke" is a well-written survey of the active life of the First Duke of Wellington. In just 300 pages, Holmes presents a balanced, even nuanced view of a man who was both the quintessential military professional and a complex human being.  Through Holmes' efficient prose, we see Wellington as an extradinarily dedicated soldier who mastered his profession in ways few of his contemporaries did, yet who sometimes paid a price on campaign for his insistence on micromanaging his armies.  Wellington comes across as a remarkably honest and duty-bound public servant; as a young man, he was also relentlessly ambitious, and as an older man, sensitive about his military reputation.Holmes provides some useful insights.  He suggests that exhaustion and strain were responsible for Wellington's uncharacteristically poor performance at the Siege of Burgos in 1812.  Holmes examines the academic dispute over Wellington's relationship with the Prussians during the Waterloo Campaign; he tellingly notes Wellington's responsibilities to his alliance partners and to the British Government and finds that he served both.  Holmes acknowledges Wellington's extramaritial activities but resists the urge to obsess over them or to indulge in psycological speculation.Serious students of the Duke and of the Napoleonic Wars will find no new scholarship here; indeed, Holmes readily acknowledges his debt to earlier works such as Elizabeth Longford's exceptional biography and Jac Weller's battlefield narrative trilogy.  Holmes has provided an accessible biography for the general reader, supported by well-chosen quotes from the Duke' contemporaries and by a nice selection of illustrations.This book is highly recommended to the general reader with an interest in the man and the era.
4 Richard Holmes is an eminent historian and a splendid TV presenter but, though I found his study of the great Duke of Wellington an enjoyable biography that I couldn't put down until it was finished, I also found myself being irritated on too many of the 303 pages (hardback edition) by mis-spellings and stylistic and punctuation inconsistencies. An example of the latter was the mixed and varying use of inverted commas (quote marks). My own preference is for the end of a phrase or a sentence to appear thus: '................... end,'  or '..................... end.' Too often the style was thus '........................ end', or '........................... end'. Mr Holmes ought to have made up his mind which way his work was to appear or his editor ought to have been sacked!Another niggle was that the Duke's Hampshire home was named only once as 'Strathfieldsaye,' with '[sic]' to follow. Mr Holmes should have been aware that that was the original spelling and that 'Stratfield Saye' is the more modern name of the house and estate.I mustn't criticise too much, however, because I learned a lot from a very good book and I recommend it to other lovers of our British history and other admirers of one of the greatest and most courageous Britons ever to have been born.
3 I had a hard time sticking with the book, but I don;t hunk it had anything to do with the book itself.  I think it was because my background in european history is severely lacking.  That was one reason I read this book.  I had the same experience with a Napoleon biography.
4 This is one of those books that once you take it up, you can't put it down!Its balanced treatment of Wellington the man, the military man and the politican, has meant that this is not just a book about Waterloo.One is left with the impression that Wellington was a great man, with equal weight given to his 'greatness' and his 'humanness'.Very readable and highly recommended.
5 There is no doubt about it, Richard Holmes was a splendid writer and has written a splendid book.Having read some works on the Napoleonic Wars I was unprepared to have the preconcieved nuances of my views on Wellington to be quite so challenged. I had carried the simplistic and certainly conventional thought that the Duke was really just an rather efficient logistician, who fought his war largely by calculating the odds and through exceptional organisation -  all rather dull. At a personal level, it wasn't so much his affairs but the offhand treatment of his wife which one found a little challenging. Finally, reading about his political life, I had also found his "high" Tory views somewhat constricted. In short, I thought him a very able general, although a somewhat unlikeable individual.However, in 300 or so pages, Mr. Holmes has caused me to go back to my book shelves once again and reconsider my somewhat naive views. There are a number of thoughts I took away from this book, but perhaps the most worthy of consideration may be the following:1) Wellington clearly was more than a great general in the context of the Penisular; He has to be considered a great general for the ages. It is said that he was a defensive, unimaginative and somewhat uninspirational leader - none of this can be true in the context of his outstanding military achievements in both India and the Penisular. Mr. Holmes does well to bring out the strengths which made him the genius he was and hopefully this goes some way to correcting two centuries of negative propaganda around his generalship. I particularly like Mr. Holmes' even-handed approach when dealing with controversies, particularly Badajoz (where it seems apparent he lost control of his troops) and Waterloo (where he was conflicted with national imperatives and the need to support his allies).2) Touching on his personal life, I am glad Mr. Holmes did not feel the need to go into prurient details, but it was evident that Wellington had an unhappy marriage. How he coped with this seems to have at least involved discretion but what I think brought his humanity to the fore was his observations following his wife's death. Sadly, it also seems clear that his relationships with his children seemed somewhat poor - perhaps, to paraphrase Douro, because they all hard a terrifically hard act to follow. Beyond his family though, there does seem to be strong evidence that he was in fact warm hearted and generous behind the public facade.3) As to his politics he comes across as man of the times working in a framework of principles, but at least did have the flexibility of mind to shift his position on various issues. His political career was not stellar in any real sense, but I think it hard to see his goverment service as anything but a good man trying, by his lights, to do what was right for the country and his monarch.In short, no review of mine can do justice to this excellent biography, but I just would have liked to thank Mr. Holmes for vividly showing the Duke to be a much more complex, gifited, humane, interesting and, (dare I say it since Holmes himself may not have agreed), likeable man than I had previously understood to be the case.
5 I have studied Napoleon for a good while yet this is the first biography I have ever read about the Duke of Wellington. Mr. Holmes does a good job of going through all of Wellington's life without getting into nitty gritty details. The book is roughly 200-250 pages and covers all of Wellington's life from his birth, the campaigns in Flanders, India, Spain, Waterloo, and his prime ministry. The military campaigns are covered in adequate detail, enough to know what happened, but not enough to confuse the reader or draw a military thesis statement from. The same goes with regards to his session as prime minister. So bottom line is if you are looking for a good book on the Duke that is an easy read and covers his whole life in a concise single volume, I strongly suggest this one.
4 this is a great biography, but doesn't  revealed the politics of the voictorian age, is a minus of it.the former of a caracter is  well described , because the India experience, the caracter is showed in wide mirror, not the same  with the  inside life, but we can understand the powerfull personality of " The Duke".
4 The book aims to be realistic - the fog ofwar is foggy indeed, and Wellington sometimes makes mistakes. Thecasualties at Waterloo are appalling, and the battle almost lost.Lt.-Col. Trant of &quot;Sharpe's Rangers&quot; fame actually appears, an excellent soldier but &quot;the most drunken dog there ever was&quot; in Wellington's words.Unusual is the emphasis on Wellington's Indian campaign and on thePeninsular War - the period of Sharpe's Rangers is the most important inthe book. The Battle of Waterloo is treated as somewhat of anafterthought, as I suppose it was (if Nap had won it would have been avery different matter, of course). There are a number of good plates,including a daguerrotype of the Iron Duke himself in his mid-70s, lookingbuth shrewd and oddly sympathetic.
4 The biography is good, and kindle certainly advertised it as text only, but it would have been nice to see at least a few of the multiple paintings done of Wellington.  This biography focuses more on Wellington's military career than on his home life.  About his wife we're told that he wanted her and initially was rejected as a husband, by her family; then he does end up marrying her, but she is no longer the woman he wanted as a wife. We're told that he is disappointed with her throughout their marriage, but on her deathbed we find out that Wellington had always worn a memento of her on his arm.  Something was missed somewhere.
4 This is probably the best book on Wellington you are likely to read. It is clear to read and full of detail. It covers Wellingtons military career, as well as his relationships and public life. The author obviously admires Wellington, but not to the extent where he is totally biased and cannot give an objective view. This is a fascinating read about a great military leader. Recommended.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
4 As with &#34;Soldiers&#34;  my husband is enjoying the read.  He is a history devotee and this author brings it all to life.
5 This is a must-read for anyone interested in the Great War, the Western Front, or the history of the British soldier.  In his wonderful narrative style, Holmes weaves numerous first-hand accounts into a smoothly flowing story that never becomes ponderous despite the enormous size of the book.  Highly recommended.
2 Another revisionist tract that seeks to glorify the British Tommy though spinning defeats into victories, bumblers into geniuses, and incompetence into acumen. Overly long, redundant and without a single unifying theme, this book is more demanding on your patience than critical faculty.
5 "Tommy" is Richard Holmes's exploration of the experience of the British soldier and the British Army on the Western Front of the Great War, 1914-1918.  Through a narrative rich in detail and anecdote, Holmes provides context and some necessary correction on the life of Tommy Atkins, prototypical British soldier, at war.Holmes, an experienced historian, has provided a study very much in the vein of "Redcoat", his earlier work on the British Army from Waterloo to the Crimean War.  In this book, Holmes details how the small standing British professional army of 1914 became the mass army of 1918 and how it generally acquitted itself fairly well in four years of horrendous combat with the elements, its own bureaucracy, and the German Army.  It is a story of the men who became soldiers, their weapons, their leadership, their food, medical care, and their sense of the fighting.  Holmes includes a fascinating collection of photographs of the Western Front.Holmes has done his extensive research.  The traditional regimental system comes in for some considerable praise for its contribution to unit cohesion and morale.  The willingness of the Army to adapt to the demands of mass warfare, on a scale not practiced by Britain in over one hundred years, is commendable if often uneven.  The leadership of the Army, especially after the first year of war, generally did as good a job as the circumstances of combat allowed.  The fate of mounted cavalry and the introduction of modern warfighting technology such as tanks, airplanes, radios, and indirect artillery fire are discussed.  Above all, the stubborn and patient devotion to duty of Tommy and his fellow soldiers shines through.At roughly 700 pages, this is an exhaustive if not exhausting study that will appeal the most to those with a keen interest in the First World War, especially to those looking for the story behind the battle histories.  It is highly recommended as a reading experience to students of the history of the British Army.
5 Richard Holmes, the author, provides a fascinating, masterful portrait of British soldiers' everyday lives during WWI.  This book is about the British army itself; it is NOT a campaign history, a strategy essay, or a biography.Despite the plethora of books produced about Britain's WWI effort, Holmes manages to include a great volume of hitherto negelected information.  Some of these topics include: commissioning, pay, ranking differences (permanent, temporary, brevet), compulsory requisitioning of horses, medical treatment, replacements, promotions, religion, liberty, leave, discipline/punishment, mustache regulations, combat training, demobilisation, and return to civilian life.Thankfully, he also explains the highly complex war-time formation, structure, varying roles, and evolution of battalions, regiments, brigades, divisions, corps, and armies.  Holmes also defines the differences between formation types (regular, Special Reserve, territorial, and New Army).  In addition, he also relates the jobs of various staff and admin unit members (e.g. Chief of Staff, Adjutant, Regimental Sergeant Major, etc.).Besides all the above, the book includes the more commonly discussed trench life routine, weapons, personal accounts, a typical attack, morale, and the army's various branches (infantry, artillery, sappers, cavalry, tanks, machine guns, supply, general staff, etc.).  The author unusually presents a few striking, small-scale examples of successful cavalry charges and a costly episode of firing guns by direct sight.This is an excellent, well-researched book that is a pleasure to read.  Bravo!
5 Approaching the centenary of the First World War, the 'War to end all Wars', this is one of the must reads in my top ten. Recommended by many others, not least Professor Peter Simkin of the Imperial War Museum and Western Front Association. This is an excellent tonic to narratives, memoirs and panegyrics.
5 Richard Holmes does a TV series in the UK called War Walks.In the series he basically walks through a battlefield pointing out where a particular action took place, where a dug out or ridge was and then turns to camera and deliver a short, precise monologue.He dresses smartly, invariably wearing a tie or cravat; with a neat trimmed grey moustache and fixes the camera from behind silver framed glasses.  When he speaks to the camera his voice carries a gravitas and intensity that conveys respect and concern with cold hard truths.  He has the same persona on the page and this is what drives Tommy forwardHolmes is like a kindly uncle who knows every minute detail on his subject and will tell you everything you need to know, in a slow studied manner. Despite his slow, at times ponderous style, or perhaps precisely because of it, he ignites your interest and takes you through the story, even when it gets a little complicated and dull, regimental names and badges for instance.And like a good story, told by a kindly uncle, it stays in your head, the characters vibrant and their lives and deaths meaningful and justice done to them.
5 I first read this book a few years ago via the library.  I was impressed enough to A. read it again and B. own it.  It provides a good overview of the First World War from the British soldiers (officer&other ranks) view point.  Sometimes limied to a small patch of mud and at other times the wider horizons of a General commanding. It's strength lies in it's use of fresh materials gleaned from libraries and private collections across the globe.  It also has the merit of being a measured response or if you like rebuttal, to claims of some that WWI was won exclusively by their favourite group of victims.  The Australian press being the most flagrant offender, probably due to the person who owns the vast majority of newspapers over there, but no matter he isn't important.  Anyway this book is well worth the money. Buy it and enjoy a new perspective on the pivotal event of the twentieth century.
5 What kind of man was the British soldier who unflinchingly trudged through the Menin Gate into the mud of the salient in 1917? How did he live day to day? What did he fight with and how did he do it? Where did he come from and why did he face the horrific attrition of World War I seige warfare with a 'stiff upper lip"? The answers and much more are here. This is the most detailed and yet most readable book on the British (and Empire) troops and their lives that I've seen and I've been a student of World War I for many years. From the world that created the Brit soldiers of the Great War to a realistic look at their commanders, how food reached them in the trenches, what happened when a high explosive shell fell in the middle of a platoon, how the army was organized, it's all here, but written in a page-turning, nearly can-put-it-down style that makes 700+ pages seem like not enough. There is information here that I've read before, certainly, but there is a wealth of info new to me - enriched by quotes from interviews, diaries and published works of the men themselves, woven seemlessly into the sharp narrative. It reminds me a bit of the work of Lyn MacDonald in that respect, but doesn't focus on the battles, but everything else. At least some knowledge and understanding of WWI will be helpful while reading this, but not necessary for enjoyment and revelation. If you're interested at all in the Great War this volume is indispensible.
5 Holmes has produced an excellent account of the British (and East Indian Company) army in India throughout the 19th century through India winning its Independence.  Good history lesson for those interested.
5 BG Richard Holmes takes a good hard look at a subject that he obviously loves - The British Soldier and his history. I frankly enjoyed this book and rate it up there with a comparable book "Mr. Kiplings Army". If you want to know more about the British Army and the Raj that it built & maintained. Then you have come to the right place with this book that is filled with a huge amount of interesting detail and a lively way of telling it. Good to go!
5 Informative, well researched and a most interesting read.  In view of the fact that our nation is so deeply involved in what was formerly known as the Northwest Frontier during the British Raj, the stories relating to British military experiences in that arena are instructive and give the reader pause to wonder at how little has changed in that region.
5 "Sahib" The British Soldier in India by Richard Holmes is a "microscopic view" of British incursion into India from 1750 to 1914.  This book will give you two years worth of college courses in British military history and tactics condensed in some 506 pages of print. There is such a great deal of information presented that sometimes; the reader may seem almost overwhelmed at times.  There are some areas that may "bog-down" and appear a bit dry and "text-bookish", but these are actually few and far between.Holmes brings the British regiments "a-foot" marching right up to you so close that you can smell the sweat, see the dust of India, and even feel the flies on your face.  Many of incidents that occurred are enhanced by numerous letters and diary entries from the actual participants in this magnificent and yet tragic area of history.This is a history of not only Nations in conflict but, the very real dramas of life and death of literally thousands of human beings who met their fate with the same determination and toughness... as the land in which they lived and died.
4 History and those that write about it have always interested and enthralled me. Puts you right into the middle of action.
5 An entertaining read from Richard Holmes. It was not a heavy history but anecdotes divided along themes. The edition I have was a paperback and was 572 pages with the reading stopping on page 506. Richard Holmes has not attempted to provide a blow by blow history of the Raj but rather a read about what soldiering was like in British India for both the British East India Company soldiers as well as those from the British Army. He did, however, provide a quick history at the start to give the reader the context of the anecdotes that come afterward. He has chosen his anecdotes well, although sometimes it seemed to be a case of cut and paste with minimal thread from him. That said, the anecdotes did carry the book and they were generally just right for the point that he was making. The book was divided up into five sections based on themes and then the chapters brought out points within the themes. While it was interesting reading about the life of soldiers and officers, especially how they were supposed to outfit themselves, it was the parts about fighting that sold the book for me. Mr Holmes does not always give great detail about the fight but lets the participants tell what they saw. It worked. Understandably, he weighted his book more towards the pre-1900 India where most people see the real romance of British India. If you have read books about the British Raj and want to find out how the Army worked in India then this book is the perfect place to start.
5 It's relatively easy to write an account of the life of a prominent general or other wartime leader, especially if one comes late to the composition party after sufficient time has passed to allow the accumulation of encomiums, accounts of battles, maybe even the subject having written an autobiography or other reminiscence.  Not so with the common soldier, you know, the poor devil who served as the pawn to the hero's chess master.  But Richard Holmes has found the way, to our delight and edification.`Sahib' is the final work in Holmes' trilogy describing the life of the British soldier in three periods: `Redcoat' during the `age of horse and musket,' `Tommy,' his life on the Western Front in the First World War, and `Sahib' in India during the ascendancy of the East India Company and the Raj.  Having read the first two, I can happily report that `Sahib' is every bit their equal.There's no particular secret to Holmes' methods.  For each volume, he collected innumerable first-person accounts of the actors' lives and experiences in their respective periods, that alone being quite an accomplishment.  Then he merely interweaves them into a masterfully crafted narrative recounting, in the case of `Sahib,' a comprehensive and unfailingly entertaining history of the principal events in which these actors played their parts.  Pretty simple, it seems to me, though I wouldn't try it at home.Given the other very thoughtful reviews of `Sahib,' let me add my two cents in the form of recommended reading on the British Raj in India and related subjects.  First, Holmes specifically disavows presenting a comprehensive history of the variously denominated Mutiny of 1857, though of course it plays a pivotal role in the story of both `his' soldiers and the Raj.  For those interested in learning more about the Mutiny, I suggest Christopher Hibbert's relatively brief but entirely satisfying `The Great Mutiny: India 1857.'  For a more expansive view of the British experience in India, check out David Gilmour's `The Ruling Caste: Imperial Lives in the Victorian Raj,' an excellent account of both the military and political components of the period.  Finally, and in the same general time frame, but with a wider scope, try Byron Farwell's `Queen Victoria's Little Wars,' which includes absolutely fascinating, and frequently hilarious, depictions of the unique eccentricities of many of the principal military players who nonetheless largely succeeded in `getting the job done.'If you don't have the luxury of time for these related works, then at least resolve to take on the `Redcoat,' `Tommy,' `Sahib' threesome, if only to understand what we Holmes fans relentlessly rave about.  You won't regret it for a reading minute.
4 (3.75 Stars)The cover of the book is so warm and inviting. His Holiness The Dalai Lama smiling at you with mouth and eyes. Every time I look at it I smile. I'm tempted to cut the cover off and frame it...The book discusses in great detail the 4 Noble Truths.It's difficult to write a review on books regarding Buddhism. Everyone's experience will be different and everyone's understanding will be different and I don't want to discourage anyone from exploring The Path...For myself I found this book difficult to follow. Someone else may take to it better and find it an easier to understand (I ain't the sharpest knife in the drawer)I felt like a freshmen walking in late to a lecture and the audience and class this was for was all graduate students. I felt like I missed the beginning of the talk and that the level of content was for more advanced students.I do not recommend this to a newcomer to Buddhism, again I found the "level" to be more advanced, but that's your call and like I said you may take to it better than I did and hey - it's your path.I did get things out of the book and did learn some things. I felt incredibly honored to be reading the words of HH The Dalai Lama and that's what kept me reading.The photographs are absolutely beautiful! - and again - I love the cover!
3 A little to complicated to understand.  Hoped for more information on the religion, but it only touched on generalities.  Referred to lots of other works for the information I had hoped to find.
5 Colorful and inspiring Buddhist philosophy as seen by an educated contemporary spiritual practitioner and leader of the Buddhists who knows that he has been the same spirit that has reincarnated as each of the &#34;14 Dali Lamas&#34;, though this book does not go into that Buddhist Dali Lama philosophy.
5 This book is 176 pgs., short and concise, including endnotes and a glossary of terms for quick reference of the many Buddhist words.  For instance, a simple word I had heard before from other studies is this term, "Arhat".  I forgot what it meant and I needed to look it up.  It is defined in the glossary thus:"Arhat (Tib. dgra bcom pa) - to become an Arhat is the final goal of the Shravakayana.  It is a form of nirvana, beyond rebirth, but falls short of buddhahood.  The Tibetan word literally means 'one who has subdued the enemies', i.e., negative emotions."I mention this fact for two reasons.  The first reason is to show how the glossary is very useful (you can look up "Shravakayana" and many other words to find their meaning if it isn't expressed in the text of the book, too).  The second reason is to let you know that if you have negative emotions, you, too, can subdue them and become an Arhat.  It may appear to your mind to be something unimagined or even almost looked at as not even necessary.  You might reason that you are the way you are and that that is all there is to it.  (I suspect most reading this actually sense that this latter attitude is the "path of suffering" and you are searching out this book to move away from this path into one that leads to enlightenment).In this book, you will be told that the latter way of viewing yourself is the path of suffering.  This book brings this teaching forth very nicely, that is, the cessation of suffering is possible in this life.  Becoming an Arhat is not that difficult and can be accomplished in this life.  The rewards are worth the effort!The book is simple to understand (using the glossary helps a great deal as there are a lot of Tibetan words used) but doesn't suffer from oversimplification.  The Dalai Lama wrote a series of lectures in 1996 and this book simply states the facts of Buddhism, its tenants and principles without giving the reader more details than is needed to understand Buddhism and its practices.If you are achieving self-realization through another path, you may read this book and discover many similarities to your path and the Buddhist path.  This can be quite startling actually, yet reassuring.  We intuitively know that there may be many ways to the top of a mountain, yet there is only one mountain top.This work was translated by Geshi Thupten Kinpa, edited by Dominique Side and photographs were provided by Ian Cumming.  The photos add to the richness of the book and were appreciated by me.  The main text consists of 5 chapters, four of which cover the 4 Noble Truths briefly.  They give the reader a clear picture of them and their purpose in Buddhist teachings--to provide its very foundation.Let me leave you with words to literally live by:"So, now you have read these teachings.... Whatever your faith, if you accept that faith then it must become part of your life.  It is not sufficient to attend church on Sunday and join hands together in prayer for a few moments, if the rest of your behavior remains the same....""Once the teaching is part of your life, whenever you have a real problem it gives you inner strength.""...because no-one else can provide this for us -- no deities, no gurus, and no friends.  This is why the Buddha says you must be your own master."
3 The Dalai Lama's books are usually very simply and lightly written, so that the average reader has no difficulty accessing them.  This book is some exception to that, as the Dalai Lama wanders into topics that the introductory student of Buddhism might find a bit arcane.  His intent is to explain the basic Buddhist Path of the Four Noble Truths, and he almost accomplished that here.  I would hesitate to recommend this book to an introductory student on Buddhism, with the caveat of not getting discouraged on the Dalai Lama period.  He has produced many wonderful ideas and is justifiably celebrated as a religious leader, but I could not conclude that this is his strongest or most accessible work.  The book is wonderfully illustrated with pictures of Buddhists and their monasteries from Tibet to India, and one wishes there had been much more attention to the vibrancy of Tibetan and Buddhist culture, than merely incidentally commentary along the way.  Alas, it succeeds more as a nicely illustrated coffee-table book than a substantive introduction to Buddhism.
4 I found this book to be a fairly enjoyable read, which showed quite well how so many people jump on the latest mind-set bandwagon without really stopping to develop their own critical opinions. Social opinion can often be like science without peer review, and a critical (perhaps even cynical) mind is often the only real defense.Some parts of this book flow quite nicely, where the author has a clear point to make and sticks with it, but other parts feel a bit more rambling, and seem to lack focus. Also, sometimes it feels as though the author's opinions are being presented as facts, without really being backed up. This should not be taken as too heavy a criticism, as the book still contains lots of great food for thought, and I think most critical thinkers would find a lot of valuable content here, but the negatives are enough that I wouldn't put this one on my 'must-read' list.
4 Finally a book I truly enjoyed.It is easily readable, direct and outspoken.It articulates a definite and very controversial argument: the belief that our society is witnessing a massive  retreat from, almost a betrayal  of, the  rationalist legacy bequeathed by the Enlightenment.The argument is highly controversial, and I'm very skeptical about conclusions and causes.Nonetheless this  is the true force of the book: an extreme argument can be accepted or rejected, but it forces you to weight evidence and  carefully evaluate conclusions.It compels the reader to think critically.The basic thesis is that from 1979, with the seminal events of the Iran revolution and the conservative revolutions of Mrs. Thatcher and president Reagan, a sweeping conservative revolution has been able to disrupt the world born after the tragedy of the Great Depression and the two wars, proposing a full array of new "myths": the neoclassical and neo-liberist recipes of the school of Chicago, the disruption of the welfare state, a new rampant  individualistic capitalism to detriment of social responsibility and solidarity, the easy and not-so-easy  proposals of (pseudo) philosophies (from structuralism, to communitarism, up to the huge popularity of self-help book), the strange advancing passion for mysteries, magic and miracles and a new uncompromising attitude (from religious radicalism to new age), an unwarranted faith in the power of individual.Wheen is a thinker extremely Manichean.He conceives reality like the story of progressive disenfranchisement from the dark ghosts of the past: a story in which a battle has been lost, but war keeps on.So reality is black or white, but never grey: an enlightened legacy versus contemporary mumbo jumbo, a dream of Keynesian Arcadia versus the new brave conservative world, and looming on the horizon the nightmare of  new Armageddon of greed.But the real question is "Is Mr. Wheen Manicheism so Enlightened?"Actually some of the most enduring legacies of XVIII century Enlightenment are skepticism, critical thinking and that extremely impalpable ability to share opinions and knowledge besides the smaller enclaves of academics. A more relaxed attitude in Mr. Wheen could have indicated that, after all, nothing new is under the sun.Only as example, Franklin, one of the great "saints" of  Rationalism (at least for the author, who cites him at length not less than 5 times as a model) in his life was a renowned author of those same self help books ("The way to wealth" - "Poor Richard's Almanac" - but what about the copious production of self help books in XVIII century England?) that Wheen seems so much to despise; had to contend with many "irrational" phenomena - often with conflicting attitudes he could not subscribe (religious awakenings and mesmerism, to cite only two of them) and at the end of his life had to fight against a Tory government whose imperial hubris shows some aspects in common with today political conservatism.In a certain sense partiality comes natural.The more we are distant from an age, the more we tend to idealize it, and to loose sight of the lesser and more disturbing aspects that intertwined with the (now considered) relevant features.The most annoying feature of the book is the tendency (openly stated) to see history from 1700 to 1979 as the Reign of Enlightenment, and from 1979 onward as the Age of Mumbo Jumbo.How can it be so?Can we truly talk of a long age of Enlightenment?And what about Pre-romantics and Romantics?Actually the great season of Enlightenment - at least on mainland Europe - was already moribund on the verge of French Revolution - and the nightmare of the two world wars was partly due also to the new idealistic philosophies of the XIX century.It was high time to denounce the so many pseudo-philosophies of today, most of them philosophies of egotism: those that propose a moratorium in the creation of new rights, stressing on the importance of duties (but almost always my rights vs. others' duties), those that propose a well ordered society - in which everyone know and keeps his place - as a good recipe for democracy (there's a famous author who stated that kindness and smiling employees are a prerequisite for democracy), and those stating that money is measure of all things (one dollar/one vote).YES, most of the problems denounced by Wheen are real and alarming, but sometimes a little wit and toleration are far better than crude sarcasm and hopeless enumeration.If we believe in the power of ideas, we shouldn't be afraid of our ideas, to denounce evils AND propose emendation.Prophets in the desert can be appealing, but they will do nothing to change the world if they do not advance proposals. If the ideas do not circulate.Because the  true legacy of Enlightenment is probably the ability to share knowledge and ideas and not be afraid.
4 If you get your news from the talking (and cutesy) heads of most of today's news, this book is NOT for you. If you want to learn -- or be reminded of how our recent political history affects today, and the "why" of it, read How Mumbo Jumbo Conquered the World.As the Boston Globe said, "A very well-written rant against all the baloney that people seem increasingly to believe."Reading aloud at the dinner table, the content provoked some yes's, boos, laughter and table pounding from my husband and me. Author Francis Wheen covers it all in detail so even those of us who can't remember a historical fact from high school will get it.For example did you know what caused this to happen?- 1973 the average American had 26.2 hours of 'leisure time' every week ... and by 1984 the figure had fallen to 16.6 hours -- almost 10 fewer hours a week.The author explains in relative terms which President or world leader and their beliefs and policies caused what to happen at the time, and how it all fit together. Some facts shocked me at how often policies he described were "developed for the common man," but actually benefited the rich. What's wrong with this picture?No one, no party, no belief is left alone -- he bashes everyone equally. This book is for the cynic -- and fodder for an astute stand-up comic.Here's my fist on the table. I'm outraged, indignant, baffled -- then on a new page, I'm laughing. So that's "history," according to author Wheen.Armchair Interviews says: Nothing is scared so get your drink of choice and flop into your own favorite armchair for a great read. You will be there a long time reading and reacting and wondering whether what you believe is true.
4 This is basically a collection of essays in which Wheen deftly critiques the &#8220;retreat of reason&#8221; we&#8217;ve witnessed in the past several decades, particularly in areas such as politics. This is an engaging and stimulating book, but some parts get bit &#8220;too deep&#8221; and plodding, or at least overly intellectual as to tax my simple brain. But overall this is a very thought provoking, and often very funny book. I especially enjoyed Wheen&#8217;s skewering of &#8220;Self-Help&#8221; and Motivational hucksters --- you know the ones; those &#8220;visionary&#8221; types who write best-selling books on how to transform your life or become filthy rich. Wheen also offers entertaining insights on the double-speak practiced by so many politicians, and accounts of &#8220;great leaders&#8221; who rely on astrology and religious beliefs for guidance and decision-making. Scary indeed. Wheen&#8217;s total demystification of the bizarrely beloved Princess Diana is also a highlight. Well worth reading.
4 Casting an erudite eye over a variety of sources Mr Wheen (born 1957) has written an informative and entertaining book which sets out to examine the evidence of the statement by British Philosopher Roger Scruton that reason is now on the retreat both as an ideal and as a reality (P.7) In my own experience in my own country (Australia) I note that the third most popular course (after mandatory English, and Maths)  for the High School Certificate in NSW is Business Studies. I note also that Australian Universities seem to have an orientation towards vocational or "practical courses" and that subjects such as philosophy and other "soft" subjects appear to have a shrinking student base. Philosophy, among other things, is concerned with thinking about thinking, validity, the role of a premise, evidence, logic and so on, but as H.L. Mencken noted "every man prefers what he can understand to what puzzles and dismays him" (p.111) and the acquisition of knowledge is a hard incremental slog compared to switching on the tv. Hence, it is argued, the rise of evangelical fundamentalism. In America religious superstition is about the same per capita as Bangladesh, which is surprising for an advanced industrialized country.  Mr Wheen argues that it is far better for the powerless to seek solace in crystals, ley-lines, and the myth of Abraham than in actually challenging the rulers, or the social and economic systemn over which they preside (p. 193). What is revealing and alarming is the seepage that occurs between business, religion, cultish mumbo jumbo, government and educational institutions. The Clintons, the Blairs, The Reagans have all been involved in mumbo jumbo including consulting astrologers.  Nor do the left escape Mr Wheen's analysis and research and are revealed as being ideological blind to Stalin, Pol Pot and as demonising the USA .  The Muslim world also gets a serve or two as Mr Wheen points out to them that it was not Mohammed but the jurists of the 8/9th centuries who divided the world into the abode of Islam and the abode of war (p. 291)  He also reminds them it was the Arab world which began modernization so willingly embraced by the West through Astronomy and Mathematics.Mr Wheen's book is a refreshing and compelling read.
1 I started to read the book and eventully ended turning pages. May be odd pieces of information are of interest, but it is badly written, biased and full of mumbo jumbo. Regret I bought it.
5 Francis Wheen is indeed a master debunker: erudite, passionate, lacerating and logical. Just about the only book I can compare his "How Mumbo Jumbo..." to is Peter Swirski's recent "From Lowbrow to Nobrow", which is eqaully fearful and exacting in debunking all kinds of myths and sloppy thinking in cultural and literary studies. Wheen's targets are as varied as, in most cases, politically charged: politicians, businessmen, tycoons, policy makers, cultural gurus, and plain old fashioned idiots. Particularly enjoyable is Wheen's dry British tone which, however, never prevents him from skewering the particularly offensive examples of Mumbo Jumbo with a rhetorical flourish.Like Swirski's book, Wheen's contains a tremendous amount of information, often of rare nature. Being a picky reader myself, I did find one marginal inaccuracy: the rest of the book, as far as I can tell is a perfect ten on accuracy meter. Both writers are funny in the same undercutting way, and refreshingly politically incorrect when it comes to any number of political (Wheen) or cultural (Swirski) sacred cows. One are in which "Mumbo Jumbo" and "From Lowbrow to Nobrow" overlap is postmodernism and deconstruction: here I can only say that if you enjoyed Wheen, you'll enjoy Swirski even more.All in all, a feast for all those whose hearts beat faster with each new issue of the Skeptical Inquirer.
1 The 'immutability of popular credulity' (FT, quoted p273) is what this cut-and-paste job is all about - 300+ pages of Schadenfreude with nary a joined-up thought. People are dumb, right? But Wheen's readers are of course cleverer than the norm. Are they, though? Take the first chapter, on that Frankenstein's monster misnamed neoliberalism; to call it unscholarly would be an understatement. It will convince no one whose mind is not already made up. It's preceded by an introduction on the Enlightenment (!) presumably to suggest gravitas (more scissors-and-paste) and an utterly prosaic prologue on the Ayatollah Khomeini whose relevance, other than scene-setting, is hard to see. On the madness of crowds, instead of Charles Mackay (who, to be fair, is allowed a walk-on part later) we get a clipping from Schiller! Even as journalism this is leaden. How could such lazy and self-satisfied work meet with such approbation? Oh I see, he's supposed to be 'amusing'. Which must refer to stylistic flourishes like (p30) the 'denizens' of Wall Street and 'as it transpired'. For the most part his style is inoffensive, but the only wit I picked up was Peter Drucker's observation that people use the word guru because charlatan's too longAs self-help (#2) grows ever more mainstream - we wallow in it! - Wheen's flying visit feels both tired and dated. The all-but-missing elephant in Wheen's room is God, the place from which thinking about mumbo-jumbo generally takes off (s/he gets a measly ten pages), and politics shouldn't be very far behind, but I fancy that area's carefully ringfenced in Wheen's - as in all right-thinking people's - mind. As it transpires, I'm outa here. Swiftian? More like sugar-rich breakfast food. If only there was a bibliography* to wean you onto a more serious diet (to unwheen you, in a word; Mackay would make a good start) but that isn't what this is about. Hey, even journalists gotta eat! (What, all of them?) This is the way the world ends, not with a bang but a smirk. He's good on apologists for 9/11 (we were there) but in another life I can picture Wheen among the wheelerdealers. 'Hey guys, let's have another round!' And the sell-out goes on: in February the London Guardian, whose readers are Wheen's natural constituency, agreed a deal with Unilever promising a 'collaborative and participative approach to developing brand stories that resonate among highly engaged communities'. Beyond satire. I turn for light relief to Thomas Frank's One Market Under God* There are notes; but the Susan Sontag paragraph which 'shocked many of her fellow-liberals' in 1982 lacks its source. Did Wheen lose the reference?
3 There is a memorable passage in Saul Bellow's novel 'The Dean's December' where a dog barking in Communist Budapest seems to be railing passionately about the limits of his era, his condition, his doggy ignorance.That seems to me to encapsulate the theme of this book. Three centuries ago we had the Enlightenment - a sweeping range of progress in science, political thought and philosophy seemed to overthrow the Medieval mysticism and mumbo jumbo once and for all. A generalization of course, but that is how historians portray it.And now what do we have. Nearly half the population of America sincerely believing they have been abducted by extra terrestrial beings. Governments in the world's richest democracies claiming we can have lower taxes AND comprehensive social justice AND whatever kind of liberty you want. Horoscopes in nearly all the serious newspapers and magazines. Mass outpouring of grief for a dimwitted blonde sloane who  happened to be unfortunately killed in a car crash in Paris.Wheen's argument is sweeping, controversial and is bound to raise eyebrows. His thesis is that the twin revolutions in 1979 (Islamic in Iran and Thatcherite in the UK) heralded a sweeping away of the rational progress that was taking place and a new age of quacks, conspiracy theories, madcap French intellectual paradigms (the first Gulf War didn't exist you know)half baked governmental policies and a dangerous regression to Medieval barbarism in parts of the Middle EastWheen picks out some important targets - the ludicrous 'End of History' nonsense as pedalled by Fukuyama, the loony 'Lexus and the Olive Branch' Samuel Huntingdon theory (even an Vietnamese peasant woman with a pair of scales is a player in the great shiny world of global capitalism). Very important is his denunciation of the fantasy world of Tony Blair - the true high priest of the Thatcherite mumbo jumbo world with his mud baths, his 'third way' (never yet clearly defined) and his belief that the private sector will enforce proper social justice as well. Thatcher, to be fair was less of a mumbo-jumbo priestess than an old fashioned economically liberal social conservative which may be unappealing but at least there wasn't the same extent of smoke and mirrors about it.Wheen takes a scattergun approach to hit a lot of targets in one book. It is a loose limbed, flexi style of prose, arguments are often truncated and jump from one theme to another without being patiently argued through to their conclusions. This style is likely to irk some readers and leave many thinking that it is an intellectually sloppy piece of work.Also, Wheen fails to get to the root of some of the mumbo-jumbo issues he tackles. Take the case of Princess Diana. Like most liberal middle class commentators, he seemingly fails to see that the mass outpouring of grief was from people with small, difficult, struggling lives (Bellow's dog again) who latched onto a princess figure who gave them a shred of hope.Mumbo jumbo theory appeals mainly to the under educated and the closed minded. There are intelligent people who have latched onto the public's desire for grand theories that explain everything, and made a ton of money from writing bestsellers, but the main problem is lack of curiosity.Wheen's book leads naturally on to the spate of books that followed - the religion debunkers (Hitchens, Dawkens, Dennett, Harris), the left liberal shibboleth destroyers (Nick Cohen, Hitchens again, Martin Amis) and those by contemporary politicians who lament the decline of reason (Gordon Brown, Al Gore).With Blair now gone to hawk his neo-con lite theories around the USA, the UK at least has a Prime Minister who seems to be a bit more intellectually rigorous and serious than Blair was. It is my hope that the post Bush and Blair days will be a mite more rational (now that the Citibank chairman has resigned due to massive defaults on borrowing, perhaps more people will realize that money doesn't come from nothing). Wheen ends on a positive note - that reason is strong, and will prevail in the end. But this book shows what a tide of nonsense it has to overcome to do that.Like Bellow's dog - more people need to open their minds, educate themselves, be lovers and seekers of truth.
5 I have unbounded admiration for Francis Wheen - he has articulated with great passion and skill many things I have felt for a number of years but have been unable to express.I feel that this is more than just an interesting or amusing book - it is both, of course, and Francis Wheen has a way of explaining things in a thoroughly entertaining and enlightening way, but this book is also an important book. Francis Wheen is, hopefully, sowing a seed - a seed of a new Age of Enlightenment. I hope many people read this book and consider the things Francis Wheen presents to us.Mumbo-jumbo and other nonsense has been allowed to flourish unchallenged in the world during the latter half of the 20th century. It is time for us to say "enough is enough!".I take issue with Francis Wheen on one thing - I would date the start of the Mumbo-Jumbo age back a little further - back to the time of musicals Godspell, Jesus Christ Superstar and Hair and the Chariots of the Gods phenomena in the late 1960s.
4 This is a good read, even though I write as someone more likely to use the word "Enlightenment" in a Buddhist context, rather than in reference to the revolution of "pure reason" inspired by the likes of Francis Bacon and Isaac Newton over two hundred years ago. Unfortunately Francis Wheen appears to believe that the two world views are mutually exclusive and that only truth derived from rationalism and scientific progress is the way forward. Surely there is room for both?! Possibly the author would dismiss this last suggestion as "post-modern relativism".Still, Wheen makes a lot of good points and fires at a wide range of mostly easy targets in the modern world. His analysis of the emotional hysteria surrounding the death of Princess Diana is interesting and his cynical attacks on all things remotely "new age" are occasionally funny and insightful. Likewise the observations of various political and economic hypocrisies are well informed. However, he sometimes seems on the virge of dismissing all human feeling and failing as "Mumbo-Jumbo". By the end of this rambling book there is very little that has escaped criticism.Amongst other things, this is an entertaining and informed overview of 25 years of social, political, and economic history. I will be re-reading sections of it but Wheen appears to be inhabiting a rather depressing intellectual world here. Many people have willingly embraced "non-rational" ideas and points of view because they have felt let down or alienated by the dehumanizing attitude of rationality and scientific progress that Wheen appears to worship.
5 Ghosh is a wonderful author.  He captured me from the beginning and kept me with him right to the end.  I was sorry to finish the book . . . loved all the characters.  Will read more of him for sure.
4 "The Hungry Tide" is the first novel by Amitav Ghosh I read. I am very interested in India and read a lot of Indian authors, but somehow Ghosh had escaped my attention. Till now - because now I will definitely read his other books.I was drawn to "The Hungry Tide" by its setting - the action takes place in the Sundarbans, the archipelago in the Bengal Bay, at the mouth of the Ganges, partially belonging to India and partially to Bangladesh, where the fresh river water mixes with the saltwater from the ocean. The tides make the Sundarbans a difficult place to live for humans, but, at the same time, a unique habitat for fauna and flora. The mangrove swamps are dominant, and they provide the shelter for many species of animals, which are specific to the region or very rare in other areas. The example is the Royal Bengal Tiger, a man-eater, featuring in "The Hungry Tide" together with several species of dolphins and deadly crocodiles.The novel starts with the meeting of two main characters, Piyali (Piya), an Indian-American field biologist specialized in dolphins, and Kanai, a sophisticated interpreter and businessman, on the train to Canning. Piya has a plan to collect data on the life of the rare river dolphins, which are the subject of her research. Kanai was summoned by his aunt, Nilima, to the island of Lusibari (he spent there only one summer as a schoolboy), where she runs a charity, to get the package left to him in the will of his late uncle, Nirmal, a leftist schoolteacher with literary ambitions. Kanai is interested in Piya, and when they part in Canning, he invites her to Lusibari.From this point, the narration is separated into alternating chapters devoted to the doings of Piya and Kanai. Piya gets her travel permit and goes by motorboat to see the dolphins with the national forest guard and a thug of a boat owner. The accident, in which she nearly drowns, leaves her on the small fishing rowboat belonging to Fokir, a poor fisherman from Lusibari. Since then, Piya's fate is connected with Fokir's. After seeing some dolphins, they go to Lusibari and organize a bigger expedition, in which Kanai participates as a translator. The tension between the three becomes difficult to bear...The novel is full of extraordinary, powerful characters. Each protagonist has very distinct characteristics and all of them stand out of the crowd. They are all strongly tied to the Sundarbans, but each of them understands the life in the islands differently: Fokir is rooted in the old traditions; his wife, Moyna, who trains to be a nurse, wants to have a better life and help the local people; Nilima runs a charity - a hospital, a guest house and educational services; Piya and Kanai become infected with the Sundarbans and want to go back...I liked the construction of the novel, which, in addition to alternating chapters about Piya and Kanai, which finally merge, has many other threads, most important of which is Nirmal's notebook, which Kanai is reading, and which reports the events leading to Nirmal's death. These events are, of course, the happenings essential in the newest history of the Sundarbans. Nirmal, who is an admirer of Rilke, quotes Rilke's poems all the time (sometimes, to me , a little too freely, and I cannot see the connection between his thoughts and Rilke's lines, but - licentia poetica...).There is also an evocation of the local myth of the goddess Bon Bibi, which is beautifully woven into the story.I could compare "The Hungry Tide" to James Michener's novels, it is in the same way well researched (Ghosh is an anthropologist so his interest and knowledge of the natural sciences are profound) and concentrates on the specific region. Unlike Michener though, Ghosh tells one actual story and his book is a real novel, not an attempt to span the centuries of history, so it is way less superficial and concentrated on the characters.
2 it is a long read. It seems the author dragged the story too much than it was required. I did like some portions of the book, but it dragged forever. Being raised in similar areas was definitely one of the reasons for me reading it to the end. I will not recommend this to anyone.
4 The book is based on a very moving true story: what happened to a group of poor immigrants, how in the name of environment protection  they were uprooted from the land where they had just started germinating,and how no one still gives a damn to that......What makes the book truly good is that it is not just about people but about the whole ecology of Sunderbans- mystical rivers, dark mangroves, illusive Irawaddi Dolphins who almost speak to humans, omnipresent crocodiles, maneating tigers and of course hungry tides.....
4 The Hungry Tide is a story of reconnecting and redefining of family and passions that change circumstances in an environment that has a will of its own. Set in the in the Bay of Bengal by the Sunderban Islands off the east coast of India, it's referred to as "the tide country" because the tide has the power to reclaim whatever is in its path.Kanai Dutt, a successful 40-ish Delhi business owner, has been summoned by his aunt Nilima to Lusibari, a settlement in the Sunderban Islands. On the long train trip he meets Piya Roy, a young American marine biologist born and raised in Seattle to Bengal parents. She is a skilled and experienced research scientist on her way to the Sunderbans to study the Orcaella, a rare dolphin.Kanai is reluctantly returning to the tide country. His socially proactive aunt has discovered a set of documents left him by her late husband, and she will only turn them over to Kanai in person. His uncle had been a dissident author, turned teacher, in the outpost of Lucibari. The package, as Kanai discovers, is a diary of sorts, clarifying the events at the end of his uncle's life.As Piya studies the Orcaella and Kanai uncovers the mystery of his uncle's last days, they find their paths crossing and entwining with the local people, the area's wild animals and the all-to-real legends of the tide country.Armchair Interviews says: Well-written and interesting read.
5 I am one of those readers who has trouble finishing a novel if it doesn't grip me from the start - and keep me gripped till the end.This is one of those books that I could not stop reading. It is a simple story - told masterfully. The flowing style involves two simultaneous narratives (what happens in the lives of the two main characters) - with each narrative being suspenseful in itself. You'll just have to read it to judge for yourself.The author also seems to have done his research on the gangetic dolphin, the Sunderbans and other pieces that the story revolves around.
5 If Shadow Lines enthralled you, Amitav Ghosh's latest masterpiece, the Hungry Tide, will sweep you off your feet, and into the precarious waters of the Sundarbans.In the typical Ghosh style, the narrative moves fluidly between past and present. You will be transported into the mindset of the superstitious yet brave folk, who have adapted themselves to the constant ebb and flow of the tide and are living in continuous fear of the Bengal tigers. The tide begins to turn with the advent of two seekers from the outside world - Piyali Roy, an Indian-American marine biologist in search of the Irrawaddy dolphins and Kanai Dutt, an urbane translator from New Delhi who's there to retrieve his deceased uncle Nirmal's journal. Their lives become intertwined particularly with Fokir, an illiterate but proud fisherman, who has the "rivers in his heart." As the narrative progresses, they are forced to respect nature in order to survive, and to communicate with people who differ not only in language but also in equations of existence. It is a story of love, revolution, brutal history and the place of man within the treacheries of nature. It seems to underscore Nirmal's observation that "nothing escapes the maw of the tides."
5 -Another five-star vote for this novel which contains wonderful natural history as well as an entertaining and rather endearing story.-During a recent trip to India, I was frequently advised to read Ghosh, and promised one person that I would. Glad they recommended it.-You can read about the plot outline elsewhere, but after doing some research and asking some questions, it seems the author has done his homework quite well, and this was well-appreciated.  I often find modern fiction rather hard to believe and overstated, and if you feel the same way, give this book a try. The main characters seem well-developed and interesting, without simply being templates for the author's viewpoints. Well-done, and I hope to read some more of his work.
2 Ghosh's setting-as-metaphor device is really stunning...would it were that his narrative actually lived up to its concept. I suppose one could argue that his poorly formed characters and poorly paced plot structure were entirely intentional--if the tides of nature wash over the ephemeral movements of man, then both these small specks of characters--nay, the whole act of writing a novel--fit right in. But c'mon, what author writes a 370 page novel with intentions of superfluity? Hence the problem: Ghosh has set himself up for something epic, something transcendent; he doesn't really have a choice but to offer a profound meditation on the man vs. nature archetype. Instead, he offers up Piya, a stock character who grates, and a series of flashbacks-via-writing that end up throwing off the main storyline. I understand the parallel between Kanai and his uncle--human action runs like the tide--but the point-of-view was careless: were we supposed to have a view that is expansive enough to sense the undulating waves of time, or are we mere spectators of the maw, like Ghosh's characters? I don't ask because it's something profound; I ask because it seemed sloppy and not thought out fully. A disappointing read.
3 In An Antique Land was much better. The setting here is very interesting and well described but the characters were poorly characterized and I found it kind of boring in parts.
5 Another excellent Amitav Ghosh book. Filled with history and characters one can feel at home with. A book I'll never part with
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book and it's originality. It was excellently written and I loved learning about the Sundarbans and the weaving of fact and fiction.M. Abhijit's review says something of what I would have liked to say but says it much better and with more knowledge so I will leave my review at this.
5 This book is definitely interesting and suspenseful, it also makes a very prominent cultural statement. I've recommended it to all of my friends, definitely read this book!
5 It doesn't get more exotic than Amitav Ghosh's novel of the tide country in the Bay of Bengal. Tigers, crocodiles and river dolphins teem in this parallel narrative of a present-day marine mammal researcher and the story of a little-known massacre a generation earlier.Along with Ghosh's beautiful, literate prose, there are stories with human emotions -- in all their resplendent ambivalence -- that are at once so firmly embedded in their Indian and Indian-American characters and yet so universal that the reader is carried along in a tide of the author's making.Piya, the Indian-American researcher; Kanai, the New Delhi yuppie; and Fokir, the unlettered fisherman form an unusual love triangle -- in fact with Moyna, Fokir's wife, two intersecting triangles -- and this drama is quite moving when it reaches its climax.The parallel story of Nirma and Kumus, with Kanai, Nilima and Horen bridging the time gap adds a whole dimension to the main narrative and the two stories build slowly to their crescendos in virtual lockstep. Nirma, the wannabe revolutionary who becomes a rural headmaster and failed writer, is the dreamer out of step with reality. His wife, Nilima, is more practical, realistic, focused on the moment. And yet in the end, it is Nilima who is left with a some bitterness, conceding that one practical idea Nirmal had amidst his dreaming was responsible for saving numerous lives. Horen, who ferries people around in both narratives, turns out to be not such a minor character.Ghosh's prose is at time lyrical and the reader is willing to hear the most beautiful speeches from the most unlikely characters. Horen, taciturn through the book, erupts near the end with a soliloquy that Shakespeare would have been proud of, and Moyna is able to articulate the hidden undercurrents of emotion. When she asks Kanai to remind Fokir, her husband, that Piya is only here for a short time, Kanai wants to know why he should be the one to talk to him and not her."Only a stranger can put such things into words," Moyna says. "Because words are just air...When the wind blows on the water, you see ripples and waves, but the real river lies beneath, unseen and unheard. You can't blow on the water's surface from below...Only someone who's outside can do that, someone like you."One small bonus from reading this book is an appreciation for Rilke's Duino Elegies, which Nirmal quotes often, referring only to the Poet. But there are many rich bonuses -- an excursion into cetology, a branch of the study of marine mammals; a tour of the Sundarbans archipelago extending from Calcutta into the Bay of Bengal and sheltering the city from cyclones; a view of the mixed Hindu-Islamic culture along the border between India and Bangladesh; a history lesson about the massacre at Morichjhapi. Ghosh is not afraid to stand things on their heads -- by showing, for instance, the potential damage the West's obsession with saving tigers can have on the poor in those regions.But The Hungry Tide is above all a novel, with romance, adventure and stories that enrich our understanding of how people think and feel.
3 This book kept me up past my bedtime last night, although I found it not entirely convincing. Still, parts were enthralling. Ghosh throws together an American cetacean researcher of Indian descent, a translator from New Delhi, an illiterate fisherman, and the turbulent landscape of the Sundarbans, and comes up with a tale that is part adventure story, part romance, part history and resonates with the hybrid mythology of its location throughout.But while there is much to be savored in this novel, it flounders a bit in describing straightforward adult interactions--people explain themselves (in their thoughts and out loud) rather woodenly.Still, it kept me reading, and I was glad to learn about a part of the world I'd barely even heard of. But I've enjoyed other Ghosh books more.
3 I have to admit I love books about India and tigers.  "jungle child" by norah burke especially.  first the good things about The Hungry Tide:  1.It was written as a series of flashbacks all equally interesting: american girl, snobby Indian fellow and his sad-sap uncle.  2. it takes place in an unknown-to-me-part of the world: an archipeligo off the eastern coast of india/bangladesh.  3. It concerns ecology and the preservation of animals whose existance is fatally threatened by humans. It kind of makes the case for the humans vis-a-vis endangered species.  Like why shouldnt people move into crappy low-life places where tigers roam free and then why shouldnt the people kill the tigers who have nothing left to eat so they eat the settlers?  So that's the good part.  Now for the drawbacks:  1.  the author is not really an especially good writer. I still dont understand how islands can be totally submerged when the tides come in and still have huge tigers running around when the tide goes out.  Do the tigers sit  on the tops of the trees half their lives or what?  2.  The characters were not especially  inteligible. None of them ellicited any emotions.  They were just cardboard characters.  Like:  hey look here is a american girl with short hair who is a cetologist. she also eats power bars and rejects local food for months and months.  thats a lot of power bars in her back pack. 3.  The relations between the sexes were bitter and mean in every single case.  Does that mean something special  or is the author just a grouch?
4 I actually picked up this book for my in-laws prior to their trip to Bangladesh. I hoped it would speed the time of their flight and acquaint them with a place they were soon to visit.  Then I decided I should read it myself as some of the reviews weren't that good.I must say, this was one of those books that plodded along, swimming drowsily through my consciousness like the river dolphins circling in the sunlight.  However, there were some complex deeper stories going on beneath the surface than what I first imagined; and it was only after I completed the book that I realized the full extent of Ghosh's gift at masterfully exposing us to our own human nature as well as the nature of two distinct animals--dolphins and tigers.The characters are so multi-layered and the tension mounts slowly but purposefully marching toward an ending that will stay with you long after you finish the book.  In fact, I read the book a while back and as I sit to write this review I find the Hungry Tide surging back in all its understated glory to again fill me with remembrances of this complex, graceful, spiritual novel.Give the book a chance.  It is not one of those gripping, chilling story lines that grab you by the throat on the first page.  This book needs to simmer in your subconscious before you can fully feel its effects.  Definitely worth the read if only to reflect on the multiple and complex personalities Ghosh creates and the meaning of environmental preservation in all its manifestations and the compelling interplay between human, social, animal, environmental, and even economic relationships.  The final benefit is the fully developed picture Ghosh has painted for us of an obscure area that many people will never visit in person but can actually feel coursing through your mind as the story unfolds.  And, the history lesson was a big bonus.  While this is a part of the world I've never been keen to visit, this book took me there and I would be remiss to ever pass up an opportunity to visit this fascinating part of the world.
5 Beautifully written.  I learne so much about this poart of the world an cared deeply about the characters.  I would recommend this book to all my reading friends.
3 Okay, giant deltas are cool, bengal tigers are cool, river dolphins are cool, and cyclones are phenomenal.  So this should be a really good book, right?  Well, main male character = boring, Kusum = boring, aunt and uncle = boring, Horen = boring, Moyna = boring, Fokir & Piya = almost interesting but ultimately not.I got the sense that the author just wanted to write about the Sundarbans and the history of the people and creatures that live there, but he had to trump up some thin narrative in order to sell the book on the fiction market. Instead of just writing his darn non-fiction already, he made the characters in this book keep on educating each other, thus saddling us with another three pages of disquisition on dolphins or local myth or the doomed island settlement.  The story finally ramps up toward the end, but it's too little too late.If you are interested in learning about the Sundarban region and don't care much about compelling narrative, you will probably enjoy this book immensely. I learned enough from it myself to give it three stars, but there are way more satisfying reads out there.
5 The sunderbans...how can you forget about them after reading this book?  I lie in bed thinking about how the tide flows "backwards".  What a beautiful setting for a wonderful book.  A must read!
5 I had never heard of the Sundarbens prior to reading this book. I will never forget them after reading it. I could not put this book down, and it is on my list of best books for the past year. The characters come from different places, yet come together through fate and circumstances. Ghosh gives us love stories interwoven throughout, and actually until the end we are not sure how these will play out. He writes great adventure and nature scenes, and introduces natural elements that most will not be familiar with. He will make you think about the environment and its inhabitants in several different ways (spoiler-tigers and residents, dolphins and residents-compare and contrast). It will make you think of your own hospitality. It has spirituality and myth interwoven throughout as well as their expression in poetry. Yet somehow all these different elements come together in the geographic setting of the story. The storm scenes will remain etched on my mind for years to come (compare it to the storm in The Perfect Storm). This book will make you look at what is most important posession wise in times of crisis and during regular times. His characters are well developed and defined, and I could picture each and everyone in my mind's eye. They are unforgettable. I cannot recommend this book enough, but at the same time I don't want to provide any spoilers.  Brilliant writing.  Confirms my own belief that India will be my next big trip. Take a chance on a book that is very different and just read it, you will be hungry for more!
3 The Hungry Tide is really three stories in one book.  First of all there is the cultural and political history of an area of India, namely Sundarban, a section the country below what is now Kolkata. This story may be interesting to Indians and people with an interest in that country, but to others is may not be.  The second story is told by a character who is deceased but writes a notebook telling of his personal life and experiences in this part of the country. Again, of limited interest. The third story is about what happens when people from the developed world interact with people in less sophisticated areas. This story has the most universal appeal. The people are Piya Roy, an American of Indian descent, who now is a scientist who studies the behavior of marine mammals. She comes to the area to study a particular species of dolphin. The second is Kanai Dutt, an Indian businessman from New Delhi who comes to visit his aunt and read the notebook from his now deceased uncle.  What happens when these two people interact with each other and the local community is the heart of the book.The book could use an introduction to help non-Indians understand some aspects of the culture that the book describes. I lived in India for a year and have some understanding of concepts such as "puja" and the touching of feet to show respect, but there is much more that is left unexplained.In sum I found the book mildly interesting but not one I would choose to read if I had access to a wider choice of reading material.
5 I had read one of Ghosh's novels before and was expecting to find this one compelling. I was not disappointed.The natural terrain of these Indian islands is, in a way, the main character of the book. Everything goes back to that -- even the 1979 flashback story in which squatters were forcibly ousted from an island by the Indian government in order to preserve a wildlife refuge.A theme is the tenuous relationship between human beings and their natural surroundings in this setting -- and by extension, in the world as a whole. Humans are in some ways merely "squatters" in a place that existed long before civilization. The different characters -- Piya, Kanai, and Fokir especially -- can be viewed as representing different approaches to and conceptions about nature.This is yet another masterpiece by Amitav Ghosh.
5 This is the first novel by Amitav Ghosh that I have read, and I loved it. I felt really comfortable with the characters, especially Piya, the Indian-American cetologist through whose eyes part of the story is told. Since I am also an Indian-American woman (although not a cetologist), I think I really identified with her. Kanai, an educated, urban-oriented translator, is the other main protagonist, and I identified less with him. I loved the descriptions of the islands and scenery. I also loved how the local myth of the goddess Bon Bibi was woven into this story, as well as the history of an attempted utopian community on one of the islands. I loved the tension between Moyna, who is from a poor, uneducated family but is striving for formal education, and her illiterate husband, Fokir, who has educated himself about the tide country and the dolphins, which Piya finds remarkable and valuable.
5 Amitav Ghosh's new book, "The Hungry Tide," is an interesting book set in the swampy regions of Sunderbans,near the India-Bangaldesh border. The book makes for an interesting reading, and in the process you also learn about the rich marine life in this part of the world, where once river dolphins thrived in large numbers. But, over the years these marine mammals have rapidy dwindled, and become a rare species.Ghosh has a keen eye for details, and when this is  combined with his love for history and research, the final product can make for an absorbing read.Ghosh weaves a fascinating story invloving the three primary characters in the book: Piyali Roy, Kanai Dutt and Fokir.Piyali is a cetalogist, who is on a quest to study the habits of the rare river dolphins in the Sunderbans region. Of Indian hertiage, Piyali grew up in the US, and as part of her graduate studies has made an ardous trip to this remote region of India.Fokir is the illiterate fisherman who knows this part of the river like the back of his hands, and assits Piyali in her quest to discover and study the animals. He knows exactly where you can find these rare river dolphins.Kanai Dutt, is a Delhi-based entrepreneur, who happens to meet  Piyali on her train journey to the Sunderbans. They cross paths when they meet once again at Kanai's aunt's place. Kanai is visiting his aunt to retrieve a package that his uncle had left for him in his will.During the course of the story you discover how each of one these primary character's story is intertwined.Although Ghosh has written 5 books, I must confess that I did not enjoy reading all of his books, and have had to abandon a couple of them half-way through. I enjoyed reading  "In an antique land," and now this new book.
5 Amitav Ghosh is a master of the genre "Fictionalized Thesis". Before this one he excelled in ' In An Antique Land' in mixing fiction with facts gathered through painstaking research and the synergy turns out to be extraordinarily capable of conveying the message creating the desired effect. Though he extensively deals with science, Ghosh has appeared to nurture mystic elements within his basic views of the world, history. He seems to believe in destiny and recognizes omen as would be evident through his 'Calcutta Chromosome' also. His perception of history has its full quota of heroes. As he lamented in 'Dancing in Cambodia At Large in Burma' that the postmodern world has taken away from the middle class its heroes, here (in Hungry Tides) he is very firm in acknowledging them in his definition of things. And, as always, with a quotation of Rilke here and a passionate interpretation of his own there, he enthralls the poetically oriented one to one's heart's content.Sundarbans, a vast forest that insulates the inland of lower Bengal in India from the ocean, is slowly being denuded of its bio-diversity; the ecological balance is seriously being threatened. And all these are because the life of the ordinary, extremely poor people living there do not count for anything to the political establishments. As the scientist Mr. Piddington warned, if the forest is itself endangered that is certainly to diminish the possibility of Calcutta being protected any more against the devastating oceanic storms of Bay of Bengal. Interestingly that threat of a sad destiny where the guilty will not be spared destruction is hinted at very clearly through a metaphorical local tale of Bon-bibi and Dakshin Rai among the dwellers of Sundarbans. The educated city people, the enlightened, unfortunately live in a translated world of their own and they failed to interpret the meaning of science, progress, civilization to the under-privileged, neither have the plight of these hapless people been earnestly conveyed to the outer world which could extend an effective helping hand. Ghosh attempts to bring back the memories of  S'Daniel Hamilton to stress upon the importance of true enlightenment and indomitable human spirit keeping aside unnecessary categorizations of revolutionary, bourgeois, secular, pagan and so on. The author exhibits a rare sincerity in describing the life of the underprivileged but struggling people of Sundarbans with true respect. A hint of a development of romance between an illiterate boatman Fakir and the US born cetologist  Piyali Roy who studies marine mammals, has been  a remarkable technique to steer the narrative with cohesion.And about the dolphins - appreciation of the book and its subsequent popularity will create innumerable experts and well-wishers all over the world -no doubt about that!
5 You probably haven't heard of this part of the world, but you won't forget it after reading this book.Really have yet to come across a bad book by Ghosh, let alone a book where I don't come away much better informed.
5 This is a beautiful book that describes its setting, the Sundarban Islands, with such detail as if you were actually there at the moment. The more the story progresses, the more you indulge into it. The political, cultural, and historical atmospheres of the islands are also described extremely well. Whether, you have heard of these islands before or not, you will most likely leave this book with some new knowledge. Overall, its an amazing book that you will never forget.
4 This book will take you to places in India that are hard to imagine. I had no idea such a Tide Country existed. It's not receiving 5 stars only because of a lack of depth to the characters. I hungrily read this story for its insights, the astute and tasteful perfection of Ghosh's writing, the exotic information and the broad sweep of the story, which was a great armature for the information imparted. Really a fascinating book.
5 I think they say that character is plot and plot is character. This book proves that theory. The meticulous detail lavished on developing each character including Piyali Roy, Kanai Dutt, Fokir and countless others is what gives this book it's raison d'etre. The descriptions of the Sundarbans are exquisitely embroidered into a vast tapestry of emotions, characters, places, animals, nature, and philosophy. Definitely worth reading.
5 This is a wonderful book; I listened to the audio version during my commute, and the reader was quite talented.  The novel is written in such a way that you feel like you are on the river counting dolphins, and in the jungle watching the tiger watch you.I've got to read more of this author.
4 This is the first book of Amitav Ghosh that I read and wondered how I missed his other books. He uses Sundarban penninsula where river Ganges meets the Bay of Bengal for the background of his story. Being born in that area his description of Sundarbans is very authentic. He, literally, takes you there. The American girl of Indian origin, Piya, middle age- approaching -bachelor -Kanai and an illiterate, married fisherman Fokir are the main characters in the story. Piya develops emotional entanglements while cruising on Fokir's boat, researching on Oracella dolphins.Kanai seems to be more urban and more worldly character.It indeed looks Mr. Ghosh has made quite a deep study of Oracella dolphins himself. He has also been able to infuse some suspense at the end of the book. The description of the typhoon is wonderful. Also the description of peoples' life in Sundaban -  the perils they face everyday, makes a chilling reading.I enjoyed the Legend of Bob bibi and Dokhin Rai. Mr. Ghosh must have been very sympathetic to settlers on Moritjapi. But I felt the story could have been more powerful if he could have cut down the descrition of refugees' fight there.Finally, I wondered what this book was about. Is it about a love triangle? Is it a treatise on Oracella dolphins? Is it based on the theme of man versus nature? I couldn't figure out and frankly, I don't care. Because Mr. Ghosh is master of the words. He has handled all the three aspects so well that they caught my interest throughout the novel. He is a champion when it comes to use words to paint emotions. Even the writing on Oracella dolphins was interesting to me.I wholeheartedly recommend this book. It would be good read, especially on rainly holidays.
4 Sundarbans. Wow. When I bought this book, I had it all planned out in my head. In An Antique Land made me want to jump out of bed and rush to Egypt, The Sea of Poppies convinced me to visit the Ganga-Sagar and with this book, I was already mentally packing my bags, off to a swampy wildlife-filled adventure. Then, a year later, I read The Hungry Tide. Now I wish the trip had already happened in the year between, because I'm not so sure I want to go any more. Too frightening.The thing that sticks to my mind, predictably, is that thing about wildlife: tigers - protecting them, to be precise, instead of protecting the people they kill. Piya, as an outsider, and a nature researcher and lover finds the way the people of the village talk about tigers uninformed. The superstitions, fear and hatred associated with the animal seem irrelevant to her. Her reaction and his aunt's worry over them venturing into the deeper jungle leads Kanai to pose that haunting question. Who rightfully deserves the earth, a classic man versus the wild; except it's not a matter to debate over coffee but more of a who-kills-off-whom-first and which-death-should-disturb-you-more and what-does-it-say-about-me-that-i-am-more-affected-by-a-dead-tiger-than-a-dead-man.Like my sister brought up: the story shows that people tend to behave in similar ways, no matter where they're from or how they spent their lives: Kanai immediately identifies with Moyna, the ambitious girl who wants to make something of herself, get an education, get 'ahead' in life; while Fokir and Piya drift automatically closer. Those serene wordless scenes between Piya and Fokir are so aptly portrayed. The relationship between them is fascinating. The striking themes are communication and language. The story is about things left unsaid, and stereotypes and judgments and self-justifications: and understanding each other despite them, which the characters, not unlike us, tend not to.I've come to love Ghosh's flitting timelines and switching narratives, be it in In An Antique Land or The Calcutta Chromosome - and he is just really good at giving each of his characters a distinct voice. I love Nirmal's conflicted mind, his inner struggle that makes him your typical unreliable narrator. I love the delicate relationship between Kanai's uncle and aunt, her practical dedication contrasted with his poetic, if over-idealized, notions of revolution. And I like her love for Nirmal, which, because it lingered despite everything could be called unconditional, which I would rather call habitual.But: Nirmal's voice does get too wordy and there are often furious bursts of information where none would have sufficed. Most of the purple prose occurs when referencing the local legends. While the lore about Bon Bibi intrigued me, it could have done without the exoticizing. The Hungry Tide is inspired and the right atmosphere would have been captured without resorting to those tricks that invariably crowd Indo-Anglian writing.
2 This is, in general, a well-written book. Amitav Ghosh has a way with words, and it shows. There are times when the writing is almost lyrical, and this is the part of the book that I like.The part that I don't like, is that it is a very stereo-typed book, and the story line is boring. Indian-American girl comes to India-meets rustic fellow who knows the land-shoos off the urban fellow-gets into mystic relationship with rustic chap-he dies-she discovers India.Gosh, so many books and movies cover this theme. This is a book that I do not recommend.
4 "The Tigers in India" is a short essay by William James in which he contrasted knowing that there were tigers in India by hearing about them from knowing that there were tigers in India by actually seeing and coming into contact with them.  Amitav Ghosh's fine novel "The Hungry Tide" made me feel I knew the man-eating tigers of India in this second, more intimate way.  Ghosh's novel is at its best when it describes the wild, untamable and fierce qualities of nature which do not bend to human will. The novel is full of vivid descriptions of tigers and their human prey, crocodiles, snakes, large forests of mangroves, storms, and fatal typhoons."The Hungry Tide" is set in a remote part of northeast India known as the Sundarbans which consists of thousands of small islands formed by the interflux of two rivers as they flow into the Bay of Bengal.  Life is  precarious with shifting islands, tigers and other predators, poor soil, and minimal contact with the outside world. Ghosh describes the people of the Sundarbans, their history, and their struggles with the natural world.  He made me yearn to visit this unfamiliar place.The novel develops slowly.  There are three major and a host of secondary characters.  It is a great deal to follow and absorb.  The first primary character is Piya, a young American scholar of Indian descent.  She is a student of marine mammals and has come to the Sudabar to study the river dolphin.  We learn a great deal about dolphins in this book, but the descriptions don't have the vividness of the scenes with the tigers or crocodiles.  The second main character, Kanai, is urbane, 42 years old, a successful translator, and a womanizer.  He is in the Sundarbans at the request of his aunt Nilina who wants him to read a journal left by her late husband, Nirmal.  Nilina is a pragmatist and activist who has built her life by helping others and creating a hospital on a small island.  Her husband, a would-be poet, radical, and dreamer lived in her shadow.  His journal tells the story of a group of Bangaladeshi immigrants who were forced out of a Forest Reserve in the Sundarbans by the Indian government in order to preserve the tigers.The third main character is an uneducated fisherman named Fokir. Fokir comes to Piya's rescue at several points in the novel and he helps her find dolphins.  Fokir doesn't speak English and he and Piya cannot verbally communicate.  Fokir's wife Moyna has struggled to get an education and to become a nurse.  There are tensions between her and her illiterate husband.The portions of the book that deal with nature and the Sundarbans interthread with the stories and relationships of the characters.  In particular, Ghosh explores the tension between love and sexuality on on hand and education and career on the other hand, especially as this tension applies to women.  This theme is developed in three characters: Piya has seemingly abandoned the possibility of a committed relationship in order to pursue her research on the river dolphin. She must identify and struggle with her developing feelings for both Fokir and Kanai.  Nilima  became an organizer and a force in the Sundarbans by building the hospital and organizing the community while her schoolteacher husband remained on the sidelines -- creating unhappiness between them.  Fokir and Moyna struggle to raise their son and keep their marriage in the face of the differences between them in education and ambition.  Ghosh subtly develops this theme throughout the book.  He shows how changing gender roles and expectations affect both life in the developed world of the United States and urban India and in rural, isolated areas such as the Sundarbans.There are many other themes, including the modern conservation movement, explored with understanding and balance in Ghosh's novel.  At times, indeed, there was something of an overload.  I thought the book was awkwardly constructed as it moves back and forth from chapter to chapter between Piya's story and Kanai's story until they gradually interconnect.  The narrative is frequently delayed by long stories which, while interesting in themselves, interfere with the flow of the action.  At times I grew impatient and wanted the story to proceed.In summary, what most impressed me in this book were first the dramatic pictures of raw and violent nature in the Sundarbans and second the nuanced discussion of issues that people face involving the priorities of love and work, as these issues continue to unfold and evolve in all parts of the world.Robin Friedman
5 I found this book fascinating. I felt transported into a world I knew nothing about. The depictions of people made them seem real and each very different. Except for some peripheral government goons, there were no obvious "good guys" and "bad guys," just humans with different perspectives, desires, and upbringings. I listened to it in audiobook form and the actor was outstanding. I was impressed with both the literate style of writing and the depth of the research, which interwove real historical events and modern day science with two or three love stories, if that's the right term for them. Like Indian movies as compared to American ones, the sexual attraction and "action" is much more subdued and understated. I found that refreshing. I don't like the crudity you find in almost every modern detective/police novel. This book is often filled with action and suspense, but, dare I say it, also romance.
5 Beyond my expectations. I has seen a documentary about the Sunderbans and this book really took me there. Beautifully written.
5 I enjoyed this book enormously, one of my favorites of the last year.  I'd read The Glass Palace a while ago but I think this one is a much better book.  It's beautifully and lovingly written.Highly recommended.
5 I listened to this book driving to work and thoroughly enjoyed the story, the writing and the wonderful narrator. I was transported into a world so different from anything I had ever experienced or read about. The rhythm of the prose somehow carried me along. Every person was interesting, every locale fascinating. The pace of the book is slow and even but never dull; things start happening and keep happening, unrolling like the river that is such an important part of this story.Immerse yourself in the Hungry Tide. You'll be transported!
5 This is the third book by Amitav Ghosh which I have read now, after "In an Antique Land" and "Glass Palace". Each time I was not only gripped by the plot and the vivid descriptions, but I felt truly enriched by the many references to burning issues of our world. Among those three books I consider "The Hungry Tide" as the most finely worked-out novel. It provides a much-needed meditation on the relationship between man and nature, and between East and West.
5 The hidden teachings of ORMEs, or &#34;White Powder Gold&#34; have been explained through this influential book by a master historian of the highest order. He expertly provides reasoning behind the ancient use of this substance in ancient Egypt, Israel and later on in the history of the Knights Templar.
4 REAL LIFE SYFYGO TO ANOTHER PLACEMARVIN
5 it hits you right in the gut when you think about what is implied by the things he is saying and i did my research and he isnt that far off, the way we treat the things we wish not to understand and people as a whole need to change, this book gave me a profound new look into human nature and what we could be as compared to what we are.
4 International best-selling author Laurence Gardner, has fulfilled all expectations with this well researched and scholarly approach to a mystery that spans thousands of years.Gardner's contention is that the Biblical Ark of the Covenant was in reality: a capacitor that made it a powerful and deadly weapon, a superconductor that allowed it to levitate above ground, and a machine for manufacturing a substance called "Mfkzt" by the ancient Egyptians, "manna" by the Hebrews, and the "philosophers stone" by alchemists.  At first glance, these propositions seem preposterous, and yet, after following his trail of logic, one wonders how it could have been anything other than what he insists it was.A 1904 expedition to Mount Horeb (which the King James Version of the bible claims was the place Moses received the Ten Commandments) discovered the ruins of an Egyptian temple with hundreds of artifacts including: huge statues, obelisks, round tables, crucibles, vases and wands, and most significantly tons of a white powder conceled beneath flagstone.  Through his research Gardner has ascertained that this white substance called "mfkzt" was a monotomic powdered gold.By a special process of arc heating, gold and other platinum group metals, can be turned into a single atom or monotomic substance, that has superconductive properties.  Superconductive materials are capable of leviation above magnetic fields, and  Gardner speculates, that the powdered substance contained in the ark might have given it such capabilities. How else, he asks would it have been possible for four men to carry the ark when the lid alone, which was made of pure gold, has been calculated to have weighed around 2,714 pounds.  It has been determined that a superconductive material will lose about 40% of its weight as a result of repulsing the earths own magnetic field.  This could have made the transport of the ark manageable and therefore consistant with biblical references of the ark being marched around the city of Jericho for example.The ark's design gives credence, as well, to stories of the destrutive powers of the ark. Biblical records clearly specifiy that the ark was constructed of wood sandwiched between layers of gold.  Gardner realized that these are the specifications of a simple capacitor, and calculates that the ark would have charged to several thousand volts, making it a powerful and deadly weapon.As we find out in this story, the superconductive properties of mfkzt was really only a by-product that the ancients might have  stumbled upon.  Its main purpose was that of consumption. Numerous ancient references of mfkzt, often called "white bread" or "manna" relate to it being eaten for its healthful affects. Recent biochemical experiments have confirmed that monotomic platinum group metals have shown antiaging affects by increasing  melatonine production, stimulate the pineal and pituitary glands, and in turn reactivation "junk DNA."Gardner parallels the story of this ancient mystery with  contemporary physics, as well as a tale of intrigue and government conspiracy regarding a farmer, who discoverd the monotomic substance on his Arizona ranch!At times, this book was a bit tedious for me, because of the endless historical references, but this is only a criticism of my own lack of knowledge and interest in this area.  For the most part, however,  this book read like a good mystery novel and I'm glad that I stuck with it for the wealth of knowledge within. All in all this book was a gem.This review by David J. Kreiter: Author of "Quantum Reality: A New Philosophical Perspective
3 I'm not a fan of the author. He smells too much like a guy who rushes to publish fringe ideas with the hopes of making some money and to claim the ideas as his own as soon as possible. Much of this book ranges from interesting to downright silly. The only thing I find interesting is the strange gold powder that--like other reviewers pointed out--deserves some genuine investigation by more people. Although the author has brought more attention to the powder, it was not his discovery. My problem is that he splatters his name on it too much, giving the impression he is trying too hard to make it his very own discovery.This monoatomic gold is a fascinating subject. We need more people with genuine credentials and integrity to really study this stuff. Do a web search on this stuff and you find quacks with snake oil. It's unfortunate that something with some legitimate potential has been fouled by false prophets and greedy peddlers.
5 This book turned out to be a revelation to me - it explains so much of History as well as previously obscure Bible stories in an understandable way. It is extremely well researched, and covers ancient history from the time of Moses use of the Ark of the Covenant to the time of King Solomom, to King Herod, to the Knights Templars of the Middle Ages all the way to David Hudson's Modern Day re-discovery of the secrets of monoatomic Gold. I found this book not only informative, but highly enlightening, casting a new light on events described in the Bible. Not only does ancient history look way more exciting than conventional scholars (and churches!) may want you to think, in this book the science behind it is also thoroughly covered and explained. A fascinating read, and I highly recommend it. This should be an important book for times to come - not just for those interested in ancient and Bible History, but also for those looking to the future: it looks like the use of monoatomic elements is the key to fuel cells and the propulsion of the future.
3 It seems Gardner tries to hold up a scientific pretense which he decidedly does not fulfill. Other than that its well written - in the fiction category I would give it 4 stars. The issue discussed, white powder gold or Ormus, deserves a real scientific reflection. But not from this author.
5 The Angel HunterThe book is nothing less than fascinating. If the realm of the ancients holds your interest, read the book. Then draw your own conclusions. The case presented in this book about what the Ark really is, or was, makes more sense to me than a chest for God to inhabit while the Israelites made their way to Canaan.
1 When I reached the half way point of this book I was ready to give it 5 stars.  It raises many intriguing ideas about the nature of what the ancients called "The Philosopher's Stone" and suggests that Moses may have been familiar with the alchemy of the Egyptians.Probably the most interesting part for me is the idea that someone in Phoenix, AZ accidentally recreated this exotic material while applying various chemicals to farm land.  His enterprise was mysteriously regulated out of existance by shady government figures.This is related to various conspiracy theories such world as governments are stockpiling and hoarding gold and the energy and drug industries are hiding information about the potential applications of this exotic substance.So far so good.However the second part degenerates into a Da Vinci Code type conspirary story.Central to this conspirary theory is the idea that Mary Magdalene sailed to France when she was pregnant with Christ's child to continue the 'royal blood line'.  This fairy tale may have some basis in reality such as someone may have really appeared at that location but I don't believe it was Mary Magdalene.It says Mary Magdalene was 'born of high ranking stock' as if she is some sort of prized cattle I guess.Also related to this is the idea that the Church tried to conceal the pregnancy to downplay the role of women.In that sense it uses a fairy tale to try to refute the bible.Another big conspiracy is that the Knights Templar recovered the Ark Of The Covenenat from below Solomon's temple and they knew how to operate it using their secret knowledge.  They used its powers such as anti gravity to create various cathedrals.  This I think is within the realm of possibility.But it goes on to say that the Ark was 'more historically meaningful than the root of Christianity' and the Church began a persecution of the Templars and various other secret societies to obtain this artifact.  This was out of jealousy because somehow everyone knew the Templars had the ark so they became very powerful.Then there's the part about the story of Moses being a Hebrew , being adopted by an Egyptian princess, etc., is all false.  Rather he was born as an Egyptian and became the pharoah Akhenaten.  Rather Moses' sister Miriam was the true hero in the Exodus story so Moses put her in jail.In that case why did Moses lead the Israelites out of Egypt ?  Oh I forgot that's probably not true either.Once I read the part about Mary Magdalene this cast a large shadow of doubt in my mind across the rest of the material.These various alternative scriptures tend to humanize Christ too much.  He was God incarnate.  Moses is a god also. The god of the sea.  Thus he parted the Red Sea as it is written.The Templars trace their roots back to two famous biblical figures: Solomon and Nimrod.  That much I can believe.Solomon is remembered for all time as someone who was given great knowledge but who rejected God completely.Nimrod is credited in Genesis with constructing the Tower Of Babel which (whatever it really was) stands as the greatest monument to arrogance and confusion in all of human history.So perhaps the various cathedrals that the Knights Templar built are like resurrections of the Tower Of Babel as is this book to some extent I feel.I would never recommend that anyone read this book even though it contains a lot of very interesting information.To me the fairy tales about Christ are too harmful and offset whatever benefits the information may afford.I'm a big follower of Edgar Cayce.  Cayce stated that Adam and Christ are the same person.  In that sense we are all descendants of Christ.Cayce provided a lot of interesting information about the scriptures including a psychic vision of The Last Supper.Jeff MarzanoFulcanelli: Master Alchemist: Le Mystere des Cathedrales, Esoteric Intrepretation of the Hermetic Symbols of The Great Work (Le Mystere Des Cathedrales ... of the Hermetic Symbols of Great Work)The Essential Edgar CayceLives of the Master: The Rest of the Jesus StoryEdgar Cayce's Story of the Old Testament From the Birth of Souls to the Death of MosesThe Giza Power Plant : Technologies of Ancient EgyptThe Giza Death StarInitiation
4 Several interesting theories--many of which I have believed for years.
5 I found this book very easy to read and hard to put down. Weather you agree with his theories or not it's obvious he's done a tremendous amount of research. If your are at all interested in ancient history mysteries you will enjoy this book. It's so well written I'm now getting his other books.
1 I studied under Iyengar teachers for over a decade including a teacher training and all sorts of workshops with "senior" teachers. While they know more than most on details of the physical body and pranayama practices, that is about the extent of a lot of Iyengar teachers knowledge in the west at least. Iyengar admits that he has proficiency in these limbs but not essential things like meditation and samadhi. Why he is writing a book on this subject without these qualifications is beyond me , yet people eat it up because of his popularity.What you get here is semantics and a bunch of confusing text that will not help your practice. Many people think this material is over their head after reading this translation, just because it is so badly written. His lack of subtle knowledge shows profusely when he can't even define a simple term like the Antahkarana (inner organ)properly. In this case he calls it a "moral sense" and that it is all. I've read many versions of the sutras, most written by people with some degree of actual realization in the subtle realms, and he is the only one that completely gets these topics off. This concept is key for understanding how the mind functions and works in the yogic system and enough to put the book in the closet.  To the best of my knowledge this book was ghost written along with the help of some of his students which might explain why it is so bad, and perhaps why he felt the need to write another book on the sutras...Perhaps he realized a few more things in his old age. I don't know. I'd highly recommend Swami Hariharananda Aranya's translation which is terribly in depth and from someone who has mastered the higher limbs of yoga. There is also "Science of Soul" by Shri Yogeshwaranand Parmahans which is not so much a commentary on the sutras, but sheds a lot of light about it's philosophy in a practical and detailed manner from someone who spent many years in deep samadhi's in the himalayas.
3 An excellent reference for interest in this Sutra, but difficult to read as an interesting read, per se. Keeping as a valuable resource.
5 I am an Iyengar Yoga student and the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali was chosen for our book club's first subject of discussion.  Everyone in the group was free to choose whatever version they wanted. I read 2 versions and found this one to be the most user friendly, as did many of the other students.  The sutras are stated and then a clear explanation is given for each.  If you are a student of Yoga, please read this and understand the reason you are practicing.  It will change everything.
5 I love The Yoga Sutras, period.  As a Yoga teacher, I have at least half a dozen translations, probably more, and there are hundreds out there.  But this work by BKS Iyengar is the clearest, most meaningful, most applicable to modern-day life of any that I study.  His wisdom and ability to communicate in English, his second language, shine through his commentaries and point me in the direction of living my life on Planet Earth as a good human being, and finding peace of mind while doing so.  A must-read for all serious students of the ancient practice of Yoga.
5 There was yoga before the time of Patanjali but it was not written down, or at least no text survives.  We find elements of the practice in the Upanishads and of course in the Bhagavad Gita.  But before Patanjali's codification there was no systematic text to guide the aspirant.  Since then Patanjali's sutras have been translated into many languages along with commentary to elucidate the concise text, with Vyasa's commentary from the ninth century--upon which Iyengar makes some reliance--being the most important.With the publication of this book a decade ago, B.K.S. Iyengar laid his claim to being one of the world's foremost experts not only on the practice of yoga--which he certainly is--but on its theory as well.  Mark well that the bulk of what we call yoga stems from these pithy aphorisms first written down by the Indian sage Patanjali some eighteen hundred years ago.*  One can see in this authoritative, comprehensive--indeed, nearly exhaustive--translation and commentary that Iyengar aspires to take his place among the great yogis of history.For each of the 196 aphorisms (most texts have 195 omitting number 3.22 as superfluous, which Iyengar includes), Iyengar gives first the Sanskrit, then the Sanskrit in transliteration.  Then he breaks down the expression into its individual words and gives an English translation of each word.  Indeed he often gives several possible English equivalents for each Sanskrit word.  Then he gives his English translation of the aphorism. In this way the reader can judge the fidelity of Iyengar's expression.  Better yet, the reader can have reference to another translation (I have Ernest Wood's, Alistair Shearer's and Barbara Stoler Miller's in front of me, but there are many others) and compare the results, and in doing so, come to a fuller appreciation of Patanjali's sometimes enigmatic words.Finally there are Iyengar's commentaries on each of the aphorisms, some of which cover several pages.  Occasionally Iyengar gives tables for further clarification; indeed there are 18 tables and diagrams spread throughout the text.  The sutras and commentary are framed with an Introduction, an Epilogue and four Appendices.  There is a Glossary and an Index.To be candid, there is more in this book than can be assimilated by most persons interested in yoga.  Even the most sincere practitioners will find the information and interpretation given by Iyengar daunting.  Some may also object to Iyengar's non-secular presentation.  While he stops short of calling yoga a religion, it is only the word "religion" that is left out!  Iyengar makes his position clear from the opening sutra which he translates as "With prayers for divine blessings, now begins an exposition of the sacred art of yoga."  Usually this opening statement is rendered simply as, "Now, instruction in yoga."  In the Sanskrit there are only three words.  Iyengar even identifies Patanjali as "an evolved soul incarnated of his own will to help humanity" who has "assumed human form, experienced our sorrow and joys, and learned to transcend them." (p. 1)Clearly Iyengar is taking a more spiritual position in this book than he took in his famous treatise on hatha yoga, Light on Yoga, first published in 1965, although even there he calls yoga "the true union of our will with the will of God."Personally, I have no problem with this.  Properly understood, yoga is a religion if one so desires; and properly understood yoga is not a religion if that is what is appropriate.  Most authorities believe that yoga works best as an adjunct to religion so that one can practice yoga and remain devout in one's own faith; in fact this is the usual practice.  Furthermore, the emphasis here, as in all of Iyengar's work, is on the practical and the non-sectarian so that Iyengar's yoga is accessible and appropriate for persons of all faiths, and is in negation of none.I should add that from the spiritual yogi's point of view the idea of God is not personal.  Although Patanjali refers to Isvara as our Lord and as God, many authorities believe that this is an inexplicit augmentation of his text that one may take or leave as one sees fit.  Indeed most yogis who embrace God embrace a God similar to the God of the Vedas; that is a God that is Ineffable about which nothing can be said, a God beyond any human comprehension, a God without any attributes that we could name.By the way, Patanjali's yoga is often referred to as astanga yoga (astanga meaning "eight-limbed") because there are eight limbs or steps leading to liberation.  It is also called raja yoga, the so-called king's yoga that comes after one has mastered the preliminaries of hatha yoga.  More correctly however, hatha yoga and raja yoga are both integral parts of Patanjali's program with the purely physical aspects including asana and pranayama being mentioned but without any exposition.  It wasn't until the middle ages and such works as the Hatha Yoga Pradipika by Svatmarama that hatha yoga gained prominence as something separate.There are four other yogas that have come down to us from ancient times that should not be confused with Patanjali's yoga.  They are bhakti yoga, the yoga of faith and devotion; karma yoga, the yoga of selfless work; jnana yoga, the yoga of knowledge; and tantric yoga, the mystical yoga of self-indulgence.  All but the latter are mentioned in the Bhagavad Gita.*Iyengar identifies Patanjali with the grammarian who lived some four hundred years earlier, but this is more of a traditional understanding than it is historical; most scholars including Georg Feuerstein and Mircea Eliade believe that Patanjali the grammarian and Patanjali the author of the Yoga Sutras are different persons who lived at different times.Bottom line: this is as close to an essential work on Patanjali as I have read.  Any serious aspirant should have this book and study it.--Dennis Littrell, author of "Yoga: Sacred and Profane (Beyond Hatha Yoga)"
5 A true gift to mankind is found in this author -- I've been watching his serene face in weird, twisted poses, and have been following his instructions for breathing (pranayama) for a long breathless moment, and he still amazes me.This book is one of dozens that reflect on the writing of patanjali, a bce period holy man that wrote three books about what he felt were important issues for society as a whole, and individuals one-at-a-time. The books were about Yoga, Ayurvedic medicine, and the Sanskrit language. Each book was written like poetry, with each stanza talking about consciousness and the role that yoga (path, in Sanskrit) plays in that journey. A must have for anyone who considers yoga important to their existence and to mankind in general.
5 I wish I could give this more stars.  I am a yogi myself and my study of this sutra started with vivekanandas translation, and though the man was a great swami indeed, his translation is too direct, and his commentaries do not eludicate it enough.  Here in this translation not only do you find a word for word translation that is a much better translation to begin with, but you have different commentaries to choose from for your elucidation and enlightenment needs.  But thats not all, he also gives extensive other information to make everything come full circle, from how to read sanskrit transliterations and pronounce the words in cas eyou want to chant the text, to a full introduction on hindu yogic metaphysics, and extensive terminology and tables and more about the different dynamics on yogas than you could ever want to read outside of a college class.  The book is not an exhausting read, you do not have to have a working knowledge of hinduism or any suchtopic to read it.  It is written for a layperson, and will make you not only a scholar, but give you some level of enlightenment as well and have gotten you well on your way in your practice of whatever form of yoga you choose.  This man is a saint.  A hero for the western world in which we know yoga primarily as a fitness fad.  This work is absolutely invaluable.  Whatever it is you are looking for that has drawn you to yoga, be it wellness, personal development, meditation or other spiritual practice, hindu spirituality, metaphysics, or enlightenment, this book will be an extraordinary aid to you on yoru path to personal fulfillment.  Especially because again, it is so well written, which is really the beauty of such books.  To take such academic information and make it into a consice, easy to read, and enthralling book, is the real art of a spiritual teacher.  And it is perfected by BKS Iyengar in this work.
5 This is my favorite translation and commentary on the yoga sutras.  Mr. Iyengar's direct way of communicating, along with his decades of deep personal practice, provide an insight into the sutras that few others can offer.The practice of yoga does not require one to follow any specific religious discipline or belief, and this book reflects this.  As Mr. Iyengar says, the Yoga Sutras provide one of the clearest descriptions of the human psyche ever written.  Those wishing to deepen their understanding of this, through the practice of yoga or not, can benefit from this book.
4 B.K.S. Iyengar has written the definative guide to Yoga Postures &quot;Light on Yoga&quot; This book does not equal that work in either clarity nor freshness.However, &quot;Light on the Yoga Sutra's of  Patanjali&quot; whatever this book lacks,  its value is in the perspective  given by a serious practitioner.This classic work deserves two  translations: one written by a great writer and sanskrit scholar, for  instance &quot;How to Know God&quot; by Christopher Asherwood, the other  written by a great yogi.
5 I found this commentary to be unique because the author, who is not a scholar, has written this from his own personal experience of the sutras in his own practice.  All the other commentaries I have seen are written from the point of view of the scholar and not the practitioner. A must for any serious yoga practitioner who is serious enough to want to explore the basis for yoga practice.
2 The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali are a simple, clear series of aphorisms designed to help a person realize that the human mind is controllable.I read a portion of them daily. This  famous yoga author proves that too many words can muddy even the clearest water.As Patanjali himself said, "There is knowledge of everything through intuition".I feel there are too many books written on "how to" understand spiritualteachings, and that this is another one.There are many translations of the Sutras available. Buy one, and if, after reading it, you need someone elses opinion, buy this book.
5 ... this book will still be of great interest and value to you if you are spiritually inclined.the top reviewers assertion that the yoga sutras represents the theory behind the practice of hatha yoga is not really correct.hatha yoga (which is what 'yoga' normally stands for in the west) is actually only a minor part of the yoga sutras - i think it occurs in no more than a single verse in the text! one can infact say that to be a yogi as per patanjali one needn't even practice hatha yoga!historically the most ancient philosophical school in india was the saamkya as taught by the sage kapila (even for the historical buddha circa 500 bc, kaplia was 'ancient'). patanjala yoga is traditionally considered the sister system of the saamkya. while saamkya taught metaphysics and the theory of enlightenment - about the eternal purusha (one's true self/soul), the transient praakriti (primal matter which includes the body and mind as well as the objects we experience), how the purusha is seduced by the 'dance' of praakriti and thus bound to a limited existence and how the seperation of the two effects enlightenment - yoga provided a practical path as to how such enlightenment can be effected. thus one of the traditional meanings of the sanskrit words 'saamkya' and 'yoga' itself is 'theory' and 'practice'.the heart of the yoga sutra lies in the verse 'chitta vritti nirodah' - the cessation of mental modifications. ie when the mind is controlled and brought to stillness, you will know the true nature of your own self - enlightenment.hatha yoga can be used as an aid to achieve this goal - that is what it was created for - but that doesn't make it indispensable. there're even more serious philosophical/spiritual/ethical/discipinary issues involved which is what this text mostly covers apart from the philosophy.so this book is more for those who're looking for greater spiritual/philosophical depth behind/beyond the science of hatha yoga. or for anybody who is looking for greater depth and meaning and spirituality in life even if they have never been to a yoga class. this is a seriously deep spiritual text.btw saamkya had no place for 'God' in its philosophy. even for patanjali, yoga does not mean union with god (as per the popular interpretation) - rather the seperation of purusha from praakriti, where god *can* help.
5 Not the easiest read, but worth grappling with for the insights it yields, one after that other.  And that's the point of it.
4 This translation is recommended to use it as a reference.The other translations I like / recommend:-The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali: A New Edition, Translation, and Commentary by Edwin F. Bryant (faithful & lucid)- Yoga: Discipline of Freedom: The Yoga Sutra Attributed to Patanjali by Patanjali and Barbara Stoler Miller (level: beginner)
5 Part 1:  An Introduction to AromaticsChapter 1  Historical RootsChapter 2  Aromatherapy and HerbalismChapter 3  The Body Actions and ApplicationsChapter 4  How to Use Essential Oils and HomeChapter 5  Creative BlendingChapter 6  A Guide to Aromatic MaterialsPart 2:  The Oils--Over 160 essential oils discussed which includes its common name, synonyms, general description, distribution, other species, herbal folk tradition, actions, extraction, characteristics, principal constituents, safety data, aromatherapy/home use and other usesAt the end of the book, it includes a few useful addresses, including phone numbers where you can contact for more infomation about essential oilsThis book also includes a therapeutic index which is a guide of abbreviate terms in 10 categories which are suggested appilications of essential oils mentioned in the book.  You can use essential oils for skin care; circulation, muscles, and joints; respiratory sytem; digestive system; gentio-urinary aand endocrine system; immune system; and nervos systemIncludes a general glossary and a section on botanical classification
3 It's an ok guide but I would not go so far as to call it an encyclopedia.  I use essential oils and wanted a version for my computer tablet to use as a quick reference.  There are better guides out there.
5 Very complete. Every oil I've ever heard of and then some. Tons of information on uses and HOW to use.
4 I was actually surprised by two things:1. The fact that I have a now vast and still growing library of books on Aromatherapy and Essential Oils (Including from authors like Worwood, Cooksley, Schnaubelt and Tisserand) yet I now find myself reaching for this one more than some of these other authors.2. The negative reviews of others.I guess my expectations were different. While it is an Encyclopeia which should make it a valuble reference source, I feel it does what an Encyclopeia should do and what is standard for that type of reference - that is it covers a lot of information on a broad range of items that you can look up (in this case essential oils) and does a good job giving you the necessary background and basic information that you would need to get a good understanding of what it is you looked up. (Not be a master at that topic because that would result in something far more extensive and a very weighty book when covering so many oils.) Despite being concise and to the point Lawless still manages to give you a snap shot of each oil with information on 13 topics for each of the over 165 oils listed (one review said over 190 but not sure where that number came from, I counted something around 168, still quite a list!).The only thing I will say is that she is along the lines of Cooksley and Worwood where I sometimes feel like they are overly cautious. I believe in being responsible and informed with use but I prefer authors like Schnaubelt that don't discount an oil due to one study that was done once by someone and recorded and therefore it is now considered toxic, without looking at how the study was done and what factors were involved, if constituents of the oil were isolated, etc. However, if you are new to EOs than it is best to error on the more restricted use just to be safe.I will not list the chapters in the introductory Part 1 as another reviewer already covered. But in Part 2 "The Oils", each oil is listed with its botanical name and then given the following information in the following order:BOTANICAL FAMILYSYNONYMSGENERAL DESCRIPTION (Of the plant)DISTRIBUTIONOTHER SPECIESHERBAL/FOLK TRADITIONACTIONSEXTRACTIONCHARACTERISTICS (Of the oils, scent, appearance, etc.)PRINCIPAL CONSTITUENTS (Chemistry snapshot)SAFETY DATAAROMATHERAPY/HOME USEOTHER USESThis is what the majority of the book IS (just like an encyclopedia would be) and I believe it does a good job doing what it is designed to do. The fact that it is only missing about 3 of my favorite oils (probably because they are newer, i.e. Rhododendron, Palo Santo, etc.)  and lists so many others, it truely is a nicely organized and very handy and useful reference.It is easy to find the information you need and quickly. Despite the lack of "color" complaints by other reviewers, I still found it one of the more attractive aromatherapy books. It is well laid out, in nice print, and has some lovely black and white illustrations. The book is actualy more attractive than some of the other more well know ones and I think I reach for it more often now because I don't have to wade through many reciepes and a ton of other chapters to get to hunt for the part that just profiles the oils themselves. (Other information is good, all of the recepies, uses on animals, household cleaners, etc. just not what I am looking for when I am grabbing an encyclopedia to give the basic background and profile.)ALSO - The Therapeutic Index in the back along with the General Glossary that defines the medical terms addressed in the book (and address in several others, but are not defined in a lot of other books) for those who do not have a health science background proves very useful. There is also a rather extensive Botanical Classification and a good Botantical Index in the very back.So I will be getting the newer Illustraded version eventually but not out of dissapointment for this one, if anything because I was so impressed with the layout and information that exceeded my expectaions of this author that I took a chance on. (Getting a good used copy of this edition will allow those pinching pennies to add a great reference book to their Aromatherapy library.)
5 This book is a comprehensive resource of herbs and plants from which essential oils are made. It describes the plants, their properties, traditional uses, and cautions.  Impressive, although I would have liked it if they'd included color photos of each plant discussed.
5 This is not a beautifully illustrated coffee-table book; neither is it an exhaustive reference for parfumiers and aromatherapists - but there is a reason that it's a best seller in the UK: encyclopedic in its content, it is concise, readable and light enough to flick through in bed! It covers 165 essential oils and gives enough information on their botany, provenance, folk tradition, action, smell and applications to be both useful and interesting without overwhelming. It is well laid out for easy reference with a separate therapeutic index at the back of the book. If you want something pretty get the illustrated version, but for day to day use this is an eminently useable and sensible book.
4 It had a bit of the information I was looking for so I was happy with the purchase and book.  Once I have more time I am sure it will be very useful.
4 My wife is big into the aromatherapy essential oils stones things like that. She's taken courses on it, she talks about it with their friends, and she reads about them on the Internet. I wanted to be nice to her so I got her this book as a surprise. She loves it.The book covers a lot of stuff. It's got some history of different routes and things so information about aromatherapy and a herbalism. The stuff she found more interesting though is it also tells about the body and actions and applications for the oil basically how whales work what they do to different parts of the body and how they can affect things. Later in the book it shows how to use them at home for things such as massage, skin oils and lotions, hair care, etc. I personally enjoy the massage aspect. The book also teaches about creative blending of the oils which she really enjoyed. She's been mixing different ones according to the book and having a great time doing.At 194 pages, this book is a great buy for somebody who likes essential oils aromatherapy and such. I don't want to mislead you though, this isn't like a paperback book on aromatherapy. The portions I mentioned before that she liked reading are only about 38 pages. The rest of the book just tells about the different types of oil. Essentially, you'll see a family, synonyms, general description, distribution, herbal/folk tradition, actions, extraction (how the oil is obtained), characteristics, principal constitutes (chemical makeup), safety data, home applications, and other uses for each oil. The book is really more of a reference material than a book for beginners. There are a few pictures, but they're just drawings and the not all that interesting; I don't want to give the impression that they don't break up the text a little bit and some of them are actually useful diagrams or representations of the source plant, but were not talking about full-color pictures of everything. I kind of wish there were more diagrams a more different plants, but maybe that would've made the book too long. Anyway, good book and I suggested if you're already into oils otherwise start off with a different book and come back to this one.
4 This is a comprehensive, authoritative, illustrated guide to herbs. Beautifully illustrated, each oversized page has two herbs per page that includes, the plant family name, common name,a paragraph desribing it's benefits, part used, collection,constituents, actions and preparation and dosage. In this informative book you will find the internal and external uses of herbs. There are over 300 illustrated pictures and an A-Z listing of over 200 herbs. There is a section that explains the systems of the body and some common ailments. Included here you will find which herbs work best to heal the ailment. Many of these herbs have been used by cultures for centuries for prevention of disease by drinking certain tonics or teas to help the various systems of the body. If you are interested in alternative medicine for well-being than this book is for you. There are many things you can take besides a little pill to cure your ills, try some natural medicine. This book is recommended for the beginner as well the seasoned herb practitioner.
5 David Hoffman's "The Complete Illustrated Holistic Herbal" is one of those rare books I keep nearby, as I'm constantly referring to it. Developed for the layman, Holistic Herbal provides sufficient overview of various herbal remedies to allow one to get their feet wet and feel competent while doing so. Part 1 of the book is a mere 16-page overview of the holistic concept - short, but if you weren't already sold on it, you wouldn't be reading the book, would you? Part 2 covers the practical aspects of herbalism, including the collection and preparation of the various herbs. This is one the areas where the work shines through, as Hoffman's descriptions and photographic accompaniments clearly and succinctly illustrate the process of making not only infusions, tinctures and decoctions, but also capsules, lozenges and suppositories. The latter part of this section also familiarizes the reader with the technical terms associated with herbalism, from abortifacients to vulneraries, in clear layman's terms. Part 3 begins the herbal itself, and its clearly expounded sections will have you referring back to it often. Each page has one to two herbs, with a photograph of the herb in question, a description of the parts used and their preparation, dosages and possible combinations with other herbs for varied therapeutic effects. Seemingly in recognition that this information could overwhelm the layman, Hoffman outlines on page 49 a home herbal medicine chest, with around 30 basic herbs as well as the (minor) equipment one will need in order to make use of them. The therapeutic index which lists the various ailments and their herbal remedies also emphasizes several herbal remedies within each category that are particularly efficacious for the ailment in question.
5 This book would be appropriate for either the beginner or a more experienced herbalist.Very well written and easy to understand instructions on safely making herbal remedies.A very welcome addition to my herbal library.
5 It is most helpful and very informative, have been studying herbal for several years now and I really love this book. It has many helpful things that I didn't have in some of my other books. This has become one of my books that goes with me whenever I venture out always helpful when I need it.
3 I am studying to become a master herbalist and I bought this before I started school as I was getting into herbs.  It is pretty good, but they are still pretty vauge about certain things.  Also, there is still a measure of fear of herbs doing horrible things inserted into spots into this book.HERBS CANNOT HURT YOU unless you isolate specific things out of the herb and then inject them into your body!!!  Who does that except for labs done for study?
5 This is a good book for herbal medicine.  Came ahead of time and was very informative.  Good all-around book for anyone who is interested in herbal medicine.
5 I wish textbooks were written like this! I would have learned so much more! This has become one of my go-to books, not only for information, but just for the enjoyment of reading it. I definitely recommend it for anyone who loves the Earth, the plants, and a happy read.
5 David Hoffman has taken a great deal of information and made it into an easy reference manual for both beginner and experienced herbalists alike.  No shelf should be without this book!
5 I'm happy with this book.  It gives a comprehensive overview of herbs and treatments.  Please note, the pictures are not in color.
4 Perfect for when you need distraction from what's going on around you. Great author who normally writes historical novels showing her diversity.
5 Great read in her series of books. Good author and filled with history.I think you will like it as well as we did
5 I am not a short story fan but I do enjoy Philippa Gregory's books.  This is so different from her historical novels but just as enjoyable.
5 I hadn't read anything by Philippa Gregory until I read this sparkling collection of seventeen short stories but I think I shall be reading at least some of her other books.  The stories are a mixture of genres - historical, mystery, supernatural and stories about people going about their daily lives.I enjoyed all the stories - which is unusual in such a collection - and I found them all to be of an equally high standard.  I particularly liked the title story which features a monk who loves baking.  My other favourites were - `The Wave Machine' about a small child's effect on a single man; `The Magic Box' - which sent shivers down my spine and `The Garden' about a controlling man and the wife who sees a means of escape.I think this is a collection of short stories which I shall be reading more than once.  I'm pleased that the advent of e-books has meant authors and publishers taking a chance on short story collections sometimes short stories are just what the reader needs to dip into rather than a full length novel.
5 Yet another hit! Very Good Book; my favorite is Theories about Men, it's what got me to find it
4 I was a bit confused because I loved Bread and Chocolate Chapter 1, wanted more and thought that the story would continue.After Chapter 2 and 3 I realized that every Chapter was a new story.  Having said that, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and its 'quirky' short stories.  A great book for someone who can only read a few chapters at a time.  My favourite auther did not disappoitment me.
4 This was my first Philippa Gregory although I've often seen her books in local bookstores and I was impressed.This is a book of clever stories with great insight into the weirdness of humanity.
4 I wish I'd known how to do this in college!Mind Mapping is great tool with all sorts of uses and this book is short enough for anyone to learn how to do it.  Like most "life-hack" type tools, you'll get out of it what you put into it.  In other words, you have learn it and use it to get much benefit.I do recommend it for kids--it's a great, simple way to organize most writing assignments, speeches, and other projects.  They'll probably still have to do the old boring Roman numeral outlines, I suppose, but the mind-map can make that much easier, too!So, Buzan's a bit grandiose--mind-mapping probably won't bring world peace, but hey, neither does anything else!
5 The book describes how our brain works, and explains the mind map as a graphical tool to apply radiant thinking which is described as a more effective way of using our brain potential. The book is well written, easy to read and follow, full of beautiful images and convincing arguments.The author explains how to use radiant thinking to maximize our untapped potential. Presented clearly and colorfully, the book explains how we can come up with our own mind maps to help improve our memory, concentration and creativity in planning and structuring our thoughts. I found the book interesting and enlightening as it explains a more natural approach to organize thoughts than what we are trained to think linearly.This book shows you the various ways that you can create a mind map and how this can be helpful in all subjects. Since reading the book I have been using mind maps to organize my work, learn French, make out my daily to do list, planning meetings, writing minutes and outline papers I will present with some success. The book is well worth reading.
1 If you already know how to write an outline for an essay and you know how to brainstorm then this book isn't worth your time or money. Mind maps are just outlines that include creativity;  drawing pictures, pictograms and writing themes on branches radiating out from the center of the page.
3 This is a good book. It covers mind mapping briefly. It could have been even more brief, but for the rather outlandish claims of its author. Tony Buzan is given to a lot of exaggeration. Shorn of the inflated claims, the book could well have been a small and effective booklet.The subject of the book is worthy of learning and usage. Mind mapping offers a very easy technique that requires little more than color pens and paper (though rather expensive software is also available). The method is simple -- a central topic in the middle, followed by radiating branches denoting concepts, sub-concepts, and further conceptual breakdowns. Arranging information spatially rather than linearly as in to-do lists and written notes helps place each node of information in context, and also helps the brain "grok" the entire picture all at once.One thing I find surprising about Buzan's book is -- why did he not mind-map his book itself? It would have been much easier to understand the concepts that way.I would recommend that you purchase the book by Joyce Wycoff rather than this one. The former book contains some good examples of mind maps and its applications.For those inclined to using software, FreeMind is an excellent freeware application that helps one create mind maps.
2 How to Mind MapBy Tony BuzanI want to say this: I really marvel at the marketing savvy of Tony Buzan in spinning more & more books from his original pioneering collection of five books published by the BBC outfit during the seventies, without adding any real value - & or new technological enhancements - to his loyal readers.  I find that most of his newer books since then tend to be rehashed or expanded mildly with a slight twist.This book is no exception. For a greenhorn, this book still stands out as relatively great work. The step by step instructions on doing your own mind maps are very clear & easy to follow. However, the moment you start to compare this book with the author's earlier works,  for example,  `Use Both Sides of Your Brain' or `Make the Most of Your Mind' or `The Mind Map Book, or `Mind Maps at Work', anyone can see clearly that there are no new insights. What a real disappointment!I would have thought that, if Tony Buzan had really wanted to add value to his loyal readers, instead of his own pockets, he should probably have created a  mind map of the book's contents in the form of a large poster, which can then be folded to form a handy pocket guide for readers. This would have been a great gift to his loyal readers.  However, one of his early disciples in the United States, Michael Gelb, had already jumped the gun by producing one good one in the late eighties.  Please read my review of Michael Gelb's `The New Mind Map'.  In this case, Tony Buzan  could still do something better:  he  could probably make use of his iMindMap software to create an exploded view of the book's contents! He  could even put it in a CD or DVD format where readers can access the mind map with a viewer.To sum up: Has Tony Buzan run out of steam? Sad to say, I believe so.
4 Every once in a while I see something I call a "nice little book."  This is definitely one of them.I've used mind maps a lot in school, my own journals and even to outline subjects that are tricky to learn.  In fact, mind mapping helped me to pass a difficult exam for teacher certification.This book gives an excellent explanation of what a mind map is and good instructions on how to construct one.  Basically, you have an idea represented by a drawing in the middle, and then you radiate other ideas with curved lines out from the center as opposed to listing them in a linear fashion as in traditional outlining.  You can also throw in little drawings as well. I appreciate this because I can be working on one idea and drawing branches off that category and suddenly remember or think of something that belongs in another category. I can then add it to the "other category" branch or start a new branch, and then go back to what I was working on before.In the middle of the book are six full color mind maps to give an idea of how they are put together.Perhaps it wold have been more effective if he could have illustrated the construction of the mind map by actually drawing one in stages instead of having so many pages of "text" describing how to do it, and then having to wait until the middle of the book to see what they were like.  There were a few sketches but I would like to have seen a process of building one bit by bit and seen it in each stage of development.However, having said that, I still think it is a book worth having.  Mind maps are fun to make and play with.  It can even make tedious information more enjoyable to work with.  They are  imagination boosters, and I highly recommend learning how to work with them.
2 I like giving good reviews, but I'm sorry.  This book was just too much hype and too simplistic.  I had expected more.  I think the best way to learn this program is to just dive in and start playing with it.  The book was tossed ages ago.
5 This is the best book on Mind Mapping.  We use it at work and the techniques are well explained.  If I had to buy just one book n the subject this one would be it.
5 The younger William Pitt lived a life that is not widely known or appreciated in the USA and this well-written and entertaining biography should help to remedy that. It is so unusual for a super-genius to have the opportunity, interest and special aptitude for politics Pitt had that the example deserves much study. We are fortunate that William Hague, the author, did not become Prime Minister himself in 2001 so that he was free to stay in Yorkshire and complete this work.
5 As a rule, I believe that Americans would be better off if they read and understood more about history.  It is important to read widely enough, both in breadth of scope and time, to provide a rich and useful understanding of how things have become what they are.  While we cannot read everything, let alone retain it all in our memory, there are certain times, events, and even single lives that can provide valuable structure to our understanding of the world.In my view, knowing more about the history of Great Britain can help Americans understand more about our origins as a nation, provide a richer context for our founding, get a better fix on our own place in the world through time, and how we grew into a dominant power in the world.  This particularly fine biography of William Pitt the Younger concerns itself with the time immediately after Britain's American Colonies became the United States up to Pitt's death in 1806 in the middle of the Napoleonic Wars.This is an especially rich time in history because everything was in flux and so much was at risk.  The French Revolution of 1789 soon became The Terror.  Great Britain struggled to recover from the blow of losing her American Colonies and putting herself forward as a still relevant global power.  The United States actually benefited in many ways from the Europeans being so absorbed in fighting each other in these decades.  However, that is a story for another time.William Pitt the Younger was the extraordinary second son of the also extraordinary William Pitt.  The father dominated the House of Commons for many years including the time during the American Revolution.  He was universally loved as The Great Commoner and retired as a Lord.  William the Younger was endowed with certain intellectual gifts in fabulous abundance.  He had a tremendous capacity for oratory.  He trained himself by reading the Classics in Latin and Greek.  He learned mathematics particularly as it related to finance.  And of course he learned by observing his father's work in Parliament and in discussions with him.  He focused his whole life and all his energies to service in the House of Commons with a view only on the position of greatest power.Britain was adrift when Pitt came to Parliament.  Great things were expected of him and his early speeches confirmed his gifts.  He sought front line leadership from the beginning and due to his gifts and unique circumstances he became First Lord of the Treasury (what later became Prime Minister) at twenty-four years old.  He soon earned the favor of a strong majority and through his scrupulous dealings became known as Honest Billy.  He was one of the first to use the rapidly growing newspaper industry as a tool to govern through the development of his image.He put Britain's finances back in order, protected the monarchy during George the III's bouts of madness, and deftly handled all the governmental issues of the empire including issues involving India and the great trading companies.  He completely dominated the Whigs and led the way to the founding of the modern Conservative (Tory) party.  He finally resigned after 17 years in power.  He did so for many reasons, but the issue that seemed to provoke it was Catholic Emancipation, which the King refused to even consider because he considered it a violation of his duty as King and Head of the Established Church.Also, Pitt's health was beginning to fail.  He had dedicated his whole life to the service of his country and the maintenance of his power and dominance in the House of Commons and the strain was beginning to tell.  Pitt never married nor did he develop a new circle of friends or wider interests during his time in power, which was essentially his whole life from his early twenties until his death at forty-six.  Hague has some keen observations on the way serving in high political office has the effect of freezing a person at that stage of life until they leave power.  Pitt is one of the most extreme examples of this effect.At the zenith of Pitt's power the French Revolution occurred and was soon followed by the calamity of the Napoleonic Wars.  While he led Britain through the wars ably, his gifts for war were not as sure as his gifts for finance.  Another issue that he confronted during his time in office was the issue of abolishing the slave trade.  Neither the ending the wars nor, nor Catholic Emancipation, nor abolishing the slave trade was accomplished during his lifetime.Pitt chose Addington as his successor.  The response of others can be understood through a little couplet.  "Pitt is to Addington as London is to Paddington".  He returned to power within a few years, but died in office in less than two years.As a biographer, William Hague is in many ways a perfect choice for William Pitt the Younger.  Hague has an eloquence that is inviting and informs without bogging down.  He also brings a special insight into some of the more obscure decisions Pitt made because Hague also served in the House of Commons and came to office in his twenties.  Mr. Hague also became leader of the Conservative party (the descendent of the party that rose from Pitt's legacy) at thirty-six and despite losing to Tony Blair, he fully understands the massive demands of front line political leadership.  Mr. Hague continues to serve as a Member of Parliament for Richmond, Yorkshire as well as being active in many other duties and activities.I saw an interview with the author about this book.  He said that he would also like to write biographies of Pitt the Elder and Pitt the Younger's friend, Wilberforce, who had so much to do with abolishing the slave trade.  I want to encourage him to write both.  His excellent writing conveys his passion for this period of history, and his analyses provide helpful and entertaining insights to the way politics worked then and how it works today.
5 This is a biography written the way they should be:  recapitulates Pitt The Younger's life, discusses his personality and career (warts and all,  and puts him the context of his time.I learned more about his father ("the Great Commoner") in the first two chapters of this book than in a biography of Pitt the Elder that I recently purchased and read.Overall an informative, quick and pleasant read.
5 From Which the World Should Note Something Particular.  Shakespeare.There was something astonishingly particular about William Pitt the Younger.  The second son of the Earl of Chatham (Pitt the Elder) was a child prodigy.  He was admitted to Cambridge at age 14, elected to Parliament at age 21 and appointed Prime Minister at age 24.  Twenty-two years later, of which twenty were spent as Prime Minister, Pitt died at age 46.William Hague was something of a prodigy himself.  He gave his first major political address at a Conservative Party Conference in 1977 at age 16. Hague was elected to Parliament at age 28 and became the Conservative Party's leader at age 36, the youngest party leader in 200 years.  Hague's rhetorical skills, like Pitt the Younger, are excellent. Some observers (not all of them Conservatives) believed that Hague regularly bested Labour P.M. Tony Blair in debates in the House of Commons. After a losing the 2001 general election and the leadership of his party Hague was asked to write his Memoirs.  He indicated that an autobiography was approximately 40 years premature and sat down to write the biography of his idol Pitt the Younger instead.Hague has done an excellent job here.  Although meticulously researched this is a readable, popular biography.  Hague's prose style is precise and flows very smoothly.Hague quickly takes us through Pitts early years and the events surrounding his first election to Parliament.  His impact on Parliament was soon felt and within two years King George III twice asked Pitt to form a new government.  It was only when Pitt was certain that he could maintain control of a new government that Pitt accepted the King's offer when it was made for the third time.The first nine years of Pitt's leadership were turbulent but peaceful and it was as a peacetime leader that Pitt demonstrated enormous administrative skills.  Pitt virtually created the mechanism by which any government oversees its finances.  By the end of that nine-year period Britain's financial position was better than it had ever been before.  It was this financial strength that facilitated Britain's survival during the three crises that marked the remaining years of Pitt's time in office: the madness of King George III, the foreign and domestic trials created by the French Revolution and the even greater trials created in the wake of the rise to power of Napoleon Bonaparte.Hague's narrative style is straight forward and informative as he discusses Pitt's response to these crises.  The complexity of the parliamentary and political system of 18th century Britain was Byzantine to say the least.  However, Hague, because of his experience in Parliament, was able to explain those complexities without detracting from his narrative. This is no small accomplishment.One of the most important aspects of the book for me was the discussion of the relationship between Pitt and his major adversary during his entire premiership, Charles James Fox.  Hague's discussion of that relationship made Fox quite appealing in many respects.  As Pitt steered Britain from crisis to crisis he turned increasingly to repressive measures (squashing free speech, toughening sedition laws and limiting the right to free assembly) to ensure Britain's security from perceived external threats to its security.  The largest threat of course was that of the anti-monarchical forces unleashed by the French Revolution.  Throughout Fox's years as the leader of the opposition he fought Pitt's repressive legislation every step of the way.  Fox stood squarely on the side of free speech and opposed to attempts to sacrifice his fellow citizens' freedoms on the mere declamation of a threat to security. He kept losing those battles but he did fight the good fight.The battle over the balance between freedom and security is one that confronts us today.  Hague's concluding analysis discusses this issue at some length.  He is of course favorable to Pitt and defends him admirably.  It takes nothing away from the quality of Hague's writing to note that I fell more squarely into the Fox camp.Hague pays a good deal of attention to Pitt's personal life, particularly his drinking. He was reported to have downed three bottles of Port a day.  There is little doubt that this undoubted alcoholism played a role in Pitt's early death.  Hague also spends time discussing the lack of women in Pitt's life. He does not shy away from the issue and analyzes in some detail the close relationship he had with his male colleagues.  I felt Hague's conclusions, that Pitt was one of those rare totally chaste people whose entire life was focused on one thing and one thing only, to be well founded if a bit speculative.Hague has indicated that he intended and expected this book to be a popular history that could be enjoyed by any reader.  This book lived up to Hague's expectations and also to mine.  I recommend this book to anyone with any interest in British history.  It is enjoyable and well worth reading.
5 As someone who has just got into politics, I've found it difficult to find books on Audio CD written by politicians. Margaret Thatcher's works have yet to be put on CD and George Bush has yet to release anything about his time in the klieg lights. And so there is this and what a book it is too.Written just after Hague had given up the unenviable job of being leader of a Tory opposition, it is simply written (with lots of explanatory material) and appears to have been thoroughly researched. Though I haven't read the unabridged version, this audio CD seems to cover all areas of Pitt's life in adequate detail.And, as a bonus, this is one of those rare examples where the author reads his own book AND does a good job of it. Hague clearly has a passion for the subject and his voice is lively and intriguing, which keeps the narrative compelling.There is little to say in criticism, other than it is a pity that it is not a longer version. 5 CD's though seems enough to give the subject sufficient length, without getting boring.So, if you're a political aficionado (like me) and you want something entertaining for long car-trips to work, then this seems to be the best on the market. The only thing comparable I can think of isChurchillby Roy Jenkins, but in terms of modern day works by politicians, the market appears surprisingly sparse.I hope I am wrong, and I welcome comments to enlighten me & others on the subject...
3 Pitt the younger led his nation through the Napoleonic wars, the first stages of the industrial revolution, and a transformation of Britian, yet all the book seems to talk about is his health, his speaches and where he traveled.I am sorry, but I selected this book while in Heathrow Airport waiting for a flight back to the US.  I knew about Pitt the younger and the times in which he lived.  I had hoped for a book that talked about a man in the center of his times.  Instead I got an introspective work focused on the triangle between Pitt, Fox and George III.  Based on Hague's work they were the only three people who mattered in the world.I guess I am not the anglophile I thought I was as I found this work admirably written, well researched and understandably proud of Britian's first modern Prime Minister and global leader.Unforuntaley it was not very interesting -- I am not sure if that is due to Hague's account (I kind of doubt) or Pitt's interior and financially centered life.It probably has more to do with me being an american and wanting to know more about the man -- the person.  The US is after all pretty much a show and tell kind of culture without the reserve for status and class as the UK.Either way, if you are a strong Anglophile who knows much about the times -- then this is a well crafted detailed account.  If you are a part time reader of biographies and history, then you may want to give this one a pass.No offense intended to our friends in Britian -- Pitt is surely one of the few men who have make the UK great.
5 An excellent biography on one of Britain's greatest prime ministers. Mr. Hague goes into every detail regarding Mr. Pitt's life both personally and politically. He talks about relations with other members of Parliament and how he handled both foreign crisis like the French Revolution and economic crisis like when Britain was forced to print paper currency for the first time. This book views Pitt as an excellent leader dedicated to his work devoted to finances and a fair peace. Very readable so do not be intimidated by the length!
4 I'm trying to think what I knew about the politics of late 18th century Britain before I read William Hague's well written biography of William Pitt the Younger, imaginatively named just that.  Not much.  I knew about Edmund Burke and his opposition to the French Revolution.  I knew a few military leaders from reading about the American Revolution.  I've seen the brilliant film about King George the Third's madness, and I vaguely knew that there were two William Pitts, father and son, who dominated British Political life during that era, and that Pitt the younger was amazingly young when he got elected Prime Minister.Now I know quite a bit more.  For one thing, Pitt was not technically "Prime Minister".  Rather, he had been "First Lord of the Treasury" which was the most senior position in His Majesty's government.  He had served for some twenty years, and has been a member of the House of Commons for most of his life.  He has, indeed, been chosen to lead the British government at age 24.How does so young a man become first Minister to the British crown?  The answer is, one is picked by the King.  George the Third's alliance with William Pitt was one of convenience - he had loathed the other potential political leaders (Primarily Pitt's arch nemesis Charles James Fox).  Pitt was the only member of the House of Commons who had credibility enough to form a government, and whom the King felt he could support.That is not to say that Pitt's talents had nothing to do with with his meteoric rise - far from it.  Pitt, a great orator, became a leading presence in the House of Commons.  With brilliant tactics (and shameless use of patronage), he formed his own party, and later split the opposition Whig party (with the help of the French Revolution) to rule the house with a huge majority.  He had also been one of the first British politicians to care about the views of the majority of Britons not represented in Parliament.It has been Pitt's very success that made him vulnerable; by 1801, the opposition more or less ceased to exist, and the King felt much less reliant on Mr. Pitt.  When the First Lord of the Chancellery clashed with the Monarch on the issue of Catholic Emancipation (giving Catholics the right to vote and be elected), the King felt confident enough to flatly refuse Pitt.  Pitt resigned rather then serve without full powers.In 1804, as the Napoleonic Wars got worse, Pitt returned to office.  This time his coalition was shakier, and he probably wouldn't have lasted long as Prime Minister had he not died in January 1806, at the age of 46.William Hague, a one time would be Tory PM, who had been compared to Pitt the younger by none other then Margaret Thatcher, offer a very readable and compelling biography.  His book is not particularly analytical, but it is very well written and researched.  I wish Hague would have put Pitt more in context, both of British and International Politics (we get no mention of America after the Revolution, no word of the remaining colonies, and very little about the internal politics of any other country save France), and the industrial revolution.  Nonetheless, as someone who doesn't read many biographies, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.  Whatever the merits of Hague as a politician, he has a future as a historian.(By the way, my copy of the book contains a recommendation by British Tory PM John Major "If you only buy one political biography this year, make it this one".  Talk about damning with faint praise.  I guess it could have been worse "If you only buy one biography of an 18th century British politician named Pitt in December...")Speaking of Merits, how should we assess the statesmanship of William Pitt the younger?  Ultimately, I think Pitt was a very competent, but not great, Prime Minister.  In his first decade as prime minister, Britain enjoyed Peace, and Pitt managed to survive as Prime Minister, expand his coalition somewhat, rationalize the tax system, and begin to balance the government's deficit.  The reduction of the deficit, with view for its ultimate extinction, was Pitt's greatest achievement, albeit one that was aided greatly by the fast growing economy in the dawn of the Industrial Revolution, and that all but disappeared when the wars of the French Revolution started.Other then economically, Pitt managed to achieve few if any of the reforms he had supported.  He failed to reform the electorate, abolish the slave trade, or (later) achieve Catholic emancipation.As War leader, Pitt commanded over a mostly unsuccessful war effort, which saw the rise of three coalitions against the armies of the French Revolution, and later Napoleon.  French forces defeated all in term, and Pitt died just days after receiving word of Napoleon's greatest Victory in the Battle of Austerlitz.This is not to say that Pitt was a failure.  He had been a strong supporter of the navy, and British control of the Seas became an unalterable fact under his watch, and due to his effort and leadership.  Pitt had secured the Unification of the British and Irish Parliament.  Both achievements would last for over a century.  Politically, Pitt planted the roots of the Tory party, and managed to survive various crises, including the insanity of his patron, George III.  If nothing else, Pitt has led his nation through some of the most difficult transformations of its age, internal and external.  And while there had still been a long road ahead, by the time Pitt passed away, Britain has surely reached, in Churchill's terms, "The End of the Beginning".
5 William Hague has a pleasant, straightforward and limpid style in which he can convey not only complex political situations, but a warmth of feeling towards his subject and a sensitive and empathic interpretation of behaviour and background.He begins with Pitt's extremely precocious childhood.  He was tutored at home, in large part by his father (whose loving nature may also be something of a revelation to readers). From earliest childhood young Pitt breathed in politics.  Hague speculates that he learnt not only from his father's successes (his oratory, his foreign policy), but also from his failures (going to the Lords in 1766, or leaving the post of First Lord of the Treasury to someone else).There are exciting accounts of several key episodes in his life: his rise to becoming Prime Minister at the age of 24; the Regency Crisis of 1788/9;  his resignation over his disagreement with George III over Catholic Emancipation in 1801 (beautifully analyzed), and his promise, after the King's recovery from his recurring malady, never to raise the matter again; the drifting apart between Pitt and his old friend and nominee Addington during the latter's interregnum.No minister except Walpole has for so long and so completely dominated the House of Commons.  Pitt was universally acclaimed as a great orator, though only a very few passages quoted in this book - foremost among them his speech in 1792 advocating the abolition of the slave trade - make for stirring reading these days.  Part of the appeal of his speeches is said to have been the cogency of their logical structure and his mastery of detail, which is not so easily conveyed in a book.  He was a brilliant manager of the nation's finances - but his own were often in a ruinous state.  He could not be bothered to pay much attention to them, and refused to take sinecure offices (except, at the King's insistence, the Wardenship of the Cinque Ports) or a large donation offered by the merchants of the City of London.  He was hugely in debt at the time of his resignation in 1801, but he refused all offers of help, from the King, from Parliament, from his successor Addington in the form of sinecure offices, or from the City.  Only through help from a handful of his closest friends was the pressure of debt slightly eased.For Pitt rightly prided himself on his personal probity.  He would accept nothing that might be construed as putting him under an obligation;  but, though he was personally bored with appeals for his patronage, he did not scruple to allow his lieutenants to manage patronage and bribery on a massive scale, especially  at critical moments of his rule.  (Hague mentions only in passing his massive inflation of the peerage.)His finances and his speeches made him a great war leader, but he was less so in the actual conduct of the wars.  He underestimated France  in the early days and overestimated Britain's military (as distinct from naval) resources.  He made miscalculations of the kind that Chatham probably would not have made (though Chatham, of course, had faced a far less dynamic France).  He twice (1796, 1797) sought for peace with France because of the immense drain on Britain's financial resources, but, encouraged by a string of French setbacks in 1798 and 1799, turned down the peace overtures Napoleon made immediately after seizing power in France in 1799.  In this latter refusal he was strongly backed by his cousin, the hawkish foreign minister William Grenville.Hague brings out the importance of Grenville throughout Pitt's career.  A staunch ally until Pitt's resignation, he became so impatient with Pitt's early forbearance with regard to Addington that he joined Fox in opposition - which George III could not forgive.  So when Pitt returned to office in 1804, he could not give a post to Grenville, who then practically became a Foxite Whig.  As a result, Pitt no longer had the mastery of the Commons or even of the Cabinet that he had had before, and it added to the strain in those years of Ulm and Austerlitz.  By that time Pitt was a shadow of his former self, increasingly exhausted and in dreadful health.It is on the human side that Hague excels, and there is not always scope for that in the story.  Much of Pitt's work in government - finance, trade, administrative reform, the shuffling of seats around the cabinet table - gives little scope to more than the thoroughly workmanlike treatment it receives here.  Even the account of the wars with France are no more than that.  For me, the best parts of the book deal with Pitt's character.  He has generally been considered cold;  but he had many close friends in whose company he was witty and amusing.  A fine chapter discusses this contrast and shows Pitt, when Prime Minister, as relaxed and warm with family and real friends.  There is a long and moving letter he wrote to Wilberforce when the latter announced his religious conversion in 1785.  There is an astonishing scene a couple of years before his death when at one moment he was larking around with his intimates whom he allowed to blacken his face with burnt cork, and a moment later, quickly cleaned up, stiffly received political visitors.  Between Pitt and his mother there was great warmth and affection.  In his letters to her he always made light of difficulties or his poor health, not just because he was by nature optimistic, but because he wanted to spare her worries.It is astonishing that Hague should have researched and written this book of 592 pages inside two years.  The masterly ten-page summing up at the end is not only balanced in its judgments, but tells us a good deal about Hague himself.  It is clear that he not only admires Pitt, but feels a great affection for him; and he will make many readers feel the same.
5 This is an exceptionally great biography, telling of a most interesting and important figure in English history.  Pitt attained what was the leading position (the equivalent of Prime Minister) at the age of 24 and continued in that role till 1801, dealing with stupendously difficult and challenging issues, including the madness of King George III, the issues arising from the French Revolution, the union of Ireland and England in 1800, and the rise of Napoleon.  I can honestly say there is not a dull page in the book, and anyone interested in the momentous years that Pitt dominated the scene in Britain will be spellbound by the book.
5 This is the best of ten biographies I have read this year. The author finds the perfect balance between explaining enough of British parliamentary politics of the time to clarify the difficulties that Pitt faced, and his true genius, but without bogging down in boring details.  The history of England and much of Europe during that time came vividly alive.  When I finished, I found myself grasping for another biography of equal caliber, to take me to the end of the Napoleonic wars.  Pitt dies before Napoleon is defeated, so the biography ends a bit like a cliff hanger without a sequel.  A epilogue on how the war finally ended would have been great.
5 William Hague's biography of Pitt the Younger has excited much comment and interest in the UK because Hague was one of the youngest men ever to lead a major political party.  As Leader of the Conservative Party in the UK he most certainly had his troubles but he did bring a breath of clean air by virtue of his freshness, commitment and youth.  Therefore, it might be fair to say that his own perspective on Pitt would be of exceptional value.However, he has succeeded in writing a very straightforward and excellently researched biography of Pitt without overlaying his own experiences and views.  This is excellent because I wanted to read a biography, not a polemic.Pitt was the son of one of the most famous politicians of the 18th or any century - William Pitt the Elder.  As a young boy he was brought up in an environment saturated with politics and coloured by scholarship and academia.  He became one of the most polished parliamentary debaters the world has ever seen and his success was down to a firm grounding in how to argue.I am particularly interested in the period during which he served as prime minister:  the 1780s to 1806.  This was a time of great change in Britain:  the industrial revolution, the end of the American wars, increased economic successes, the upheaval in France and the inevitable "world war" of Napoleon.  Also, there were new liberal ideas coming forth:  Catholic emanicipation, an Irish parliament, an end to slavery.  Pitt's remarkable achievement was that his sound fiscal acumen allowed Britain to stay solvent, able to afford (just) the long, long Napoleonic wars, whilst at the same time keeping a lid on a fractious Parliament dominated by himself and the always fascinating Charles James Fox.  True party politics were evolving into a format recognisable to us today.Some reviewers on the UK amazon site have criticised the author for not drawing out Pitt's personality.  However, I agree with Hague's conclusions that Pitt was, to some extent unknowable in that his entry into high office at 24 and very long tenure meant that essentially the same person at 46 that he was at 24; his dedication and deep sense of public service meant that his political life was akin to a vocation.  His personal qualities of loyalty, discretion and tenacity are shown clearly in this book - a lack of histrionic character traits does not mean we do not learn about his personality:  rather we learn by default of his robustness of character and his innate sense of service.I enjoyed this very much.  It's quite long but not at all difficult to read.  I was particularly struck with the deep and abiding friendship Pitt had with William Wilberforce who encouraged Pitt to end the slave trade.  Although the changes in the law did not occur until after Pitt's death, nonetheless it was something he was keen to do.  Hague has commented in the British press that he is considering writing a biography of either Pitt the Elder or Wilberforce next; I am keeping my fingers crossed for Wilberforce - someone I'd like to learn more about.An excellent first book about a man who was as open as a book and yet will always be something of a mystery to those of the modern and more self-seeking world of today because of those personal attributes that made him such a model of public service.
5 This is the sort of book that becomes your friend. Such is Hague's comprehensive mastery of the details and the easy flow of his prose that we are drawn into the world of our hero, his friends and enemies and all the swirl of the political dramas. There are plenty. Probably best of all, superbly told by Hague, is right at the start when Pitt becomes the King's minister on his own terms and then uses all the crown's patronage to turn around a very hostile Commons. It's gripping stuff. As is the drama of the King's madness. Will the dissolute Fox and his prince sweep out the hard working Pitt from Number Ten. We all know the answer, but we still keep on turning the pages.Hague gives space to Pitt's private life - his concern for his mother, his loyalty to his friends (so his refusal to abandon Melville when he is accused of financial irregularity), the lack of romance in his life, his debts - but we are never far from the dispatch boxes and the politics, because Pitt wasn't. The pressure is relentless. The French Revolution, the ensuing war, Catholic Emancipation, riots, and slowly but surely you sense that Pitt has something heroic about him. He gets the big questions right - inflexible opposition to Jacobinism, security before freedom - and works himself to an early grave for his country. But there is also a touch of Shakespearean tragedy about it all too. When he died many of the causes dear to his heart were flickering in the wind. Napoleon was the undisputed master of Europe after Austerlitz, so there was no end in sight of the war Pitt had vowed to win; this meant more public debt, something he had vowed to reduce; Catholics were still restricted from entering public office, so endangering Ireland, something he had once resigned over; the slave trade which he loathed was still legal; and his command in the Commons was seriously threatened. It would seem events had swept away all that Pitt had stood for. But then our narrator comes onto the stage and shows us the future and we see he had not died in vain. For at least a quarter of a century Pitt's friends ruled Britain and all his causes eventually saw victory. The war was won at Waterloo; Catholics were freed; slavery was abolished; and Pitt's rigorous system in the Treasury became the foundation for Britain's great expansion in the 19th C. His legacy most certainly lived on, even today, as for Hague it is not Peel who is the founder of the Conservative party, but William Pitt The Younger.
5 I LOVE this book, it's absolutely amazing. I read The Other Boleyn Girl first, because it had to do with Anne Boleyn due to the fact that I very much admire her, and that novel blew me away, so I decided to go on and read some more of her works. I fell in love with The Queen's Fool, which I feel a connection to in a way because I myself am Jewish. When Hannah's early life is being explained, you find that her mother was burned as a heretic in Spain, and that Jews were called "Marranos." That word was used for Jewish people during that time period to show the complete hatred the Spanish, and the world really, had for them. It means swine. The detail is wonderful, and I adored the relationship between Hannah and her betrothed. I love how it grows and matures as Hannah herself grows and matures. It really is a fantastic book with a beautiful story inside. Gregory's portrayal of Mary is off, yes, but I can see why she did that. Mary Tudor did not actually burn those she considered heretics because it was a good old time, but because she truly believed she was doing the right thing, what both God and the Pope would want her to do. Am I sympathetic with Mary now? No. But an author does have their own creative rights and views in a fictional novel, based on history or not.
2 Philippa Gregory starts out with an interesting premise: a young Jewish girl, Hannah, (with the Sight, no less) acting as a "holy fool"/companion/spy in the courts of Edward and his sisters Mary and Elizabeth.  Interesting premise, poor execution.  While the descriptions of London and Calais are wonderful, the characters who inhabit those cities are never fully realized as walking, talking, breathing human beings.  Hannah's motivations are never explained (how Hannah could be so devoted to Queen Mary, who blithely and stubbornly sends scores upon scores of people to same fiery death as Hannah's mother is never satisfactorily explained).  Hannah's fiance, Daniel, is at turns passionately devoted to Hannah, breathtakingly chauvinistic in his attitudes towards her and willing to betray her.  In short, Daniel does whatever the plot needs for him to do, without any rhyme or reason.I read and enjoyed _The Other Boleyn Girl_.  I believe Philippa Gregory is a talented author.  However, _The Queen's Fool_ is in need of stronger, more consistent characters and a more fully developed plot.
5 Right after I finished The Other Boleyn Girl I had to pick this one up and continue, sort of, the story.I liked Hannah well enough. I could see many traits in her that I see in myself. Surprisingly one situation she has in extremely close to one I had, and it was interesting to see someone elses take on it, even if the person is fictitious. I was a bit bored with her always talking about her mother's death, but I guess it would have to be traumatic to watch someone burn as burnt human flesh isn't a pleasant smell or memory. I did feel like I would have liked to know more about Daniel and his family. I didn't really get a good sense of Robert Dudley like I had hoped, but I guess The Virgin's Lover will possibly fill some things in for me.I really felt like the author downplayed on Elizabeth a lot. She was an actress all the time; sick, not sick, plotting, not plotting, schemer, like her mother in the last book; and Mary, so much like her mother, so pleasant all the time. For two girls who spent so much time away from their moms I find it weird that they were both so much like their moms from the previous book.It's a good book. I'd recommend it to others highly. I do say that I did feel for Hannah when she was taken and arrested. I was hoping that she wasn't going to have to endure the torture that she knew others went through. I did, however, wonder when she was going to realize that her Queen Mary wasn't as pleasant as she made herself. She seemed like she was just off on cloud 9 much of the time. Maybe all those years alone, being made, and declared a bastard, touched her more than anyone wanted to admit.Even though they called her, Hannah, a fool. She's no fool. In fact she's smarter than many of the people she comes across.
5 This is about a Jewish girl named Hannah. She flees Spain, with her father, during the Spanish Iquisition.Then they go to England to go to Hannah bethroaled She is very scared becuase her mother was buried at the stake. She is hired by King Edward VI to be a fool, because of her gift of &quot;Sight.&quot; Hannah becomes fool to Queen Mary I and Queen Elizabeth I. She also eventually marrys Daniel.
3 Gregory's second novel on the Tudor period in England is The Queen's Fool. The story is told from the point of view of Hannah Green, a fool in Edward VI and, later, Mary I's court. Hannah and her father are Jews who have fled the Inquisiton in Spain and she, dressed as a boy, takes refuge in England.I did not like the fact that Gregory decided to give Hannah "the sight", or the power of forseeing the future. To me, it made a story where actual historical figures and events occurred, appear less credible. Also, the courtship of Hannah and Danny was somewhat uninteresting. Gregory should have just crafted a novel that basically dealt with both Edward's and Mary's accessions to the throne, as the parts dealing with them and, later, Elizabeth held the most appeal.However, an okay novel. There are some pretty interesting parts despite a somewhat sappy ending.
5 This book was my gateway drug into other Philippa Gregory novels. I've always loved history and fiction but never did the two blend so beautifully as they did in this novel. The heroine is plucky, engaging and lovable. You will be rooting for her as she tries to make her way through Henry VIII's England while hiding her Jewish roots. This is a delicious read that I couldn't put down.
5 At the time of the dreaded Inquisition in Spain, Hannah Verde(Green) escapes from  with her father, Oliver, a printer and bookseller, and they settle in London, England and set up a small shop. They were of Jewish faith, but after Hannah's mother was burned at the stake for heresy, they openly worshipped as Christians, but practiced their faith in secret. In order to protect his daughter, Oliver had her dress as a boy and work as his assistant.Robert Dudley and his tutor, John Dee, come to Oliver's shop for books and believe that Hannah has "the Sight" because as they enter the shop she see a third person dressed all in white. This person does not exist.At this time, the mid fifteen hundreds, England's King was Edward VI, the only legitimate son of Henry VIII. However, Edward was young and sickly, and the country was actually being run by his counselors and so-called protectors, the principle of whom was Robert Dudley's father. Robert secures a position for Hannah (as a boy) to become what he describes as "a holy fool" to young King Edward. Thus Hannah is introduced to court life. In the meantime, her father has bethrothed her to a young Jewish man named Daniel Carpenter, who is studying to become a doctor.When Edward dies, his half-sister, Mary, Henry VIII's daughter by Catherine of Aragon, is declared to be Queen because on his death bed, Edward is forced to name her in his will as his heir. Mary, like her mother is a strict Catholic, and begins to change over the country from being Protestant to Catholic. Fearing for their lives, Hannah's father and Daniel leave and go to Calais, France.Calais at this time was under English rule. They beg Hannah to go with them, but she has become the Queen's fool and is very involved in court affairs.She also is very fond of Mary and feels she cannot leave her. There are many who plot to get rid of the Queen and place her half-sister, Elizabeth (daughter of Anne Boleyn) on the throne. At one point, Hannah is sent by Queen Mary, to spy on Elizabeth, but Hannah also becomes close to the young woman who declares she is innocent of any plots.When Queen Mary begins tortures of all who will not turn to the Catholic faith, Hannah flees to Calais and there she marries Daniel. She finds out that he has had an affair and has fathered a son, and she leaves him. Calais is invaded and reclaimed by the French. Hannah escapes with the help of Robert Dudley who has led the English to try to retain Calais. As she is leaving, the mother of Daniel's child has been wounded and she gives her son to Hannah, who, when she reaches England again, claims as her own. She again comes under the protection of Robert Dudley and then returns to service with Queen Mary who is very ill. When Queen Mary dies, Hannah returns with Daniel's son and finds her husband. She has discovered that she truly loves him and agrees to live as his wife and accept wholeheartedly, the Jewish faith.Like all of Philippa Gregory's books, a facinating tale is woven around true historical facts. Historical novels are among my favorites and it is my opinion that Philippa Gregory is one of the best writers of this type of literature. Alma Winters, Author, Once Upon a Time Tales
4 I enjoyed this book.  There were times when it seemd a bit repetitive, with Hannah constantly being shuffled between loyalties and plots.  I don't believe that Hannah would have kept her loyalty to Mary when she egan to burn heritics, just like her mother was burned.
5 I love this author and she does not disappoint with this novel. Combines both fiction and non-fiction in this great read.
4 It was a good story- based on a fictional character with some true history thrown in. I would reccommend reading the Boleyn books (The Other Boleyn Girl and The Boleyn Inheritance) before reading this -or any of Phillipa's books passed this one- because the stories refer a great deal to Anne Boleyn and King Henry. I feel you could understand this book (and others) without reading the Boleyn books but it really adds to the stories having the backdrop & history of the Boleyn books.
5 This is one of the most fascinating eras of history for me and I truly enjoy reading Ms. Gregory's accounts of what happened between her long-dead characters.  A must-read for any lover of Tudor England.
5 What a grand blending of our fictional character and real history.  Thoroughly enjoyed yet another book in this great series.
2 I love the author's book. The only reason this one wasn't the best was the whole book revolved around  a fictional character, and a fool  at that . I had been looking forward to  reading about Queen Mary like the other books and this fell completely flat.
4 This was a vastly superior book to "The Other Boleyn Girl", not to mention the abomination that is "The Virgin's Lover." Philippa Gregory's novels are either well-written, or just plain terrible. In this case, it's the former.Some have criticized this novel as overly sympathetic to Mary, and I'll admit that her capabilities as a queen may have been exaggerated here. However, it is still a refreshing departure from the monstrous and inaccurate image of Mary as a cruel and ruthless tyrant popularized after her death, an image adopted by many other books in this genre (and even to some extent in the absolutely marvelous novel, "Legacy," by Susan Kay).I did not particularly mind the protagonist, Hannah, as my main focus was upon the actual historical figures she encountered. Mostly I overlooked her, and I've already forgotten much about her character. Gregory has a tendency to focus upon one single, innocuous sideline figure (ala Mary Boleyn), and portray them as an innocent witness to the people and events around them. Because "The Queen's Fool" was my first Gregory novel, I was not yet irritated by the generic protagonist of it, and I found her own plot mildly interesting... And having read the abominable "Virgin's Lover", perhaps it's best that she go back to her reliance upon that stock character.Anyway, well-written, a fresh portrayal of Mary, a far superior portrayal of Elizabeth compared to "The Virgin's Lover" (yes, I know that's not saying much), this book was a largely entertaining read.But for those of you who dislike the portrayal of Elizabeth, I'd like to suggest "Legacy" by Susan Kay. I've read as many books on Elizabeth as I could get my hands on ("Virgin", "Virgin's Lover", "I, Elizabeth", Irwin's trilogy, "The Tower and the Dream", and "The Tudor Wench"). Kay's story is not only a fantastic work of historical fiction, it's an utterly captivating novel.Personally, I think the people comparing this negatively with "The Other Boleyn Girl" probably read TOBG first. The first time you encounter the heroine, Mary/Hannah, I suppose you appreciate her the most.Reading over this review, I realized it was largely negative in tone. I just want to state for the record that I really did enjoy this book, and this enjoyment can be seen in the fact that I subsequently purchased her others. I would recommend this book to others.Her best by far, though, is "Earthly Joys."
3 "It is winter, 1553. Pursued by the Inquisition, Hannah Green, a fourteen-year-old Jewish girl, is forced to flee Spain with her father. But Hannah is no ordinary refugee. Her gift of "Sight," the ability to foresee the future, is priceless in the troubled times of the Tudor court."The Queen's Fool begins in the gardens at Katherine Parr's estate as she tries not to see the affair between her husband and the young Elizabeth Tudor, future queen of England, but the real story lies within Hannah Verde, daughter of a bookseller, refugee of Spain during the Inquisition, and seer of angels and the future.  Hannah is quickly taken on by Sir Robert Dudley who recognizes her gifts and then by Mary Tudor though Hannah travels between her court and that of her traitorous sister Elizabeth.  Hannah is a double agent of sorts, seeing all and reporting what she must during the tumutluous time from Edward's death to Elizabeth's coronation.While Hannah and her families' characters are fictional, the nobles in the story are not.  Gregory seamlessly weaves history and fiction, but the vast amount of detail slows the pace considerably.  Hannah's perspective, perhaps the most powerful aspect of the novel, allows readers deep insight into a Jewish families nightmarish existence during the time of Mary Tudor's barbaric treatment of so-called heretics.  The plot is driven by bits of romance, turning political tides, and the constant fear of torture and death at the hands of powerful Catholics reigning during this time.  I recommend this novel to anyone interested in Jewish history or Tudor England.Review written by Andrea Cefalo, author of The Fairytale Keeper and chief editor of Obelisk Historical Fiction Review
5 If it has Philippa Gregory on it, just read it. She writes these characters so well. Best books I have read in a long while.
5 So many of my readers have told me they read Gregory that I had to try her myself. I read this one and I'm halfway through THE OTHER BOLEYNN GIRL, and I find I do enjoy this author a lot.She's masterful at placing you in vivid settings with interesting characters. I highly recommend her.James Conroyd Martin, Author of PUSH NOT THE RIVER
4 How do you reconcile your beliefs with your heart? That's the central question at the heart of this novel, a look at the reign of Bloody Mary, Queen of England, through the sympathetic eyes of a young woman who would have every excuse in the world to hate and fear her. Hannah Green is a Spanish Jew who has fled the Inquisition with her father. Furthermore, she has the second Sight, the gift of prophecy, which could immediately condemn her as a witch even if she weren't burned for heresy. Yet Hannah is taken into the English court as a holy fool, protected first by her patron Lord Robert Dudley, then by the Queen she comes to serve and love, the Catholic Mary.The contradiction of Hannah's devotion to Mary is both the novel's greatest conflict and its worst sticking point. It allows us to regain sympathy for a tragic figure who has been demonized by history, overshadowed by the greatness of her younger sister Elizabeth. Yet let's face it, the condemnation is not entirely unfounded. Bloody Mary did attempt to bring the Inquisition to England, burning hundreds of Protestants in the hopes of returning England to the "true faith" (and, as this book points out, in revenge for Henry VIII's divorcing her mother Katharine of Aragon).Part of the problem lies with Gregory's protagonist, Hannah, who appears absolutely incapable of criticizing anyone, from the traitorous Dudley to the fanatical Mary to the manipulative Elizabeth. In loving and respecting all of them equally, Gregory perhaps thought she was making Hannah a fair and unbiased narrator. Instead, we see Hannah as a true fool indeed, blindly placing her trust and love in people who care next to nothing for her. Indeed, the best part of the book comes when Hannah flees to Calais with her new husband, where she finally grows a spine and stands up to her catty and snide in-laws.Nevertheless, while certain aspects of the book are weak or implausible, the overall effect is impressive. This is a vibrantly drawn historical novel, offering fresh portrayals of familiar figures and a new perspective on a dark period of England's history, featuring flawed but likable characters. I would recommend it to any fan of historical fiction.
5 So far, all of Philippa Gregory's books are great reading and informative. Even though they are novels, there is alot of Regency English history in them,which has always fascinated and interested me. Her story's remind me so much of Victoria Holt books!
4 Enjoyed reading The Queen's Fool very much, as it paints a clear picture of the complicated situation in England during the Spanish Inquisition. Also very interesting to read it from a young woman's point of view, so you have the very personal accounts of how she interacts with the Queen, and with her sister. Besides that, there is a love interest - in fact, more than one, and again, I liked that things were never black and white, - the young woman in the novel is someone who is fiercely independent, and able to make her own decisions... something that we more or less assume is easy to do now but back then - was nearly impossible for women of all classes. In addition, it's a gripping story, and a fast read - a book that's hard to put down.
5 Gregory is one of my favorite novelists.  Her tale of secret Jewish life, as well as the life of English court during the time of Queen Mary, was very interesting.  Her descripton of Mary, her half sister, Elizabeth, Lord Robert Dudley (Elizabeth's married lover), among others, was very plausible.  I felt like I was there in the 16th century England!  My heart skipped a beat when the heroine of the book, Hannah Green, was arrested for heresy.  Hannah's fear of being burned alive, just like her mother, came through the pages.  Was this book historically accurate?  Who cares? This book is a novel and not a documentary!  Maybe Gregory put too much sympathy on Bloody Mary (as Queen Mary became known historically), but this is Gregory's take on what made Mary act the way she did.  Making history come alive can't be all that easy.  Gregory does it with ease.  I absolutely enjoyed reading this book!
5 Philippa Gregory is one of my favorite authors and she never lets me down.  Want to see how the other side lived 500 years ago, then this is a great book for you.
5 Phillipa Gregory does it again. The tension between two sisters vying for the crown of England comes alive through Hannah, one of the most enigmatic characters in Gregory's writing. Highly recommended.
5 I couldn't put this book down; it is incredible.The story follows two fascinating lines of development; the turbulent times in England following the death of Henry VIII, and the growth and development of the heroine Hannah Verde, a young secretly Jewish girl who is endowed with the &quot;sight.&quot;The famous characters of the time are portrayed in unique ways through the perspective of Hannah - the devastatingly handsome and charming rake Robert Dudley, &quot;Bloody Mary&quot; Tudor, who is portrayed as a good, sympathetic character who becomes unhinged and does horrendous things due to her precarious position, the constant threats to her throne, her childhood suffering and her husband's conduct. (And in the end, her legacy is to have a nasty-tasting cocktail named after her!) Elizabeth is portrayed as a young character who is charming, intelligent, confident, something of a slut (Hannah sees her in a vision as &quot;the virgin queen who is not a virgin&quot;), flawed, frightened at times, and very clever. She is not as good a person as Mary, but her common sense sympathy with her people make her, in the end, a much better queen. Even minor characters such as Amy Dudley are well portrayed, as Hannah foresees a glimpse of her bitter end.Hannah herself is fascinating. She begins as a young, uncertain, frightened child with horrible memories of her mother's death and a girlish crush on Dudley. The book shows how she grows and develops in the royal court, and keeps her innate goodness even as other characters crumble. Through the book she develops and matures, and in the end she triumphs: her rather obtuse betrothed learns that he must treat her with respect, and she turns down Robert Dudley's proposition in order to be a good wife.This book is an exciting, unique, fresh look at history, and one of the best books I have read.
3 Having read the very fine and riveting, "The Other Bolelyn Girl", I expected another good read.  Maybe not as great as the first one, but a solid one .  The opening chapter of "The Queens Fool" sparkled with promise, and I had a rush of satisfaction thinking I was in for another wonderful story.  Once past the first chapter, however, the entire writing style changed, and seemed to lose its strength and focus.  Too much repetition of language about Queen Mary, (blah, blah, blah and more blah, blah, blah), and I found myself skipping around the pages.  Not a good thing.  Phillippa Gregory is a good writer, but for some reason this story just wasn't up to the quality of her other books.  It just seemed to repeat itself endlessly.
3 Hannah Verde and her father fled the Spanish Inquisition after her mother was burned at the stake.  They arrive in England in the year 1548 and hide their Jewish faith in Protestant England.  Hannah had dressed as a boy to avoid harassment on the flight from Spain and after five years of living in England,  she continues to wear boys clothes in order to make assisting her father in his bookshop an easier task.  Her father's bookshop brings in many clients, including the royal Robert Dudley.  Robert Dudley takes special notice of the thirteen-year-old Hannah because she sees an angel over his shoulder and he believes she has the Sight.  He brings Hannah to court as the androgynous Holy Fool to the frail and dying teenage King Edward.  Once she has entered royal service, she finally meets Daniel, her betrothed, a student physician chosen by the Jewish matchmaker.  The promise of a life with him is something Hannah alternately wants and doesn't want, but it gives her a potential escape from the political upheaval that is to come in the next few years.Upon Edward's death, we witness Queen Mary's struggle to ascend the throne with Hannah as her constant companion.  Hannah continues to work for 'Bloody' Queen Mary who changes the country's religion to Catholicism and persecutes several hundred people through torture and burning at the stake.  Mary trusts Elizabeth to spy on her Protestant sister Elizabeth and she spends much time with both women.  By the end of the book, Queen Mary's reign comes to an end.  If the author chose to write a sequel, although the book finishes with Hannah's personal story nicely concluded, there is room for another novel with more of Hannah and her young physician as well as Queen Elizabeth's court.This novel was decently paced and I was fairly interested in the historical events of the time.  But I found that I just didn't care that much what happened to Hannah.  Although she is smart and has a life at court, I found that these characteristics were more statements than backed by events of the novel.  She is involved in plots and has multiple loyalties, but there is a simplistic innocence to the unfolding of events through her eyes that I found disappointing.  There is also a great deal of sympathy for Bloody Queen Mary and the hard life she had lived, her loveless marriage to the Spanish King Phillip, her odd failed pregnancies, her fatal illness and her constant deep depression.  Her faith and conviction, which lead to religious persecution were depicted as virtuous qualities.  But my biggest dissappointment in the novel was the fact that Hannah has the Sight, but it is so infrequent and useless in the book, that it didn't add to the story.I thought the Queen's Fool was decent reading, but I didn't really enjoy it as much as I had hoped.  I think more of the Sight, a more complex presentation of the politics, more of the charismatic Elizabeth and more of what drives Hannah would have made this a better book.
1 I slogged through this novel, hoping to find some redeeming value, only to be disappointed. I found the pace slow, repetitive, and mostly boring. Some of the plot twists were interesting, but barely believable. The main character, Hannah, had no integrity. She curried favor with whomever she happened to be with at the time, and was very disappointing. No heroine here, really. I really wanted to like her, but her feminism and intermittant chutzpa just didn't correlate with what is known about women of the time.
1 What a BORING book!!  I tried sooooo hard to finish it, but simply could not!Yes, the historical parts may be interesting, but what wimpy characters! what a horribly dull way of telling a story!Hannah, the main character, is the epitome of the boring, flat,  awful little person.  From what I read, she seemed despicable and spine-less, utterly untrustworthy and hipocritical.  YUCK!So much for this book.  I hated it.
3 I read "The Virgin's Lover" by Gregory and loved it- delightfully smutty and scandalous and really engagingly well written. I picked up this book thinking that I would enjoy it just as much, and realized today that I'm really not enjoying it.Hannah is the vassal of Robert Dudley. He's released her from her duty to him, but because she's in love with him (Why? cause he's, like, a hottie?) he blatantly manipulates her into spying and plotting against a queen she loves. And there's lots of independant girl in a patriarchal period drama with her betrothed.All I can say is meh meh meh.
4 Ms. Gregory's second novel in her Tudor themed books is not as good as her first, The Other Boleyn Girl. While in the first novel the narrative flowed smoothly, this time the story feels a bit forced at times. I did not find this book as engaging as the first - but I must say that Ms. Gregory does provide a pleasant window that allows the reader to spend a brief stay in a magical historical time. Ms. Gregory clearly does her research and knows how to spin a tale. I do recommend this book, but with a 4 rather than a 5.
4 In her previous work, Gregory told the story of Anne Boleyn, second wife of Henry Tudor, as seen through the eyes of her lesser-known sister, Mary.  In this follow-up work, Gregory uses a completely fictional character, Hannah Green, to follow the reign of Queen Mary, the once-beloved daughter of Henry who was declared illegitimate and exiled before finally coming into her inheritance. Hannah, a young girl of 14, is the queen's &quot;fool&quot; because she has the gift of second sight.  She came into royal service through Robert Dudley, a handsome, charismatic lord who promised her safety (Hannah and her Jewish father had fled from Spain after her mother was burned at the stake during the Spanish Inquisition).  Hannah loves the Queen, but she is running from both her persecuted past as well as her uncertain future:  she is betrothed to a young Jewish man, Daniel Carpenter, who she is presumed to marry at age 16.  Outside of her own personal circumstances, Hannah becomes wrapped up in the antics of Princess Elizabeth, the radiant half-sister of Mary who also makes Hannah her confidante.  Hannah's simple life as the queen's fool becomes dangerously complex, and her own future becomes intertwined with that of England.Gregory has a clear talent for historical fiction, as she skillfully weaves interactions between actual and fictional characters.  The reader is treated to many character transformations:  Hannah, from a young girl in boy's clothing to a young woman; Mary, from a gentle princess to an unforgiving and broken Queen; Elizabeth, from a scared young woman to a future heir to the throne; and Dudley, from a young courier to one of the most powerful men in England.  Although Hannah's story is not quite as dramatic as Mary Boleyn's and the ending of this book is not quite so climactic as in The Other Boleyn Girl, Gregory has written another well-researched and enjoyable novel about the Tudor era.
5 This book is a big, scrumptious read for lovers of history and for lovers of the work of Philippa Gregory, who is queen of the stories of Tudor times. Hannah Green is a 14 year old Jewish girl who has escaped the fires of the Spanish inquisition with her father, to settle in London. Her mother was burned at the stake as a heretical Marrano, a Jewish convert to Catholicism. Father and daughter live in their place of business, a printing shop, with Hannah permanently dressed as a boy for the sake of safety. When the young King Edward dies, his throne is taken by his elder sister Mary, daughter of Henry V111 and Katherine of Aragon, and who is a fanatically devout Catholic who sets up the burning fields of Smithfield, to torture and burn alive, anyone who is declared to be not totally devoted to the cause of Catholicism. Hannah has the gift of "Sight" and is used by both Queen Mary and her sister, Princess Elizabeth, as a "Holy Fool", to foresee the future, but manages to tread a careful path between both of them. It's a big, informative book with fascinating glimpses into life at Court in treacherous times, as courtiers and citizens alike change their religions and allegiances to suit that of the reigning monarch. It's a wonderful read and one which ended too soon for my liking.
2 After reading The Other Boleyn Girl and The Boleyn Inheritance, I couldn't wait to read the next book telling the story of Henry VIII's offspring.  I should have paid attention to the reviews--this book is not worth the read.  It is nothing like the other two books.*SPOILER ALERT!!! THE FOLLOWING PART OF THE REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS IF YOU HAVE NOT READ THE STORY!*For starters, the narrator is a fictional character, not one of the historical women narrating the other two books.  Hannah Green is a young girl who has the gift of "Sight," thus adding a supernatural element to the story which drew the story farther from "historical" and more toward "fiction."  She is an ignorant girl and very annoying.  She seems to fall in love with everyone who crosses her path: Queen Mary, Lady Elizabeth, Robert Dudley, Daniel, etc.  She wavers alliances depending on where she is at the moment and takes no firm position on anything.  While this might be excused in her younger years, it becomes ridiculous as she ages.  This is particularly evident with her infatuation with Robert Dudley and her desire to serve him, even after she is married and is no longer "in love" with him as she once claimed.Hannah is given a job working for Queen Mary as her fool.  She quickly becomes one of the queen's closest friends.  While I am no history expert, I'm pretty sure the role of the fool was NOT somebody who became the closest confidante of royalty.  Not only that, but she becomes just as close to Lady Elizabeth, increasing the ridiculousness of the story.  When she leaves these important historical women to flee to Calais, I was particularly frustrated.  I read the book hoping to get a fictional yet believable account of the struggle between Mary and Elizabeth and Gregory takes the story in a completely new direction by focusing on the religious struggles and the fight between the French and English.By the end of the book, I couldn't wait to be finished.  The characters were became SO boring and two dimensional, almost parodies of themselves.  The Virgin's Lover was next on my "to-read" list and has been removed since finishing this story.  I hope to find an alternative historical fiction author who writes about the rein of Queen Elizabeth I who will not disappoint.
4 The Queen's Fool is very compelling because of the main character, Hannah Green. When someone has gone through so much and lost loved ones in such a violent manner, it would scar you and should teach someone like Hannah, to `duck and cover'. This wonderfully-crafted character overcomes many fears and does what she has to do to survive, regardless of her own, internal struggles. Hannah's goodness and her big heart endears her first to the young King Edward and then to Queen Mary. As the story unfolds and Hannah finds herself in Queen Mary's service, thanks to the cunning Robert Dudley, she does the best that she can with her limited courtly talents and skills. Her integrity helps her to navigate her way through the perfidious court life and the dangerous schemes which she becomes embroiled in.The story is skilfully written to give us time with Hannah Green while still supplying us with a very generous helping of the royals; including Robert Dudley, Elizabeth and Queen Mary. There are some interesting plot twists and the characters are vividly drawn to sweep us back to the times when your choice of faith and your loyalties could mean your unimaginable success or your plunging ruin and a traitor's death.I highly recommend this book!(8 out of 10 Diamonds) - Thoroughly enjoyed it 2008-2009 Bobbie Crawford-McCoy (Book Reviews By Bobbie).All rights reserved.
4 The Queen's Fool is an interesting, historical book, fitting in nicely with Gregory's other books about the queens and kings of England in the 1500s.  At times the book was a little repetitive, but otherwise a good buy.
5 The queen of England, Mary, who preceeded the more famous Queen Elizabeth on the throne has all but been forgotten.  The central character to this book, Hannah Verde, is a Jewish girl pretending to be Christian for her own protection.  Hannah has the unpredictable gift of being able to see the future.  She is brought to court to work as a &quot;fool&quot; to the short lived King Edward and stays on, through thick and thin, to work for Queen Mary and her half sister Elizabeth.  I found this story to be less about Hannah and more about Queen Mary who had a disastrous reign because of her fanatical Catholic faith and her poor selection of a husband.  The story also focuses on the manipulative Queen Elizabeth before she was Queen.  Although a bit dry at times I found this book to be a fascinating study of England at a time of extreme religious turmoil and intolerance.  The message of the book, I think, is that more murder and mayhem has been committed in the name of religion than for any other reason and that the only way to peace is religious tolerance.  I highly recommend this book.
3 It took me several starts to get into this book-- I used to love this kind of novel when I was a teenager and would sit curled up in the stacks at my school library, reading during study hall. I'd mark my place at the end of each study hall and put the book back on the shelf to resume reading the next school day. (My high school, at the time, only allowed students to check out 1 novel at a time, figuring no one would read more than that at once. They just didn't understand the ways of serial readers, I guess. I had recently moved to Charleston, and missed my friends from my old home terribly. I found myself in a new and strange world of southern gentility and struggled to understand it and find my place. Getting lost in tales of the Tudors and in English history was a wonderful escape.Anyhow, thanks to authors like Eleanor Alice Burford Hibbert (who you may also know as Jean Plaidy, Victoria Holt and Phillipa Carr) and a marvelous history teacher named Martha Morgan my junior year of high school, a lifelong love of history was ignited.This book reminded me of those days and those books...I found myself not curled up in the stacks at the Ashley Hall library (which now is much more progressive in its check out policy) but curled up in my living room, snug and safe and secure in my world. (It also was a nice break from the more challenging books I am reading at the moment: magical realism, math and a couple of others....)As to the book itself, it is a nice diversion-- my brain could absorb the story, remember the history and escape a while in a love story. I will probably read another book by this author, just for the warm memories it would evoke.
5 The plot was a unique concept but very well written. A young refugee, Jewish, ends up in the Queen's court and favored by both Mary and Queen Elizabeth. (knowing the intrigue made this just a little less plausible)I was utterly caught up in this book and upon finishing it stayed with me for some time.  It's the best book I've read this year and one of the author's very very best.
5 I have read them all, and enjoyed them- well, nearly all.  This was far and away the best of the lot.  I couldn't put it down, and when my husband told me at 2 am to please go to bed, I got up and finished it in the living room.  Great book.
4 I didn't enjoy this one as much as The Other Boleyn Girl, but if you like historical fiction this is a great read!
4 At first I wasn't sure where this was going, but then I couldn't put it down.  I had read "The Other Boleyn Girl", so some of the references were familiar.  I'm sure it's not all literal truth, but I feel like I have learned more about English history and it makes me want to know more.
3 I love Philippa Gregory's books, especially about the Tudor era.  This one slides over into the relentlessly gloomy.  It was a perilous time for high and low, Catholic or Protestant by turns; but the heroine's thoughts never stray from the imminent possibility of death because she is a "converted" Jew, although she gains a privileged position with both of Henry the VIII's daughters at court.  Likewise both Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth dwell nearly every waking moment on the possibility they will be either overthrown and put to death or put to death for treason.  Yes, but there had to be more to these women.  Mary enjoys brief happiness on her marriage, soon dashed.  Elizabeth shakes in her boots virtually all the time.  Elizabeth was a brilliant woman, considered to have the genius IQ her father, Henry, is also deemed to have had.  Yet Gregory has Mary accuse her of being a bastard by a lute player, which has to be taken as Mary's hatred and paranoia.  Elizabeth had too many traits in common with her royal father for anyone to believe this slur was anything but a false accusation used to send Anne Boleyn to the block.  Gregory does like to revise general views of historical characters, and portrayed Anne Boleyn as a raving shrew in THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL, with Katherine of Aragon rightly the victim she was. Anne Boleyn was calculating and selfish, but lost her head because she didn't bear Henry a son.  However, I see a pattern emerging of soft-pedaling of the excesses of the old Catholic order and the Inquisition, while the Protestant monarchy that prevailed is denigrated by unpleasant accusations about Elizabeth, and there is inexcusable downplaying of Bloody Mary's campaign of mass murder of suspected Protestants by burning at the stake. Much blood was spilled before Mary, with priests and Catholics true to their faith masquerading and in hiding; but Elizabeth did not start burning Catholics when she took the throne.  That she was a callous seductress even at age 14, rather than an awakening teenaged girl chased and perhaps seduced by Thomas Seymour, is ludicrous.  Supposedly she even--gasp--swung her hips when she walked to seduce Mary's husband, Phillip.  That doesn't play for me. It was a tightrope she walked, not instead her wicked nature to be a tease. She probably wasn't a virgin queen, only an unmarried one; but I think Gregory tries too hard to paint her as less sympathetic than Mary, when Mary was a woman almost addled on the subject of religion and devoid of conscience at what she did.  Not that a lot of people weren't then, and still are now--witness Northern Ireland and the Islamic terrorists who bomb innocents in the name of their religion. I have to confess much as I love historical fiction, and know religious fanaticism played a threatening role in that world, I am getting bored with characters who natter on about it all the time.  I disliked much about THE BIRTH OF VENUS by Sarah Dunant for this reason--I want a human story to dominate in a novel, not constant thoughts of saints or what is the correct route to heaven. Hannah Verde is the protagonist, yet she is dwarfed by the events portrayed; and there were contrived events that conveniently sent her back to England when she escaped that clunked in the plot.  This isn't like Philippa Gregory, not the writer I've admired.  I now hesitate to read on in her Tudor series.
5 i recommend this book to any one who enjoys the history of this  time. very believable characters  . great read
5 While the spotlight of historical fiction has often shined on Queen Elizabeth I, only seldom has it shone on her older sister, the infamous Mary Tudor.  In this fine work, Phillipa Gregory makes a sympathetic character out of the woman history has dubbed &quot;Bloody Mary&quot;, and shows us the darker side of England's greatest queen, the beloved Elizabeth.Hannah Green is a young girl when she first encounters the then Princess Elizabeth, who is at the time acting in an inappropriate fashion with her stepfather.  This image haunts Hannah, who becomes &quot;Fool&quot; to the ill-fated King Edward, then his sister, Queen Mary, by virtue of her gift of Sight.  A Jew masquerading as a Christian, Hannah quickly learns to adapt to the religious changes that accompany the change of monarch, and learns to love Mary, whom so many in history have hated.  Still, she is drawn to the glittering Elizabeth as a moth to a flame.As she matures, Hannah learns to appreciate her heritage, her family, and the love of a good man.  Only in nearly losing all does she begin to appreciate the life she has.An excellent read, I recommend it highly to all those interested in the concept of religious tolerance, English history and the Tudor family.
5 This is one of the best books I have read this year.  I ordered it (hardcover), read it, passed it on to friends then donated it to the library.  All of us couldn't put it down once we started it.  This is one of the books I will recommend to people for a long time.
4 I liked this book, especially when I could read it after reading the preceding book, The Other Boleyn Girl, but I didn't find it as capturing as its predecessor. I found Hannah a little weak and I didn't like how Queen Mary was portrayed; I pitied her, but still found her a bit obnoxious at times. This is a good read and gives another facinating look into the tumultuous Tudor-era. I would especially recommend reading this after reading The Other Boleyn Girl. Both of them together helps you understand the Tudor hisory much better.
5 This is the first Philippa Gregory book I read and it was hard to put down. This is the story of how the offspring of King Henry VIII battle it out for the throne. At the beginning of the story, young Edward VI - Henry's only male heir - is on the throne, but is dying from what was probably tubuerculosis. Without an heir of his own, Edward's older sisters are next in line for the throne. Mary, daughter of Katherine of Aragon (Henry's first wife), is the oldest, but her sister Elizabeth, daughter of Anne Boleyn (Henry's infamous second wife), is an ambitious and scheming woman and wants the throne for herself. Throughout the course of the novel, we see the final days of Edward's reign, the reign of Mary, and the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth.The narrator of the story is Hannah Green. She and her father have fled to England from Spain because the Spanish Inquisition is out to get Jews like them. Hannah's mother died at the hands of the Inquisition before the family was able to escape. While Hannah's father maintains a print shop in London, Hannah becomes a holy fool for the brief remainder of Edward's life, and then takes on the same role for Queen Mary. She often finds herself being a confidant of the queen, and when Mary's paranoia about Elizabeth's scheming increases, Hannah ends up spending a lot of time being Elizabeth's companion so she can report back to Mary. Hannah finds much to admire in both women, and often finds herself torn in her allegiances. She also finds her life put in considerable risk because of her assocation with them.This is a well-told story about a fascinating period of British history. My one recommendation to people who want to read this book is that you read two of Gregory's other books first. The Constant Princess is about Queen Katherine of Aragon, Mary's mother. The Other Boleyn Girl is about Anne Boleyn, Elizabeth's mother. With those novels as background, I think the events in The Queen's Fool make more sense. Since I read this one first, I often had to go digging around on the internet to figure out - for example - what Mary was talking about when she said how ill-treated her mother was and how they were seperated from each other for much of Mary's life. If you're well-read in your Tudor history, though, then dive right into The Queen's Fool. It's a good read.
5 This novel set in 16th century England about a young Jewish girl who is snatched up from her normal life to become a fool for Queen Mary and consequently becomes intimately involved in all the intrigue surrounding this time period and especially the relationship between half-sisters "Bloody" Mary and Elizabeth I. All the characters are real except for the young girl and her family.I loved this book because I had seen documentaries about Elizabeth and this time period before, but this book made it truly come alive and portrayed the complexities of both Mary and Elizabeth's personalities as well as the religious turmoil existing at this time in a very real way as Jews literally ran for their lives and everyone else constantly had to change their religion depending on who was on the throne.  Kept me reading and sparked a renewed interest in learning about this time period.
4 After reading and seeing so many renditions of the story of Mary and Elizabeth, I must admit it was quite refreshing to see Mary portrayed as a warm, caring character only trying to end war and destruction and Elizabeth as a scheming, cunning woman intent on securing her power. Gregory tells the tale of these two sisters through the character of Hannah Green, an interesting and dynamic character herself, who becomes unwillingly involved in both of the women's lives. Over the course of the novel, the reader comes to understand better Mary's plight and stubborness of her religion and her increasing suspicions of those around her. It is no wonder at the end of her life she was so bitter and resentful towards her sister, Elizabeth. Elizabeth too is portrayed with character flaws and weaknesses, especially her chronic illness. Gregory does a fantastic job in bringing these legendary historical figures to life admist the rebellion of 17th century England and through the main character of Hannah Green.Wonderful historical fiction. Highly Recommended.
5 Wonderfully descriptive, fabulous story telling.  I enjoyed this as much as the other Boleyn girl and can't wait for the next installment to see what Elizabeth is up to!  Don't stop writing Philippa!
5 I finished The Other Boleyn Girl last week and went right on to The Queen's Fool, and again, couldn't put the book down, finishing it in less than 48 hours.  Like The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queen's Fool tells the story of great events in Tudor history--in this case, the great succession battles between the death of Henry's only son, Edward, through the final ascension of Elizabeth.  The most surprising part of the book to me was the great sympathy I came to feel for Queen &quot;Bloody&quot; Mary, who came to the throne wanting to rule wisely and mercifully and who became a despised tyrant, burning Protestant heretics and executing anyone suspected of plotting against her.  Gregory shows how Mary's circumstances lead her almost inevitably to the horrific outcomes, yet you feel sorry for her and repelled at the same time.  And like Gregory's previous book, the great events are viewed through someone watching from the sidelines and caught up against their will--in this case, Hannah Green, a converso fleeing the Inquisition in Spain, whose gift of foretelling the future makes her Robert Dudley's servant and spy in two great royal households, while trying to make sense of her own life and hidden faith.  I loved this book as much as The Other Boleyn Girl and recommend both highly, and can't wait to tackle more of Philippa Gregory's backlist.
5 Intriguing! Great descriptions of the Tudor court in a suspense filled, exciting time in history. Had me hooked.
3 I was hooked by the promise of a main character caught in the intrigues of 1553-1558 England, a pawn between a capricious Protestant princess and Her Very Catholic Majesty who would as soon burn a heretic as look at them.  This novel is NOT the book I was expecting, not by a long shot.The main weakness?  Hannah Green, the first person POV.  We're told how her mother perished in the Inquisition, but we are then asked to believe that she can love Queen Mary, who shared the same philosophies as those who slaughtered her mother.  While she's loving Mary, she has to love Elizabeth too.  In other words, her character is weak.  She's supposed to be a "holy fool", someone with visions and prophecies, but more often than not she's simply foolish.  She has a bizarre romance through the course of the book, but nothing I could bring myself to care about.Gregory did a wonderful job bringing the characters of actual history to vivid life.  Having read her other novels, I think she should stick to that.
3 "Only a fool trusts a king."Hannah Verde "Green" is a young Jewish girl who poses as a boy to apprentice to her father, a bookkeeper. But when Lord Robert Dudley realizes she has "The Sight", she becomes King Edward's Fool. Hannah The Fool gets to experience the King's death, Queen Mary's rise to the throne, and Princess Elizabeth's eternal scheming to get on the throne all from the front seat of the court.The last Philippa Gregory book I read,The Other Boleyn Girl, I called a guilty pleasure. It wasn't that amazing, the history was iffy, the characters 1-dimensional, but it was amusing and entertaining. I wasn't bored in the slightest.Oddly enough, I found myself enjoying "The Queen's Fool" even more than I enjoyed TOBG. I don't know much about the historical accuracy, the characters might have been even more annoying, but I was definitely more engaged in the story and more interested.NOTE: History isn't my forte. I appreciate historical accuracy in a book, but it's going to have to be pretty blatantly WRONG for me to notice it (i.e. Jeans in the Middle Ages type thing). Therefore, if you are reading this review to see how accurate TQF is, I would suggest you move to another revieww, because I won't be able to answer that question very adequately at all.Probably the biggest, most obnoxious and annoying aspect of the book for me was Hannah Verde herself. There was quite a bit I didn't like about her.1. Anachronistic. Yeah, I know, I just noted I "Don't do history" and my first complaint is about historical accuracy. But I put this under "Things that are obvious an idiot would know". I'm sorry but I can't believe a 16th century woman would be saying these things:"I don't wish to marry...I should like to have my own shop and print my own books.""It's not you I dislike. It's marriage itself. I wouldn't choose marriage at all. What is it about the servitude of women hoping for safety to men who cannot even keep them safe?""I need to be a woman in my own right, and not only a wife...This is the woman I've become."Women of this day got married and had kids. That was it. There was no big push for women's rights or women to have jobs outside of being a wife and mother. Sorry, if you want to do this plot device, travel to the 1950's. Even then, though, the women STILL were expected to be wives and mothers FIRST AND ONLY and were SHAMED if they had jobs (just ask my grandmothers!).2. Mary Sue-ness. Hannah has "The Sight", some weird, undefined phenomenon that takes a historical fiction book into the fantasy realm. Women are jealous of her. She befriends Queen Mary AND Princess Elizabeth and are buddy-buddy with them up until the end. She has several men chasing to get in her skirts. She is shapely and attractive and has desires that are NOT common in her time period. Hannah, come on down, you are the newest Mary Sue!!3. Miss Passivity. Much like with Mary Boleyn, Hannah barely does ANYTHING of her own volition. Much of her life is being pushed around by everyone else. Now, I know earlier that I said that women were expected to be wives and mothers, and basically didn't have rights. That is true, but I still think it is possible to show a historically accurate woman that isn't a doormat all the time, letting everyone walk all over her.4. Inconsistent. Hannah spends much of the book fearing that she will be revealed as Jewish. And THAT is why she clings to the VERY Catholic Queen, Mary, who killed several "heretics" during her time. Uh...wait, that doesn't make sense! Now, this COULD have been done well, if Hannah had met and befriended Mary (which she did), but had serious reservations and fears about Mary--something like "Mary is a woman I look up to...but she could kill me at any moment for being Jewish!" But this NEVER HAPPENS.And yet...she says THIS:"I couldn't pray to a God who would allow my mother to be burned to death. I couldn't pray to a God who could be invoked by the torchbearers."But you can serve a Catholic Queen with no problems? Not even some "Oh, I like Queen Mary, but she's burning people, like the Catholic Church burned my Mom, oh no what do I do?" Huh? How does THAT make any sense?5. Holier Than Thou. Hannah flirts around with the married Lord Robert Dudley. But when Princess Elizabeth does this, WHAT A HORRIBLE SLUT THAT GIRL IS!!! HOW DARE SHE!!!"The Queen had to watch the man she still passionately loved at another woman's beck and call, and that woman, Elizabeth, the unwanted sister who had stolen Mary's Father, was now seducing her husband."And yet, when Lord Robert's wife, entrusted with Hannah's care, treats Hannah like dirt, thinking she has fooled around with Lord Robert (and in some ways, Hannah did), GOD FORBID WHAT A HORRIBLE WOMAN!! HOW DARE she not treat Hannah with the utmost respect!And then, when Princess Elizabeth rebels against the Catholic ways, SHAME ON HER for defying the laws! Oh, Hannah still practices her Jewish ways in secret? Oh, THAT'S OKAY!! Geesh, get it right!6. Lack of compassion. At one point, Hannah learns Daniel has cheated on her. She is understandably upset (I truly did feel sorry for her and was glad when she reacted appropriately). But when Amy Dudley's husband, Hannah's beloved Lord Robert, does the same thing, does Hannah show ANY compassion or empathy to Amy? HELL NO!!7. Mary Boleyn 2.0, New and Improved! There were several times where I found it hard to differentiate between Mary from TOBG and Hannah from TQF. Both were passive, holier-than-thou, women who admired their Pure and Righteous Queen Who Can Do No Wrong, and fall in love with the most boring of men. Even Hannah's supposed Jewishness felt fake; more like painting a white rose red.8. Forgetfulness. After Hannah learns about Daniel's baby momma, she leaves his house and lives with her father. Understandable. She also doesn't immediately take him back. Good. But then, after the battle of Calais, suddenly, she forgets how he cheated on her and talks about how "patient and longsuffering" Daniel was, how he "waited for her" until she left court and married him. Um, girlfriend, no, he wasn't patient. If he were patient, he wouldn't have a baby momma. You have a VERY short memory, don't you?But enough about Hannah, I think I've worn myself out talking about her.The other characters are 1-dimensional like in PG's TOBG. Queen Mary is Pure and Holy and All Things Good. While I liked this better than painting her as some devil woman just because she had a lot of people put to death, it got to be over the top on numerous occasions. Princess Elizabeth felt almost EXACTLY like Anne Boleyn from TOBG: scheming, playing around with men, being evil and thinking of herself and her power over her country. Again, while I don't think Princess/Queen Elizabeth was all Perfection, I don't think she was the harlot that PG tried to portray her as.I got no sense of Hannah's father's character; he felt very much a blank slate. Daniel felt like a selfish, domineering pig. I have no idea WHY he and Hannah Fell In Lurve. Daniel's mother and sisters were terrible people--well, actually, I had more heart for them, realizing that they were scared and didn't want to lose Daniel. But the way Hannah talks about them, you would think they chased her with pitchforks and playfully tied her to the BBQ every so often.In fact, none of the women, other than Queen Mary and Hannah herself are portrayed as being "good". It's sad that Hannah can't have a single female friend--and not someone like the Queen, someone of Hannah's own rank.The story is what I think really gripped me. Even though Hannah drove me bonkers, I was curious about what would happen to her. I think also PG writing from the point of view of a fictional character helped her story; she had a lot more flexibility and could show us the little things in court--things that the bigger players, like Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth wouldn't have seen. Sure, it's awful convenient that Hannah gets in the employ of the Court and sees all that she does, but I'll suspend disbelief for that. What I find ridiculous, honestly, is "The Sight". I have no idea why THAT was included (and I do realize that is what gets her hired, but geesh, there are other ways!).The writing was serviceable. Nothing glaringly bad. My experience listening on audiobook was good--though I did miss the woman who narrated TOBG. I did wonder whether Hannah, a Jewish girl, would reference Judas Iscariot:"We ran from her, like a pair of Judas Iscariots, desperate to save our own skins."(If this would have been likely or not, please comment and tell me!!)I think if the character of Hannah had been stronger, less annoying, and more unique (less like Mary Boleyn from TOBG), then this book would have been more enjoyable to read. It's a decent read, one that makes you head over to Wiki and check up on some long-forgotten history. Don't go in expecting brilliance, and you are bound to be pleased.Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
5 I have read all of Phillipa Gregory's books and I enjoy her attention to detail that allows me to see the action in my head as I read.  very colorful and well written.
3 Frankly, the author's odd choice of writing almost completely in comma splices really put me off. I found it hard to concentrate on the story when this major usage error kept popping out at me over and over. I only wish I was exaggerating.Aside from that, the story moves along, and I was intrigued by the characters. Frankly, I thought the best part of the story was the portion the protagonist, Hannah Green, spent in Calais. I was much more interested in her story as a Jew in the Renaissance than all the palace intrigues.I did not understand Hannah's divided loyalties. She seemed to serve several masters and equally love them all, which didn't make sense to me. Also, no reasons were really shown why she should love these people, who really hadn't done all that much to earn it, frankly.The writer seemed to me to choose very obvious aspects of Judaism to demonstrate her characters' religion, although perhaps this was on purpose, too. One would not necessarily want to confuse Gentile readers who didn't know much about Judaism. Gregory also has the excuse that her characters are actively hiding their religion and do not remember all their customs, nor keep them out of fear of being discovered as Jews. Still, I found the depiction of this side of Hannah's life rather basic.Another complaint I have about Gregory's writing is that her dialogue is not period, which is something I noted while reading The Other Boleyn Girl. It is a little off-putting to find so much non-period dialogue in a piece of historical fiction. Particularly annoying was the repetitive use of "D'you" for "Did you."After I have said all that, you might wonder why it merited the "three stars." Like I said, it was readable. I did become interested in the characters. I don't think I could have finished it, considering all its flaws, if it didn't have these good qualities. I found it odd and intriguing to see Mary portrayed so sympathetically. However, to paraphrase Will Somers, the Fool, history did not remember Mary's good qualities, just as they did not remember her father's. As he is remembered as a lecherous wife-killer, she is remembered for her burning of "heretics," mostly Protestants, which rightly earned her the appellation Bloody Mary.
4 i'm about three quarters of the way though it. easy read. i kept wanting to see what was next and where the woman would end up.
