5 What a delightful read!  Water for Elephants has got to be one of the best reads for anyone that likes animals, circuses, and a very wonderfully flowing story.  Working in or for a circus, especially in past years, had to be one of the most grueling and tough jobs to tackle.  Sara Gruen makes the reader smell the circus smells, taste the midway foods, and be in the ring with the animals as they entertain.  I have not been to a circus since I was a teenager, which is MANY years ago.  Water for Elephants took me back to those days reminding me of some of the things I saw and smelled.His family placed Jacob Jankowski in a home for old folks because none of them wanted to "have" to take care of him.  Sad, but true.  Jacob is not sure if he is ninety or ninety-three years of age.  He only knows his age is somewhere around that range.  Jacob hates the other old people in the home, hates the food, and hates the nurses that treat him like he does not know what he is doing or saying.  This is no life for Jacob Jankowski!The story then goes back to when Jacob was in Cornell College studying to be a veterinarian.  He was shy about women; wanted nothing to do with them socially.  Jacob thought he must be the worlds oldest male virgin.  Jacob does well with his schooling until one day he was called out of class and told that both of his parents had been killed in an automobile accident.  Jacob, of course, was crushed, mentally and physically.  This couldn't be happening to him.  His parents had been paying his way through college so he figured he could continue his education with whatever his parents left him.  His father was also a veterinarian with a good practice.  Jacob was beside himself when he was told that all the property his parents owned was being taken because of no funds to pay for the bills.  It turns out that his father bartered with his customers as they paid him in chickens, eggs, animals, or whatever they had, but not money.This upset Jacob so much that he just took off walking and walking until he came to a rail track that had a train moving that he was going to jump on regardless of where it was going.  Thus Jacob began his circus life when he jumped that train and met other circus performers and roustabouts.  He had no idea what lie ahead.  His inclusion into the circus life was difficult, as the circus does not like young rubes being around experienced circus people.  When they found out he was "almost" a veterinarian, they were elated, as they had no one to medically care for the animals.  This gave Jacob a ticket into circus life.As I said originally, the author makes you feel as though you were in the circus troupe as they raised their tents, did their shows, ate the food available, got paid when there was money, running away from the law when one or more in the circus caused a problem with the law or local authorities, traveled on the circus train never knowing for sure where they would end up, putting up with the circus owner and top management that treated most of the help like dirt.Of course there was much in the book about personal lives of the circus employees and owners.  Also how the circus obtained more animals and equipment legally or otherwise.  It is an eye opener for anyone to read.  It makes one wonder how these circus people existed in those days of traveling and living such an uncertain existence.The story does occasionally go back to Jacob in the home in which he is so unhappy.  The circus comes to town and sets up right next to the home, making Jacob so excited to be so close to the circus, even though it is not one of the ones he worked when younger.  The days passed so slowly as he waited for his family to come and take him to his big visit to the big top.I doubt anyone could read this book without coming away with a great understanding of those old circus days and what they meant to the people that worked that hard life.  You will know that Sara Gruen put much time and effort in her research for Water for Elephants.  You WILL enjoy this book.  It will entertain you and educate you at the same time.
5 Saw the movie before getting the book which I downloaded from Kindle.  Really liked the movie and then decided to buy the book.  The book is an easy read and if you ever have been to a circus or were curious about behind the scenes then you will probably enjoy the book. If you are looking for a deep mystery then this is probably not for you but if you like love stories and don't want to have to keep a notepad beside you to jot down things to remember so as not to get lost or confused in the story then this is the book for you.  I loved reading it on lazy days when I didn't have to concentrate real hard but could let my mind and imagination get lost in the characters and their telling of the story.  This Kindle book was downloaded immediately without any problems as usual.
5 This books was one of my favorites for the year. This book flashes from present day Jacob, 93 living in a nursing home to Jacob's summer traveling with the circus during the 1930's Depression era. Not only do you have these rich circus characters and animals, but also you have the interesting time period. The writing is flawless, the characters/animals (Rosie, my favorite) are amazing, the plot keeps you interested, and you root for the Jacob in the past and his present condition.The slight twist in the whodunit revealed near the end was also suprising
5 Love the story and character development.  Writing was eloquent.  It read and played out like a movie and was bitter sweet.
5 This fabulous tale (written "The Notebook" style) drew me in right from the beginning and I literally couldn't stop reading, until...I was nearly finished and I had to put it down because didn't want the story to end.
5 Although it is only April, I predict that Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen will be one of the best books I read this year.  Gruen has proven to be an amazing storyteller.Water for Elephants is told in the first person but from two different perspectives--Jacob Jankowski at 23 years of age and again, at 93 years old.  Gruen seamlessly weaves the chapters between past and present.  Jacob at 23 is finishing up his last semester at Cornell Veterinary School when a family tragedy causes him to flee.  He finds himself on a train for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth in 1931.  Needing a vet, the circus hires young Jacob to tend to their menagerie.  Jacob at 93 resides in a nursing home where he laments the curses of old age, the passing of his wife, and the waning affection of his family.  The arrival of a visiting circus triggers a flashback to his youthful circus experiences.1931 is a hard time for almost all Americans, and the circus workers are as hard hit as any.  Most are one step away from being homeless and jobless.  Conditions on the circus train are harsh for most.  Many workers go weeks without being paid, and they tend to disappear during the night when times are tough (management has them thrown off the train).  The menagerie is often times treated better than the workers.  But the circus does provide three meals a day and a place to sleep--even it if might mean a horse blanket on a train bed floor.  Jacob discovers very quickly that he's just about the only advocate the animals have and he must battle a ruthless owner (Uncle Al) and a crazy animal trainer (August).Any circus has more than their fair share of interesting characters, and Gruen's circus is no exception.  In addition to Uncle Al and August, there is Walter (the midget clown), Marlena (an equestrian with whom Jacob falls in love), and Grady and Camel (workers).  One of the most sympathetic characters in Water for Elephants is Rosie, the elephant--who shares more "human" characteristics and feelings than some of the circus bosses.  The tender-hearted Jacob quickly grows to manhood as he is forced to protect both animals and coworkers from abuse and worse.Water for Elephants is a delightful, moving book, and the ending was a very pleasant surprise.  Also, if you want a special treat, listen to it on audiobook.  The two readers, David LeDoux and John Randolph Jones, did a wonderful job of bringing both Jacobs (young and old) to life.
2 Sometimes, a reader's expectations can greatly influence how she or he views a book.  With a name like "Water for Elephants", and a historical background as interesting as the Great Depression, I had expected to read a book about the difficulties of the circus life and how the historical backdrop influenced these characters' lives.  What I got instead was a sentimental love story dressed in the glitz of a historical novel, a slightly better-written version of a Nicholas Sparks novel.At the start of the book, the circus has just come to town; and that effectively got our querulous 93-year-old narrator to start reminiscing about the good old days when he used to travel with the Benzini Brother's Most Spectacular Show on Earth as a veterinarian.  As it turned out, 23-year-old Jacob Jankowski was one exam away from getting his veterinarian's degree from Cornell when both of his parents were killed in an automobile accident.  After having handled all of his parents' affairs, and after having found out that he's now virtually penniless, the grief-stricken young man walked out of his class room and hopped on the first train that crossed his path, a train that turned out to be the circus train owned by a ruthless circus owner, Big Al.  For the next 3 1/2 months, Jacob travelled with the circus as a veterinarian, taking care of the animals in the manegerie during the day and traveling from city to city by night.  It was also during this time that he met Marlena, the cricus performer who turned out to be the love of his life, and her cruel but charismatic husband, August.  The three soon developed the kind of complicated relationship that any romance reader worth his/her salt will know how it's going to turn out.The greatest strenght of this book definitely lies in the author's portrayl of circus life as they were in the early 1930's.  With Big Al, August, and Walter the midget - the author has assembled a memorable cast of secondary characters that the readers will either love to hate or root for.  Walter, in particular, turns out to be a character with much more depth than initially meets the eye, and how his relationship with Jacob evolved and developed was one of the highlights of the book.  Equally interesting was Jacob's interactions with Rosie, a mischievous elephant that ended up being the catalyst for a key event that will change Jacob's life.  I've never been a fan of the circus, but reading about Rosie's antics made me want to grab a handful of peanuts and head to the zoo.Regrettably, our main protagonists in the featured love story aren't nearly as interesting as the secondary or even the animal characters in the book.  Jacob, in particular, has about as much personality as a gnat. Throughout the book, he was grouchy as a 93-year-old, and whiny and ineffectual as a 23-year-old.  Some of the atrocities committed against the members of the circus - all in the name of survival and profit - is heartbreaking.  And yet, other than to rant and spend time sulking and moping around in his stockcart, Jacob was useless when it comes to helping his friends or even taking fate into his own hands.  Ultimately, his life turned out the way he wanted it to not because of any initiative on his part, but pure luck.  Since the book was told in first person from Jacob's point of view, the character of Marlena was even more under-developed than Jacob.  All we know is that she's this beautiful girl in pink sequin that caught Jacob's eye the day he joined the circus and from then on he was lost. There certainly wasn't enough interaction between the two to make their romance remotely convincing.  And for a book whose central theme is the great forbidden romance between two people who met at the wrong time, this is a great failure.So, in summation, if you are expecting to read a meaty historical that provides insight to what the circus life was like back during the 1930's, skip the book.  If you are a fan of Nicholas Sparks and looking for a sentimental love story to tide you over until his next publication, this may just be your cup of tea.
4 The story was good enough to keep you turning pages.  The reason I liked this book was the insight into the lonely world of nursing home patients that still have all their mental facilities.  It forced me to consider how senior generations (soon my parents, then myself) will deal with frailty, dignity & mortality.  Choices are thrust upon them by well meaning do-gooders.  Maybe we should allow seniors more slack to live the lives of THEIR choosing.  Either way, it aided me to see seniors with more compassion.
4 I have wanted to read Water for Elephants for some time but I needed to be in the correct frame of mind in the event there were too many disturbing animal stories. After learning my friend had a copy and my dad was currently reading it I decided it was time.This book as been billed as a love story within a circus however the love story does not really start until well after the half way point of the book, maybe even two-thirds of the way in. There are many stories happening all at once. The story of a lost boy trying to find his way, a coming of age story. The story of friendships and life long bonds. The story of an almost veterinarian finding his way in the crazy life of a train circus. And the story of love. With all these potential story lines happening at one time I found the author had a tendency to wrap them up rather simply by killing someone off leaving only the main characters to survive.While overall I did enjoy this book it was not as wonderfully fantastic as I was hoping it would be. Maybe my hopes were too high from all the rave reviews I have heard. But it just did not stand up to my expectations for this book. I will give the book 3.5 out of 5 stars. I would liked to have seen more depth to the characters, a more focused story line, and a bit more thought into how to wrap up the lives of some of the characters.
3 There were times I had to stop reading this book because it was so graphic.  I can't stand animal abuse of any kind, and I literally wanted to cry as the author described the treatment of the circus animals.  Some reviewers here have also been blasted for their criticism of the soft porn in this book, but it IS graphic and can be rather shocking.  I didn't expect this in the book at all and so as much as I wanted to like this book, I have my reservations about it.  Just be aware that there are some moments in Water for Elephants that are not for the squeamish or sensitive.
5 I love depression era stories and to hear it from a circus's perspective was pretty cool. I lived right beside the place where they had the county fair every year so found the carney part of it very interesting.
4 The audio C/D was EXCELLENT--use of different and well chosen voices for the younger and elderly Jacob telling a tale that spans 7 decades.The story was about LIFE and sudden curveballs thrown one's way, and the rewards/repercussions for making snap decisions at those snap moments.The background of the circus set in depression era America was a bonus.  I loved the multifaceted characters.  The author touched upon social problems that are eternal:social status based on wealth and education; physical differences/disabilities;domestic abuse;alcholism/homelessness;elderly dignity; elderly driving/vehicular manslaughter;loss and recovery of HOPE and LOVE.The character development was wonderful.  Walter was not "just a dwarf"  He had a mother who threw him away because he would not be a help on the family farm.  Walter, though bitter still had the capacity to love--amazing . . .I did enjoy the circus setting--learned much about things I never knew while listening to a lovely connected work of fiction.  (This was no Middlesex,my favorite book af the decade; yet, it is a fine, well-written saga.)
5 This was an unexpectedly wonderful book.  Witty, funny and exceptionally moving.  Who would have thought the circus is as bureaucratic and complicated as the corporate world!  The glimpse into life on a traveling circus was an enlightening and refreshing backdrop from which to catapult some of the themes we all face in our daily lives.  This book narrates the life of Jacob Janowski, an aspiring vet who is left orphaned and hops aboard what he soon learns is a train belonging to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth!This book is full of hearty laughs and painful disappointments. You will fall in love with Jacob's relentless can-do attitude and his inherent affection and commitment towards those he grows to love.  Rosie the elephant will touch you in ways you cannot imagine.  There is a certain depth around the love that animals exude.  It is silent and unspoken yet so powerful.  Rosie is intelligent and caring and through her vigilant eyes and silent actions is a magnificent portrayal of loyalty and friendship.  Walter the clown is another character to whom I grew very attached.  He is the typical insecure cynic whose interior consists of nothing but a soft shell.  He embodies the spirit of change and devotion and camaraderie.  This incredible cast of characters makes this a book of overwhelming depth.`Water for Elephants' was a surprisingly poignant story that is brimming with emotion.  The characters are so authentic; their memory will remain with you well after the pages of this book have ended.  It was a truly unique and enjoyable read.  Highly recommended.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book. I had to do so through tears most of the time. I really loved the way she wrote the story from both perspectives of Jacob as a young man and as an old man. It helped it mean more to me to read about it from his memory. It reminded me of what treasures we have in our elderly. I also loved to see all the old pictures, they were great. On the down side of the book there was more then needed sex and bad language in the story for me. But that's just me. I do like the book and am very glad I read it. I would suggest it to other adults to read.
5 I read this book in a day. A day. I just sat and read and read and couldn't put it down.For those unfamiliar with the plot, Jacob Jankowski is 90. Or 93. He is living in an "assisted living" home. One day, the residents notice a circus going up near the home, and it brings back a flood of memories for Jacob. He unfolds for the reader the story of his time with the Benzini Brothers Circus in 1931; of how he met Marlena, Walter, Camel, and a cast of other characters, especially Rosie, who is one amazing elephant (I fell in love with her, too). It was an incredible ride, and I'm not sure how to summarize it better than that.Gruen's descriptions are so apt one can smell the animals, the popcorn, the sawdust, and the sweat. It's an incredible achievement. The entire spectacle is so vivid that you'll swear all the people contained in its pages are real and breathe, or did once. It's the kind of book that makes you forget you're reading a book and transports you to another time and place, and it's definitely earned a place on my favorites shelf.If you, like me, have waited to read this one, do yourself a favor and read it now.
4 I love books that make me feel the grit of sawdust between my teeth.  Sawdust?  Why, yes, if you're reading a circus murder mystery. Only, it isn't much of a mystery as you learn whodunnit on the second page.  Only, no, don't be so sure.  A lovely, you-are-there novel of the between-wars years in America, wherein one newly orphaned and penniless Jacob Jankowski runs away to join a down-at-the-heels circus whose owner has serious Ringling Brothers envy, complete with ladies fat and bearded, unfriendly dwarfs, and homicidal--wait, no, I'll give it away.  With an ending that made me smile all day after I finished the book.
4 I really liked this book.  I'm not a fan of the storyline, but the writing carries you through a world not known to most of us.  Weird characters made real with a very easy style of writing.
4 Engrossing story. I love anything that takes me into a different world and holds me there and this story does that - the writing is simple, but the characters, the settings, the whole circus world is vividly portrayed. This book is always on my TR ( to recommend ) list when people are looking for a great, sweeping read dense with everything that makes a book memorable.
4 'Water for Elephants' provides an insiders peek behind the curtain of a traveling train circus. Anyone who ever went to a circus and played the games on the midway are rubes wanting to be thrilled, enchanted and take leave of reality for a day. The illusion lasts about as long as cloud of cotton candy. The inside story delves into the darker aspects of what makes the circus viable especially during the 1930's Depression era. The reader is introduced to a strict caste system from bosses to performers to roustabouts that determines one's position among a long train of characters. The practice of 'redlighting' is  particularly powerful, a Darwinian, survival of the fittest practice where the circus bosses have the used up roustabouts tossed from the train as excess baggage. Our hero is Jacob Jankowski that over the course of  only 3 1/2 months joins the circus. As a veternarian he does not fit into the caste system. Through his character we take a journey making allies with unlikely people, finding love and slaying personal deamons.
1 like many others, i was disappointed by the dialogue and characters in this book. an embarrassingly poor effort.i also wondered by the author choose to emphatically make the only evil character jewish, when no one else's religion was even mentioned. what is with that? any ideas?
5 This book already has over 3,500 positive reviews on Amazon and every one of them is well deserved. This book was a wonderful treasure. I eargerly awaited each time in my day when my schedule allowed fiction reading so I could get back to this story. The characters are three dimensional, compelling, and as genuine as your next door neighbors or your long-lost aunts and uncles. The circus setting was fascinating, and the story-telling was first-rate, doesn't get much better than this. I highly recommend this book. I haven't seen the movie (yet), but if it's even half as good as the book it will be tremendous.
4 Few novels have touched more childhood memories than Water for Elephants. As a young boy I remember the excitement of the circus coming to town with strange animals and stranger performers. Thanks for giving me a trip down memory lane while telling a wonderful story.
4 Water for Elephants is an engrossing story about life in an early 1930's, depression-era traveling circus, but is also about so much more. Jacob Jankowski is presently ninety or ninety-three (he doesn't recall) and living out the end of his life in a nursing home. He has family who visit, but they are busy enough with their own lives that he is largely forgotten. A circus comes to town and Jacob thinks back on his own youthful experiences.I appreciate the story's realistic portrayal of early 20th century circus life. The animals live and work in conditions that are horrific, but at the same time they are the lifeblood of the show next to the human performers and are therefore treated well enough to that extent. The author, Sara Gruen, mentions in an interview that many of the anecdotes in the tale are plucked from real life accounts. (For example, an elephant stealing lemonade from the lemonade stand when no one is looking.) Truth is stranger than fiction, indeed.
5 This story, about a young man who runs away to the circus, is beautiful in the way it paints an older man near the end of his life in a loving, endearing way. Older people are real people whose value is in no way diminished. In fact, they have lived their life and survived life's most difficult challenges. And yet despite all they've learned and know, they are given so little respect. Every day they courageously cope with challenges that most of us have never even come close to experiencing. Even their family often treats them callously, or worse, like little children. Some older folk are cranky, like the character in this story, but considering what they've been through, they deserve kindness in return, not defensiveness. The treatment of this older man by nurse Rosemary in this book has inspired me to love older people and respect them more.
5 Very interesting story.  Lots of great characters and interesting story line. I hesitated to start reading this because I thought it was "just a love story", how glad I am that I did read it. The characters and situations were great and very interesting.
4 I bought this book on the recommendation of my good friend and I absolutely fell in love with it. Sara Gruen is so articulate and a true story-teller. She weaves a mesmerizing tale of the magical and historical side of the behind the scenes of circus life. The deceit and downright meanness' gets transformed into this entertaining tale. The people and the elephant will linger in your memory long after you finish this story. A super read and I Highly recommend this novel.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  Thankfully I didn't know a lot about it prior to reading it.  The subject matter wouldn't have seemed interesting to me.  But the book was very interesting and opened my eyes to a world I've never given any thought to before.  Once you get into it, it is hard to put down.
5 It had my attention from the first page to the last.  Absolutely brilliant!  Could not put it down.
4 I knew very little about this book before I read it. I didn't know quite what to expect; but I thoroughly enjoyed it. It certainly wasn't as good as The Kite Runner or other great books I've read (thus why I didn't give it five stars), but it was still a very good story. I would easily recommend it to others. The author creates a rather fantastic situation - a Cornell veterinary student who suddenly finds himself a penniless orphan during the Great Depression. The story takes us to a circus train, a love triangle, and an elephant. Gruen weaves a wonderful tale that I found captivating, told both in the present and the past. In the meantime, I learned a great deal about circus life in the 1930s.
3 WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is really two books rolled into one. The first involves a young, depression-era  veterinarian who loses his parents in a car accident just days before taking his final exams. His father, also a vet, had mortgaged his practice to the hilt to pay for his son's Cornell education. At loose ends the boy hooks up with a circus.The second has to do with the same man, now a miserable nonagenarian confined to a senior citizens home. He gets into a "fight" with another old man who claims to have carried water for the elephants. You don't carry water for the elephants; you take the elephant to the water. One would think the first story would be more compelling since the circus is a world of its own with its own language and culture, but it's really the ninety-year-old who wins our hearts. His "people" come to see him every weekend, but he doesn't really know who they are; he doesn't remember if he's ninety or ninety-three. But he does remember the circus.The circus story is kind of hokey. Almost immediately the young vet, Jacob Jankowski, falls in love with Marlena, the star of the equestrian act. The problem is she's already married to the animal trainer, who just happens to be a paranoid schizophrenic. He's also insanely jealous. Then there's the elephant, Rosie, who only speaks Polish; Camel, an alcoholic  roustabout who helps Jacob get a job with the circus; and Kinko, the dwarf, who at first is an enemy of Jacob's but later befriends him when Jacob cures Kinko's dog Queenie of the trots. The book does come to life periodically when Sara Gruen uses real circus lore. For instance, Uncle Al, the circus owner, loves freaks. He takes the circus train on a wild ride when he has a chance to employ Charles Mansfield-Livingston, a man with a parasite twin growing out of his chest, whom he calls Chaz.Gruen also provides numerous real-life circus pictures, one of which is especially titillating. She got them from STEP RIGHT THIS WAY: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDWARD J. KELTY and WILD, WEIRD, AND WONDERFUL: THE AMERICAN CIRCUS AS SEEN BY F.W. GLASIER.Gruen keeps you turning pages, relying on a couple of suspense elements. Does Jacob get the girl, and does Jacob, the nonagenarian, get to see a circus one last time?  I had a bit of a problem with Gruen's ending. I suppose it might appeal to the sentimentalists out there, but let's just say it's not exacting realistic or believable.
4 Not my usual cup of tea, this was a delightful novel, quickly read, with a great setting and entertaining characters.  There were actually two stories in one -- the first being an engaging tale of a distraught youth running away with the circus and finding his manhood, love and responsibility for others.  I found the narrative compelling and the characters worth caring about.The second story, embedded in the first (or is it the other way around) is that of an elderly man, growing weaker in body, who is still sharp enough to know that he's fading quickly.  His faculties are starting to have issues, but he, again, is smart and together enough to realize this as well.  His story of a strong, vibrant will trapped in a failing vehicle is incredibly poignant, and, if a writer were talented enough, could make for a captivating book on its own.The "easy", high-action story of the circus makes up most of the book, but is tempered very well by the internal musings and frustrations of the second.All in all, very satisfying and highly recommended.
5 Sara Gruen spoke about how her literary agent turned down Water for Elephants in the talk she gave last year for the Rosamond Gifford Lecture Series, the largest library related lecture series in the country sponsored by the Friends of the Central Library (Onondaga County System, Central New York). This was the second (or third ?) book she had done with that agent. She told the audience of 2,500 people that when she proposed the manuscript to the agent, the agent told her, "There's no market for books about circuses" and turned the book down. Sara's response, as I recall, was, "What books about circuses?" This got a big laugh from the audience most of whom had read Water for Elephants. All wannabe authors writing anything other than romance, historical fiction and vampires take note. There is hope for you.She is not only an outstanding writer, but also an engaging speaker. I personally enjoyed the book immensely although I was a little uncomfortable with the first person present point of view. She struggled a little with probability at the end but I especially liked the little illustrations liberally sprinkled throughout the book that she had obtained from the Ringling folks in Sarasota.
4 It might be difficult to find someone who has not read the book or seen the movie. After all, the book stayed on the New York Times bestseller list for over two years. So there is no shortage of opinions on the novel and the movie. I am not sure I have anything new to add, but I will offer my take on three of the most debated of the book vs. movie questions.Spoiler alert: Stop if you have not yet read the novel or seen the movie...The book: Uncle Al and August are two separate characters. The movie: The two are combined into August. Verdict: The movie got it right. Uncle Al is an under-developed character in the book. The movie gives us one villain who is more menacing, especially as portrayed by Christoph Waltz.The book: Marlena gets pregnant with Jacob's child. The movie: She does not. Verdict: The movie steered clear of the hackneyed device of having the woman in the pair of star-crossed lovers get pregnant.The book: We are taken back and forth in time from the present of the old Jacob to the past of the young Jacob. The movie: Scenes with Jacob as an old man bookend the story. Verdict: I have mixed feelings about this one. The passages focused on Jacob as an old man are poignant, insightful and empathetic. Some of the best storytelling on being old I have ever read. I would enjoy an entire book based on those passages. However, they interrupted the flow of the narrative and suspended the building tension of the story.
3 I want to preface this review by stating that I loved the story.  The characters are wonderful, the depiction of an old time Circus and the life of those who were "on the show" is impressive.The book has two major flaws, in my opinion.  First, the beginning of the book is a word for word copy of the most tense and climactic scene, and the entire novel is spent just knowing you're headed to that scene, so all the power of that moment is spoiled.  A linear telling of the tale, start to finish, would have been much better.I'm not sure what was gained (if anything) by the dual voices of young and old narrator, but I suspect it was done for "literary effect".  This is a very powerful tale of romance, the bonds between men and animals, passion, love - every time it shifts back to the present - it's like a deflating balloon.I wish the story had been told on it's own without the unnecessary shifting of voice and had actually had a climax remaining when the climax arrived...I recommend the book, but lament some of the choices the author made in presenting it.
5 "Water for Elephants" by Sara Gruen,  2006Ms. Gruen writes an odd story.  It is really two stories in one.  The main one is of an almost veterinarian, Jacob Jankowski, who becomes caught up in the life of a circus.  It is a romance: boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back (whoopee).  In the afterword the author explains that she was wanting to do a story about the photographer of circus', but she got caught up in all the rest of the circus history and it became this book.  It is worthy and good.  The second is of the same man in a nursing home, or some such place, who sort of does not belong there.  He has lived his life and remembers it well.  The instigation is the circus has come to town!!The chapters are defined by when is the story being told.  Sometimes it is now: he is old and ornery; the next one, he is remembering his life in the circus.  The value is in the perspective: as an old man, he has problems, but he deals with them, somewhat; as a young man he grows up and finds the love of his life.  It is always wonderful to read a story of love growing and becoming the be all to end all.  But real love is of the animals, horses, elephants, orangutans, chimpanzees and doing something constructive.  In the end you feel that everything is wonderful and has come out all right.The odd thing, like in some other places I have seen ("Passenger 54"), the title comes from out of the blue, once, and it is never explained or spoken of again.
3 There were many positives about the story - 1)  Nice feel of what it was like to be in the circus during the depression  2) Great analysis of what it is like to be old in a rest home.  3)  Excellent voice characters for the audio.  4) Beginning of good bi-polar character.Negative - 1) Feel of the story moved from period piece about the circus to feel of Nazi camp where all leaders are evil  2) Instead of developing bi-polar character he was just written off as evil.  3) One big surprise in the book concerning the murder but not that monumental.  4) Three needless scenes that bordered on pornographic.
4 Well-written and colorful book.  The movie was so bad, it really turned me off from reading this, but it was cheap so I gave it a try and enjoyed reading it.  I recommend it if you are interested in the Depression era America or circuses or a human story in general.
5 An amazingly beautiful story, Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants is the tale of Jacob Jankowski and the 3 months that he worked for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth circus. When we meet Jacob, he is in his 90s, living in a nursing home and reliving his days with the Benzini Brothers circus. It was through a chance encounter after the death of his parents that caused him to leave veterinary school and put his fate with the circus.I was really surprised by how quickly the story captured my attention. The novel jumps back and forth from "now," where we see Jacob dealing with the trials of old age, and "then," as he remembers his days with the Benzini Brothers circus, and how those days formed him into the man that he would grow to become. The sequences are fluid, though, and you find yourself easily swept along with the story. Sara Gruen's prose is amazing; I found myself on several occasions holding my breath, I was so wrapped up in the story. Gruen clearly portrays her characters emotions and captures each of their voices and personalities perfectly and her portrayal of the lives of the circus folk in the 1920s-30s was very grim. It was amazing to me that so many people would live that kind of life, but I guess when that was the only work to be had, they'd take what they could get.Gruen seems to have done her research as well. Even though the Benzini Brothers circus is fictitious, I think it was clearly influenced by any number of circus' in operation at the time. She also makes reference to several actual circus events (such as the Hartford Circus Fire of 1944 and the Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus train accident of 1918). Even down to the band playing "The Stars and Stripes Forever" during an emergency, Gruen seems to have done her homework on circus life.If you haven't read this yet, I'd really recommend it. I'd had the book on my shelf since it was released (I was caught up in the buzz, but never got around to actually reading it) and after 2 friends mentioned it a couple weeks back, I decided to take it off the shelf and give it a try. I'm sorry that it took me that long to get around to reading it.
5 Liked this novel very much.  Maybe it's because I am olde and can remember Circuses like the one depicted.  Where I came from (upstate New York) it was a true portrayal of the circus coming to town in the 1930's.Would definitely recommend the book to others.
5 Loved this book!  Very, cool and original book, great read!  As always very happy with the customer service and the product!
1 I'm just not the type to enjoy this sort of storyline.  This was my fault for taking a flyer on something that was in the movies (which I never saw) and wanted to skip Hollywood for the story directly.  Couldn't finish it -- not for me.  But saved me from seeing the screenplay).
4 "Water For Elephants" is a human story, filled with the drama of raw human living. The cover invites you to step right up and look at the shadow side. The title is a subject that the narrator, Jacob, knows far more about than anyone else, having spent years on a circus train. So even the title points to the in-your-face flavor of the story. The characters walk into the story from the rough years of the Great Depression. They all point to the darker side of our nature, while they put on a show that denies the fact. Here we find true grit: the smell of alcohol; the sight of blood; the sound of rage; the feelings of frustration.The plot includes people who grit their teeth and bear the pain. Jacob becomes addicted to his pain through the years. August struggles with mental illness. Marlena presses on in a marriage she doesn't want. A dwarf ekes out a difficult living in a world of rejection. The big boss pushes on to maintain that his world is composed of "suckers born every minute". The animals too also bear hardship and abuse from supposed caretakers.The story is energized by a foretaste of rebellion against the oppressive power. This early glimpse kept me moving through the whole story. Note that this is not a happy story. You're not going to read Winnie the Pooh. Sara Gruen finds a silver thread of redemption in the midst of dark clouds in Jacob, albeit a painful thread. It sticks like a tattoo through the years, making Jacob what he is in his nineties, still swinging his fists at enemies long gone. He is isolated, and to battle loneliness takes the only path at the end of the story that he knows.I guess all I wanted was a happier ending.
5 This wonderful book shot through the family like water through an elephant's trunk, as my father, my wife and I all read it in the space of two weeks. Gruen writes the most enjoyable kind of historical fiction, focused on a fascinating time and setting that the reader probably knew next to nothing about before starting the book. In this case, the scene is the American traveling circus of the early 1930's, just after the start of the Depression. The protagonist operates in two time periods, as a nonagenarian in a current day "assisted living facility" and flashing back to his days as a young veterinary student who due to circumstances beyond his control ends up serving as the vet for a traveling circus. Gruen intended to imagine various vignettes for the book, but in her research and interviews with circus veterans discovered stories from real life that were even better--a real-life case of truth being stranger than fiction. The assisted living facility is inevitably less interesting than the world of freaks and geeks in a circus, but Gruen handles the voice of the aged just as deftly as that of the young vet.  The book is enhanced by actual pictures from various circus archives. Not an especially profound book, "Water For Elephants" still gets a five-star rating for all readers for readability and Gruen's ability to evoke an interesting place and time so well, along with a surprising and touching, albeit a little far-fetched, ending.
5 Water for Elephants: A Novel by Sara Gruen was an outstandingly well-written story. It transports readers to the depression years where able-bodied men wandered the country aimlessly looking for work and taking any menial job offered so they could eat. In Gruen's novel, a traveling circus prayed on the desperation of these men, used them, and then discarded them. The men in charge of this circus treated their performers, both human and animal, with slightly more care as long as they attracted rubes ... the gullible public. The story is told through the eyes of Jacob Jankowski, a ninety-year old man committed to a nursing home by his grown, also-aging children. He delves into his memory bank when a circus sets up nearby. His recollections of being a vet with the traveling circus are vivid, poignant, and disturbing. So are the scenes of Jacob's life in the nursing home. Gruen skillfully interweaves tales from his past with the present. She probes our conscience about care for our elderly and our animals. Although the book is not for the squeamish, in the end, she gives us hope.For what it's worth...D. A. Welch
5 Following the main character in his twenties and in his nineties was very engaging. There were some points where scenes were brushed over, but they usually involved violence (to animals or people), so it's probably just as well. I loved listening to it rather than reading it, because it made it come alive.
5 Amazing book!! Starts off slowly and snowballs into a fabulous tale... you won't be disappointed!!
3 Alright, so I saw the preview for the movie Water for Elephants. The movie preview looks great. To be honest, I read reviews about this book and I had considered buying it at the store for some time, but thought it was a read I could do without. However, I am one of those people that usually has to read the book before seeing the movie. Water for Elephants is not a book I will remember for a long time and will be telling my friends about. The story lacked a lot of oomph and I didn't care for all of the sex. I will be trusting my instincts on books after this. I mean, movies usually differ a lot from the novel anyway, right? I will give Water for Elephants this: it was sweet concerning the elderly. I have a soft spot for the elderly, they've lived a full life and I found myself more intrigued with the older Jacob Jankowski than the younger Jacob Jankowski. I also felt as though Water for Elephants wasn't finished in some areas. I like closure, unless it is a series, which this clearly is not a part of.
5 This is an excellent story and exceptionally well written.  Do yourself a favor and read it, it is outstanding!Water for Elephants: A Novel
5 I loved this book from page one!  Obviously much research was done by the author, as the descriptions of circus life during the depression are very realistic, believable, mundane and exciting.  There were times I choked up, times I laughed out-loud and times I was simply entertained by the descriptions of aging.  Would highly recommend.  This was a book I did not want to put down, and was saddened when it ended...I wanted to continue reading about Jacob.
5 The hardship of a young man after the death of his parents and what a man endures for the love of a woman.
5 I won't try to tell you what this book is about....there are many other reviews here that can do that much better than I can....I just want to let you know how it made me feel.I had the miraculous privilege of growing up with all of our "ole folk".  Both sets  of my great-grandparents lived well into their 90's. For anyone who had this kind of wonder in their lives, you know what a blessing that was....and for those who didn't.....well my heart aches for your not knowing what you missed.  Watching and listening to; in particular, my Grand-dad E. was both heart breaking and fabulous!  His mind was sharp and exact till the end...even though sometimes his physical self didn't follow suit the way he thought it should.  Even with all of the frustration that came with getting older and losing control of parts of his life, he always had advice to give and stories to tell.  I would stay up at the barn with him all through the summer days, helping him work on his projects while he explained to me how to tell when a snake was venomous or showing me how to brush the horses out at the end of the day, because no matter how tired you where...they had worked harder.  I am filled with memories of sitting and listening to him telling tales of when he was in his 20's and 30's and what they all did to get by during the depression. He also made sure I knew how wonderful it was to get sit out in the field you'd been working in all day and eat your fill of the melons that were being harvested.  Reading this book was like sitting in that barn all of those years ago listening to this man that I love so much, tell me about a world that we can't even imagine while he showed me the right way to do things in the world that I lived in now.Reading this book was like spending those summers with my Grand-dad. Sara Gruen made me feel the train swaying as it ran through the night and let me smell the smell of the animals as they stood in the heat of the day waiting to be tended to.  She let me cry over the hardship of the lives that these poor men and women lived then let me feel the excitement of hearing the music start up for the shows.  She had my stomach aching for want of a bite to eat...to then have my mouth water when the flag finally went up over the cook tent.  Of all of the books that I've ever read, Water for Elephants, ranks high up in the ones that made me forget myself and drift into the world that had been put down in the pages.While pregnant with my oldest son, I helped care for my Grand-dad and as he had been an enthusiastic reader most of his life...when his eye sight began to fail I read to him.  I wish I'd had this book to read to him.  He would have been as lost to it's wonder as I have been these last two day..Mrs. Gruen....amazing.  Simply amazing.
3 After reading in book reviews (in the newspaper) that this was a good book, I bought the audio version, unabridged.It started slow, the character 93 years old.  I wondered if it would pick-up and it did--when the same character went back to being in college.  It took longer to set the stage than I expected, but the book kept me listening all the way to the end.  And even though I liked the younger character better--it was much more interesting than listening to the older character, it ended with the older gengleman.  It was a surprising unexpected ending, that made it all the more worthwhile for waiting for it.The setting was a seedy travelling circus set in the Depression era in the US.  Some parts were sad, the disposable people to the circus owners, and the treatment at times of the animals.  The reader brought it all together--the main character, and I truly enjoyed this book--not one I would normally be intersted in or buy.I might have been able to skim by the slow parts if the book were in paper form, not audio, or if the chapters were shorter in the audio book.  That was my only complaint in this book.  SOme things were drawn out too much.It was a sad happy story, but unlike Oprah's books, good prevailed overall and the majority of the time--in the story and in the ending.  It was a hard time for America and for the small time travelling circus, and those who lived that life.  It's a good read.  I might have enjoyed it more in hardback, then the 93-year old voice and pace would not have grated on me so much, or dragged so much, else I would give it a 4-star, but not 5--it has some slow parts that drag it out too much.
1 This novel is a rambling, disjointed and thoroughly annoying depiction of a highly forgettable era in Amercan history.  The characters are flimsy, the plot is circuitous and the endless stories of animal cruelty are downright depressing.  Perhaps the one saving grace is the author's use of Jacob's character as an elderly man who is looking back on his life with hindsight.  I cannot believe there has been such a fuss about this book and that someone was foolish enough to make it into a film.  Now that will be a real flop!  If I ever see this author's name again I will move away from it as quickly as I am able.  This was just a terrible book.
5 There are so many things to rave about when it comes to Sara Gruen's novel.First it's a period piece (which I love) set in Depression-Era America that gets all of the details just right: it's gritty, truthful, and unsentimental, yet still fascinating and entertaining. I was amazed and enlightened by all of the details of an early-20th century circus and all of its inner workings.Secondly, the novel is told from two different perspectives.  One is a 23-year-old Jacob Jankowski, who is an ivy-leage educated animal doc and recently "orphaned", while the other perspective is a  90(or 93)-year-old Jacob, whose days are spent in a nursing home, longing for the days of his youth.  Both perspectives are equally compelling and entertaining, and they come together to reveal mysteries about the story in the end.Speaking of mysteries, I loved that there was a twist that totally caught me off guard in the end.  These always make for great pleasures if done right, and Gruen's  surprise delivers a punch at the end that I wasn't even looking for.I already am waiting for the mention of film rights to this one.  It screams movie all the way through.  Not just because of the amazing story and characters, but also for the potentially incredible set design, costume design, and stunning visuals.  The elderly Jacob would be a great role for someone in the winter of their years and the flashbacks between then and now just yearns to be filmed.Finally, the characters in this book sold me.  Every one of them is a real treat.  As you might imagine, the characters in a circus are, well, real characters, and those from The Benzini Brothers circus is no exception.  Jacob, upon accidentally joining this troupe, discovers real evil, unlikely friendships, and the love of his life.  The characters are not exaggerations or caricatures like another unnamed circus novel I have read.  These people are empathetic, realistic, funny, and fascinating creations you won't soon forget.Get a copy of this novcl today. You'll be rooting for Jacob Jankowski all the way.
5 I just finished reading this and I expect it will be the best book of fiction that I read this year. I usually buy a book for Christmas each year for a friend and an elderly aunt. This is the book for 2007! My only disappointment is that Sara Gruen does not have a long list of other books for me to read. I also loved the photos that were at the beginning of the chapters. Sara Gruen is going to the top of the list of my favorite authors!!
5 I didn't want this book to ever end!  I thoroughly fell in love with Jacob.  Sigh.
5 Absolutely loved it!  Couldn't putit down til the end.  Always wanted to see the movie but now am glad I read the book instead
5 There are endless ways to sing the praises of this novel of one man's surreal life in a circus.  Water for Elephants ranks as one of the top five books on my list of best and most shocking endings.  I just didn't see that ending coming.  I gasped when I learned the truth. Water for Elephants is a haunting story.
4 This book was thoroughly enjoyable. It was a bit edgy in parts and certainly gut wrenching in others- not unlike Grapes of Wrath in feel, but although well written it is not in the calibre of Steinbeck. On that note though one isn't always im a Steinbeck type of mood.  If you like pathos, uncertainty about how things will pan out and history without the whitewash- this is a book you will like. If you like a well written, crafted novel as well, you will love this.
4 Set in the Great Depression, Water for Elephants is a compelling tale, perfect for a book group discussion. Jacob Jankowski loses his parents in a car wreck and drops out of veterinary school. He finds his way aboard a circus train and begins a new life on the road. He meets and falls in love with both circus star, Marlena, who is married to the perverse animal trainer, August, and the seemingly unteachable elephant, Rosie.I was most taken by the circus details and the details from the Great Depression that Gruen used in the story. I was fascinated with life in the circus during those hard times. I also liked how Gruen moved the story back and forth in time from an elderly Jacob to a young Jacob.
5 This was a wonderful book. This is a must read. The author did an amazing job flashing back and forth from present to past. You won't be able to put it down!
5 I didn't expect to like it, hadn't heard anything about, was reading it as a duty for a book club.  Boy, was I surprised! Had to stay up til midnight, (on a work day)to finish it once I'd started it.  Got totally involved with the story.  Loved the style.
5 Fascinating story of growth, witth very unique, unforgetable chararcters.  It exposes the dark side of human nature, compared with the unconditional love of the animals.
5 Water for Elephants is the definitive  novel on love and compassion in the midst of unspeakable pain and despair. It is on my list of five best and most unexpected endings mainly for the secret that Jacob keeps his whole life.  There are so many incredible little secrets about life in this book just waiting to be discovered.  The plot is riveting.  It's an incredibly fast read and it is truly as magical as a circus.
4 At some points during this book I wondered why it had made so many year-end "best" lists.  Once I had finished it, I knew the answer.  Water for Elephants is the first book I've read in ages that was capably resolved and concluded.  The satisfying ending made the rest of the book begin to shimmer, and I found myself thinking about the main character and his way of relating with others long after I'd closed the book.
5 Everyone should read this book.  It not only is a love story but opened up the world of the traveling circus, making me aware of how brutal their life could be.
3 As much as I wanted to really like this book, I felt that it failed on several levels.  I will say that the circus atmosphere was conveyed with incredible, and apparently accurate, detail and I was impressed by that. I could see and even smell everything, and the book movingly conveyed how desperate times led to desperate people clinging to even the most degrading employment with a third rate circus.  However, the characters seemed to be straight out of a romance novel, with the exception of old(even he's not sure how old he is)Jacob, who was funny, disarming, feisty and touching -- whereas the young Jacob was pretty vanilla, too obviously a "nice guy" with little personality.  In contrast, Old Jacob's voice was so clear and true and I really cared about him;he was funny and sad, his memories bittersweet, his longings compelling.  I also liked (but who didn't?)Rosie the elephant, who had twice the personality of anyone else in the fleabag circus, with the exception perhaps of Walter, the dwarf.  The plot depended on coincidences that I had problems believing, and I found myself caring more about the animals (which I admit isn't unusual for me!) than I did about any of the people.  However, I'd heartily recommend this book to anyone who enjoys sentimental stories, who loves happy, pat endings, who doesn't necessarily want a book to convey great ideas, but who is touched more by the romance rather than the writing.  Those of you will, as have many others, it appears, love this book.  There is certainly nothing wrong with that, it's just that those kinds of books are simply not what I prefer to read.  This book might actually make a good movie, and I'd be surprised if Hollywood hasn't snatched it up already.
5 This is such a great story such a wonderful wonderful story! I loved every word and every image painted in my head. This is not a predictable little book it is awesome!
4 Great Book - Keeps you guessing until the end. Several people and animals in this book to root for.  Love story is interwoven in the Circus World.
5 This is one of my all-time favorites!  For some reason, I put off reading this book for months.  I tried to convince myself that it didn't look interesting.  Was I ever wrong!  This will stay in my house, I will not trade or sell it, or loan it out.  It's that good!  Reading the author's notes, I discovered it was based on the the Biblical story of Jacob.  Then I had to read it all over again!  And I still loved it!
5 If you saw the movie that goes with this book, the movie doesn't do it justice. I thought it was a really good book and enjoyed it much more than the movie.
1 I thought this was an interesting read until the author decided to label the villian of the piece as a paranoid schizophrenic.  August was cruel, sadistic and had violent mood swings.  None of these are symptoms of schizophrenia.  He did not hear voices, have complicated delusions, or an inability to keep touch with reality.  Unlike most unmedicated schizophenics, August had no trouble  thinking rationally or logically, on the contrary, he was in charge of a large section of the circus and exhibited fine organizational skills!The writer could simply have portrayed her character, August, as a jealous, violent man but instead she chose to advance the false stigma that people with schizophrenia are horribly cruel and violent or that they have a "split" personality. If only Gruen had researched psychiatry as well as she had the circus.I work with people who suffer from this disease.  While, without medication the patients delusions might possibly, rarely, lead them to do something violent, it's usually in relationship to fear associated with a delusion -- thinking a person is really an alien from outerspace, for example.  Never the sort of cold-blooded violence August engaged in.  August always knew exactly who or what he was hurting.When medicated, people with schizophrenia are actually less likely to commit violent acts than the general population.It's truly a shame when a popular book spreads stigma in this manner, the negative ripple effects go on and on.
5 Water for Elephants begins a bit slowly.  I recommended it to many people and they always said "I had trouble getting into it."  I encouraged them to continue on and nobody was disappointed.I felt it was the best ending of any book I have EVER read.  When I got to the last few pages, I literally said out loud, "YES!  That's EXACTLY how this story should have ended".Don't pass this one up.  It is an excellent book.
2 This was a great story line, but I really get disgusted with the writers that think they have a free license to use the Lord's name in vain. It has become a disgusting passtime and all too prevalent &#34;thing to do&#34;.  And why do they do it? It adds nothing to the story. Just a disgusted feeling and sorrorful feeling for the author. It shows how the people of the world are falling away from God. That is one thing I miss with my Kindle, I always use a black marker and mark out that word from the sentences or stop reading the book altogether.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I loved how Sara switched between an elderly Jacob and the young Jacob. I was never bored and found it very interesting. To the reviewer who said "X", RIDICULOUS! It's a NOVEL. I found nothing offensive - in fact, some situations were authentically told from the male perspective (by a female writer!).  A good summer read for me!
4 Water for Elephants  Algonquin Books, 2007, $8.37Sara Gruen  ISBN 1565125606I started taking steps, one foot at a time. My feet of course. The circus tent was getting closer, and I could hear the music. These are the words of Jacob Jakowski in the book water for elephants. Jacob was in veterinarian school, but before the final exam his parents were brutally killed in a car crash. As if that was not devastating enough, Jacob later found out that his parents had been accepting corn and other food items, and had put up a 2nd mortgage on their house just so he could through his final year in vet school. During his final exam, his hands were shaking, and he could not concentrate. He ran out of the room, and jumped onto a train that by chance belonged to the Beninzi Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth! His life is changed in an instant, and his world seems to be surrounded by good and evil.The book is based in the 1930s during the great depression A time. I would recommend this book for those who love realistic fiction. I have no doubt in my mind that this book is one of the best books of the year!-- Jace McBride
4 Ninety-three-year-old Jacob Jankowski, an unhappy resident of a nursing home, reminisces about his life with the traveling train circus -- Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth -- during the Great Depression. In and out of a small town, usually an overnight, the performers and working men put on a show that involves animals, freaks (the dwarf and the fat lady), the clowns, and all manner of circus act entertainment including a tent just for "gentlemen" and other delights.Jacob's parents died just as he was about to write his final exams in veterinary school at Cornell University. Because of the hard economic times, his parents mortgaged everything to pay his tuition and thus he was left grief-stricken AND penniless. He ends up joining the Benzini Brothers by an accident of good timing and, because of his vet training, he ends up hired on to care for the horses and other animals. Along the way, the circus owner purchases an elephant named Rosie; she becomes a special part of this story.Author Sara Gruen weaves a tale of hooking the rubes into coming to the show, second-rate performances that managed to wow the audiences, boozy nights, in-fighting among those with the train, backbreaking work, and other fascinating details of the traveling circus. Jacob quickly assimilates into the hard life and makes the mistake of falling in love with Marlena, one of the performers who has a sadistic husband. Not only cruel to his wife, August also beats and mistreats the animals. What will become of Jacob and the rest of the members of this group of misfits, outcasts, and showmen?Readers will savor the story and applaud the somewhat maudlin ending. I read it quickly and found it very sweet and entertaining; recommended for teens and adults. Enjoy!Caveat: there are descriptions of mistreatment and abuse of animals in this book. If that is unpalatable to you, you should skip this book.
2 Had not gotten around to reading the book when I had the opportunity to see the movie.  I doubt I'll ever bother to read this one.  Wasted money on it too as most of my downloaded books are free. Choose wisely.
5 Loved the premise, loved the characters, loved the descriptions, loved the time period, and as a child, loved the circus. After reading this book, the circus never looked quite the same. A great story filled with historical detail, romance, mystery, animal cruelty--you name it, this great read covered it.
4 This is an outstanding novel.  One can get a greater appreciation for the 1930's after reading this book.  It is also a great love story. I would recommend to anyone.
4 No spoilersI picked up Water for Elephants on whim in the bookstore while waiting for another book to be mailed to me from an Amazon marketplace seller. It had been recommended to me both by Amazon and by people I know, but I never gave it much thought because I'm not really a fan of the circus, but having just finished it (in a day and half) I am very glad I picked it up.Others have summarized the book sufficiently, so I won't go there, but I will say that from the prologue to the last page, you are invested in this book and the characters and care what happens to them. The story is told by the main character in his nineties who is in a nursing home, looking back on his life and how he got to where he is. The prologue is of the climactic event in his life in the circus, and then the rest of the book alternates every few chapters between his first hand accounts in the present in the nursing home and his first hand accounts in the past as a youth in the circus. The scenes from the present in the nursing home force you to sympathize with a man whose body is old but who is mind is young and the struggles associated with such a circumstance, while the scenes from the past in the circus are a window into the past that show you who this man used to be.This book had a captivating beginning, and satisfying ending, but my only problem, and the singular reason I didn't give it five stars was that in the middle, the story was just a tad slow. However, don't let that discourage you from reading it because, as you can see from my title, that only warranted a half-star reduction from me because this really is a great read as a whole whether you love or hate the circus and I recommend it full-heartedly to lovers of a good story.PS: For a novel with a completely different plot, but with similar execution (telling the story by alternating between present and past) and a fantastic five-star story, try Setterfield's The Thirteenth Tale.
5 I had this book recommended to me! And to that I say thank you! I know the movie is supposed to be good but the book is fantastic. I now need to see if the movie compares.  I didn't think I would enjoy jumping back and forth from past to present but it fit the writing perfectly. I couldn't put it down and just wanted to know everything about Jacob. I felt like I was on the train with them!
5 This book was great but very different from what I normally read.  With that being said I really enjoyed it!  Some of the parts involving the animals disturbed me, I'm a total animal lover, but I had to remind myself that that was reality back then and despite those parts, I really loved it.  Rosie was by far my favorite character and the ending was great.  I hope the movie doesn't butcher this beautiful story.
2 I have no idea what the hoopla is about but I find this book to be just alright at best. It is a little slow. The characters didnt have any passion or oomph. It was just very blah to me. I do like Reese Witherspoon and Rob so maybe the movie will be more entertaining.
5 This was ordered for my sisters book club. Not sure how the book was as I never read it since it was for a gift.
4 The reviews of Water for the Elephants suggest that this book should be one of your best reads.  Well, it is -- if you can get through the first fourth of the book.  If you do, you will be greatly rewarded.  Everyone in our bookclub thoroughly enjoyed the story and it provided us a mountain of discussion that just went on and on.  I would definitely recommend it as a bookclub choice for both men and women.
5 I totally enjoyed the book.  It seems that everyone that reads it gets something different from it... a love story, an animal rights story, a human right story, etc.
5 This is a wonderfully poignant book that slides seamlessly between the 90 Plus year old Jacob, and his remembrances of his youth when he was 23 and spent time with a traveling circus as its Veterinarian.  The frailities of Jacob who is now in the Nursing Home is portrayed so realistically that it almost seems like those parts of the story are actually written by an old person.  In counterpoint, the story of the younger Jacob's traveling circus adventures seems the same way, as if the author has actually experienced this lifestyle.  With twists and turns, heart melting moments of happiness, heart-wrenching moments of anger and sadness, this book is one that, once started, is hard to put down.  You'll be glad you chose this book to read.
5 This is the best book I've read in years I couldn't Put it down  It heald my interest so well.
4 I really liked this book.  The first chapter I was not sure, but kept my interest.  I would have given ti 5 stars but I thought it was too short.
2 DON'T read this book if you're a sensitive soul with a love for animals. You'll likely find it very depressing.
4 The story line kept my interest but at times I considered not finishing it because it disturbed me.  As it progressed I begun to dislike the main character.  Then I read the interview with the author at the end of the book and found that it was her intention to portray our &#34;hero&#34; with all the flaws.  I guess my ideal is a comic book hero.
3 Loved this book! A great story and insight into the time period and life during those times. Highly recommend this book
5 I loved this book. Throughout, I felt like I was actually at this circus. I felt like I could smell the popcorn. I felt like I could hear the sounds of the animals, the train leaving in the night, or the audience expressing their delight. I really could not put the book down because I had to know what happened next. Very good.
5 What a wonderful story....Well written!So many details make you really envision the whole story.Definitely a great read. Highly recommend it!
5 One day I was surfing Amazon looking for a good read. There are times when I'm looking for something different that I just go with a good title. Sometimes I'm pleasantly surprised, other times I'm not. This was a pleasant surprise. I'd never heard of the book or the author so I came in on a clean slate. It was a wonderful read, one of those books you hate to put down for mundane things such as work and sleep. I was instantly hooked on the main character, Jake, and the life he led. Sad in spots, dark and violent in some places, bittersweet at times, it was one of those stories that pulled me right in and made it hard to say goodbye when it was over.
5 Loved this book. It is a wonderful love story. It gave me an idea of what goes on in an older persons mind  .
4 I didn't want to like this book, but I stuck with it, and it drew me in. There's a great "twist" at the end- something you thought was one situation ends up being quite another indeed- that somehow redeems the whole thing. Delightful ending.I recommend this as a light summer reader.
5 I am not real sure what I expected going into this book, more of a romance "chick" book I guess. I don't really like romance books all that much so it was awhile before I actually read this book but wishing now I had read it sooner! It was NOTHING like I thought it was going to be at all!This book is about a 93 year old man in a assistant living home that is recalling the time he spent in the circus as a young man after his parents got killed in a car accident. I was really expecting it to be more happy upbeat book about the circus but there was very little "happy" in this book! Some parts were so hard to read and I had to keep myself reading, not because the writing was bad or the book was bad but because some parts were just heart wrenching that it was hard to read without crying or at least on the verge of it, or wanting to go and kill August!The writing was amazing the author has amazing talents and I never expected the ending! I was actually fairly pissed off when Jacob didn't get to go to the circus and was thinking that I was going to be pretty upset with the ending but it caught me off guard and I ended the book smiling and crying at the same time.Amazing book read it!
5 I have read a bunch of novels recently that kept me engrossed for the first 70-80% and then faded badly. Water for Elephants is worth reading right to the satisfying ending. It is very well paced and has interesting twists and all the characters seemed real to me.I had never considered the 1930's touring circus as a basis for writing a novel. Now I want to learn more about it. That's because Gruen does such a nice job describing it. The characters (and the animals!) are very human and I think she captures the time they lived in quite well. I am impressed that there are over 1000 reviews and still more coming for a book that's been out now for over 4 years. It speaks to some of the universal qualities that appealed to me and perhaps other readers. The lead character is interesting, he's human and he has reflected on a life well lead while  yearning for more. I see a little bit of my father in there!One thing I am always looking for is how well a writer can give voice to a character that is so different from him or herself. Ms Gruen as a modern woman writing in the first person a man in the 1930's does very well in making Jacob a believable character. The writing is tight, swift and it was a pleasure to read.
5 I love the way this book ended. This was the best ending I have experienced in a long time. The story is gripping and a pleasure to read. At times I could not put it down, the need to know what was going to happen next was thoroughly enjoyable.
5 I just finished reading Water for Elephants and I really enjoyed it. It's a love story and so much more. The author conjured up images so sharp and clear that I often thought of the classic movie The Greatest Show on Earth (directed by Cecil B. DeMille). The characters were well-fleshed and it was obvious from the beginning who was the 'hero' and who was the 'villain', both vying for the beautiful heroine. And then there was a secondary story set in present day that was artfully woven among the vintage circus story. I really enjoyed this book. The author did a fabulous job of drawing in the reader, and I found myself longing for bedtime (my reading time &lt;g>). I know this book has been optioned for a movie and I do hope the director does the book justice.
5 The Carnival life isn't easy.  Being chucked off the rails, the mistreatment of animals.  This story though, brings the Carnival life to life.  The ending was beautiful.  So masterfully done.  The book was so much better than the movie.  If you have not seen the movie (which by now I am sure you have), read the book, you feel each and every character like it were you.
5 For several years, various animal rights organizations have campaigned against circuses, citing the cruelty inflicted upon animals.  Gruen shows how cruelty permeated the institution.This is a wonderful novel about love and decadence, greed and control, and cruelty and tenderness.  It starts weakly, where the protagonist discovers his parents were killed in a freak traffic accident.  He hops a train, and winds up working for a circus.  But don't despair, I promise it's worth finishing.Gruen's characters are vividly drawn.  Hierarchies amongst performers, workers and management prevail.  Descriptions are so vivid, you can almost smell the hay, and everything else so accurately described.This is a wonderful window into life in a circus, with all it's horrors and despite them, it's draw.Well done!
5 Excellent book, the way it is written and what you get out of the book.Would recommend this book highly.
5 What a great novel. Could not put it down. I could picture everything as described. The author really did her homework. Did not see the movie but do not think it can be as good as the book.
4 First, as the title of my review implies I *did* enjoy this book, and I *would* recommend this book.In a nutshell, it was a good story, put together well, well told, easily read with a good ending.  Nothing wrong there, but that's as far as it takes the reader.To those of you going into this book expecting the next great american novel, or "the best book you ever read" as I have seen more than a few describe it in other reviews, um.. no.  Not even close.I think all the reviews and even the critics reviews have done this otherwise very good book an injustice.  You will not find wisdom in it's pages, nor will you laugh/cry/etc (at least I didn't).So, if you go into reading this book with the expectation of a good read, you won't be dissapointed.  If your looking for something special, I just didn't find it in this book.In the end, my criticism isn't with this book, but all the incorrect accolades poured upon it.
5 I love the novel, Water for Elephants. It is the exciting tale of a young, veterinary student who ends up working for a third-rate, somewhat corrupt, traveling circus. He cares for the circus animals, while encountering danger, episodes of animal cruelty, violence and romance. It is a heart-pounding and endearing tale, told mostly in flashback.  The characters are larger-than-life, from the cruel circus owner, to the sideshow freaks, to the bawdy young ladies who perform for the grinning men - both onstage ... and off. I just loved this book from start to finish. And for those of you who have seen the film, the book has much more action, and less focus on the romantic angle. An action-packed, colorful story. I could not put it down.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in years.  Well researched, terrifically written!!  An unusual, little documented slice of American History.  HOORAY!!
5 This book takes you on an adventure about life.  My girlfriend "the book worm" read this twice before I had a chance to read it.  Now that I have read it I know why.  Captivating from beginning to end.  I would recommend this book for anyone who wants to go on a circus adventure.
4 I'm trying to hold back and be nice, remembering I just finished rereading The Great Gatsby (and there's not much that can compare to that)!  Overall, I liked the book.  I found the depiction of circus and railroad life during the depression very interesting.  It appeared that the author did some in depth research.  The flashback technique between the circus and the nursing home, however, left me flat.  I did not feel that the nursing home chapters were of the same quality as the circus chapters and frankly rushed through them to get back to the "real" story.  If anyone starts the book, however, keep going as the ending is well done.My disappointment in this book came from the author's handling of important thematic materials.  The scene was set for so many important (and universal) statements and the author simply threw them away.  So much could have been written about class structure, disability awareness, capitalism, fairness in advertising, care of the elderly, animal rights, etc. and nothing came forth.  There was no symbolism or connections to classic themes, and I sure missed the place where the main character was equated with the biblical Jacob.  Those efforts would have made the difference between a book that will last and one that won't be remembered in ten years.
5 I LOVED this book!  It takes me awhile to read a book due to lack of time but, I couldn't wait to pick this up at every opportunity possible.  Great story, wonderful detail - and the type of book where you felt like you were on the sidelines watching.
5 OK - I admit it.  I really liked this book.  My wife was shocked that I wanted to read it, but she had loved it so much I thought I would give it a try.  It is such an interesting story.  You can tell it was well researched as it truly brings to life the way circus people lived nearly 100 years ago.The characters are memorable.  You really feel that you know Jacob and all the performers in the Benzini Brothers Circus.  The story revolves around a love triangle all set within the context of the depression and circus life.  This does not come across at all like a romance novel.  The story is well-crafted and keeps the reader's interest.  All key items I look for in a book.  There were a few fights intermingled to keep my sense of action / adventure happy too.Pros:o well researched depression era circus lifeo wonderful characters who you grow to know and loveo full telling of story - you don't feel like anything was left outCons:o none big enough to comment onOverall - I highly recommend this book.  A great American novel.
5 It was a time when I judged a book by it's cover, which I am told to never do.  I am so glad that I read this book.  It has stuck with me since I finished it and it is a book that I will read again and again.
4 This novel is a beautiful love story surrounded by a fascinating spectacle. It goes without saying that if you are a circus lover you will really enjoy reading this book. Sara Gruen provokes tears, smiles, and sighs along with other emotional reactions from the reader by encompassing circus life without failing to include any heart wrenching details. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking to go on a circus adventure and test the resilience of love.
4 Wow, 1696 reviews to date!  Oprah's recommendation really can motivate a lot of women with time on their hands LOL!  I won't even bother to read the 5-star reviews because I'll probably agree with all the specifics about what a good book this is.  It has colorful, well-fleshed out characters with only a few cardboard stereotypes, great sense of historical and circus detail, and a neat surprise ending.The trouble is, this does not belong up there with some great recent, innovative works, the true 5-stars, like Memoirs of a Geisha or The Kite Runner.  One thing they all have in common is introducing us to a foreign or unfamiliar world, in this case the depression-era circus.  But those other two books have a depth of soul, and a more comprehensive world-view, than Water for Elephants.I was also disappointed with a big, loose thread in the plot, where Camel was to be reunited with his son and the reader was set for that pivotal event, only to be let down and short-circuited by the surprise ending.You will definitely enjoy this book, and be enlightened to learn more about life during the Depression, but keep it in perspective, let's not give standing ovations for every good show.
5 One of the Stern Librarian's great challenges is to get patrons who say they don't like novels to read them.  Water for Elephants is the novel I will now be pressing on those people who say they only like reading history or biography rather than fiction.  Although readers will get lost in the invented world in this book, they will also learn a great deal of real facts about the Depression, train circuses and animal behavior along the way.  And they will feel the plight of Americans in the grip of economic panic in ways that most history books cannot convey.  Photographs at the beginning of most chapters both illustrate the plot and confirm that most of this unbelievable story really did happen.  I particularly loved learning about the mechanics of circuses, how they were set up, taken down, how the crowd was shaken for every last nickel, how they performers and animals were fed and housed.  The paperback edition contains an interview with the author and other notes that describe the research that went into the book and reveal that a few of the more amazing events in the novel actually occurred.  As if the glamour of old circuses weren't enough, this book also contains a second story set in present day about an elderly man in a nursing home.  Many readers have told me that they take to this old man's voice like elephants to lemonade.  The Stern Librarian (I work for peanuts too).
5 I was born in 1920.  I grew up during the Great Depression and the Prohibition eras.In 1965 we owned a bait and tackle shop in Venice, Florida.  At that time the Ringling Bros. Circus wintered there and we became acquainted with many circus people.  Our shop was a hangout for them and every evening after rehearsals they would stop by for a beer.The book: "Water for Elephants" is extremely well written and I am planning to read more of Sara Gruen's work.I have ordered two more copies and given them to friends.  They have given me very good reports.
4 I have strongly mixed feelings about _Water for Elephants_.  The alternating story between the daily life of a 90-ish year old man and his cantankerous behaviour with his youth as a circus vet kept my attention; the details about the social heirarchy between members of the circus was (on the authority of a former circus roustabout friend of mine) accurate; and I have to admit, I am a sucker for a love story.  However, as previous reviewers have noted, the 1930's vernacular, and the mannerisms of men of that era were abhorrent - but then I am a stickler for these kinds of detail.The story - of a Cornell vet student who quits his final exams before graduation to join the circus and his subsequent adventures (and love story) has undoubtedly caught the imagination of the vast majority of Amazon reviewers - including myself.  Yet I deduct a star because of the lack of attention to detail regarding the male protagonists and the verbage of the time.  For most readers, this apparently isn't an issue, in which case I would stronlgy recommend it.As far as breezy summer reads go, this certainly fits the bill - who *hasn't* fantasized about running off with the circus?  (Happily oblivious to the hard work, long hours and mediocre pay ...)  Which among us doesn't dream (or hasn't dreamed) of finding  your soul-mate on such an adventure?  Recommended, particularly for the romantics among us.
5 This is a super book about a very interesting subject. Great, well written story about the Circus world and its seamier side. Sometimes gritty, but interesting all the way through. one of my all-time favorites.
5 A friend loaned me her copy even knowing that this isn't my normal genre. I kept it for several weeks on the shelf  and finally, I decided that I should read it. I am so glad I did! I thoroughly enjoyed this book. This book took me to another place and time and it felt that I was right beside the main character as he was going through his journey.
4 Decided to read this after seeing the movie, which I enjoyed.  I highly recommend the book as worthwhile to read.
5 This book was a bestseller, but in case you missed it, it's not too late. That's the thing about a great book - it never gets old. Read this, if you haven't already.
5 This book was a very easy read. Loved the story line. It was great to be able to purchase kindle edition.
5 Almost every child has dreamed about running away to join the circus.  In the days of the big top, there were lots of menial jobs that kept those who wanted to be part of the circus busy from before dawn into late into the night, even if those jobs often involved nothing more glamorous than shoveling up the remains of an elephant's snack.Water for Elephants starts with an elderly (at least 90 years old) Jacob Jankowski remembering snatches of his past as he frets over the indignities of living in a nursing home while his children ignore him except for token rotating visits on Sundays.  One memory in particular stands out, a violent memory that he didn't share with anyone for over 70 years.Most of the book moves through flashback into the 1930s when America was broke and people were starving.  Into this challenging world, Jacob has high expectations as he finishes up his veterinary training at Cornell.  But the hand of God intervenes, and his life will never be the same.He soon finds himself serving in any role that he can get at BENZINI BROS MOST SPECTACULAR SHOW ON EARTH (as the rail cars read).  This isn't the big time.  It's just surviving by staying one step ahead of the local sheriffs while not delivering on promised acts and providing entertainment for men that has nothing to do with being a circus.  This circus doesn't even have an elephant.Much of the story involves the nitty gritty of how circuses operated in those perilous times.  It's a story that encompasses lots of cruelty, deceit, and harshness.  In fact, it's enough to make you wonder why you ever dreamed about running away to join the circus.  So if you would like to keep that dream shiny, perhaps this wouldn't be the best book for you to read.At the center of the story are three people and one elephant.  Marlena is the queen of the circus, the star of the equestrian act that involves first 12 and later 10 horses.  She's married to the volatile August who runs the animal acts.  When Jacob becomes involved in caring for the animals, Jacob is invited to dine and party with the couple.  The relationship becomes more complicated when Jacob finds himself drawn to Marlena and repelled by August.  When the circus buys an abandoned elephant that seems unusually stupid, the equilibrium is destroyed.Ultimately, the book is about responsibility and loyalty . . . qualities that are more important in and taken more seriously by the circus world than by the "rubes" who attend the circus.  The message will serve as yet another indictment of our modern world which favors efficiency over doing the right thing.The book is beautifully illustrated with vintage photographs of early circuses that nicely match the story line of Water for Elephants.Unlike many authors of such historical fiction, Sara Gruen does a good job of keeping a few surprises up her sleeve.  So don't quit mid-book thinking you know how the story will turn out.Grab a shovel . . . and dig in!
3 I've had this book on my shelf for a while...the circus has never really interested me--but it's been on the bestsellers list for so long...it just must be great, right? Well it's okay--but I'm convinced it's the ending that's leaves readers recommending it to friends. It has a typical Hollywood happy ending.The story prior to the ending is nice enough. It's pretty short and has a few interesting photos taken from the Ringling archives. I thought the details of the Great Depression were woven niceley into the story and it seemed well researched.That being said I don't think the story was as deep or detailed as it could have been. Gruen obviously had some rich material at her fingertips. I can't help but think she could have done more with it.I also found the constant interjection of Old Man Jacob Jankoski distracting and annoying. Although, the parts are well-written and moving--definitely makes me twice about the elderly--He seems completely unnecesarry to the plot of the novel and I thought his space in the book should have been filled with something else-preferably, the developing romance between Marlena and Jacob.Pluses: Cover, Research, subject manner, Walter "Kinko", The ending. Photos.Cons: Characters are dull or overwrought, story is eh, Old Man Jankowski distracts from circus plot.
5 As a prize-winning author myself, and a Pulitzer nominee, I know good writing.  This book was so riveting and fascinating I couldn't put it down.In fact, it became so real to me that I began to think of it as non-fiction some time after I'd finished.  I had to read these reviews to recollect it is fiction.  Having read a great many of the posted reviews, I can't help noticing the negative or low rated reviews are sneering and superior, and critical in the extreme.  This is, in my experience, typical of poor writers who feel compelled to comment scathingly on others' skills, but who are incapable of writing compelling literature themselves.  As a professional academic reviewer, I strongly disagree with the snide commentary.  It is a rare gem.
5 I was hesitant to read this book at first because I was concerned about the animal abuse. However, Sara Gruen did a wonderful job with keeping it at a minimum. I quickly scanned over one or two of the scenes and then realized when I was done reading the story, how the little bit of it added to the story.Well researched and well defined, Gruen takes you by the hand and leads you into the life of an elderly man who, from a nursing home, reflects back on his life in his younger years while he was a part of the circus life. Vivid and captivating, I felt as though I was a part of this exciting journey.There are thousands of reviews on this book, so I'll keep mine brief. Clearly stated, this is one work that will remain in my memory all the days of my life. Fascinating!!
5 This review originally appeared on my blog.If you are considering trying audio books, I think this would be an excellent one to start with. I loved the narrators, they really added something extra to the story. Also this story is meant to be told orally and listening to it really makes it all come to life.I was a bit worried when I decided to listen to this book. I don't usually like books that involve animals, mostly because of the guaranteed heart fail. Not only does this book have animals, it is set in a circus. Having worked as a zookeeper, I learned some of the not so nice things that happen to circus animals. Then add to it, the story is set during the Depression. All of these had me cringing a bit. But who hasn't dreamed of running off to the circus?I was hooked in the first few minutes of the reading. I could tell that it would be a story I would lose myself in. I have to say though I was a little annoyed with the music playing in the background. Particularly with the older narrator as it made it difficult for me to hear him clearly.Oddly enough, it was the scenes of the older Jacob that had tears coming to my eyes, rather than the animals. It sucks to be old and his story is probably far more common than not. Though I did cringe every time August had a scene with Rosie. I was also a little shocked at the debauchery that took place at a circus (today it is such a family event).The descriptive nature of the story had me feeling like I was there at the circus. I could smell the popcorn. hear the cheer of the crowd, and when I closed my eyes I was in the menagerie with all the sights and sounds that come with a tent full of animals. More so than any other audio book I've listened to, there was a mini movies running through my mind.I went to see the movie a couple of days after finishing the book. I don't usually like to see the movie version so soon after finishing a book because the details of the book are so fresh in my mind. But I have to say, the movie was so well done that I fell even more in love with the story. The movie left out the parts that I found annoying in the book (in particular the back and forth between the old Jacob and young Jacob). I do have to say that I was a tiny bit upset that BoBo was cut from the film. I think he might have been my favorite animal.
5 This book left me with a insight into the circus world and wanting to read more and more. I loved the way she incorporated the thoughts of the older character into the story, it really makes a person realize how aging feels. I really liked the characters and felt like I knew them personally!
4 This book begins and ends with the main character, Jacob Jankowski, in his 90's and residing in a nursing home.  He doesn't remember how old he is or even the people that take turns coming to visit him.  But what he does remember more than makes up for his current state of boredom.  The beginning reminded me of Stephen King's "The Green Mile".  The author obviously had to do a great deal of research into circus life during the depression in order to write this book.  What she found does not make a pleasant story.  Being an animal lover, the cruelty displayed toward the animals, especially Rosie the elephant, really disturbed me.  I still have a hard time believing that Jacob, who had nearly received his degree as a veterinarian and loved Rosie, would not have done more to prevent it. The cruelty displayed towards the employees was just as bad.  Railroad goons would actually push workers off moving trains in the middle of the night rather than pay them.  I thought the affair between Jacob and Marlena was not as torrid as it should have been.  Rosie was my favorite character - she was described in human terms which made the cruelty more difficult to endure.  In the end, both the peon workers and Rosie got even.  But that was not even the ending that made this book such a great read.  I was so excited when I read the ending, I had to tell someone about it!  It was the best ending ever!!
5 With a title like that who would have known how captivated I would be with a circus story. Well, I was.
4 THIS BOOK WAS VERY WELL WRITTEN AND VERY WELL RESEARCH.  I ENJOYED THEINFORMATION ON THE CIRCUS AND THE YEARS OF THE DEPRESSION.  SOME OF THENURSING HOME WAS A BIT UNSETTLING.  THE MEANEST TO THE ELEPHANT WAS ALSOSOMEWHAT UPSETTING. OVER ALL I WOULD SAY IT WAS AN ENJOYABLE FAST READ.
5 Movie was good but doesn't compare to the book.  Like all good books it was hard to put down.  Recommend it.
5 This was a book that was recommended to me by a friend. I kept telling him that I really didn't want to read it, it didn't sound like something I would like. I WAS SO WRONG! This was a fabulous book! I could not put it down! I highly recommend it!
5 Wonderfully drawn characters, brilliant writing and a fascinating setting not often written about in novels. What more could you ask of a book?
5 I have seen this book on the shelves for sometime now and only just got around to reading it. It was so enjoyable that I read it in a day, I just couldn't put it down. The main character, Jacob, is intriguing without being over complicated. It is a peek into the history of the circus, all the while swirling a great mystery and love affair that will keep you glued to this page turner. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction, mysteries, and a truly good read.
4 Very insightfull into the lives of Carnies.  I always sensed their lives must be harsh, but never know how much. This book depicts the &#34;animal&#34;/dark side of human nature (way boss treated his employees) and the &#34;Human&#34;/bright  side of Elephants (how loyal and loving they can be) .  We can learn lots from our 4 legged friends.
2 This book was highly recommended to me by women in an assisted living facility where I teach, for whom one of the book themes--aging and loss of autonomy--resonated deeply. I found it an engaging read, though the story almost caves in under the weight of the author's research. The characters are archetypes I had the feeling I'd seen somewhere before, lacking complexity, and it was ultimately difficult to care about any of them. The shifts back and forth in time were distracting and superfluous. I felt manipulated by the fantastically sentimental ending, but still, it made me smile.
4 When my two sons were perhaps 6 and 10, I took them to the circus here in Salt Lake City, Utah.  They were remarkably nonplussed:  "Duh Dad, a bear riding a bicycle?"  And so, going back in time 75 years to get the look and feel of circuses was a lot of fun.  Dusty, stinky, hard work, low pay, railroads, animals escaping, fat ladies, dwarves, clowns, all of it.  But the heart of the book is the story of Jacob, a young veterinarian (who hasn't yet passed the exam), who is pulled out of his orderly life and into the circus world virtually overnight.  And suddenly, here he is, in a different world, a young and handsome 23 year old being used and abused by the men and women in this crazy circus sub-world.The story is told by Jacob at age 93 and now living in a rest-home.  Going between old Jacob with nurses clucking about trying to get him to behave, and then going back in time telling the circus story, reminds me of the old lady's perspective in the movie, "The Titanic,"  who is telling the story of young Jack and her life altering romance with him.  There's something about the technique that makes it all seem very real, like it's all in the present.Jacob's romance with one of the young, beautiful circus performers is a touching and believable tale.  The hucksterisms of his two bosses who run the circus, are also very realistic and an important part of the story.  I won't give too much away here, in case you haven't yet read the book, but an elephant named Rosie is also one of the main characters of the book who makes sure things turn out as they're supposed to.A very fun, touching and unique piece of american historical fiction.
4 I loved the book.  The only thing that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is there are second, though necessary, that I felt I had to trudge through.
4 This book does provide a fairly riveting story set within post depression America and also provides good insights into the circus business during this era. The book balances the dynamics of maintaining a circus in tough economic times against a host of vivid and disparate personalities that can both support and challenge the stability of the circus. For example there is Big Al who runs the circus with a nearly ruthless practicality, "redlighting" individuals who violate his rules. There is August, second in command, alternately tough and gracious, supportive and cruel. There is Jacob, the hero, who stumbles into the world after fleeing Cornell Vet School and who subsequently falls in love with August's wife. The book alternates between the young Jacob in the circus and the elderly Jacob in a nursing home. Some of the dialogue the characters use during the depression era sounds like it came from the 21st century but other than that there is a gritty, often grotesque and unblinking realism in everything from death to romance.
5 No need for a long review here...This one is definately worth reading.  A great story,written well.  Highly recommend!
4 Note on Kindle version: A number of minor glitches: Typos in some of the latter chapters and the author's note appeared twice; The first was joined to the last sentence, unseparated by any spacing (this one's pretty annoying, in fact). Other than that, reads beautifully, the images in between chapters appeared fine and crisp, dictionary functions well.Water for Elephants is one of those big, entertaining read that is packed with action and wonderful details, and, of course, a love story. From the first few pages there you get a clear sense that the story is just tailor made for the movies. The structure of the narration, the intricate period details as well as the classic twists and turn of the plot makes you feel like you are, quite literally, reading a movie. I could even hear faint soundtrack music in the background as I flipped through the pages!Jacob Jankowski, Ivy League vet science student, found himself on the road after his life is turned upside down by a freak accident. He made a fateful jump on a passing train, which turned out to a travelling circus. Soon after, he finds himself employed as the circus vet and falls head over heels for the star of the troupe, Marlena, who just happened to be the wife of the schizophrenic head of the menagerie. Then one day, an elephant joins the troupe and everything started to unravel.The love story itself is filled with cliches. Young man falls in love with a woman out of his reach, thinks his love in unrequited but can't help to yearn for her and therefore continues to woe her. And just when he thought his chances are gone, she confesses that the feeling's mutual. Aha, what about the evil, schizo husband? Well, they go through heaven and hell to escape him and that's basically it. The love story.And so it's not a surprise that the characters are not of great depth. Jacob is the naive, testosterone-bursting young fella who knows what or who he wants but doesn't have a clue how to get it. And is showered with luck and good friends to support him. Marlena, is the charming damsel in distress and her husband the wicked yet brilliant villain.But all those flaws, as great as they seem, are overridden by Gruen's superbly paced and gripping storytelling of a magical world of a bygone era. The world of the travelling circus in the 1930s she described just sucks you in. The lack of depth of the human character is replaced by the depth of character of their animal counterparts. Rex and Leo, the lions, Bobo the chimp and Rosie the Elephant. The story just came alive with all those great period details.Also, despite of the predictable outcome of the love story, it is the structure of the narration that keeps you glued until the last page. Gruen zooms back and forth between Jacob's old self, a miserable 93 yo in a nursing home, wifeless and seen as a mere duty to his family and his young self. The way old Jacob yearns for life is all too familiar and is echoed in the young Jacob's lust for life. Ultimately, you want to know what happens to both Jacobs: Will the young Jacob win his love, and will the old Jacob regains his peace of mind?Finally, this is not high literature. Like a circus show, Water for Elephants is entertaining, exhillirating, memorable, beautiful and therefore makes a great holiday read. Recommended.
4 Calling it a love story doesn't do it justice as it is so much more. Really liked the meticulously researched historical aspects of the story both from the point of view of America in depression and also a backstage pass into traveling circuses of that time, which alone was worth the price of admission.
5 Water for Elephants is highly fascinating, both in plot develoment as well as historical presentation. Gruen obviously invested an abundance of time researching the subject because the novel is rich with sensory imagery. Some folks may be bothered by the seedy side of the circus, but I don't think Gruen's goal was to paint a manufactured tale of such transitory, poor misfits.
5 great.  everything you want in a great novel from characters you really care about to surpriises to viilains you hate to real adventure to circus history and personal romance. hard to put down.
3 I spent most of this book disliking it. I hated the constant depiction of cruelty to animals and people; I hated the griminess inherent in the depiction of circus life; and I hated the naivete of main character Jacob Jankowski, the poor veterinary student forced by a cruel twist of fate to seek shelter and employment with the Benzini Brothers traveling circus.It took me forever to make it through the first 100 pages, and the only reason I stuck with it was because I was just too lazy to go pick out another book to read. This is the one that was on my bed so this is the one I picked up to read every night before going to sleep.Finally I reached the 100th page and was ready to turn to something else, but to my surprise, I realized that I wanted to know what was going to happen. I had become interested in the character of Rosie the elephant, who was rescued from another show, and I wanted to make sure things came out all right for her in the end. I actually read the entire last third of the book in one setting. I still wasn't enjoying it, mind you, but I was really worried about Rosie!I am not going to relate the plot because I don't want to give any spoilers, but let me just say that the ending of the book was one of the sweetest, most satisfying book endings I have ever read in my life. I still don't like the book, but I love the ending!
5 I really enjoyed this book as I found it a very quick read with characters I was interested in.Water for elephants is told by an ornery man (Jacob Jankowki, about 90 years old), whose life now consists of residing in an assisted living center, where his children visit when they can.The story goes back and forth from his life in the present, to his life in the past, when by a turn of fate, he found himself traveling with the Benzini Brothers Circus, as their Vet.  The time is the 1920-1930's  and we get to see life during The Great Depression.Their are many eccentric characters, and if you love the circus and animals, there is plenty of that for you.  I found the story of the circus performers lives fascinating.  It really is a great read.
5 Hard to stop reading, Gruen spins a wonderful tale with vivid characters.  Even the pitiful elephants have a role, as all sentient being should. But Gruen is never preachy.  She lays out the story for the enjoyment of the reader.  Good juicy book.
3 After seeing this book on the top of the lists with so many stars I figured this would be a great book.Honestly, I don't get any of the 5 star ratings claiming it's the greatest book, couldn't put it down etc.The story is decent, and I found myself wanting to read it, but all the time I felt like the story was going to be pick up at any moment and get REALLY exciting. I mean cmon!  It's a nearly 5 star book! Except that it never did.  Not even when it go the "exciting" part.One reviewer mentioned that it seemed as if the author realized they need to "wrap it up" and hustled the story along.  Where a day in the beginning took several pages, when it finally got to the "good stuff"...it was all done in a few paragraphs or very few pages.  It was an ok read at best, but it's not a 5 star book.  A 5 star book should be a book that consumes you and stays with you when it's over.  This book simply didn't do that.  It told a story, wrapped up and ended.It almost seemed like the author didn't really connect or have real grasp on the characters when writing the "past" parts.  When she wrote about elderly Jacob, it was spot on and you really felt what Jacob was feeling and got immersed into his world.  While when reading about young Jacob, you feel more like you are just reading a story about someone.  For me the best books are those that put you in the world of the character, and for whatever reason, Sara could only do this in the present storyline.Also, the ending of the present day Jacob was a little lackluster I thought, and completely unrealistic.  It kind of took away from what good the book had.Bottom line:  it's an ok read, but I can't say that I'll be going around recommending it to my friends or anyone who asks about it.COMPLAINT:  Before I reviewed this Kindle Book...it was $5.00.  When I bought it, the price had gone up to $6.39.  I noticed that the cover changed to the "movie one".  This seems RIDICULOUS since Kindle readers don't really have a use for covers.  Also, the original book has old time pictures of circus people.  The Kindle version does NOT have this, because the movie book doesn't have them either (I checked in a local store). Which makes sense in that you can't have a movie cover with pictures that don't relate to the movie so they were evidently removed.  But I was not happy that I paid more for a book with less just because two actors now grace it's cover on an ebook.  And if I had any cover, I'd prefer the original anyway.
5 isn't pretty - neglect of the elderly, abuse of animals, abuse of humans, slavery, penury, starvation, mental illness, and murder. Authoress Gruen plunks you right down amidst it all. You are really there. And the epilogue is a real shocker (pun intended). Let's just say, Thomas Edison wasn't exactly Saint Thomas.
4 In our hurried lives filled with responsibilities and all the stress associated with it, how many of us dream to run away with the circus?Well in Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen, the central character Jacob Janjowski runs away from his life's troubles to join the Benzini Brothers train circus.In this new adventure Jacob comes of age with the circus freaks, clowns, and countless animals that dazzle the imagination of the many that come to peek into a world of wonder. He discovers love, hard work, and his passion for animals.Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen takes the reader on the lost world of the traveling circuits in an age that many lost hope because of the peril circumstances of the Great Depression.The first few pages simply grab you and you will not want to miss this page turner and the mystic circus world.
4 I was skeptical of a book detailing life in a traveling circus.  But overall this was an entertaining and well written book.  There were a few things that didn't flow well or weren't really explained (or at least I didn't understand them) like why Jacob was so outraged at the gentleman who said he had worked at the circus or for what reason Marlena was throwing a suprise for her husband (that ended up going poorly).  But these uncertainties didn't stop me from enjoying the story.  Surprising twist.  Sweet ending.
5 When Jacob Jankoswki learns of the death of both of his parents in an automobile accident, his grief renders him unable to sit for his final exams at Cornell Vet school and he hops the first train he sees out of town. Fate has intervened, however, and it turns out that the train belongs to a traveling circus, which ends up hiring him on as the show's animal doctor. The year is 1931, jobs are scarce, and, as Jacob quickly discovers, Uncle Al, the show's unforgiving ring master, and August rule the circus with an iron hand. Performers are treated well, but working men often go unpaid or worse, are "red lighted," or thrown off the moving train in the dead of night. It is a brutal world, and Jacob walks its fine line between working men and performers. One day Jacob falls in love with Marlena, the show's star attraction and the wife of homicidally paranoid schizophrenic August, and their worlds at the circus will never be the same.This is an excellent and engrossing novel, told from the point of view of Jacob both in 1931 and today, with him at age 93 and in a nursing home, reflecting on past memories. Pull back the tent flap and step right in to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. You will yearn to be sitting in the circus train's boxcar, curled up with a book by the light of a flickering kerosene lantern amidst the folds of big top canvas as you roll on through the night to the next town and the next big show.
4 Somehow Sara Gruen managed to make a thriller out of a nursing home escape via front wheel walker and wheelchair.  Just my way to illustrate a wonderful writing style and imagination.
5 Excellently written and completely absorbing. It's one of those rare books that has no part you will want to skim over or read through.The characters and the story linger in your mind long after you finish reading the book. Easy to read, I highly recommend.
2 As I have stated before, one of my MANY quirks is that I must read a book before I watch the movie. When I read in Entertainment Weekly the Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattison would be starring in the film adaptation of Water for Elephants, I knew that I had to pick it up. I rarely pay full price for a book. However, this one had such rave reviews that I couldn't help myself. Still, it sat on my bookcase until this week when I promised to read it before the opening of the movie. Honestly, I was greatly disappointed.Sara Gruen tells the story of Jacob Jankowski who is so distraught after his parents' deaths that he runs away with the circus. He leaves between his education at Cornell University and his future as a veterinarian. Fortunately, his study of veterinary medicine helps him land a job as the circus' vet. While touring with the circus he meets a number of characters from a red haired midget clown, to an old circus worker who is struck with "jake walk" (a condition brought on by drinking tainted whiskey). Jacob soon discovers that life on the road is beyond trying. When an elephant is brought on as part of the show, Jacob finds himself torn between his job as a compassionate vet and the rules of the circus. This causes Jacob to bump heads with his boss, August, who is beyond temperamental and at times masochistic. To complicate matters, Jacob is in love with the lead actress of the show, Malena, who just happens to be August's wife.While the subject matter of the circus would seem to be incredibly interesting, this novel was boring from start to finish. The entire plot was cliched, the relationships were shallow, and the characters were without depth. From the first chapter, I knew the exact path that the novel was going to take. Every time I thought to put the book down, I convinced myself to give it one more chance. It was after all a bestseller, therefore, I thought it would get better. It never did. If anything, it got worse as every cliche was reinforced. The only twist came at the very end and was so absurd I had to re-read the last few pages three times over to make sure that I read it correctly. A book is only as good as its character development but in this novel there is no development. Though Jacob attempts to mature, he can't seem to figure out what his priorities are. Incidentally, neither can Gruen for she has Jacob bemoan his conflicting emotions between his love for Marlena and his feelings towards animal abuse. Fortunately for Jacob, the animals take their fate into their own hands which relieves Jacob of having to develop. I hope, for the box office's sake, that the movie fails to resemble the book. Either way, I will not be the first in line at the theater.
3 This book is a page turner, but it certainly did not live up to the hype. It is reminiscent of older works like The Great Gatsby and Fifth Business, but doesn't try to be deep. Yes, the point of view of the old man was done well, but frankly quite boring. The love story felt flat (what exactly did they see in each other? neither had any personality)
5 Good story line, entertaining, The dont like the circus but this has a great story line that,yes has a circus feel but it has a love story, drama and flash backs into the past. Great book.
5 I like that it is a true story. It has strong and well-developed characters. If you liked the movie, you will like the book. Movie is truer to the book than many, but the book has more detail, as expected.
5 One of the best books I have ever read. Truly a great joy to read.  All the woman in my family have read it and we all came away loving the story. I fell in love with Rosie the elephant.
5 90-ish Jacob Jankowski narrates his story in flashbacks from a nursing home. His days with the circus feel more real and alive to him than his current reality.After his parents are killed in a car accident, Jacob runs out on his vet school exams and joins the circus. Circus life is not always easy, but Jacob has experiences with humans and animals that change his life forever.Gruen brings the Depression-era circus vividly to life, along with its many colorful characters. If Rosie the elephant and Bobo the orangutan don't touch your heart, it's made of stone!Highly recommended!
5 I had hesitated purchasing this book as I had read mediocre reviews of the movie when it came out.  I was hooked from the first chapter!  The chapters set in the nursing home had me laughing out loud!  Some of the animal cruelty segments were very difficult to read but the book is very well written and almost makes you feel as if you are right there with the circus family!  I have already highly recommended it to friends.
2 This book was easy reading, but was also kind of facile and read like a treatment for a movie script (and I am sure there will be a movie).  I think we were supposed to find crotchety old Jacob lovably cantankerous, but I just thought he was annoying.  The circus story (featuring young Jacob) was much better, but all it has is plot--characters don't really develop, writing is passable but not skilled.
5 This is a great book.  It has twists and turns and many surprises.  One of those stories I would read again.  There is so much I am sure I missed something.
5 I LOVED this book and found it nearly impossible to put down!  Buy it today you will not regret it!
4 Water for Elephants took a little while to fully grab my attention, with the flash backs between the circus and Jacob's time in the nursing home.  Once it got my attention it held it right through to the very end.There were a few relationships that stood out in my mind.  The first was between Rosemary and Jacob.  Their relationship exemplified the relationship I would hope all nursing home staff had with the residents.  Her understanding and patience as Jacob flashes back and forth between the present day and his youth is remarkable, and her connection seems to surpass the bond he shares with his children.I never would have thought I would enjoy a book that centered around the cicus, but this novel was about so much more than just the shows under the big top.  It focused on love, friendship, aging and compassion.
5 This book is an easy read that is highly entertaining and visual.  I loved it so much that I bought it on tape  so that my family could share it.  It truly captivated me.  I highly recommend it if you are looking for a solid, good read.
3 I read this book because my sister-in-law (who never reads) could not put it down until she finished. So I gave it a go and, after a slow start, was interested enough to finish. The author does everything she can to exploit the reader's concern for cats, dogs, monkeys and, of course, the titular elephant. The narrator  is a vet who sticks with the circus, at first, in order to protect the animals, but he does little to interfere with their mistreatment... or the mistreatment of his fellow humans. In that sense, the book rings false. The book exploits the reader's feeling for animals and animal-human relationships for some cheap emotional effect. And it worked on me to some extent because I  cared about (and shed shed tears for) the animals much more than the humans. But I fail to see larger point.
1 I agree with several other people who found it amazing that this is a bestseller. As an author whose books sell poorly right here on Amazon, I wish I knew her secret. I found it disgusting on so many levels, hard to follow, and in the end, just not worth reading. Perhaps something in the last third of the book would have changed my mind, but I couldn't finish it. I can't remember the last time I threw a book into the garbage can, but I looked it over carefully, thought about the very act of throwing out a book, and then dropped it into the trash. I don't regret it.
5 I was pleasantly surprised by this book.  It was a delight to read on several levels: aging, circus life, and life during the depression.  I loved the characters and the plot.
3 A sad story, beautifully told. Gruen cuts effortlessly between a faultless evocation of a seedy circus during the Depression - a grotesquerie if ever there was one -  and the modern-day life of an nonagenarian trapped in a failing body and a souless nursing home. Gruen's vivid prose and dead-on dialog transport the reader to a place and time, both physical and emotional, that does not fail to fascinate.  What in less talented hands might easily be a depressing tale of old age is animated by the spunk and wit of her main character.  My only complaint about the story is its ending, which I frankly found implausible.  But that's a minor complaint about an otherwise absorbing book.
5 I loved the time setting and how the author went back and forth from now to then, it really gave you a sense of how the old man felt, it was sweet but sad. I saw the movie too and as always, the book was much better. It's one of the best books I have read in a long time.
5 Loved the author's notes at the end... her words made the novel that much more personal. Loved the book! Read it!
5 I absolutely love this book! Sara Gruen does an amazing job of weaving a tale about the journey towards the end of one's life, the beginning of love, tragedy, uncertainty, sadness, happiness, and delightful surprises.
4 The writing and story were wonderful but the end came way too quickly I could have stayed entertained much longer. I was born in 1945 and like other little poor kids we loved when the circus came to the area.
4 Creating a story where your main character is alternately 93 and 23 (or so) is a daunting task for any author, but Sara Gruen yanks us around with grace. "Jacob Joins the Circus" is not in the thoughts of either Jacob but life is funny for a vet student who suffers a personal crisis, hits the rails and jumps onto the only train filled with patients for whom he's trained to assist and human subjects of a certain period.It's 1931 and the Great Depression is in full stench. With creatures of every variety in need of his services, Jacob becomes part of the Benzini Brothers, a circus dying to be Ringling Brothers and as we learn, their management, headed up by Uncle Al, a brute in anyone's managerie is ready to literally dump dead weight and steal what he needs to drive that train where he wants it to go. Jacob endears himself as a necessary component and survives the late night "redlighting" that makes roadkill of certain colleagues.Love springs eternal as both young and old Jacob encounter women who make the journey worth hanging for. When the elephant comes to town, the men of both eras are drawn closer still and we can feel their joy, their pain, their passion writ in every color of the literary rainbow. Ms. Gruen clearly has a passion for the subject and has researched every nuance and trick of the period(s) and the ride is a rollick. Certain characters pop in without much preamble and we feel genuine pain for little Walter and his doggie, and for Casey, the victim of "the Jake," an ailment wished on no person. The deepest sympathy is felt for the largest of creatures, Rosie, and we wince at every poke of the trainer's prod, every command misunderstood and yet she's not why we bought a ticket to the show.Water for Elephants avoids the traps of a parable, or a fairy tale, or a moralistic thriller, and we're left with what we came for: a well paced story filled with great characters who remain there after the day ends and by the end of the ride, it's a Book for Everyone.
5 The excellent details of circus life and the story of Jacob were capturing. Enjoyed the change from past to present without confusion.  At the end, wanted to read more of the life of Jacob.  Maybe a sequel?
5 I read this book for my book club a couple months ago and we unanimously liked it. Animal rights activists may find themselves squirming at times. But it's worth the read. Highly recommended.
4 What an enjoyable book!  The plot, although at times a little predictable, was refreshing and well written.  I fell in love with Jacob young, but especially Jacob old.  His frustration with the tricks his body and mind had played on him were real and understandable.  His joy at the end of the book put a grin on my face. I know there have been quite a few of you who found the profanity excessive and gratuitous, but I think it fit the station of life and the time period and would not let it stop me from a book this enjoyable.  I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially those of you who find the time period of the 30's facinating.
5 A masterpiece, both historically and emotionally accurate. I Highly recommend it.You won't be able to put this one down.
5 This was the kind of novel that I hated to finish. The characters were so endearing, the story so exciting and heartfelt.  Sara Gruen is a wonderful writer. She weaves memory around a love story filled with action and adventure, using the backdrop of a travelling circus during the Great Depression.  A wonderful trip to another time. I found it very hard to put this novel down.
1 "Water for Elephants" was the last Book Club selection I read, and It was not my choice. Reading it was a bit of a chore for me because upon reading a small synposis of it, I felt like I was back in high school. But like I did in school, I learned something.  I learned about what it is like to be in a circus, to know what drives someone to join a circus, especially in a different generation.  The main protagonist, Jacob Jankowksi, however, was a likable character and I liked his spunk.  Each chapter is narrated by the Old and young Jacob.  The old version would be looking back in time, thus, the next chapter would bring us to that exact moment in time when he joined, and when he met the woman he would fall in love with.  The writing at times, really didn't give me any feeling that I could not put this book down.  There is something about Ms. Gruen's writing that I just can't put into words other than: I didn't care for it, and I don't think she's a very good writer.I am a very open minded reader and am willing to try anything.  This is one book that I feel I wasted far too much time on.  I didn't even really finish it as I was still several chapters away from the end the night before our meeting.Take a look at my reviews to see some really wonderful books and see if you agree with me.Eileen F.
5 This book is a must read! I absolutely loved every minute of it. It is different yet keeps you reading. The characters are wonderful and the story is told with a great amount of emotion. Love love love
5 Reading the back cover of the book did not entice me to read this.  A friend told me I had to read it, however.  It is excellent.  I wasn't sure about it at first but ended up loving it.
5 Books are entertainment.  There are some that get taught flying lessons, but overall, most manage to accomplish that goal.  Some you enjoy while the book is open and then forget as you close the cover on the last page.  Some may stay with you a day, a week, a month.  These you probably tell your friends about.  Most are interruptible if something else comes along.  The phone rings, your neighbor comes knocking, cat fight in the yard, world peace is declared; you dog-ear the corner, set it aside and get back to it later.And then there is that rare book you open to the first page and several hours later, your butt numb, your joints stiff from inactivity, your eyes misting, your vision blurred, you close the cover on the last page.  That rare book that sucks you in so completely you lose track of time and place.  You look up from the page at your surroundings and feel a momentary confusion.  The morning light that was streaming through your window when you started reading is now afternoon light coming through the door.  That rare book that, as you race mid-way through, you wish with all your heart it would never end.  That rare book you long to jump into, become a part of, live forever in.Water For Elephants by Sara Gruen is such a book.
5 This is by far an exceptional book.  It gives a glimpse of circus life that you would never know about if you hadn't read this book.  But it is a truly good story with a decent ending for a very old circus man.  It leaves you thinking of the story long after you are done with the book and while reading it, it is a real page turner.
2 This story started out good in e beginning.  About halfway through it became a little disturbing.  I felt like it lost the magic from the start oc
4 This is a really sweet, creative and unexpected story of love and survival. A quick, but memorable read.
3 It was okay. I liked the relationship between Marlena and Jacob, but it didn't captivate me as much as I thought it would.
3 I thought this topic would be very interesting, as you get to see the inner workings of a Circus. That's something I'd never read about and DID find interesting, and it's probably what kept me reading all the way to the end.The characters however were not that well developed, especially Marlena. Most of the time she comes off as an airheaded child, a woman easily fooled and manipulated. It's also sort of difficult to really imagine Jacob and Marlena being so completely in love, as they don't really have anything in common other than their love of animals. Also not a big fan of the book flashing back and forth between 22 year old Jacob and 91 year old Jacob. Most of the "old Jacob" chapters are tedious to read and the payoff at the end with him is pretty small--especially as you aren't really sure how he got to be so grumpy and bitter.The main thing I disliked about this book is that it gives away the ending in the first chapter. You know the bad guy is going to die from page 1. So the rest of the book has you feeling pretty indifferent because you already know what the outcome will be. You already know the hero prevails and the tension or the thrill of finding out what will happen is gone.
5 When a friend recommended this book I was hesitant because I normally do not like novels that revolve around history or romance. I honestly read the book to appease my friend, and was blown away by the characters and the storyline. The book was definitely not the boring and corny romance story I expected it to be. I found Water for Elephants to be captivating, humorous, and heartbreaking.The book begins with a young veterinary student who discovers that his parents have been killed in a car accident. He returns home to find that he has been left with nothing and that his parents had put everything at stake for his ivy league education. When they died their home, veterinary practice, and savings were all lost to the bank. Overcome by grief, he is unable to complete his finals and runs away from everything and everyone he knows. At a loss for direction and purpose, he jumps a train in the dead of night hoping to find himself in a strange town where he can start to live again. Instead, he finds himself on a circus train, where he becomes engrossed in a community unlike anything that he has ever experienced. The weeks and months that follow are both his saving grace and his living hell.
5 What an intriguing story!  From the first gripping lines of the prologue, I was pulled into the world of the traveling circus, a world I had purposefully avoided until now.  Told through the perspective of an elderly man's recollections, this book is full of grit, empathy, and adventure, and is a sharp portrayal of the seedier side of the depression era sideshow life.  The author juxtaposed greed, sloth, abuse, mental illness, and the fascinating circus world of cheap glamour and talented charlatans against the bittersweet remembrances of an old man and his present day frustration with trying to live life more fully at an advanced age.  There is a little surprise at the end that I had not foreseen.  The back of the book describes this work with words like vivid, rich, and riveting.  It is all of those things and more - a great story well told.  Water for elephants is highly recommended.
5 I think I liked every single page of this book. It was a well-written semi-historical account of circus life and human interaction, but it wasn't over written. Definitely one of the better books I've read. It did move a bit slowly, but it's difficult to notice how slowly a book moves when you read it quickly. I imagine if I had read this book over the stretch of a week or two, it would have been a little less interesting. However, it did motivate me to keep reading, so I doubt I would have wanted to stretch it out that long.
5 Wonderful and moving. The author has a way of inviting you into this mysterious, misunderstood, hard world where nothing is really as it seems. It is gritty and unattractive, yet passionate and gripping. Loved it.
5 I wish I had NEVER seen the movie after reading this book. I was beyond excited to know they had done a movie since I absolutely fell in love with this book, until I struggled through it...
5 Fascinating and riveting novel, chockerblock full of vivid historical detail about life in a second rate traveling circus during the depression in the United States. It was a real glimpse of Americana because of the author's meticulous research. All the elements of a great read: love, desire, action, humor, murder, and a totally surprising and superb ending. The true heroine is a wonderful elephant named Rosie.
5 Such a good read and hard to put down.  Liked the ending, found it to be a happy possibility.
5 I thought about these characters when I wasn't reading, that rarely happens. Very enjoyable read.
5 This was a great adventure and had been engrossed throughout the entire book. Sweet but strong men, some violent and control freaks.
5 One of my biggest indicators of a well-written book is if I am transported to that world in such a way that I can see, hear, and even smell it. Sara Gruen sweeps a 93 year old Jacob Jankowski quickly into your heart before tossing you into the world of his 23 year old self. We are there to witness the moment in this man's life when the smooth path he is on is up-heaved with the death of his parents and the loss of his future veterinary practice. His new course turns out to be on the tracks and with the belly of the circus.With the help of an old roustabout, Jacob learns the language and hierarchy of the circus, and eventually lands a job as the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth's vet. We learn with our protagonist the dirty reality of day to day life of a traveling circus in 1931. A colorful host of secondary characters help Jacob on his journey, with the most important being Marlena, the show's star equestrian, and her husband, the cruel animal master, August.Jacob and Marlena's paths soon become twisted and intertwined as the fall in love, and try to find their escape from her insane, brutal husband and the circus that they are trapped in serving. Their answer comes in the form of an elephant named Rosie, and a fateful disaster that destroys those holding them back, while free the lovers to their happily ever after.This story comes full circle in the end as 93 year old Jacob finds himself once again at the gates of the big top, and is given a chance to go home once again.
5 I decided to read Water for Elephants because I discovered that Robert Pattinson is going to star in the movie version of it. As you may or may not know, I am a HUGE fan of Robert Pattinson. I definitely like him more than I should. Robert Pattinson aside, I am so glad I read this book. I did not know what to expect, but it was absolutely amazing!The main character, Jacob, is so easy to like. He has lived an extremely interesting life. In the beginning, he is a veterinarian student who is about to take his final test to become a full-fledged vet. Unfortunately for him, a tragedy claims his parents' lives, and he becomes too emotionally broken to even start the test. He ends up jumping on a train that happens to be a circus train, so he is practically thrown into this world as the circus vet.I really loved this book for so many reasons. One, Jacob is a vet (sort of), which I love because that is what I want to do. You can obviously tell he loves animals. The characters were complex and intriguing. The bad guys like August and Uncle Al had so many levels to them that they were often hard to read. Rosie, the elephant, was probably one of my favorite characters. Even if she is an elephant, she was so funny and smart! She definitely made the story so much better because I could not help but love her.Water for Elephants is an amazing book. Sara Gruen is such a talented writer that it is no wonder I love this book so much. With the action, forbidden love, hard choices, loss, and so much more, Water for Elephants is one of the best books I have ever read. It captivated me from page 1. I absolutely love this book, and it is now one of my favorites.
5 Absolutely LOOOOOOOOVED this book! I have an old sentimental soul and I got lost in the world created in this novel. I would highly recommend it to a friend!
4 This beautifully written novel opens with Jacob, age 93 or 90 - he doesn't remember which.  The book flashes back and forth from Jacob's present life in an old-age home to his young adult life caring for animals in a traveling circus.  Though a bit over the top, this story is so marvelously told that I found myself turning page after page savoring the prose.
4 A  truly  great read with a slice of American history thrown in.  I recommend this book  to history buffs and animal lovers , alike.
4 I really enjoyed this.  The 'past' story is brilliant--I loved how we return to the Prologue events at the end.  Not so impressed with the ending of the book itself (the 'present'), but otherwise, entertaining and enjoyable.  Well-executed!
5 Jacob Jankowski is ninety-three or ninety and resides in a nursing home, visited once a week by family members.  When a circus comes to town and sets up camp nearby, Jacob remembers his stint on a traveling circus during the Depression.  As a young man, he studied veterinary science at Cornell, but a family tragedy caused him to change his course.  Once enlisted as the circus vet, Jacob meets an array of colorful people and animals, who are by turns, violent, gentle, mercurial and loyal. When he falls in love with the wife of one of his colleagues, trouble arises. resulting in tragedy. However, there is a second act in the senior Jacob's life, as it turns out he is not yet through being part of a circus.This is an unforgettable book that depicts a world that will be unfamiliar to many readers. Those who have enjoyed Ms. Gruen's earlier horse novels will likely enjoy this as well, although it is written ina different style.  A deserved bestseller, "Water For Elephants" is a heartwarming story and a ripping yarn, as the Brtish might say.
5 On my list of "Books to Read," I finally got around to reading Sarah Gruen's "Water for Elephants" and found myself up until the wee hours of the morning finishing the last breathtaking page.This is the kind of book that is so well researched and told that it captivates you - much like the circus it portrays - with feats of beauty and astonishment.I really loved this book, and was somewhat disappointed by the movie - which, as always, changes certain aspects of the book and allows for director/artistic interpretation of scenes contrary to my original interpretation. But that's the beauty of books and individual interpretation - they are your own to make as beautiful as you can imagine, guided only by the artistic mastery of the author.I saw that another individual had given this book 1 star - merely for editing on an E-Book version.  Unless every word was morphed and un-readable, I find that slightly harsh to Ms. Gruen.This is a wonderful story, that has moment's similar to the The Notebook and the movie Big Fish.  I recommend it for anyone who enjoys historical fiction and romance.  It is carefully researched and filled with drama, humor, passion and love.
4 Watched the film first and loved it. The book didn't disappoint either. Even though I had watched the film it was an interesting read, it didn't feel boring to read what I've already seen. The characters's good, I especially liked Walter and some other of the minor roles, the rhythm of the writing flowing and easily read. Jacob's tone and style of talking is well carried through the book. It feels like you're there. It was also fascinating to get glimpses of his current, old life. What he had become after all of the adventures, an old man forgotten by his children and family, reliving his past. It was sad, and you could understand his grumpiness.There's just something about circuses that's fascinating. It was interesting to "learn" how the circus worked in the 30s, how they travelled by train, how the hierarchy was arranged, how you lived your life in a circus.
4 It was a great book to read better than the movie.Everyone should definitely read this book. I absolutely loved everything about it.
1 Not once while reading this book was I emotionally hooked -- unless you count my anger at the author. For all Gruen's indepth research into circus life of the 1930s, the atmosphere of the narrative felt wrong. The dialogue sounded far too contemporary and the stage directions -- "I looked out the window"; "He moved his jaw before answering"; "I looked steadily at her then looked away"; and the dramatic "in the distance I heard the sound of a camel" -- were intrusive. Add to that the constant  cutting back and forth from young-buck Jacob to retirment-home Jacob and you feel not that you're immersed in another world, but rather reading the script of a touching Hallmark Theater production.The characters are from central casting: the good hearted whore, the tyrannical boss, the crazy husband and his sweet but long-suffering wife. And the noble hero. Young and bereft of family, Jacob stumbles into circus life and is hired as a vet. He is painted as the champion of the small and weak, regardless of sex or species, always wanting to do good and right. And yet, at the moment when his friends need him most, he's gone, taking their only means of protection, a knife, with him. And the elephant for whom he professes deep affection he leaves to the hands of a crazed maniac, to be beaten not once but twice, and our hero does nothing about it. How can we possibly cheer for him?Too bad the story wasn't told from the POV of a minor character named Greg. Greg shows up twice, first when he retrieves the elephant using what he knows she loves, booze. He shows up later ministering to her wounds from one of the beatings. He's speaking Polish to her, the language she understands. Why did we need Jacob? Sounds like we already had a vet, and a worthy hero, standing in the wings.
5 This is a book for anyone who loves to be drawn into a stroy and held there. This is a richly written and warm page turner with characters that come to life. I read it quickly and my only complaint was that I was left wanting more of this beautiful story.
4 This book was just wonderful! I love how it turned into a love story with some crazy things happening along the way. Awesome read!
5 If you are like me, you're wanting to read the book before the movie comes out in a few weeks.  I've heard about this book for months, but I never could bring myself to buy it.  A favorite actor of mine is in the movie, so I finally decided to read it.  I am sorry I waited so long to do so!  It's one of the best books I've ever read.  The author's words are so well-written and descriptive, they paint pictures in your mind.  GET THIS BOOK if you want a heart-warming, and at times, thrilling read!
4 I had been wanting to read this for awhile, so I finally ordered it from Amazon.  I was not disappointed!  The story was wonderful, uplifting, and bittersweet.  Gruen's research on circus history added much to an already entertaining plot.This is another book my 14-year-old son read after I did.  There are some graphic parts though, so use your own judgment before you pass it on to your kids.Enjoy!
4 I was hesitant to read this book because I'm not particularly interested in the circus, however; it was a revealing inside look at how hard 'carnie' life was. It also shows how life can throw you some curve balls that completely changes the path you take. This story flowed and it was hard to put down...nice and easy to follow.
4 I was apprehensive at first about reading the book since it was  already out in a movie, but I truly enjoyed the book.Good read!
4 I really enjoyed this book but I don't really know why. The story was not anything extraordinary. The love story left something to be desired. Does anyone understand where exactly that came from? One minute he sees her across a crowded room and then bang!she just happens to love him too. Okay then, don't bother to really get to know each other. Some of the characters were hardly developed, Marlena mainly. There were moments I found to be quite crude and crass. However, somehow I know that years from now I will look back at this read fondly.My best guess is that I just liked the voice found throughout the novel. In fact I would go so far as to say the narration was superb. I have always been a fan of first person and while the bulk of this story is in fact first person, Gruen superbly weaves a sort of third person narration. The transitions are so smooth that you barely notice the shift. Gruen is just a superb narrator or maybe it's Jacob who does the great job?Now for a few thoughts on the film; I have four words, don't waste your time. If the narration and not the actual story is what makes the book then it is a no brainer that a movie would fall very short. This film was really not good, at least from where I was sitting. Maybe it has to do with the major lack of chemistry between Witherspoon and Pattinson?
5 I saw the movie first and then knew I had to read the book. As expected the book is even better than the movie, amazing detail and unexpected plot twists. Great read!
5 This is not the type of book that I usually read, but once I started, I couldn't put it down.  The lives that those people lived (if half of this book was true), was truly horrendous.  This was truly a compelling story, and one that I have already recommended to many of my friends!!
5 This book has it all,an insiteful look at circus life during the depression. a love story, great character studys human and animal. So looking forward to the spring 2011 movie,the lead actors perfectly chosen.
5 I loved this book.  I could not put it down once I began reading it. Perhaps it's because I'm rapidly approaching the age where I could end up in a nursing home myself, but that part of the book fascinated me. It's from the perspective of a 93-year-old man in a nursing home.  It rang true.  I was touched by the nurse who treated him like a person, who explained things to him, and cried with him when his family failed to show up to take him to the larger-than-life event he had looked forward to throughout the book--the circus.  It made me think back over the experiences with our own parents and wish I could go back and do things differently.The other part of the book, the flashbacks into this man's history were fast-paced and exciting.  I immediately sympathized when, as a young man, he lost his parents and found himself alone in the world, and understood his running away from it all. Maybe I question the believability of one or two points while he traveled with the circus, but not enough that it marred my enjoyment of the book.  I simply took it as an indication of how much things have changed in this country over time. What would not fly now might have at one time. It opened my eyes to how easy it is to become absorbed into any society (even the world of a traveling circus)  and how to survive, a person must abide by rules they might otherwise never consider.  The book showed the higher and baser aspects of human nature, all of which I found easily believable.  The world is filled with people who have differing stories and problems.  We don't all behave the same or believe the same, but we do conform to the ethics of our individual worlds--good or bad.  I believe the author demonstrated that  beautifully.I read some of the other reviews, and was saddened that some people couldn't see past  the imperfections and simply enjoy the different facets of the story.  It's a good one.I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good read.
4 Wonderful book. I liked the audio book on my long drive to and from work. I liked how the voice changed from young to older. I'm glad I read/listened to the book before I saw the movie. I liked the book better than the movie
5 One of the best books I have ever read! Fluid narrative. Great character development. I could not put it down. What a great story. It is a must in any one's collection of great fiction!
3 The book was interesting but I think mostly because the subject matter was something different.  The characters in my opinion could have been fleshed out a lot more.  It seemed to me to be a book written primarily so a movie could be made of it.  It was more of an outline for a larger novel.  Aside from that, again, it was interesting I just thought there should be more to it.
3 Took this and "The Call Girl Actress, Confessions of a Lesbian Escort" by Erica Black to the beach this summer. I had to put this one back in my beach bag. I was glad I had Erica's book or I'd have been bored. I don't think this will go down as Gruen's best effort. Very easy to guess what was coming from the plot.
5 WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is like candy for readers.  It was one of two best books I've read in the past year.  In fact, it probably ranks as one of my favorite books of all time.  It was expertly, yet simply, written by Sara Gruen.  The novel tells the story from the perspective of Jacob Jankowski who currently resides in a nursing home.  The story alternates between Jacob's current living situation and the story of his past, how he once worked in a circus during the first part of the 20th century.  The impending visit of a traveling circus next door to the nursing home prompts him to remember the details of his circus life/experiences when he was a young man.Gruen's description of the nursing home, its residents, and its day-to-day activities was spot-on.  Having visited my grandparents on several occasions in their nursing home, I could easily visualize and relate to Jacob's experiences.  It really came to life.You can tell that a lot of research was also put into the circus recollections of Jacob Jankowski.  Gruen delves into circus life in the early 20th century when circuses traveled via train from town to town, and animal welfare and regulations were little more than an afterthought.  I found all of Jankowski's experiences intriguing and actually felt like I was experiencing them right along with him.  The characterizations felt realistic, too, and I could easily distinguish between the many different circus workers, and even some of the more prominent animals.It wasn't until halfway through the novel, though, that I realized how the nursing home is a metaphor for the circus.  Gruen makes subtle comparisons between the animals in the circus and the residents of nursing home.  They're both herded, fed, and prodded.  Jacob even says, "I'm so used to being scolded and herded and managed and handled that I'm no longer sure how to react when someone treats me like a real person."  So true.  And sad.Now that I've read this fantastic book, I'm very eager to see the forthcoming movie adaptation.  I'd like to say that I'd love to see a sequel to this great tale; however, I think Jacob Jankowski's story has already been told in full in this one well-crafted novel.
5 I couldn't put this down.  A wonderful story, with rich authentic detail.
3 You've heard the story about the blind man feeling an elephant and trying to describe what it is? In many ways, I felt the same way reading Sara Gruen's fast-paced and engaging story. It is an oddity. It is wondrous. And it also has some plodding, filthy elements."Water for Elephants" starts with a grippping prologue, during which we see the murder of a circus employee in the 1930s. The story then switches back and forth between young and old Jacob, a man who gets pulled into the circus life, discovers love, adventure, and trouble, and then reflects back on that as an old man. Gruen does a fine job creating this empathetic character, though the old man's story becomes less important and almost campy by the end. The young man's story delves deeply into circus life, with lots of interesting details and conflict, although the characters are all fairly black and white, with the villains being obvious and predictable. For some reason, Gruen also seems compelled to give us lurid details of the circus striptease and Jacob's own loss of virginity at the hands of the "cooch tent" prostitutes. Why these elements are described in such detail only detracts from the already shallow love story to come. It would be nice to see some intellectual dialogue between our male and female leads, rather than coy glances, "shapely calves," and the surface attraction of teenage relationships.Soon, Jacob's background in veterinary studies allows him to find a place onboard the circus train, during which he falls in love with Marlena, a woman trapped in an abusive relationship. When the circus procures a new elephant for its act, it provides a link between Jacob and Marlena, as well as with Rosie the elephant. The problem is the jealous and psychotic August, Marlena's husband. We know he must be removed from the picture for this to work. Deeply ethical and moral issues come into play, but Gruen chooses the easy route and solves the problem in a somewhat satisfactory but highly implausible way. This is only underlined by the equally implausible solution of old-man Jacob's frustrations. Sure, it's all warm and gushy, but the deep research and texture of the circus and some of its elements give way to romanticized solutions that turn a historic novel into one of borderline fantasy.With all the fanfare over this novel and tie-in movie, I suspect I'll be accused of being the blind man here in my description of the "elephant." Many elements were strong and well done, but much like Sebold's "The Lovely Bones," all of the wonderful storybuilding gives way to a conclusion that feels a bit forced and too easy.
5 loved this book! wonderfully written! there was not one flaw in this book. im glad the author didnt focus fully on the romance perspective of the book and her going from jacobs youth to jacob as an elderly from chapter to chapter put a great spin on the story.my heart was broken when his family didnt come for him but it turned out with a good ending. if they wouldve come he wouldve went back to the old folks home and although theres no novel following this one, im sure he dies with the circus just like hes always dreamed to.cant wait to watch the movie :)
5 This is one of a handful of books I haven't been able to put down easily. Finished in two sittings(!), it's the tale of an old man, reflecting on his youth as a Cornell veterinary school dropout who joins the circus after learning he has no home or family to go back to. Carefully researched, Sarah Gruen takes the reader through a traveling circus from the depression era. Many of the subplots were taken from actual recorded events, adding to the realism of the book. The characters also represented each aspect of the circus; I became concerned for the stage dwarf as much as an old tent setter. The novel also switches from the past time in the circus to the present, where the protagonist reflects on his current state in the nursing home in an often comical fashion, giving a break to the main plot line and building suspense. Highly recommended for those interested in historical novels.
5 Such a great book. Flash back from the main character's POV. Not my usual genre of book, but absolutely fell in love with this book. I could not put it down. I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a good read. Absolutely delightful!
4 This book was very interesting and it had a great story line. I had no idea a circus could be like that and I enjoyed the book very much.
5 A joy to read.  It kept me on the edge of my page. The characters were rich, enthralling, sweet, dark, evil, and beautiful.
5 Wow, what a great story. Wonderful book, audiobook was fantastic! Would recommend listening to the audiobook over reading the book.
5 Wow! Sara Gruen is a master storyteller. Her words make the often seedy yet oh-so-fascinating world behind the scenes of a legendary circus train seem so real, so here and now. The central figure of Jacob Jankowski is so well written. I am especially taken with the depiction of life in a nursing home with the body of a 93-year-old and the wit and mind of a much much younger man. It gave me a whole new perspective on how sad and depressing life must be like in an institution like that and will make me spend more time getting to know those who find their homes in such a place. But what struck me most was when I read the Afterward in which Ms. Gruen explained the motivation for writing this novel and the incredibly detailed research that she found herself doing just to put pen to paper. Not only is she so very gifted with the ease of writing, but she is very committed to the realism of details. Incredible! She took some really fascinating true stories from some of this country's most storied circuses and rolled them all into one incredible journey. I highly recommed this book to everyone I meet and I will be looking for more of her works to inspire and inform. Do yourself a favor and pick up this book today.
4 I picked up this book not knowing anything about the subject.  However, I was pleasantly surprised when I found that a veterinarian was the main character.  Very good book, kept me interested until the end.
5 This book was stunning... I just couldn't get sucked into it and almost gave up until a facebook post where someone said it was one of the best books they'd ever read. I decided to give it one more try, and I'm so glad I did. It was amazing!!!
5 Great biography that touches the soul and causes one to re-evaluate their purpose in life.
4 I found this book to be a very entertaining read, combining historical facts about circus life with a love relationship.  I liked the manner in which the author wrote and her vivid characters.  It wasn't a deep, complicated novel, but a good story.
4 Water for Elephants begins by pulling back the curtain on the inner workings of a nursing home, a man begins to speak of the adventure of life in the circus. The book reminded me once again of how much I detest nursing homes. I remember when I volunteered at a nursing home... it was so hard to shake the feeling of depression as soon as you walked in, no matter how many activities you planned. It was a sad place filled with lonely people staring out of the front doors just hoping family or friends would come visit them. Yet as you roamed the halls you could hear the most amazing stories of lives lived so fully when age did not seem to have the slightest grip. As you read Water for Elephants just like with any life there are parts which you might wish had been edited out, yet the story so clearly shines the light on a life lived fully and how society tries to shelve those it believes no longer have something of value to offer...**This book is not recommended for all ages, as it definitely contains adult material**
5 I could not put this book down. I absolutely loved it and have passed it on and recommended it to others to read it as well. Although it's a fictional account of a circus story, it was very believable and I was only disappointed in an unrealistic ending. I still give it five stars because everything up to the last page or two was so entertaining.
5 I highly recommend it.  The story was very entertaining and well written. I enjoyed this book very much. Read it.
5 This is one of the best books I have read in quite some time. Good and strong story, nicely written. I could not put my kindle down. Thank you Ms.Gruen, I really enjoyed your book and will buy more of your work.
3 I have had this book for some time now and still have yet to finish it. Everyone raved about how good it was but I found it hard to get into - however, keep in mind I'm not an avid reader so it has to be pretty interesting to keep me involved.
5 The reviews from "Booklist" and "Publisher's Weekly" are a little misleading--the book really is more uplifting and not as depressing as the plot elements they have focused upon.  This story leads the reader into the rich and complex world of traveling circuses, circa 1930's.  The journey of the young man reminded me of Clyde Griffiths in Theodore Dreiser's, "An American Tragedy", the relationship between Marlena and August reminded me of the dynamics between Sophie and Nathan in William Styron's, "Sophie's Choice".  But, in spite of these analogies, the book still isn't depressing!  A good summer read, you won't be disappointed.
4 Except for Harry Potter series, most books are always better than the movie. In this case, it definitely is. A must read. I believe it will become a classic for students to read twenty years from now.
5 The setting for this drama was nothing that I was familiar with. It made the story original and interesting.I felt a connection to all the characters.The author made every one seem real and I couldn't wait to find out what happened to them all.This was a great page turner.
5 I had a vague idea of what this book was about before I read it and I was in for a nice surprise. The author paints a wonderful picture of circus life and life on the road. More than that she created a compelling love story that moved the story along quickly and almost effortlessly. It was easy to get lost in the ups and downs of this world and I had a hard time coming back to reality. This is a definite must read.
1 I managed to read half the book and then couldn't handle reading any more animal abuse. It was the worst I have ever read before. I should have known since it was written about a circus not to read it.
5 Water for Elephants deserves all the hype it has gotten. Terrific story and I could not put it down.
5 Enjoyed this.Believe a book most anyone would like.Never wanted to run away to a circus but if I did I would join this group of misfits.
5 If you are looking for a fast reading, really interesting and gripping story with an out of left ending....here it is.Story has all the trappings.....sex, intrigue, murder. Main character is very likeable with a realy love for animals. Villain is a real monster that will make you hate him.Different, and really good!!
5 This was a really good, enjoyable, authentic, endearing book.  Thoroughly enjoyable read.  One of a kind, leaves you wanting more of the circus on the rails of the depression era. I also love first-person novels that stay on plot and Gruen doesn't disappoint there.I TOTALLY disagree with another reviewer who said Gruen over-anthropomophized and over-romanticized the animals in the story! Hardly. If anything, if Jacob is a vet, we read very little of him doing his job in context of the story.  And anyone who's around animals or has worked with animals can hardly fail to form emotional attachments to them.When I finished WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, I like I felt when I finished reading FRIED GREEN TOMATOES AT THE WHISTLE STOP CAFE and SEABISCUIT.
4 A remarkably fast read,leaving the reader breathless from tight action and tingling suspense.  This book reveals the glitz and sparkle of the circus, along with its dark and terrible underside that lurks barely out of sight.  The two time frames - of old Jacob and young Jacob - are carried through smoothly by Gruen, who ties the events together  with skillful repetition of words and phrases.  I wish there were more novels that take place during the Depression - an era that had such enormous impact on our society and continues to reverberate in modern times.  This book did not make me want to run away and join a circus.  It did make me happy that movements toward animal-less circuses have made a toehold.
5 I had some idea of the content of this book before I started reading, but was extremely impressed with the author's skill in opening the world of the Depression-Era circus, and the fascinating people who populated it.  Her ability to shift between the poignant situation of the aged Jacob, and the youthful enthusiasm and passion of the youthful Jacob made this novel 'work' better than most I've read in years.  The ending did catch me by surprise, and was absolutely delightful in all respects.  I will commend this book to the attention of anyone who wants to look through a window on the past, and the believable people who occupied that world -- told in the words of a very gifted author.
5 WOW Well worth the 5.00 eBook price. I Laughed, I Cried and I could not put this book down. It was a amazing story that and I read a lot and have never read anything like this. I can only imagine how Hollywood is going to slaughter this movie so you MUST read this book. It is in my Top 5 Favorite Books of all time list!!!
5 It is the present day. An old man, either 90 or 93 - he can't recall - lives in a desultory, grumpy funk in a generic nursing home, treated like a product, given impersonal but efficient care, and regularly visited by a vaguely attentive, dutifully loving, but clueless family. He is lonely; he misses his wife; he longs for attention from his prolific family, but understands that they have problems of their own. For solace, he relives his early life on a continuous thread - his life as a circus veterinarian for a second-rate travelling show.In alternating chapters, the author, Sara Gruen, takes us from the present to 1931 and back, showing us a rich history of a good young man whose life is changed forever when his parents die in a car crash, leaving him destitute just as he is to stand for his final exams at Cornell. He had hoped to go into practice with his father as a small-town vet; instead, at a total loss, he bolts, jumping a train which turns out to belong to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth (or words to that effect). He is plunged into the colourful, quirky world of the circus, with all its different intensities and personalities; at risk of being summarily thrown off the train, he is reprieved by Uncle Al, the owner/operator/ringleader of the circus when that gentleman learns that Jacob is - for all intents and purposes - a vet, something Uncle Al has coveted for a long time.Jacob falls easily into the life, loving working with the animals, learning to become one of the circus family, and finding an unlikely friend in the dwarf whose living space he shares. Along the way, and almost immediately, he also falls hopelessly in love with the wife of Uncle Al's right-hand man August. Marlena is the woman of the horses, directing her own act with 12 beautiful Arabians in the ring, and her grace and beauty completely captures Jacob. He must tread carefully; her husband, August, is borderline insane and insanely jealous.The old Jacob buries himself in these memories, frets over the static life of the nursing home, and learns to look for one particular nurse who seems to be the only person who really takes an interest in him. She counsels him gently; she brings him food that is just a little better than what he's been getting; and we get a glimpse, through his eyes, of the frustration of the elderly, trapped inside a body that won't cooperate anymore and surrounded by people who aren't interested in his bright former life.This was an absorbing, entertaining book, a complete joy. Well-written, well-researched, it opens a door on a world that most people never thought about and makes the different subjects into real people. It also made me feel empathy toward those in impersonal facilities, who live for a familiar, interested face, and who long to impart to us the lives they led. I could not put this book down. Highly recommended.
5 I can't believe it took me this long to pick this book up.  What a great story and very well written.  I always enjoy books that go back and forth between past & present, and the author did it brilliantly.The only thing I disliked was reading about the treatment of the animals, but that is to be expected with a circus story.Would definitely recommend this book to a friend.  I'm sure the upcoming move won't do the book justice, but will at the very least draw some new readers.
5 This is a wonderful book.  Pure entertainment.  This will leave you with a soft spot for the circus, for trains and for vaudville.  We vacationed with a group of friends recently and passed this one around; five of us managed to read it in the eight day vacation....it's that good!
5 I loved this book.  My best friend recommended it and originally I did not think much of the description of the story.  When I began to read the book though, I was totally absorbed into the story and had a tough time putting the book down.  This is a definite &#34;Must Read&#34;
3 Sarah Gruen clearly establishes and proves her research of traveling circuses in the 1920s and 30s in this novel. Written from the point of view of the protagonist, Jacob Jankowski, we find out how he is thrust into the world of circuses after he experiences a life-changing tragedy in his family, the death of his parents in an accident. The book goes back and forth from the present, with Jacob being in an assisted-living home, to the past, where Jacob boards a train and then, after being almost booted off, begins his world of traveling circuses aboard the Benzini Bros. With nowhere to go, and nothing to do, he begins the circus life, meets several of the key characters, such as Walter, Camel, Marlena, August and "Uncle Al." While Gruen's ability as a storyteller is there, I felt like the book was a letdown because of the direction it took with the main character.One substantial element to Jacob's personality is his connection and compassion for animals, but I felt like there were times when he isn't the strong leading character he could be, and that this compassion for animals is inconsistent. For instance, there is a point after becoming the Benzini Bros. personal veterinarian, he indicates that his protection for animals is unbending saying "...and what my father would do--what my father would want me to do--is look after them, and I am filled with that absolute and unwavering conviction." Yet, there is at least one instance when Jacob has a chance to stop the villain August from abusing Rosie, the elephant, but fails to take any action, despite how ruthless he knows August to be. Odd, considering that he makes some rash decisions, but none that are of much consequence.It also seemed odd to not focus more on the circus itself, as it pertained to Jacob and many of the other characters. Why not focus more on the spectacle of the circus, the performers, the competition between the rival circuses, and the pageantry of the event?  The potential to do this seemed to be there, especially the way the 93 year old Jacob reflects on the sweet memories of being in the circus, telling many workers in the hospital about those wonderful days with teary-eyed conviction.  Instead Gruen uses much of the book's energy on the "forced" relationship and wooden love affair between Jacob and leading circus performer Marlena, August's wife. I mean, if you are going to write about the circus, and do the research on it, why not concentrate more attention on events that involve the history of the circus. There was a pronounced shift to the love affair between Jacob and Marlena, especially in the novel's second half, and much of the dialogue between the two seemed hokey and silly. It made the book come across as a romance disguised as a circus story.Still, it was an enjoyable and relatively quick read. Gruen's ability to detail scenery and hook the reader into a story is present from the beginning to end and her writing flows smoothly. This is the kind of book that has many redeeming qualities, and makes for a good topic of discussion.I just wish the book wouldn't have "sold out" on a silly love affair; the potential for much more was there.3 1/2 stars
5 Beautifully written. Lots of detail and action. Very poignant passages. Worth the time. You won't regret the investment.
5 I loved this book.  It is very human and lets us see inside the big top and how life was like.  A very good read.
5 It's been a long time since a novel about circus life has been published, and this excellent book certainly makes up for all of those missing years. It is a well told tale that is, in part, humorous, tragic, romantic and heartbreaking. The book uses the same narrative device as "Little Big Man", that is, a very old gentleman remembering the exciting and adventurous days of his youth, and the circus he accidentally joined. The characters are extremely well drawn, even the minor ones, and I'm sure that the author spend many days delving into circus lore to get the details correct. Being of Polish descent, I enjoyed the fact that the protagonist was Polish, and I was taken back to my grade school days when a character began reciting the "Our Father" in Polish! It amazed me that, after all of these years, I could still read and pronounce those words correctly. This is simply a wonderful novel, and I highly recommend it!
5 It's not often that a book leaves me cheering out loud, but WATER FOR ELEPHANTS did just that.Packed with delightfully-unfolded information about depression-era circuses, this book is more than a history of the big top and most definitely more than a mere boy-meets-girl story.For a young man, the glamor of running away to join a circus isn't really all that glamourous after all. Gruen shows the seedy side of the big top, the desperate times of the depression, the multilayered personalities of performers, roustabouts, owners, and even the animals, and balances it all delicately with the memories of an old man in an assisted living facility.I loved the way the title tied in to the story. No one, apparently, carries water for elephants, since elephants drink far too much. But in our memories - perhaps we all believe we have carried water for our own private elephants.I admit I read it twice in a week - inhaling it the first time, savoring it the second (particularly the ending). Tasty indeed, and five-star all the way.
4 I get the creeps when I think of circuses from the mid 1900's. That was one of the reasons I put off reading this book even though I bought it quite some time ago. Eventually I just had no more unread books left and too long for my paycheck to arrive. I picked it up and barely put it down. I really got me hooked from the start and despite my despise of circuses I really liked it. I do think Gruen could have made Marlena more alive in the story. To me, she was just a beautiful girl. Her character never seemed to gain any life. But I especially cared for Jacob and the looking back of the old Jacob. It got me thinking of life, nursery homes and love.  You might even say it moved me. It didn't cure me though - circuses still gives me the creeps!
4 This was a nice, fun read especially after reading a book that was emotionally taxing.  I couldn't help but love Jacob Jankowski.  I'm glad the story ends as it did.  It makes the idea of "running away and joining the circus" seem like a plausible solution when life gets a little too overwhelming;-)
5 "Water for Elephants" is a book that lives up to all the hype. I don't think you will be disappointed by this book. It's a well written, engrossing story.
1 I remember when Cecil B. Demille directed a behemoth circus film called "The Greatest Show On Earth" in the early 50's.  It had such spectacle, and what a star-studded cast headed by the great Jimmy Stewart, Cornel Wilde, Betty Hutton...it was, just, well, awful.  Yes, AWFUL.  And ya know, Hollywood decided to give this giant piece of piffle the year's BEST PICTURE Oscar.  I mean, it really makes you wonder why people (uh, powerful people, that is), go to the trouble of praising something that's not worth the price of admission.  Could it be....to make the film more profitable???  Could it be....money, money, and hopefully more money????  To gush and fawn over something so abysmal, luring the public into conforming to the propogandic publicity, that it finally becomes a pseudo-masterpiece, not to be missed?Know what I mean?Because if you don't, then borrow (DON"T BUY!!), Sara Gruen's Best-selling monkey-poop called "Water For Elephants".  This is a book that may give the beginning writer hope and much needed optimism.  Repeat after me...."If Sara Gruen can be a published writer, then I can be a published writer".  It's so easy you don't even have to develope characters to any great extent, as long as you have a skeletal outline of your story, just scribble it down and then decorate with some tacky sex so it doesn't fall into the children's market.  Make sure the story is narrated too, but make sure it's just about as pretentious a narration as you can dream up.  Then populate the text with various freaky deaky characters and situations....like animal torture and alcoholism.  Then let the 'big boys' market it for you and wait for the film, that will hopefully have an all-female cast.  I mean, who cares?
5 This is the first book I got from the Kindle Lending library, I read it in two days, fantastically written. Believable Characters, I loved Water for Elephants, I will probably buy it to read again.
5 After watching the movie (which I liked), my sister gave me the book. I was really excited about reading it, I know it's a bestseller and that I was probably going to like it. I admit, the real reason that made me curious about this story was that Jacob, the protagonist, is a veterinarian, like me.Jacob is a young man who is about to end his studies, when life gives him an awful surprise. His parents are dead, and he is left with nothing. Running from his old life, he jumps into the train of a circus called The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. He is saved from being hurled out of the train only because he's a veterinarian. The circus have a lot of animals, and they need to be taken care of.Jacob is young, innocent and a veterinarian with a big love for animals. Taking care of the animals makes him happy, and that is how he met Marlena. Beautiful, fragile, but married.I really liked this book. I loved how the author described life at the circus. It's obvious she investigated about circus, the people who worked at them, how they function, and their animals.But what I liked more was the writing. The story is told by old Jacob. He's 90 years old, or 93, and his memories about the circus, his wife and his life don't die. He starts narrating the story, but suddenly you realize you are reading young Jacob while being at the circus.Overall, Water for Elephants was a book that grabbed me from the beginning. Although I wanted more emotion between Marlena and Jacob, it's a romantic story, full of action, love for animals and a magnificent circus.
5 We can read in an author's note that Sara Gruen has studied elephant behavior.  She has more than studied it she has affectingly captured it in Rosie, a large gray elephant and the one hope of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, a down at the heels circus trying to make a go of it during the Depression.Now, Rosie wasn't too much of a hope because she was lovable but could not follow any command .  Rosie's only unique characteristic was a seemingly unquenchable thirst for  lemonade.  Her inability to perform was no excuse for the intolerable cruelty visited upon her by August, the callous menagerie director who thought nothing of tossing a lit cigarette into Rosie's open mouth.  He didn't limit his abuse to helpless animals but also mistreated his lovely wife, Marlena.Spellbindingly read by David LeDoux and John Rutledge Jones, Water For Elephants is at its heart the story of three - Jacob, who has lost his parents in a tragic accident, and finds a home with the circus, Marlena and, of course, Rosie.  It's a poignant look at their lives set against an oppressive, sometimes degrading circus world, and a look back at our country during the grueling Depression years.  Most importantly, it's a reminder of the resiliency of human beings and how love can heal.- Gail Cooke
4 I picked this book up by chance at the bookstore. I was interested at once in the subject and the characters. I know nothing about the circus and was captivated by the descriptions of depression era circuses. This was all new territory for me and to find out in the notes at the end that all this information was based on fact was exciting.I loved having each chapter start with a picture from the Ringling Brothers circus archives. I wasso happy at the ending, I truly did not see it coming. Such a feel good story. I have recommended it to many of my friends, including my book club. Try it, you will like it.
5 What a great book!  I picked it up at my library after hearing it suggested at my book club.  I didn't want the story to end, but I wanted it to end because it was just so powerful and moving.  By the end I was crying from shock, grief, and sheer happiness.  The author took a subject that I've never thought about and gave it so much life.  I want to know more about circus trains and old time circus shows.  Read it!
2 The books feels like the author was writing it while she was running on the treadmill, sometimes things speed up so quickly you can tell the author just got really sick of the segment and wanted to move on with the storyline. It renders the main romance somewhat rushed and insincere, at least that's how I felt. Characters who have known each other for a very short time share passion and requited love for one another, vowing to be together forever when one of whom is still married.Some details like the villain being Jewish are completely impertinent to the story but makes you why exactly the author did that. The protagonist is lovable and portrayed in very positive light throughout the novel, but his actions are just as villainous and psychotic. At one point where the protagonist gets really jealous he climbs on the roof of a moving train while carrying a knife in his mouth, intending to kill the villain in a very really Indiana Joneseque segment that makes you giggle at how superficial the author's line of thought was.Without revealing too much, it's very close to Moulin Rouge, only without the interest, tempestuous music and theatricality. If you enjoy sappy romance novels you'll like it.
4 These days, whenever I see that a novel is being made into a movie, I assume that it must be at least somewhat decent.  With the recent release of the movie, I decided to pull my copy on loan from my bookshelf and read it before venturing out to the theater to see the movie (or, more likely now, renting it).Water for Elephants is definitely different from the other fiction I normally read.  The book takes place after the Great Depression, and Gruen did a lot of research surrounding circuses during that time to influence her book.  Many of the chapters began with a picture from circus archives, which really added to the experience of reading the book.  I absolutely loved how the chapters alternated between the main character's experience in his early 20's as the circus veterinarian and as a 93-year-old man in a nursing home.  It really made me think about the stories of my own grandparents, who are nearing their 90's themselves.The diverse cast of characters in the circus also made the drama of circus life a fascinating read.  I had no idea of the caste system in circus life, the treatment of employees and animals alike, and how competitive circus troupes were during this challenging era in U.S. history.I have heard that the book is better than the movie.  I admit that I am a bit skeptical about the movie given some of the casting choices for its main characters.  But, like any avid book lover, I do intend to see the movie to see how it compares to one of the best books I've read so far this year.  I highly recommend this book for those who want a story with adventure, romance, and excitement under the big top.
2 This book helped me remember the &#8220;good old days&#8220;. It was fun remembering how cheap things used to be. Sara helped me see what awaits me in the coming years of my life. It is a great read.
3 Sara Gruen's novel, Water for Elephants, published in 2007 by Algonquin Books is a good story about a circus traveling in the U.S. during the Great Depression. The narrative carries the novel in spite of the rather shallow character development. Gruen's description of the historical period is sketchy with a few interesting threads. I bought the book because I was limited in free time and could only read in brief intermittent time periods. The book required minimal attention and was entertaining. I wonder about the editing of the book, allowing contemporary jargon to slip into the 1930's dialogue (e.g., "Whatever"). Water for Elephants is a light, beach, plane, motel novel that I recommend for the casual reader.
1 Ugh! What a total waste of time and money. I can not beleive the author relied so heavily on constant erotica. If she could have left that out it may have been a good story. Don't waste your money!
5 I don't write reviews that actually tell you about the book.  The book jacket and other readers do that.  I will tell you that the characters and story are really well developed and you find yourself reacting to them.  Really enjoyed this book.  One of the few pieces of real literature I've read in some time and not at all predictable.
4 Water for Elephants is fundamentally a love story, set in the almost magic world of the circus, laid bare in all its savagery. Told in retrospect, by a now aging protagonist, it is overlaid with an uncomfortable insight into life in a nursing home. Sarah Gruen does a wonderful job, speaking convincingly as both young and old. Her detail is a work of art in itself as it transports us solidly into yesteryear.
5 A very unusual book. I couldn't put it down. It gives an insight to circus life in the days when they travelled by train. It is written through the eyes of a young lad who traumatised by the death of his parents was unable to complete his final exam to become a vet and accidentally joins the circus. The characters and the animals are all very real. Some you love and some you hate (never the animals. Anyone who loves circuses and remembers (or would like to know) how they used to be will love this book.
3 The love triangle at the heart of the narrative comes right out of Sophie's Choice.  A beautiful yet disconnected young woman and her gregarious alpha male husband befriend and uplift a lonely young intellectual.  The climax confrontation and subsequent revelation of the true nature of the husband's problems are blatant plagiarisms.  But the thing that tipped me off early on wasn't the love triangle.  It was instead when a character named Kinko is mistakenly referred to as "stinko".  You may recall Meryl Streep doing the same thing when referring to Stingo.  Unfortuantely for fans of this book, the alpha male character, August, has none of the charms of Kevin Kline.Yet for all its faults I did enjoy the book.  It was very hard to put down, but that may be because the circus is a favorite subject of mine.
5 This story is lovely and you cannot put it down. I read every word from cover to cover. There are also authors notes, an interview with Sara Gruen, and questions for book group discussions.Now back to my title for review. So many of you gave the story away you should not rethink your reviews. Thank G-d, I had already chose to read this book when I read Riding Lessons. I had never read one review on this book before I bought it. I wonder what goody Sara has for us next. It will be fun as long as I stay away from reviews!
5 I picked this up from the library's Best Seller rack with a little doubt about whether I would enjoy it or not.  Was I surprised!!! This is one of the most enjoyable novels I've ever read.  I couldn't put it down.  It contained romance, mystery, history, suspense, comedy, drama, and tragedy all in one story.  I went through a gamut of emotions reading this and thoroughly enjoyed the ending.
5 He's 90 or 93 he doesn't really remember and it doesn't really matter anyway because according to Jacob's nothing really matters after a few years in an old folks home.  His bitter and sarcastic exterior conceals a deep pain and the certain knowledge that the better years of his life have passed by.  As Citizen Kane says old age is the only disease that no one wants to be cured of.Things weren't always this way Jacob was young once until an unfortunate series of circumstances ended his hopes of being a vet forever.  He is then taken on a journey across the country with a circus it is a fun little book and well worse the trip.  The characters have life and everything that fictional characters should have.  You'll find it to be so good that even though you can see the ending coming from three miles away you will not even care.Overall-It is rare that I run across a book this good
3 I don't think the actual plot of this story interested me as much as the incredible setting and description of circus life in the early 1900's. I LOVE the historic photographs at the end of each chapter because it allowed me to see for myself the life-style that the story was trying to re-create. I wasn't all that attached to any of the human characters, but I loved the animals and actually think my favourite character was the Circus itself. I was able to view the Circus as a living, breathing character of it's own, and that is honestly where most of my intrigue for the story came from. I was not prepared for the amount of sexuality and language in the story! It was completely distracting from the story and I was disappointed how often it would randomly be thrown into the writing. I felt it was almost always unnecessary...it did more to detract from the novel than it ever could have added. I suppose it was a wake-up call for me about the difference between young adult fiction and adult fiction. Had it not been for those two things I would have definitely rated the book a 4 or 5.
4 The idea of running away with the circus definitely appeals sometimes - especially when your own life has turned into one - but Gruen's gritty, real account of that life is enough to make me tuck in and contain my self to watching Cirque on tv. Scariest part about it is that I know it's based on the truth - not the story, but the time. She did great research on travelling circuses.The romance was gorgeous. And while I refuse to give out spoilers, I will tell you that she surprised me. I was sure the romantic outcome was going to come out one way and she made the change beautifully.The ending? Maybe a little saccharin, but why not? You can't leave the circus without candy floss.
4 I read the book first, then saw the movie, of course, the book was better.  But I like both and would recommend the book and the movie.
4 "Life is the best show on earth"I have never read a book about the circus - or even gone to a circus for that matter. Yet, reading this book through Jacob Jankowsi's memories, I feel like I know what goes on like I've been many times before."I don't talk much about those days. Never did. I don't know why - I worked on circuses for nearly seven years, and if that isn't a fodder for conversation, I don't know what is."There is so much that happens in Water for Elephants, from the point where Jacob discovers his parents are dead and flunks his veterinary exam to the point he runs away to the circus (and unknowingly at that). Soon he discovers that the circus has so much to offer, and it's own perils as well. When he meets Marlena and begins developing feelings for her, he finds himself standing on thin ice with her husband August, and when things begin to turn sour it seems he's not the only one out to get him."I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other."But there's another side to this story - the Mr. Jankowski who lives in the nursing home after the rest of his family seems to have forgotten about him. The man who doesn't quite remember how old he is. Who doesn't like the 'food' (if you can call it that). The man who still remembers his days at The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.The story was well crafted and encompassed all the different elements of life in the circus. Some actual photographs found at the beginning of each chapter added to the 'realness' of the plot and make the whole store seem even more realistic. Similarly, the characters were well developed, and the patriarchal hierarchy of circus performers vs. workmen was explored also. I loved to see how Marlena became a stronger character throughout the novel, eventually taking a definite stand against her mentally instable husband. And Jacob? Well, during the whole story he was there to learn the ropes and was always there to stand for what was right - for the animals he treated and the people he became friends with.*CONCLUSION*Overall, I really enjoyed Water for Elephants. I felt completely immersed in the circus lifestyle and was always desperately wanting to flick through the pages and find out what was happening next. Next on my list is to see the movie and see how it compares.
1 Sara Gruen's talent as a writer was wasted on gratuitous violence and cruelty. It is a shame when a good writer sells out for a potential movie.  This is cheap read.
4 I'm not sure what to say about this book.  I enjoyed it - it's a cute little historical fiction - but it wasn't fantastic.  just a few random thoughts on the book:* The most interesting character was Walter the dwarf clown and he had a very limited role.* Jacob, the narrator I liked more as a 93yo than as a 23yo, and I never really felt the connection between him and Marlena.* The grime of the circus itself was part of what kept me sucked in - that was brilliantly described.* In the end, I felt a great deal of sympathy for August - he wasn't a good man by any means, but he also was fighting some serious demons.Like I said, I liked the book but I don't feel I need to run out and watch the movie now ....
4 i enjoyed reading this book. Although it will not go down in the ranks of a great American Classic, it is still agood read. There was a feeling for the desperation of the period, and the atypical lives of the circus. Some of the characterizations were a bit shallow and somewhat predictable, the plot manages to keep the reader engaged. I enjoyed the contrasting chapters of the young protagonist and his later, elderly self. The ending is sweet, but quite unplausible. All of these things considered, I still gave this book an overall 4 rating.
4 I have just started reading again and I decided this would be my first book in years.I was not disappointed as the author paints a vivid picture of the characters with an adequate storyline.  If you are looking for large adventures in the Circus, then this book is probably not for you.. but if you are interested in a good read with some very interesting characters, then I recommend it.It brings you into a world that you likely never knew existed.
5 This book stays with you long after reading it.  I couldn't have been much better than this.
5 My wife comes from a circus background going back to her grandfather. She read it, her mother amd father read it too. The verdict? Ms. Gruen is spot on. For me, the layman, it was a great read and, well researched and totally believable. Other than that I can't improve on what everyone has said.
3 i wasnt expecting this to be so much about the elephant. i wish it wouldve been more about the main characters. but all in all a good book
4 This has become a must read with so many favorable reviews I kept looking forward to being captured by it.  It really is two stories in one book.  The old man's story is wonderful.  My father resides in a residency care facility and the insights of the old man made me think about what my father is facing.  The loss of dignity and the battling soul struck home.In my view the main story was only fair.  The story seemed to be telegraphed and I could not get my self terribly interested.
4 I liked the book. It was very different from what I usually pick, but I have heard so many people talking about it I had to buy it. I'm glad I decided to read it.
5 Very good reading and I could not put my Kindle down.  Good insight into circus life.  Will have to research for other books from this author.
4 Great book - enjoyed it.  Thought it started out a little slow, but once I got into it, couldn't put it down.
5 What an enjoyable book to read and I learned about the circus.  Very funny and it kept my attention.  I have passed this around to all of my friends.  Great read!
5 Although this is not my typical genre, I was completely taken with this novel. I found it especially fascinating that so much of this book was based on actual circus history. Thank you, Ms. Gruen for the incredible research on train circuses and depression-era life.
5 Loved the book, couldn't put it down! I will recommend it to friends, it will be difficult to watch the movie and not nit pick the details.
5 I couldn't put it down and was sad when it was over. I don't think I'll even see the movie because it would HAVE to be a let-down!
4 A little  of slow go but once the characters where established the interest took off.  A very sweet ending  with fond memories.
2 On the simplest level, all I can say is that it didn't amuse me and I couldn't force myself to finish it. But I'm a "hard sell" for fiction, and I can see by the other reviews that many people loved it. Lucky them!On a slightly more analytic level, I'd say that what prevented me from enjoying the book was the "voice" of the narrator, who is supposed to be a man in his nineties remembering his youth in the circus. I'm a man approaching seventy, with some circus experiences as a teenager in Iowa and as the father of a circus acrobat in the Cirque de Soleil era. I found the "voice" of the narrator unconvincing, extremely unconvincing, as a male of the species and as a male American of the 1930s and 1940s. I couldn't get past that central implausibility. I found myself scoffing at the sensibilities of the pseudo-male narrator at every emotional turn of this quite melodramatic novel.
5 I could not have loved it more. Water for Elephants is one of those wonderful novels that has an interesting setting, but it doesn't let the setting take over the story. It is a novel about the people in that place, and the people of Benzini's circus took over my mind and stay with me still.Jacob begins Water for Elephants alone. Orphaned by his immigrant parents, he is weeks away from his Cornell graduation, but he simply cannot return to the life he has known. He jumps aboard a moving train-the train carrying the Benzini circus to its next production. No one on the circus cares that Jacob didn't finish his final exams. The diploma, he is told, "is just a piece of paper, and nobody here gives a damn about that. You're on a show now. The rules are different."In fact, the circus seems to have no rules at all. Jacob somehow finds other kind souls among the misfits, and these people work together to protect themselves and the animals. The villians-Uncle Al and August-are well described and three-dimensional. You understand why they behave the way they do. These villians are not cookie-cutter images, and their real-world sensibilities make them even more frightening.
5 As most previous reviewers have said, this is a rich tale of circus life in the '30's. The protaganist, Jacob, is appealing with personality and real human emotion. I feel the author Ms. Gruen has well-researched everything-circus in writing this book.I felt while reading this book I was actually seeing what transpired in my mind's eye-I could see the rough characters come alive and could smell the sawdust, cookin grease, animals and popcorn. I felt what the characters felt when they fell upon hard times. This book also opened my eyes regarding how a rough slice of life a small circus can be.Bring on the circus parade!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book! The remembrances of an old man of his time in a piece of Americana, the travelling circus. Sara Gruen makes us feel the excitement of the Big Top, the pain, sadness and joy of the people in it, and conveys the dire circumstances of the Great Depression so you can almost taste the dust. I wanted to hurt some of the characters and hug others. The ending is divine.
5 I loved this book, very entertaining, easy to follow, enjoyed this book and can't wait to see the movie. I want to read more of her books.
5 Very well-written story with a realistic look at the life of traveling circuses in the '30's and '40's. Also, some insightful thoughts on the process of aging and how we treat elderly folks. Very enjoyable--couldn't put it down.
5 I had heard of this book for some time and had always wanted to read it - when I saw it available for Prime members I had to download it! What a great story and very well written. I would recommend it to anyone.
4 This book was ok but not on my repeat read list.  She is a good writer and the characters are realistic.
5 I usually don't read fiction, but this kept popping up as a suggestion for me.  I really enjoyed it.  Great writing and great story.
5 Water for Elephants is about an old man at the end of his days reflecting upon his life and the events that lead him to run away and join the circus right before he finishes college.  His story goes back and forth between his modern day stay at a nursing home and his days in his early 20s during the Great Depression traveling around the country with the Great Benzini Brothers Circus.Sara Gruen does a phenomenal job of painting a vivid portrait of Depression era America and of the end of the golden age of circus life in the USA.  The Photos that head each chapter are fun little bonuses that let you see the actual performers of this time as well as some of the settings in which the book takes place.The characters come to life and are vivid portrayals of heroes and villians.  The relationships formed amongst all the characters are memorable and keep you wanting more.  A page turner that does a good job of keeping you interested by flipping back and forth between past and present.5 star recommendation.
1 I am not a big fan of books on tape.  My husband is...on long trips we listen. If you dont mind listening to an old man with wet phlegm in his throat for hours ...go for it.  Since I picked this tape based on the reviews from Amazon I suffered through 5 dvd's so far. The story is not interesting or enlightening. A bad story can be read thru rather quickly but on tape listening at a horribly slow pace....well  ...it is like water torture.
5 The book was very interesting because of the time difference from young to old man.  The ending was great.  Not expected.
5 This book is simply wonderful. A mixture of humor and  Grace. It will make you laugh cry. It uses captivating language that makes you feel like you're really in the circus. A wonderful read I'd recommend to everyone.
4 We read this as a book club.  SOme members went to the movie to compare and were disappointed in the movie.  Book is great.
5 Very, very good novel.  It was such a moving story, and tugged at my heartstrings, and kept me on the edge of my seat.
5 A compelling story, set in Depression-era circus train history.  The brutality beneath the illusion of the show's spectacle drives the action with a high level of suspense.  You'll be tempted to rip through it in a single session.
5 This will be short and sweet. I'm normally and action story reader, biographies, business literature and everything by Cormack McCarthy. This is far from the type of book I would give a read. I gave this a try because it was an inexpensive Kindle best seller and loved it. Great love story, circus story and character development. The best part is the happing ending.If you have read Cormack McCarthy you know you need a happy ending from time to time.
5 i loved this book. the way the author captures the essence of Jacob in his later years as well as his youth. the novel ignites your senses and awakens the soul. i loved it!
3 I don't consider myself a lit-snob by any means. I love fun, breezy reads like many readers out there. I have read `em high and... low. There are times when I just want an escapist read. But given the perimeters--those reads usually deliver the goods. Though the stories may be a tad simple.Here we have a book that's been out a while. Supposedly one with some substance. So we have a guy who winds up joining the circus after ditching an Ivy league education in the Depression years.  I can go with it. No problem there. But then we have the host of characters in the circus itself. Some of this is good reading--but then--we have problems of cliched, predicatable writing wedged between sections of rather better-than-average writing. And all too many flat characters with little substance.Much of this appears in this story. That's the problem. Besides, Jacob is just not all that engaging to me or a convincing character. And the story comes off predictable and rather weak. So it's a passable beach read.Given the kind of over-the-top and unsubstantiated praise this novel has received, surely, I can't be the only one who feels this way and I can't help but notice than whenever there is a unfavorable review of this book  there will be an outpouring of five star reviews--one after another--that are all two or three sentences of praise and little real commentary.Coincidence?Again, not an altogether bad read, but this is no KITE RUNNER or actually, SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN, two far better reads than this.
5 Loved the book. Kept me interested the whole time. Could never see the movie after reading this....couldn't watch the animal stuff. Hard enough to read about the animals...can't imagine watching it. This is a must read on my list.
5 I come here to write this review, of course, "very late"....and so, perhaps many will not read what I have to say about this book.Being an avid reader, with interests all over the "map" so to speak, I have read God-Knows-How-Many stories in my 62+ years. Some deeply moving, others barely creating or leaving the slightest ripple in my conscious brain. Some, seemingly, with the power to change the way I see things or think about things...sometimes subtly, and in others there are major thought differences after finishing the book. This book has affected me deeply.The last book to touch me this way was some months back when I read "The Piano Shop on the Left Bank" by Thad CarhartThe Piano Shop on the Left Bank: Discovering a Forgotten Passion in a Paris Atelierwhich I heartily recommend to you.With "Water for Elephants" Sara Gruen creates the long-forgotten days of the Train Circus, and all that life entailed in those days...from the impossible "set-ups", "knock-downs", and in many cases "hasty retreats" from any particular chosen town before the authorities arrived upon the scene."Hard Luck Days" certainly would be a fitting genre to place this awesome story into. And, of course, with the depression, etc., they truly were hard luck days, for everyone involved with the exception of perhaps Uncle Al with his penchant for stealing, skimming, using and abusing everyone on the show. We also come to know August and his sickness that continually creates misery and unhappiness both for him, and also for those closest to him. There is Marlena, August's wife and performing partner with her performing horses, and later her act with Rosie the Elephant (a charming, and all-knowing wonderful beast if ever there was one). There are dozens and dozens of other characters, distributed throughout all levels of the show, from performers right on down to the dung-shovelers and the guys who do nothing but put up and take down the tents for the big top, day in and day out endlessly, working like dogs for sometimes nothing. We meet the midget clown Kinko also known as Walter and are shown into his rather twisted life, and also we meet Camel, an unfortunate, for sure, addicted to and dying from Jamaican ginger paralysis, a common and cruel death from drinking bad alcohol. We meet and deal with the sadistic Blackie, and witness his ways with dealing with those "done with" on the traveling show.Sara Gruen has created a most wonderfully "real" environment and "time" for this story to inhabit, one that clearly allows one to "see", "feel", "smell" and "witness" at what seems "first hand" how life was for those who lived "the Big Top life"....a marvelous talent for a writer. If she were never to write another story, this one, surely, would guarantee her a place in the literary hall of fame....a beautiful, touching, funny, serious, deeply moving look at circus life in the 30's, and also a peek today into Jacob Jankowski's life as it is, and luckily, also, what it is about to become again.Truly, this is one of the Finest books that I have had the pleasure to read....a Perfect 10!Incidentally, Sara Gruen's new book is coming out within a couple weeks, titled "Ape House". Luckily I received an advance copy from the Vine Program to read and review, and I will be starting it just as soon as I finish here with this review of "Water for Elephants".Sara Gruen....You may never read this, but I wish to Thank You, personally, for giving us this truly Lovely, Wonderfully Entertaining book. It is a true gem.~operabruin***Also, for those who may be interested to know, this wonderful book is currently being filmed for its theatrical movie release sometime in 2011.....there's NO DOUBT that I'll be there on it's Opening Night!
3 This is an engaging, fast paced story of a veterinarian in a circus during Prohibition.  The plot tension is well-handled and intense.  There is plenty of likeable characters, as well as villains.  And, of course, animals.  It is well-researched, and the setting (circus train stopping in many towns) is realistic, as are the many details of circus life.  I'd thought of circus culture as highly cohesive, but this novel showed serious social stratification.  The characterization is about that of the best genre fiction, though the book isn't genre.  The ending is a bit of a stretch, but a positive one.  The book was hard to put down.  An excellent read.
4 I usually don't read mass market, best selling paperbacks written by women. Nothing wrong with women writers I just don't read them. A friend at work asked if I wanted to read this book and her previous recs were mostly good.I really enjoyed this story. It was a nice change of pace.If you are a guy read this book cause you then have opportunity to see: What girls want in a man and why girls act like they do. That seems like a blanket statement but being a guy I would not have done many things the hero did and I couldn't understand why he thought what he did and was so against sound advice til I realized the author was a women and she was trying to write from a guys perspective. Of course what I have written may not be true and there are surely arguments against but I think I am right.I think you should read this book and am looking forward to the movie
5 I bought this for a Reddit gift exchange.  However I have read this book and it's really engrossing.  Highly recommend!
4 I read this book hearing nothing but good things, and the fact that I never read books about the circus, gave me cause for concern.  Never judge a book by its cover, I loved it!  The details of circus life are so interesting, along with the plot and characters.  A book I will never forget.  So good I gave it to my parents to read, both in their 60's and they loved it as well.
5 This book was so well researched, that you are transported effortlessly  back in time with Jacob .  Upon learning that most of the incidents in the book are true, just makes this already incredible book all the more awe inspiring. It is impossible not to get caught up in Jacob's life with the circus.  The characters he encounters during his circus days are so real sometimes you think you can actually smell them, but it's his relationship with the animals, especially Rosie the elephant, that particularly touch your heart.  You won't easily forget Rosie and you'll be glad when Jacob can't either.  There is nothing more satisfying than when you finish a book and you feel like you also were part of the adventure.  I am so glad I was packed and ready.
5 Ms. Gruen has crafted an intriguing plot with complex, well-rounded characters. She's done her research on life in the circus in the early 20th century, and it shows in her beautifully textured scenes. The love triangle was a nice bonus. Water For Elephants captivated me from beginning to end.
4 Thoroughly enjoyed reading about Jacob and his life as a circus vet.  The train rides from place to place were most interesting, As were his trysts.  If you're a circus fan you would definitely find it very good.
5 I was apprehensive about reading this book since I watched the movie first. I didn't want to compare and then end up with mixed feelings. I'm so happy that I did watch the movie first because I feel I had a better view of the books layout. The story kept me on the edge of my seat even though I had expectations for the events outcomes. I love that the story of Jacob was related to the bible and I commend the author for that. Amazing book. I love the feeling after reading an outstanding  book and this is surely one of them. Excellent job.
4 I love any book that changes subjects or character's voice each chapter.  It kept me wanting to read it.  It wasn't a re-reader, but I definitly love the time pieces that represent a historical era and place.  I haven't seen movie yet, but recommend this book for the love of history and romance.
4 I had absolutely no clue what "Water for Elephants" by Canadian author, Sara Gruen, was about, but did hear it had already been made into a movie.  I felt I approached the book without prejudice as I started reading.An interesting setting and era sets this book apart from other light summer reads.  I felt it was a bit underwhelming given all the 5-star Amazon reviews it received.  I didn't completely engage with the protagonist, Jacob Jankowski, although some of the other side characters were quite well-drawn (Kinko/Walter, Camel & Uncle Al come to mind).I liked the use of flashbacks from the ageing Jacob, but the romance was a bit  facile and predictable.  And I did think of the "Sophie's Choice" love triangle before reading it here in other reviews.I liked all the bits about the circus workers, animals and the process of putting on the show.  Otherwise, I felt it was a good story written in an okay style.  I probably just expected more after all the rave reviews it got.
5 Just as great as the movie..... a must read! Would gladly read it again any chance I get. Great job!
5 I am certain that there are [still] those out there who, like me, had not yet read this novel because it centers around a circus.  Do yourselves a favor, like me, and take this excellent journey with this gifted author.  Water for Elephants, by Sara Gruen, is a very moving story about relationships and family.  When Jacob Jankowski loses his family, he actually joins the circus.  Not because he wanted to, but because it presented itself.  Fortuantely, Jacob was studying to become a veterinarian and the circus was full of animals.  The story is told from the perspective of Jacob as an elderly man and Jacob as a young man.The relationships that Jacob forms during this excellent novel form the corserstone of the story.  I found myself caring about a grouchy dwarf and his 3-legged dog, as well as an elephant, and a cast of numerous colorful characters.  The evocative descriptions of the circus itself - the Benzini Brothers; a wannabee Ringling Brothers - during the Depression; actually put you on a railcar with the smell of dust all around you.  This is certainly no glamorous lifestyle, and Gruen does an exceptional job of providing vivid imagery.  The menagerie that Jacob helps care for are an important piece of this wide ranging cast that features individuals that are easy to hate and aome that are easy to love.  Jacob meets Marlena, who is married to the evil August, and the relationships that ensue become increasingly complicated.I now know more about circuses that I ever knew I wanted to.  I am glad that I do, because the learning was all part of the great fun to be had here.  This is a very entertaining and compelling book.  I could not read it fast enough, yet I felt myself wanting to slow down to enjoy it all the more.  I rate this a highly recommended 5 stars.  Enjoy!
4 I really enjoyed this book, it is interesting and hold's your interest. The premise of the book is creative, I recommened this read.
5 I read a lot of nonfiction and most of the fiction I read is mysteries, instead of "literature" novels. So when "Water For Elephants" was loaned to me with a recommendation, I put off reading it. The movie, which I didn't see, got underwhelming reviews, which made me postpone it further. I think I read two new mysteries before finally picking up this book.And then was I surprised.  I loved it! It is imaginative and takes me into the wonderfully described world of a 1930's third-rate train (traveling) circus. If this world seems a little grungy, I remind myself that at the beginning of the 1930's, only 10% of rural homes had electricity for hot water heaters.  Animal rights?  Nonexistent. Workers' rights? Taking its first baby steps.  Occupational safety - don't make me laugh.  Bigotry?  How can fiction be worse than the truth. And over it all, the Great Depression, with it's unrelenting desperation.And these are illustrated in a heckofa story. The plot doesn't just advance, it gallops, it whoops. It has romance, but not implausible romance. Jacob Jankowski is the protagonist, telling the story, with a great last-minute twist, in flashbacks that I thought were handled well. As a matter of fact, the only part of the story that was too unrealistic for me was Jacob's rush to run away from all he knew - to literally, though unintentionally, run away to join the circus. And there he meets Marlena, a circus star with her trained horse team, and Augustus, her equal parts charismatic and brutal husband.I very much recommend this novel. I'm going to have to buy my own copy!
4 I sure am glad I never ran away to join the Circus. Reading this book I discovered it is avery Hard Life. However I did like how the story went back and forth from the present to the past. I really felt bad for the animals,especially the Elephant.I got very fond of some of the characters. Felt like I was going through their Happy and Sad times. Sara is a good story teller,she kept my interest throughout the whole book.
3 I am your casual reader. I read no more than ten books a year. This was the second book I read this year and so far, it's the best book I've read this year but it isn't as good as the reviews say it is. I enjoyed the bits about the old man's life more than I did than when he talked about his youth. Left lurching in an oldage home, this man tries to fend for himself when he's made to sit with a fellow gentleman he doesn't quite like. The only thing the old man knows is that he's old and even goes as far as wishing that the reader never gets to this age. The introduction of the novel is very good and it's easy to read although at times when he's reminiscing, you may get confused. The names of animals and humans can be a tad confusing. This book is a good bet for some while I can think of some people not liking this.Fellow casual readers, you're not missing much, try Frank McCourt's Angela's Ashes. However, for those with piqued interests, you must be wondering why your friends never spoke about this book, I wondered so too, only until I finished reading the book. I think people are liking it more because of how compact it is in encompassing two lives. The author's youthful days are nothing like mine.P.S - I, in not one way, undermine the collective intelligence of a casual reader for I am one.Applause,please.
3 Definitely worth reading. It offers a great look at life in an on-the-road circus, but it also provides a good look at what goes on in the mind of a 90-something who has seen and lived a lot, but who believes he has been put out to pasture.I would have given the book probably five stars if it hadn't contained so much profanity and scatological language.  The old man's tale would have done a very good job of living on its own without that.
4 As a person in his 70s who deals with a mother-in-law in her 90s, I found much Jacob's trials in the nursing home close to home. That he could escape into the memory of his youthful connection with the circus was probably a life saver for him.Ms Gruen did a masterful job of separating and at the same time blending Jacob's experiences in his youth with those in his present state of being 90 or 93.It is worth reading this book all the way through to get to a surprising and wonderful end that I shall not reveal so as not to spoil it for others.Ms Gruen obviously researched circuses. Her attention to detail, both when she wrote about the circus and also when she wrote about the nursing home helped make the story realistic.All in all, it was well written and held my attention.
1 I was really looking forward to reading this book, especially after seeing the previews for the upcoming movie.  I must say that it is one of the worst books I have ever read and I have been an avid reader my entire life.  I couldn't relate or get attached to the main character, Jacob, except at certain points when he was elderly.  I actually felt very embarrassed for the author while reading the many squalor erotica scenes that did nothing to help me connect or care for any of the characters.  I was expecting a heartfelt romance, but the characters, including the love interest, Marlena, are so one dimensional that I found the whole thing absurd and unbelievable.  I kept trying to get into it and hoped it would get better as it went along, but no such luck.  If you must read it, try to borrow it instead of buying or see if you can pick up a cheap copy at a thrift store.  Better yet, spend your time reading something with a convincing story and engaging characters instead.
5 Even people who say "I only read nonfiction" can enjoy this entertaining novel, which is rich with fascinating details about life in a traveling circus during Prohibition and the Depression. For example, circus members stocked up on booze in Canada and sneaked it across the border into the US  by storing it in the middle of the train car carrying camels, because camels spit, and customs agents didn't want to mingle with them. Against an unusual background, the fictional characters (humans and other animals) weave a story that keeps readers turning the pages.
2 For months, everytime I was in a bookstore - I found that I would gravitate toward this book, read the back and place it back on the shelf.  I should have listened to my instinct.  After many positive recommendations from friends and reading the reviews, I relunctantly check the book out at the local library.  I started reading with an open mind.  After about 200 pages, I phone my friend to ask her if I was missing something, because I just didn't care of the story and I couldn't seem to find a connection with any of the characters.  At this point, she instructed me to stop reading - "because of you don't like it now, there isn't anything earth shattering that will happen that will make you change your mind."  I didn't listen, and she was right.
5 There is a reason this book is so popular. Not only is a swift-moving adventure, a historical fiction, but it's a a love story about life. And, Sarah Gruen is extremely adept at vividly describing the interior life -- not only of the circus and circus life she so carefully researched but also the interior, psychological experience of her characters, including Jacob, the lead character -- even as an old man. She enters into his experience so deeply that it is impossible as a reader, not to as well! You see the nursing home, the circus, the animals, the rough competition, and the connection.Sarah Gruen has created a book which transcends the circus, and highlights the importance of life and living, no matter how old we are.This is indeed summer reading, and one of the best books I've read all year.
3 I have been disappointed by popular fiction, especially when there is a movie, but not this time. Although I would not recommend it for young readers,the story is believable and enthralling. The writing if full of quotable prose,and I loved the accuracy of the descriptions of the elder Jacob.
5 I love this novel. I started reading a printed version, but I had a hard time distinguishing character voices as it was not always marked. And then there were alternating "young" and then "old" point of view chapters. Before giving up (because I have the same type of challenge when I read Amy Tan novels), I switched to the audio "book on tape" and LOVED the book. One of the best novels I've read. And the voice-over talent who read the audio version is a very, very good storyteller.
5 Do you know how difficult it is to run and cry at the same time? Good books do that do me. And this was a good book.Brilliant, actually.That's the best way to describe it. The words themselves, the characterization, the anticipation. It's brilliant.Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is the story of Jacob Jankowski at twenty-three and at ninety (or ninety-three). At twenty-three, he ran away and joined the circus after his parents were killed in an accident. He had been studying to be a vet and was all but final exams. In the circus, Jacob encounters brutality, unexpected kindness, and love. At ninety (or ninety-three), Jacob's in a nursing home.The story fits well with Resurrection with it's themes of dignity, redemption, and anticipation. Twenty-three-year-old Jacob's Resurrection scene spread the resurrection and transformation to others. The Jacob in the end of the book is different from the Jacob in the beginning, and his transformation allows him to step in and fight for others. He may not always succeed in the way he desires, but he hands resurrection to others. It's a story about coming home.It's a story about dignity. Gruen frames the story so that you are hit by the fact that this old man, left to drool over Jello his last few years, is the twenty-three-year-old Jacob in the circus. These stories aren't just stories. They're stories of people we've forgotten about. It made me remember sitting at tea with my grandmother listening to her stories. I wish I'd written them down.It's about the dignity of the outcasts. In Depression-era America, especially on a circus, midgets, drunks, and the bottom-of-the-barrell working class were the outcasts. They weren't "needed" in society. They were easily disposed of. Because of this, Jacob becomes a Christ-figure restoring the dignity of a midget and a drunk, fighting for the oppressed, both human and animal.Gruen's strongest point, I think, is her ability to build anticipation. One scene captures it: Grady has (bad) news for Jacob. In waiting for Grady to spill it, Jacob notices the two drops of grease leaking from Grady's hamburger. Brilliance in these little details. The reader (namely, me) wants to shake Grady by the shoulders and scream at him to tell already!It's also about what Gruen doesn't write, where she holds back. I think as writers, sometimes we think we have to fill in every detail. For example, in a fight scene, Gruen doesn't give a blow-by-blow. Rather, she focuses on the confusion of the protag (Jacob), his swirling thoughts, a moment of pain here or there, his inability to stop hitting. Rather than observing the fight as you would a movie, you're caught up in the hero. I love this.
5 There is a reason that this book has so many 5 star reviews...I avoided reading this for a while because I didn't think that I'd be interested in novel set in a circus during the depression, but I finally picked it up after yet another person told me how good it was.  I'm so glad that I did!  It really is the best thing that I've read in a long time.  I quickly became engrossed and could not put it down.  Do yourself a favor and give it a try, you will not be disappointed. Oh, and I LOVED the ending!
5 This book is one of the best books I've read in a long while.  It spoke to me on so many levels!  It made me laugh, it made me cry, it held me captive from cover to cover!  This Author really did her homework, and it shows in her details and imagery she paints for you.  If you say "I saw the movie, it wasn't all that"...well then, you need to forget everything you saw or heard on the silver screen, and pick up the novel!  Everyone knows Novels are ALWAYS better than the movie!  This one, especially.  When I read this book, I would laugh out loud and my Boyfriend (who is NOT a "reader") would say, "What's so funny" and I'd tell him a snippet about what I was reading....and before long, he and his 15 year old son were reading it right after me!I enjoyed it very much, and I believe you will too, or I wouldn't recommend it!Sincerely.Heather Lynn Osting - Author[...]
4 I. SettingDepression era. The glory days of the circus. A time when a plethora of men out-of-work combined with a plethora of families looking for amusement and a modicum of freaks. Let's face it: throughout history, mankind has been sprinkled with a modicum of physical and mental freaks. Their ability to find job satisfaction fluctuates, but they're always out there.(Caveat: As a child in Wisconsin, I certainly attended a circus or two, and dutifully watched the now-defunct Great Circus Parade on TV, but have never visited the Circus World Museum in Baraboo. I am just as much an outsider as the rest of you, unless you are a Flying Wallenda, in which case I am a much bigger outsider.)The circus of Water for Elephants is the (name of circus), which is certainly a mouthful. To the eyes of this non-Flying Wallenda, it appears to be pretty typical of the time, especially once it gets an elephant. More on that later.II. PlotJust a brief synopsis here, since you have likely seen the film, read the book, or are planning to do so. Jacob Jankowski (protagonist), runs away to join the circus after his parents die in a car accident. Perhaps unwisely, he does so just before finishing his veterinary degree. He meets August, the bipolar head trainer. He falls in love with Marlena, August wife. After the circus picks up an elephant named Rosie, Jacob uses his profound understanding of animals (and the Polish language) to bond with her. And with Marlena. Since August is a total jackhole, though, this relationship is doomed.Luckily for everybody, the circus owner (Big Al) is known for cutting corners, and his spendthrift ways end in total calamity. The animals get loose, August is trampled to death, and Jacob sweeps Marlena off to live happily ever after. They have children, he works for a real circus (Ringling), and end up ditching the nursing home for yet another circus.III. CharactersI couldn't help but picture Robert Pattinson in my head as I read this book, and I hated that. Same for Reese Witherspoon and Christoph Waltz. Nothing to be done, but I wish it had been left to my imagination.Though I found the premise a little unbelievable on the whole (literally running away to join the circus?), I did empathize with Jacob. Preparing for a profession that requires you to stick your hand up a cow's butt is hard enough. Once your parents are tragically killed? Forget about it.The Jacob/Marlena/August love triangle didn't convince me either, but perhaps that was residual cringing from Jacob's sexual awakening facilitated by the ladies of the cooch tent.(I should also apologize to the man sitting next to me on the bus that one day. Sir, if you happened to notice that I was reading about a man getting deflowered, I DO APOLOGIZE.)Honestly, the character I liked best was old Jacob. (No, my favorite was not the elephant. I did not cheer when she killed August, nor at the many times the reader was reminded that ELEPHANTS ARE PEOPLE TOO. Save it for Greenpeace.) Old Jacob, an imperfect narrator, combined the indignities of old age with a fierce desire to keep living. He doesn't remember how old he is, nor which of his many relatives was supposed to take him to the circus camped next to the nursing home. But he's feisty enough to scoot himself over when no one else will, and it's that same sort of self-determination that won us two world wars, darnit!*wipes tear from eye*Maybe I'm just nostalgic for the grandpa I never had. It's like that scene from The Royal Tenebaums, when Royal reads the gravestone of a man who died heroically on a sinking ship. The viewer is led to believe this is a relative of Royal's. He then says something like, "What a man. I wish I knew him."Well, I wish I knew Jacob Jankowsky. After he finished all that silliness with the circus.IV. StyleGruen uses a framing device, in which the bulk of the book is recalled through the eyes of the now-aged main character. The parallel? Present-day Jacob is eagerly anticipating a trip to the circus, whereas past-day Jacob worked many years on a circus. I do love the framing device, confusing as it is when you start the book. (More or less than in medias res? Discuss.)I appreciate a single protagonist/point of view kept constant throughout the book. I would not have liked to read a chapter told by Marlena, or the elephant, or the dwarf. It's hard enough keeping these people (and animals) straight with just one narrator.The ending was a little tidy for my taste--I kept expecting Marlena to miscarry or die in childbirth. That their long and productive union disappointed me probably speaks more to my own predilection for dystopian fiction (where EVERYBODY dies) than Gruen's storytelling abilities.The pacing was good, and you definitely knew when the book climaxed. I appreciated the real-life archival circus photographs scattered throughout, as well as the small details of circus life: the cookhouse flag, the water buckets, the segregation of performers and labor. Who knew that 50,000 people were paralyzed after drinking Jamaica ginger extract? Not me, even after watching the entire first season of Boardwalk Empire. HBO fail.Conclusion:Water for Elephants is a "slice of life" novel. In this case, Depression-era circus life. My criticisms aside, it's a worthy read. While researching this blog entry (ie reading the Wikipedia article), I learned that this novel originated in NaNoWriMo. If given one month to write a book, I would certainly do much, much worse.
4 Water for Elephants draws you in from the very beginning. The story is fast paced and details circus life during the Depression years, making the reader see that for many, the circus was a way to keep food in one's stomach, when others had no jobs and were going hungry.Gruen does a good job of detailing the factual side of operating and working a circus, while keeping the story engaging. The only minor problem is that characterization is a bit weak, especially regarding Jacob, the main character.The book contains photos from circus archives, which is a nice touch.
5 I had no or low expectations about this book. I didn't know anything about the plot. It was on the bestseller lists, which doesn't necessarily make it a good book, but I was a little intrigued about all the peripheral hubbub about it. If I had known this book really had to do with circuses (That's not a plot spoiler.), I don't know if I would've started this book. I'm so glad I took the chance. I found it just like a steam engine (read the book); it took a little bit of effort to get rolling, but once it started it just kept picking up speed and going and going and I kept waiting for it to slow, but it didn't. I was amazed that someone actually wrote this story, it was so good. I read it fast and furiously and tensely anticipating what was coming next. I also really appreciated the "discussion" with the novelist after the novel itself. I enjoyed her explanations. Kudos to Sara Gruen.
5 A lovely easy book to read. Good story. Makes one think about how we treat our elderly and would we want to be set aside like this. Like happy endings too!
5 Great read , very hard to put down, great insight into circus life at the time.looking forward to seeing the movie
5 Wonderful book.I learned more about life in the circus than I ever thought.Well written,and hope to read all of her books soon.It deserved to be on the NY Times best seller list.
4 Circus life, during the American Depression. Told in the first person by Jacob Jankowski a young college boy who is suddenly orphaned and penniless and finds himself literally on board the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth! There's a prologue where we discover a secret which Jacob has kept for seventy years then we begin the story, alternating between 1931 and the modern day with an elderly Jacob.Very easy to read...I found myself flicking pages quickly. Gruen seems to capture the circus's attraction and glitz as well as it's often uncomfortable reality. The hierarchy from the roustabouts to the performers and bosses is fascinating and Gruen's descriptions bring to life the days when circuses had trains (conjuring up images from Dumbo!)The novel pulls you in, starting off slowly and ends up unputdownable as you have to find out what eventually happened/happens. I found the contrast between the way the Jacob of 'then' and 'now' is treated, both startling and thought provoking and ultimately I just really enjoyed reading about something I had little knowledge of, with a good twist in the tale.
5 In this day and age, there are few books that I love - but Water for Elephants is one of the best books I have read this year. The story is told from an old man in a retirement home reflecting on his life as a circus veterinarian. Not only is the fictional story intriguing, the history of circus life in the 1930s is riveting in this book.
5 Everyone was talking about the movie so I decided to get the book instead. Awesome idea to write about the old circus days and what a great way to end the book.
4 This book can be pretty graphic for younger kids.  I was a little surprised when I read it.  Our oldest was 12 when she finished it, her teacher had recommended it.  I talked to my d about it and she was fine, many things depend on the maturity of the child.  It is a very good story and I cried during the movie.
3 Too graphic for kids, too infantile for adults...this was just an OK book. I read it because several people recommended it for our book club at work. Many of the characters were so badly drawn and one-dimensional that I lost interest mid-story. The August character in particular was the worst creation: he's a ripoff of Nathan from William Styron's "Sophie's Choice." Marlena is just sequined cardboard. I enjoyed the setting because there's something fascinating about circuses, or else I would have rated this lower than 3 stars. For a book supposedly about people who care about animals, it doesn't have touching moments or much emotion. Vastly overrrated novel.
5 Well written and entertaining.  Good research on subject area and then wonderful character studies.  I love books that keep me eagerly reading to "see what happens next."  Loved her moving from present to past.
1 I gave three descriptions in my title, that say it all, but the first two speak the loudest - this book is repetitive and boring.  The train rolls in, the train rolls out; in the old folk's facility Jacob is nothing but cranky and rude over and over again.  I truly don't understand how this book was picked up for publication.  I can more easily understand that it was made into a movie (even though I haven't seen it and after reading the book I probably won't), as I can imagine it is truly a spectacle with all of the color and magic of a circus.  And I will agree with other reviewers that it is well researched and the author does a good job portraying the post-depression times.  But that alone just doesn't carry the rest of the storyline, which is shallow and trite.  Among so many unaddressed issues - how is it that Jacob, an ivy league-educated young man, never looks back at what his life might have been after joining the low-lifes (mostly hobos, plus the entertainers) the circus attracts?  Certainly it's not to care for the animals, as you see him doing very little of that in the book.  At the end he wants to "run away" from the old folk's home and return to the only life he'd ever known - no surprise there - but it's a ridiculous proposition due to his age and I can't imagine anyone in the circus inviting him.  If you get nothing else from Uncle Al's character it is that he or any man in his position would be ruthless and cut loose anyone who didn't pull their weight, so what would a 90+ year old man do?  Certainly not water the elephants.
5 I wound up enjoying the book tremendously, more than I expected to when I started.The story starts out slowly, but subtly draws you in until you are intrigued as to what's going to happen next. The world of circuses, at least to me, was completely unknown - so I couldn't predict what was coming. I was surprised at what horrible conditions both the people and the animlas endured on "train circuses" of the 1920s-1940s. If you're looking for a happy "magical" story about running away to join the circus, this isn't it.The character development is limited, as it is written in the first person. My favorite character was Rosie the elephant - because the narrator clearly loves her and therefore you love her.Apparently Gruen did vast research on the train circuses - making her use of jargon, lore and the incorporating of actual stories the core of the novel.As far as I can remember, this is the first time I read a book that provides insight from the perspective of an old person living in a nursing home or assisted living facility. Jacob's frustration at his body failing him and of people making decisions for him and treating him like a child, along with feelings of being abandoned and useless really got to me and were gently and movingly written.The magic comes in the highly improbable, yet tremendously satisfying ending.I definitely recommend the book.
5 I didn't want to start this book because I'm an animal lover,& I heard some parts were too hard to read.  They are tough, but the book is worth reading.
5 just loved the story line .  Brought back good memories of going to the circus as a child. It was really great to get a peek at the behind the scenes lives of the Big Top.  A very entertaining book
4 I enjoyed the parts with young Jacob, but didn't like the transition to nursing home Jacob. I would have given this book 5 stars if it weren't for those interludes, which just made me sad and empty. I believe the story stood just as strongly without the flashforwards. The relationship between Marlena and Jacob was titillating, and I was just as consumed with routing for them as I was waiting for August to get what he deserved. I haven't been so affected by a villain on the page in a long time--perhaps it was his abuse of the animals, especially Rosie, which made him so heinous in my eyes.Gruen's treatment of her secondary characters ranged from well-developed to shadows, but each served his or her own purpose because that's how I imagine life in a circus community--there are so many people around all the time that you would feel you know them, even if you hadn't actually held a real conversation with them.The circus rocked, but even the quasi-happy ending couldn't bring me out of the funk of the nursing home.
5 I couldn't put it down. I love, love, love this beautiful novel. You will never look at a circus or an elephant the same. Sara Gruen's illustration of memory is a very special thing. This novel gives life to spectacular people you come to love and hate, but moreso miss when you've turned the last page.
5 I TRULY ENJOYED THIS COMPASSIONATE PAGE TURNER.  THE BOOK GIVES THE READER A WEALTH OF INTERESTING CIRCUS FACTS AND HISTORY.  I AM RECOMMENDING IT TO ALL MY FRIENDS.
3 I can't say it was bad but it sure wasn't good. I have had the book for many years and just got around to reading it. Major disappointment considering the hype and accolades. It had the potential to be much better, but it was trite and lagged all the way through, for the most part. I'm mystified by the massive attention. It, in my opinion, is mediocre, at best. 3 stars is the max I can give it. Great literature it's not. Sophomoric comes to mind.
5 A ninety--or is it ninety-three?--year-old man recalls his days as a circus veternarian.  Murder, Romance, Intrigue and all the stuff of Trains, Depression and Prohibition give this novel sizzle.  Eleven and a half hours on ten CD's and worth every second of it.  Don't miss this one.
4 I admit it, I liked this book. It revolves around themes of "who is my family" when one is adrift at sea, biologically speaking. I know there are criticisms of the cruelty to animals issues and I was uncomfortable with them also. However, the story is set in the 1920-30's and it is about the circus. I believe Ms. Gruen wrote accurately about how animals fared in that time and place.Reviewed by Holly Weiss, author of Crestmont
1 I purchased this because I read good reviews and it was only $4 on Kindle. It is full of sex scenes and profanity. Very sorry I purchased it. Will stay with Christian fiction.
5 This engrossing book sucks you into its colorful world and holds you there until the 800-pound fat lady sings.Plot summary:Veterinary student Jacob joins the Benzini Bros. circus train in 1931 and falls in love with Marlena, an equestrian performer, who happens to be married to his boss the volatile animal director August.Pros:This is a must-read, page-turner featuring a unique setting for a classic love triangle. It's gripping and complex, with some wonderfully written supporting characters such as Walter, Camel, Uncle Al and Rosie the elephant. The tension slowly builds between the central characters, but is relieved with some laugh-out-loud moments from circus lore. The story is told in flashbacks from a 93 year old. There are some truly poignant moments at the nursing home. This is a really unique, well-done and entertaining book, and I liked that I couldn't guess the ending.Cons:Virtually non-existent and what there is is nitpicky, but here goes... It's written in present tense, which takes some getting used to. On p. 147: "A black boy offers to shine my shoes."  My 98-year-old grandmother uses the term "colored" and I believe that was the common term in the `30s and that "black" was a '60s term. Again, stupid nitpicky and doesn't detract from this fabulous book.Worth all of the hype, this is one of the best books I've read this year (and I've read a lot of books.) Read the book before you see the movie. Enthusiastically recommended. 5 stars.
5 I absolutely loved this book!  The voices of the characters were so well written.  I could "hear" the booming and sad voice of older Jacob and the passionate voice of young Jacob.  They really came to life for me.  A great read!
1 -Juvenile and disney plot.-faulty and unrealistic details.-Uninteresting and underdeveloped characters.-Premature professions of love.Basically, this book reads like a typical Hollywood movie. This is unfortunate, but it is representative of a new class of novelists who are more influenced by movies' depiction of culture, rather than the actual culture itself. Minus all the R-rated stuff, this is nothing more than a whimsical book for adolescents. Once again an underwhelming and lazy manifestation of a great concept.
5 If you ever dreamed of running away to join the circus, this is a must read. A deep look into the mysterious world...
4 I&#8217;m ambivalent about this novel. It&#8217;s good. It&#8217;s very nice. It&#8217;s a page-turner. It doesn&#8217;t suffer the fate of many, many novels &#8212; even some of my best loved &#8212; but there was something missing.That&#8217;s a convoluted way of saying I enjoyed it but it didn&#8217;t stick with me.Plot and pacing are excellent in this novel. I often write that most books need to be shorter. Novelists seem to always come up with a great opening. Better ones have great endings. Most fail in the middle. That middle third of most novels is such a bore to me. I think it&#8217;s filler to beef up a word count. I didn&#8217;t find this in Water for Elephants at all. Gruen can structure a story and keep the pace going. That&#8217;s a terribly hard thing to do and she pulled it off wonderfully.With one glorious exception, however, the characterization fell flat for me. Did I care about the characters? Kinda. Did I care about the romance? No. What did touch me was the role of the older Jacob. How this young, female writer climbed into the head of a ninety plus year old man, I&#8217;ll never know but his thoughts and actions rang true. He was facing death but still facing life and his inner monologue caused an almost claustrophobic feeling in myself. My god, I kept thinking. This could very well be me - trapped in a body, aware that I&#8217;m losing my mind to age and, most frightening of all, without the ability to do a damned thing about it. I hope to elicit that kind of reaction in a reader one day.The parts of the novel confined to an old man doing nothing much more than sitting in a wheelchair will stick with me for a while. I may go back and read those bits at times. The parts with the trains, circus, performances, midgets, elephants, romance and violence? Not so much.
5 Excellent read! Ms. Gruen masters character and plot with beautiful prose. I remained captivated and found myself caring for the diverse cast.  Ms. Gruen successfully evokes a sense of the times, the desperate nature of survival during the Depression, as well as one's attempt to salvage one's sense of self as age betrays the body.  The storyline is suspenseful, true to period, and woven through with a touch of romance.  The setting is gritty and evokes the reality of Circus life on the road and  the behind-the-scenes work required to attain the magical world the public craves.  Well done!
2 Actually, come to think of it, my time would have been better spent staring at an hourglass.  This book was a soap opera in print.  The characters were mostly stereotypical, ergo predictable.  I don't think giving the ending away in the prologue was such a great idea, because I spent the next 330+ pages waiting for something (anything!) to happen in that vein.  Instead I found myself wading through pages of the author describing events such as tent raising, etc..  The romantic scenes were very campy.  During the first several chapters when the book's format became aparent, I thought it was very fascinating to have the elder scenes interspersed with the circus scenes.  It turns out that they didn't add much to the story, or even make me want to keep reading.  The writing in the elder scenes was amusing, and soon those chapters became my reward for reading the cirucs chapters.  The ending was perhaps the most aggravating aspect of this book.  Something about Gruen's description of circus life and all its attendant characters makes me think it highly unlikely that a modern-day cirucs manager would embrace a decrepit old man and rescue him from life at the rest home.  Maybe it was all those descriptions of redlighting we were given...I'm not sure.  All said, I enjoyed Gruen's writing style, but I would have enjoyed it much more telling a story with some substance.
3 A SO-SO BOOK THAT WAS NOT AS GOOD AS I EXPECTED W/ ALL THE GLOWING REVIEWS.  BUT IT WAS AN INTERESTING READ ON CIRCUS LIFE.
5 So great I read it twice - and am reviewing both versions at once!Jacob is in the last weeks of veterinary school at Cornell when he is hit with a massive shock: the death of both of his beloved parents, and more importantly the loss of everything he owns to the bank.  This is the throws of the Depression.  He does what every man would do in his situation, hops a train to anywhere only to find out it is the circus train of The Benzini Bros. Greatest Show on Earth!  As the show's veterinarian he forms a close relationship with crazy August (the equestrian trainer), his wife Marlena (a performer), and Rosie (the elephant).  As the days go on, life on the circus gets crazier and crazier, until one day all hell breaks loose.  What will Jacob do next?This book is narrated by two voices - that of the 90 something year old Jacob (retelling the events as he remembers them) and that of the 20 something year old Jacob (experiencing the events).  The audiobook did an amazing job of casting two narrators and it made it one of the best books I have listened too.  You were easily able to tell at what time you were by who was narrating and it made it feel so real.Gruen does an amazing job of researching the life of circus workers during the Depression.  At no time did I feel that the details were out of place.  You could feel the desperation of the roustabouts when they were continually not paid, resorted to drinking bootleg liquor, ran out of food.  Reading this book was like stepping back in time.I loved this book!  It is easily very near the top of my favorite books list.  According to the authors website, Fox 2000 has purchased the rights to this book to make a movie and hear rumor that Reese Witherspoon might be cast as Marlena.  I think it would make a fantastic movie.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book and couldn't wait to share it with others. All of my friends who've read it, love it as well. As you can tell from the near 5 star consensus from reviewers, this is a wonderful book, so I don't really need to go into a long drawn out review, but I will say that I loved the rich, interesting characters who felt like old friends by the end of the book and the story was engrossing and lovely - a true love story between lovers, between friends and between man and beast. And the total immersion into another world and time was just a bonus. You can't go wrong with this book!
5 Water for Elephants is a story about an old man's recollection of his days working for the circus, and the bizzare array of characters circus work attacts.  The setting transitions between the wild memories of working as a veterinarian for a travelling circus, set in the 1930s, and the protagonist's present life in a home for the elderly, lonely and unappreciated.  Themes of the book include romance, good vs evil, depression era desperation, and life in old age.The main character is a well studied near-graduate from an Ivy league school who loses everything after a catastrophe and feels he must run away and happens upon a circus train. He ends up working in very rough conditions to survive, and struggles with a love triangle that puts his life in peril.My personal affection for the book lies in the brutal conditions desperate people will endure, particularly for those who feel they have no place to go, as some of these characters do.  I'm also very fond of the contrast of how the elderly protagonist struggles with trivial tasks, like wanting to eat a crisp apple, while his younger self survived through such turbulent times.  Finally, the layout of the story, in which some details are revealed out of order through the time-transitions, enables the reader to piece certain details together before the main narrative gets to it feels like a device out of the movie Pulp Fiction (in a good way).This novel is written based off of actual and anecdotal incidents of circus life (as per the interview with the author contained in the back of the book).  The historical basis, however, is unnecessary to appreciate the vivid story but definitely made me appreciate the author's research to include tidbits of American history that might otherwise be lost.  I found this novel to be the most compelling book I have ever read and literally lost hours of sleep over it.
5 I caught a review of this book on NPR.I usually am disappointed in books by female authors, but the only thing that bothered me about this book was that it ended. I will keep a more open mind henceforth. I haven't seen the other reviews but can't see how anyone could give this title less than a four. I enjoyed it from start to finish.Am now going to see which of Ms. Gruen's books I want to read next.Well done!
1 Characters were constantly doing things that just didn't make any sense.  His parents are both killed in a tragic accident a week before his finals, and his professors do NOTHING to give him the benefit of the doubt on his exams?  Were incompletes a complete unknown in this time period?  (There's a lot more, but I'm trying to block it out....)  The main character himself seems to have virtually no inner life except a vague desire to get laid.  At one point he says he's interested in animals, but there sure no evidence of this.The entire first half of the book is exposition about circus life, with a long segment of gratuitous titillation thrown in.  I've got nothing against &#34;gritty&#34; and &#34;true to life&#34;.  However, I have no tolerance for scenes that are so obviously there only to sell the book as soft porn to an audience that wouldn't know literature if it hit them in the face.Characters are less 3-D than cardboard cut outs.  My dad's vague recollections of a circus coming to town when he was a kid in this time period were way more riveting.  At least they involved actual people, with real human motivations -- not characters who move from point A to B only because the author's outline said the plot had to move there.And present tense?  Throughout the entire book?  That's a device that should have been discarded in high school.  It does nothing but make me snicker at the author's obvious lack of writing talent.I had heard a rumor that this book was written as a NaNoWriMo project, and I can certainly believe it.  It seems to have been dashed off from a previously constructed outline, without any regard for building up characters and then modifying the plot if it made more sense for their motivations.  The present tense writing style is another give away that this was written in a rush and barely revised.  And the plonking in of vocabulary and &#34;facts&#34; willy-nilly -- stopping what little story there is in mid-stream -- kind of screams &#34;first draft&#34; all the way through.
5 I got this on the Kindle when it went on sale. I'm so glad I did. What a wonderfully researched book. The details are amazing and the story is both heartbreaking and heartwarming at the same time. I had never heard of this book until the movie came out, which looks a bit "chick-flick'ish" to me but the book definitely is not. I have not seen the movie yet (waiting for the DVD) but I am anxious to see if its true to the book.I think people of all genres will like this book. I normally read paranomal fiction but I really loved this book. My mom usually reads non-fiction girly books and she loved it. I even have my husband reading it now. So by all means, get this book!
5 Really enjoyed this novel. It kept you intriqued with what would happen next. Was not just about Tent Circus life it was mystery, love story and human rights all in one. Highly recommend.
4 I love historical novels, and this is one of my favorites. The circus in the Great Depression era is a great setting for the underlying love story. The internal struggles the main characters go through are timeless, and highly resonate with our modern times, perhaps in part because both eras had economic hardship. The book is narrated by a 93 (or 96, as he can't remember his real age) man. His character is very well put together, very real. The book has an optimistic message of triumph over adversity and the value of friendship and true love.
5 I'm not going to go into a synopsis of 'Water for Elephants' as it's been given so many times already. I just want to say how much I enjoyed this book. I finished it in 3 nights and now actually regret having finished it so quickly. This is one of the few books that I feel I have to re-read. I cannot recommend this enough. You won't regret it. I will certainly be reading everything written by Sara Gruen.
5 I loved this book. A tender love story recounted by a nonagenarian in present time.USA, 1930s. Jacob Jankowski had it all planned out: about to become a veterinarian, looking forward to join his father's practice, fate disrupts everything. Almost overnight, he is employed in a circus, the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Animals love him and he loves animals, but not only. He falls in love for the very first time in his life. But love, just like wild animals, can be dangerous if one is not too careful, and it slowly dawns on him that all the glittery world of a circus is not always what it seems...The book is written in alternating chapters between present day and the past. The present day is represented touchingly, moving in a few parts, although the main character Jacob, now mostly sitting on a wheelchair with a few aches and pains, still has a sense of humour and a passion for life that is uplifting. He is now ninety. Or ninety-three.The chapters about his past are absorbing and mesmerizing not only because of him falling in love for the first time with lovely Marlene, they also offer an engaging insight of circus life, the workers, the animals, and what is behind all those lights and delights. Very interesting.So drum roll please. Let the show begin Ladies and Gentlemen. Sit back and be prepared for a few surprises, enjoy the show!
2 I have to say that this book, was very much like a soap-opera. Everything was pretty predictable, and that ruined it. I have no clue why she choose this title, especially since Rosie doesn't play that much of a dominate role, (as was expected). What held this book together was the old Jacob, and just the curiousity, to make sure what you predicted was correct. Overall, I say if your looking for a fast read, enjoy.
5 This is a great book - well written, interesting, and I really liked it.  The story was pretty sad, though, so don't read it when you're &#34;down&#34;!
5 Jacob Jankowski recounts the wonderful time he spent with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. During the Great Depression, his parents are killed and Jacob, now penniless, has to leave vet school. He learns the ins and outs of circus life, falls in love with a beautiful horse rider and becomes attached to Rosie, the elephant who responds to Polish commands.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  It was like nothing I had ever read before.  Not my favorite, but still captivating.  Definitely worth it!
5 While this book required significant research about the circus, I relished the insightful development of the old man in a nursing home.  It caused me to reflect on aspects of elder care that we don't know or rarely consider.  I read a novel occasionally between my favorite genre of the moment in non-fiction.  This fit the bill.  I couldn't wait to return to it when my reading was interrupted.  A lovely story and welcomed page turner.
5 Water For Elephants is an excellent novel depicting railroad circus life during the early part of the 20th century.  The author, Sara Gauen researched boxcar circuses before writing Water, the societal environment of the depression, attitudes toward circus workers by owners, treatment of the animals in the menageries and how they were obtained during the depression era then rapped everything into the lives of her main characters, add to this the breaking of the sexual mores frowned on by society, mix, and you have a recipe that makes for good reading.  The best thing about Water is the telling of the story by Jacob Jankowski, who is a 90 or 93 year old Vet depending on how you look at it, now confined in a residential nursing home and looking back into his past. Heads up folks Water for Elephants is coming out as a movie soon and I am looking forward to seeing it.
5 I totally enjoyed this book.  The characters were well developed, the history was good and I love that it was told from this old man's point of view.  The ending was priceless.  The movie was disappointing compared to the novel.
5 I found Water for Elephants to be entertaining and educational.  I really cared for the characters and, while I wanted to get to the end to confirm something I thought (it was confirmed), I DIDN'T want to get to the end, because that meant I wouldn't be reading about the characters anymore - BUT, I am carrying them with me - and isn't that what a good book does?I highly recommend this book.
5 I have always read a lot and since I got the Kindle, I have been reading all the time.  I would have given this book 10 stars if there were a choice for that.  It is easily the BEST book I read in 2010!!
2 I read this book a while back and I must agree with every 1,2 stars reviewer out there it is Overrated, plain and simple. I know a lot of people are interested in reading this book because of the recent Major Motion Picture starring Rob Pat and Reese Witherspoon.Oh, Well the premise of the story is quite interesting, an almost college graduate who runs away after his parents tragic death (nope this is not a spoiler it's in the back cover) only to join a traveling circus where he goes from a stable boy to the circus vet in a course of (well less than a year), and falls in love with a married showgirl named Marlena who is suffering under her abusive husband August (who is described as being schizophrenia but every psychologist will tell you he's just an aggressive, controlling jerk with anger management problems).So, this book has all the elements possible to make it a good read, Adventure, Romance, Drama, and forbidden love Blah Blah Blah !Adventure, Hardly ! Action (Well apart from the few scenes of hopping in and out of trains there's hardly any to count), Romance & Forbidden love ? (the romance element although seems to sum up a big part of the story even bigger than the circus is so contrived, lacking and unrealistic. The characters hardly hold a conversation to make us believe they belong together, I didn't care if Marlena and Jacob separated for life ! Actually I found myself hoping they would just to spice up the book from its predictable ultimate boring ending and I'm a person who loves happy endings) Circus Life ? Well, Yeah its there all right but the writing doesn't allow it to come to life. I never felt transported to the 193os, I never felt that I was in a circus. The descriptions were unfortunately very flat.The characters are the biggest disappointment in the book. They are two-dimensional at best as well as stereotypical. The Good guys are innocent, nice and bearing all the sufferings of the world on their shoulders and the bad guys are greedy jerks and a$$holes who only care about profit and the $$$ money !Some people were complaining about the Over the top sex scenes, Ahh, O.K ! I'm used to reading romance books heavy on sex scenes and this one doesn't even come close. I don't mind sex in books as long as there is a reason to it and as long as it is beautifully written. In here the characters are just flat out boring that they make sex and murder boring.Obviously none of them is sympathetic even Jacob who just lost his parents, we never get insight into his soul. We never knew for sure why or how was he driven by depression and shock after his parents death to leave all his life behind him and join a circus, we never even know how he recovered from the lost of his parents because he never show any signs of being sad or depressed. Marlena on the other hand, well she is in an abusive relationship so its O.K that she cheats on her husband with Jacob. It would've been rather interesting if her husband was actually a good man but she fell out of love with him and ran away with Jacob leaving the circus. Now that would've been a better conclusion !This book/author does the fatal mistake of telling instead of showing. We are told that this and that happens but we are never shown and therefore never transported. I give it 2 stars for entertainment value and because it was a fairly easy/fast paced book to read. However, other than that maybe I was expecting too much but this book is overhyped and frankly way overrated.
5 I can't believe it took me so long to read this book. Its a great quick read. I will definitely look for more books by this author. Love the style!
5 I first heard about this novel in an e-mail from my Mom to my brothers and me.  I asked a co-worker about it.  She'd just finished about it and also raved about it.I just finished it.  What a story.  Very touching.  Very real.  The end is just phenomenal and not what I expected.Read it!
5 This is an incredible story - how many of us say we want to run away and start over but not many of us actually do.  This wonderful story of the circus life and difficulties faced where everyone has their place.  Truly an unforgetable story of courage and hope.
5 Pleasantly surprised to enjoy this book as much as I did. I saw the movie first and the book is so much better.
5 What a great adventure...one feels like they are rightbeside the believable characters under the big tent.  Thisbook has some of the most memorable characters and oneof the wittiest and most satisfying story-lines I have evercome across.  Treat yourself to a great one...read this book!
3 I really liked how the characters went back and forth from elderly to his youth. I found myself often feeling like I was there watching it all play out.
3 ***SPOILER ALERT***Put this novel on the FUN READ shelf. Definitely nothing mind-blowing in terms of plot or prose but a very entertaining look at depression era circus life.The author alternates (for the most part) chapters between Jacob's life during the depression and his life as a 90 year old in a nursing home. One gets the sense that the author seeks to evoke some sympathy for the 90 year Jacob's plight. In this endeavor she fails as she never fully fleshes out his relationship with his children. Thus the reader is left feeling slightly apathetic as to his plight as a lonely and ornery old man wasting away in a assisted living facility.Finally, the ending is a bit contrived and convenient. The frail old Jacob making a break for it out of the retirement home and going to the circus event that is in town. There of course he meets and befriends one of the circus directors who spirits him away on their cross country tour. Happily ever blah blah blah.All of this is not to discourage someone from reading this novel. The author can write with rhythm and keeps the pacing light and quick. Viewing the novel as a love story, the author is adept at capturing the dual emotional nature of love with phrases like: "exhausted and recharged, desperate and fulfilled." With a good writer, this book would make a great movie.
4 Water for Elephants was a fantastic book.  Easy to read and interesting.  Most impressively, a topic that I never gave much thought to, Depression-Era travelling train circuses, was something I enjoyed reading about.  To be honest, I never knew there was such a topic.  Now I'm wondering if there are any Industrial Revolution cat juggling books out there that I should be reading.  Anyway, Gruen seemed to do a decent amount or research for the book, so I learned a little something about the topic.  The best part of the book was the fantastic ending.  More books should end like that.
5 This is one of those books that I read because I loved the movie first. So, I was quite surprised when I read how the book begins - with the murder of one of the main characters. When I further realized that August does not own the Benzini Brothers, I began to see the movie as its own story separate from the book.Jacob is by far the most interesting character of the book, especially since he tells the story as an old man in a nursing home - and has the wisdom and experience to go with his age. His emotions are infectious and I longed to sit down with him and listen to all of his stories in person way before I finished the book.August is the kind of villain that is confusing in his evil deeds - he has schizophrenia - which makes it somewhat unfair to dislike him so much. His irrational behavior has been exploited for the almighty dollar by Uncle Al - but the real villain tends to fade into the background.Marlena is beautiful to the point of angelic, very little of what she does can be considered wrong in any way, as she is a victim struggling for freedom for most of the book. She approaches August's mood swings with the same caution due a wild animal, and remains faithful to him despite her personal feelings, and does not leave until he first betrays her. Considering how women today will leave their husbands for any reason, I admire her strong morals.The background is set during the Great Depression, which made for many intense situations as the circus struggled to profit, as well as the survival of the cast of characters. Though I studied this period in American history, the direct experience gave me a clearer idea of the desperation of people alive during this time - how easily morals could be put on hold for the sake of another mouthful of food or another coin in the pocket. So many men of the circus would work without pay for the promise of another meal and unending hope that life could still improve.Rosie, the elephant, is also one of the most fascinating characters in the book. She proved to be only one example of how animals were exploited to the point of cruelty for profit. I could not help wondering where the animal activists were.Needless to say, this book sparked many conversations and inspired many moments of personal contemplation for me. I loved this book, and I highly recommend it.
5 I read Water For Elephants for the second time on Kindle and it was just as exciting as the first time I read it. The book is like being right there at a Barnum and Bailey circus with popcorn and peanuts.  The character, Marlena, was so real, accepting her role as the abused woman and then finally escaping the tyrant she had married.  All of the characters seemed to come to life there on the page.  I thoroughly enjoyed all the scenes. And in the end, when the animals were stampeding, it was interesting to learn that the circus band struck up a particular march to alert the circus performers to take cover or escape.  An excellent read.
5 This book is AMAZING!  I will not rewrite a review that over 1000 people have written. except to say, that yes, this novel is amazing.
3 It's okay but have the Kindle edition and there are LOTS of spelling mistakes through out the book. Makes it hard to read
5 Jacob Jankowski, the main character, is a 90 or 93 year old man in a nursing home and he tells the story of how he wound up joining a circus in his early 20's.  His parents are both killed in a car accident and finds out that his parents have mortaged everything to pay for his tuition at Cornell Vet school.  Figuring that he is unable to continue his education and he jumps on a train in the middle of the night running away from everything he had known.  The train that he winds up on is a circus train.He befriends several individuals and winds up working for the outfit.  One particular person is a married woman named Marlena.  Jacob's boss is Marlena's husband, August.  August is a bit off mentally to say the least.One of the most remarkable and memorable characters in the book is an elephant that the circus aquired named Rosie.  When she is first aquired August believes she is dumbest animal on earth because she would not do anything that they tried to get her to do.  Because of this August beats Rosie on a regulart basis until Jacob by accident discovers that she only understands commands given to her in Polish.  After that discovery Rosie is the star of the show alongside of Marlena.Things don't stay rosy for long.  August has more fits, ex circus employee's who were thrown off the train catch up, and performers get sick and tired of what has been happening.  It all comes together in a pretty horrific, yet kind of an amusing scene in the end.Not only did I enjoy the story of Jacob's circus days, but I also enjoyed Jacob's narration about getting old.  It really makes you think about how we treat the elderly and how we should be treating them.
4 Sara Gruen spins a fascinating tale of murder, love, obsession, and life in Water for Elephants.  The characters were interesting and well developed.  Her portrayal of the elderly was spot-on without being stereotypical.  That's a very difficult thing to do; not many authors are capable of unraveling the story of an elderly character.Her portrayal of circus life is intriguing, and the characters never failed to invoke strong feelings of endearment, horror, amusement, or pity.  I wouldn't call this a "must read," but it is definitely an interesting story that was well written and well researched.
1 I had heard this was a good book.  I was misinformed.  This was the most crude, foul book I have ever attempted to read.  Though the main story was mildly interesting, the all too frequent use of profanity and descriptions of intimate relations put me off entirely.  I started trying to use white out to cover the offensive items.  I quickly realized that would include a great deal of the book.  I decided I didn't want to fill my mind with such things and stopped reading.  This book went directly into the recycle bin rather than being donated to a thrift store.  I didn't want another unwitting person to go through the same experience I did.
5 Still reading but the beginning is fantastic. Animal stampede's, a circus, mystery and suspense. What's not to like?
5 This book was slow to start but once I got into it I could not put it down.  It twisted and turned all over the place.  It was such a relief despite some of the more depressing points that it had a great happy ending.  The author did a great job giving Rosie the elephant human characteristics.  I liked that it was told from the point of view of an older man looking back.  Even his ending to the story was an amazing one.  I would definantly recommend this book to a friend.
5 If you're an middle-aged old fart like me, this book might be too much for you. It was nearly overwhelming for me, and it invaded my dreams over the few nights in which I read it. Nonetheless, it's an excellent read. A rending read. A compelling read. Moreover, you might think the author knows you, and is telling a version of your life's story if you, like me, are a middle-aged old fart.
3 When a book is a best seller and has gotten the reviews this book had I expected something better.  In the end, I felt like the book was average.  I am 26, and am generally not interested in reading books about depression era circuses and love triangles but I thought since this book got great reviews I would give it a shot.  After all, the best book I read last year was the Devil in the White City and I figured if someone could make the 1893 world's fair interesting perhaps 1930s circuses would be interesting as well.  Even with an open mind I couldn't get into the book.  40 or so pages about a 90 year old man - the remaining 300 he recalls his 3.5 months of his life in a circus when he was 22. first 100 pages were decent but then nothing real interesting after that.  Bottom line, if you don't like circuses or reading books about love triangles - don't make the same misstake that I did and buy this book because it is a best seller with great reviews.  If thats what you enjoy, then yeah, you'll probably like it.
5 I had no clue what to expect when picking this book up but I have to say it was one of the better reads I've had in a long time.
4 It's also the only circus novel I've ever read. This is an entertaining drama novel with a love triangle. The characters are nicely fleshed out, and there is a nice to and fro between Jacob's current life as a ninety year old and his adventures in the circus. Gruen does a charming job of describing Jacob as an old man and the ending is very good. Whilst the book is good I think it has been lucky that it has benefitted from great marketing and a big budget film as there are other books which are more powerful & more deserving than this book that have not received any recognition.Enjoyably recommended.
4 This book was not what I was expecting at all. Although I don't know what I was expecting. I was taken on a journey that I thoroughly enjoyed and have shared the book with others.
5 This book was such a great love story with a very different backdrop.  I loved learning about the circus life.
3 When Jacob Jankowski's life is turned upside down, he inadvertently leaps onto a circus train and begins a seven year adventure as veterinarian to the circus animals. This is the predictable story of a boy who falls in love with the unattainable woman, compassion, cruelty, and the consequences meted out by an elephant.I enjoyed this book, but did find it rather predictable, and the ending was both bizarre and a major let down
5 Water For Elephants, written by Sara Gruen, is a book told as a memoir by a fictional ninety-something old man about his time with the circus as a young man. This experience matured him and forever changed the direction of his life.This book is charming. I could relate to the characters and understand their motivations easily. I enjoyed reading it and have re-read it several times. I highly recommend it to everyone. (Should be at parents discretion as there are some adult themes. Probably best for those over thirteen.)
5 Very good book could hardly put it down. Have the movie will now watch it. Give it a 5 star
4 The details and descriptions were wonderful, but the story could've been a little tighter.  Good characters and an absorbing read, overall.
3 When this book is telling the story of the circus, it is fascinating, describing a world that most readers know nothing about. But, possibly in an attempt to make it more "commercial", the author has chosen to focus on the love story, which is predictable. In those scenes, fascination turns to boredom.Use all that research (described in detail at the end of the book), Ms Gruen, to tell us more stories of the roustabouts, performers, animals and freaks of the circus - and forget the "plot" and the soap!
4 I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depression-era life. I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book. Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears (from her author's photo) to be barely middle-aged, I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well, because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much, and there's a lot lacking here. The young version of Jake never takes off as a character, nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider. We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she'll obviously be his love interest, but their relationship never actually develops before they're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms. Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains. Her two main villains are August, a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals, and "Uncle Al", the cruel circus boss, but their villainy never really jumps off the page. For some reason, she chose to make her main antagonist (August) Jewish. I still don't understand the reasoning behind that, nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well. Oh and for good measure, he's also a wife beater. He's simply too many things rolled into one. Perhaps if she'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality, she could have made him more believable. And unfortunately, since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character, it's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as anti-semitic. Perhaps if she'd actually used the "show, don't tell" philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters, he wouldn't have seemed so two-dimensional. As it is, I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake, at least not as a young man. One minute he's making a vow to himself that he'll stay with the animals so they won't be hurt, because that's what his dead father would want him to do. Yet, he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook. It's hard to respect a character like that. Jake rarely takes any real action; he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen *around* him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram. In books that take place on ships, there's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action. I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where a good 40% of the crucial action takes place in this book, and that was a major barrier to getting into the story. Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled, those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall, I am giving this book 4 stars because of the research, the informative author's note at the end, and the sections with Jake as an old man. I also really got a kick out of the ending. But on the whole, I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book -- definitely NOT one you pay full price for.
5 This is a wonderful book made better by excellent readers.Jacob Jankowski joins the circus as a young man after the death of his parents.  This was during the depression when many were willing to work for little more than regular meals.  Sara Gruen tells the story of a traveling circus with a surety that makes it hard to believe she has never experienced the cruelty, hard times and camaraderie of circus life.  Even more amazing, the story is told from the perspective of Jacob as a 93 year old man forgotten in a nursing home.There are two readers, one for the young Jacob and one for the old, and both are a true pleasure to listen to.
5 Yes it has its dark moments.  And yes it can be disturbing.  And that means the author did the job right.The book follows the life that was not an easy one and is not the perfect sunset of old age and conveys it all in the context of a world that most people do not know the in and outs about, the circus, but at the same time which is something we all have dreamed about.  If not dreamed about, at least were enamored with when we were young.As others said, I could not put this book down and lost a bit of sleep turning a few extra pages further in the evening.  But it was worth it.
3 I was visiting a local independent bookstore and asked the person in charge of romance novels for suggestions.  She named several books for me including Water for Elephants, which she insisted was great.  I was hesitant because it was not shelved in the romance section, but I tried it.  I figured romance readers must like this nonromance book, for her to suggest it.  Fiction lovers might rate this 4 or 5 stars, but since it is not my preferred genre, I gave it 3 stars which simply means "I liked it."  It was an interesting piece of fiction.  There were a variety of interesting and different types of characters including bad guys, good guys and friendships.  I enjoyed it, and I learned what circus life was like in 1931 including interactions with the animals.  I assume the author was reasonably historically accurate regarding circus life at that time.The story is told from Jacob's perspective when he was in his early 20s and in his early 90s.  Shortly before he was to graduate from Cornell veterinary school, his parents died, and the bank took all their property.  Jacob was too upset to sit for his final exams.  He left school and got a job with the Benzini Brothers circus, acting as vet for the animals.  He spent 3  months with that circus.  The elephant Rosie had a wonderful role.  Jacob developed a relationship with Marlena who was married to August the animal trainer.  August was physically abusive to animals, Marlena and others.Sexual language: mild.  Number of sex scenes: two.  Setting: 1931 and around 2001 circus traveling within the U.S.  Copyright: 2006.  Genre: circus, human relationships fiction.
5 Vividly written. This novel will stick with you.. the author manages to capture humanity from all walks of life, even going so far as to describe the animals in a humanly way (even though in reality they may be the most human of all.
2 i found this book very hard to read sometime. I liked the love story. the cruel story of the animals being mistreated got to me and I had to skip some parts.for animal lovers don't read this.
4 This lovely novel is especially meaningful if you are caring for someone elderly - I hope it helps me look a little differently at someone painfully leaning on a walker or sitting quietly in a wheelchair.I knew nothing about the world of the circus - you don't have to - this book will catch you up in its spell.
5 I loved reading this as I had been taken to a circus a lot as a little girl in NE Illinois and as an adult I worked in 8 different nursing homes. It was wonderful seeing it from the patient's eyes and reading his story. I remember many a story told by patients. One was an old silent movie star! I wonder if Sara Gruen had any nursing home experiance as she nailed it including the caring and non caring type of people that work there and why some of the patients may be grumpy. The view of the circus behind the scenes was a fantastic story!
5 In  dismal times .  the  era 1930---the story unfolds with interest,and  meaning  and deep reflection of the main character who is now in a nursing home telling this story.A unique plot" The circus" , sure leads to imagination and wonder of the  people and circumstances of that era and  their  transient life  styles .  You can taste the vulnerablity of the main character. You can feel his love and applaud his decency.the author does a great job of depicting his image and feeding him throughout the book. I began to see the dirt under his nails and visioned his unkept state, yet, I liked him . the protagonst was well depicted-the author had me on the edge of my seat.  And Rosie, was described so well I felt her breath on my face and the breeze of her ears flapping.After 350 pages with  no frills - -the entire book takes place on a circus train and  the empty lots where the  circus acts  takes place--it behooved me that the book remained a real page turner . It was well written and held my interest. I recommend it to all audiences.
4 captured my interest from chapter one. interesting look at the circuses of the past, as well as a love story. recommended reading
5 One of those books that I didn't want to end.  The first chapters pull you in quickly.  The history of the circus is absolutely fabulous.  And Sara Gruen's handling of the main character is awesome.  You see life through his eyes as a young man and as an elderly person.  Fascinating.  Don't miss it.
5 wanted to read the book too -loaded it into my kindle too for those nights when I can't sleep and there are a lot of those
5 Loved the story and the time period.  Liked the book so much I wanted to see the movie.  Hard to put down!
4 Well written, well researched and interesting look into a subject I knew little about. Although the book was about circus trains during the depression years, the real message was that getting old is "hell." What a heart wrenching portrayal of this man recalling his few years when he ran away and joined the circus. But mostly how horrible it is to be old, forgetting important things and having family forget you. Rosie the Elephant is a wonderful character.
5 Boy runs away to the circus, then does it again in his old age.  Lots of adventure for him.  Warm fuzzies.
5 Saw the movie first and enjoyed the book more than the movie. Very entertaining and well written. I have recommended it to others.
5 Love Love Love this book!!!  I think the story is wonderful.  If you are an animal lover, you will definitely enjoy this book.  It is also a love story with the main character falling in love not only with a woman, but I think with the animals.  It is a story of friendships and a story of a man at the end of his days looking back and maybe finding that his days are not over.  And I think I love Rosie!
5 Water for Elephants: A NovelI absolutely loved the novel. Our book club read it. It is very readable and interesting. I was absorbed right away. It is also informative about the circus life at that time period.
4 This is a beautifully constructed book. The circus atmosphere is rich and detailed, and it's redolent of its time period. The images are strong and the pace, while not fast, is stately -- perhaps the way an elephant moves??I deducted a star for two reasons. First, it seemed that some leaps in the story came too quickly. Jacob should have spent a bit more time with Rosie before he made the statement "I was close to falling in love with her;" that happened a bit too fast to be believable. Also, the ENDING was awful: contrived and saccharine. That was a huge disappointment, after the rest of the book.Overall, though, a literary and very good read, two things that don't always go together.
4 It was good. About elephants for the most part. They have tusks sometimes, but this on  didn't. So happy hat.
3 I think that most people seem to either love this novel or hate it, but I have a hard time stirring myself to care much either way.  It is by no means a standout book, but neither is it so horrible that I couldn't force myself through it.The best writing in the book, I think, are the sequences with Jacob as an old man.  They ring true, and have a poignancy regarding the lives and treatment of the elderly that stirs some guilty discomfort.  Leaving aside the over-the-top, sappy, happy Hollywood ending, these sequences are satisfying and believable.The larger narrative, that of Jacob in his twenties, also has an air of authenticity, at least in terms of feeling (to an outsider) like a dingy, dangerous, depression-era circus.  It is successful at creating a strong sense of the world.  But I never found myself getting wrapped up in the stories of any of the individual characters.  In other words, I just didn't get pulled in.Some people probably take offense at the blatant sexuality of a handful of scenes, and at the mistreatment of animals in several more.  I am not personally bothered by these, as they are pertinent to the story, but neither do they stir me to care much about the outcome of the story.  In the end, it was an easy read with a vivid world, but lacking (for me) much character-driven interest.  So I'm on the fence about whether I like it or not.  But who says I have to pick a side?
5 Another book for this summer in the hammock.  I am looking forward to it.  Saw the movie now I will see how accurate they were and how close they followed the book
4 I first heard about Water for Elephants as a project that began during NaNoWrimo a few years back when I was trying NaNoWrimo for the first time. It was inspiring to hear.Yet it took me years to get around to reading this book despite many recommendations.I LOVED it!The author did a lovely job of handling so many characters big and small. She kept solid control over their little quirks, tics, etc.I particularly enjoyed seeing everything first-person present through Jacob's eyes, but I do think he was more of a woman's man than a man's man. Not that I need him to be a boar or a brute, but he was a touch more on the emotional swing side than I generally like in male characters in stories of this ilk.Didn't really matter though, because the whole package of this tale enchanted me.Wholeheartedly recommend (but be prepared to be disappointed with the movie if you read the book first).
5 This was such a well done novel.  If you are looking for something different, something entertaining, and unique....then you have found it!  This story follows the life of a young man that joins the circus.  It has themes of coming of age, adventure, abuse, courage, love, and nostalgia.  This will truly stand out as one of my favorite books.  The author did a wonderful job.  This novel is MUCH recommended.
5 After I finally got a chance to read this book I couldn't put it down.  Outrageous, fun, and spellbinding, this book will leave you wanting more.  Shame on Sara for not writing another 200 pages!  This glimpse into the 1930's was amazing.  Very well researched!
5 Water for Elephants"A Novel, Written By Sara GruenBook Review by Jay GilbertsonWho, in their right mind, doesn't like the circus? If you answered "yes," then this book is for you. If you answered "no" then this book is for you too. There is something for everyone in this tremendously well-researched novel of schizophrenic madmen, a possible murderer in pink sequins and a towering heroine who happens to be addicted to lemonade. What could be more fun?A depression-era circus can be the best place to be if you're Jacob Jankowski and you just buried your parents, found out they mortgaged everything they owned to send you off to veterinary college and ultimately you had nothing left to lose.Some of the central themes of this page-turner are to follow your instincts, stay true to what you believe in and try to survive no matter what. It's the what part that kept me flying through the book. The story shifts back and forth from Jacob at ninety (or ninety-three--he's not sure) to his incredible life on the train with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show On Earth--the circus! By incredible, I mean that there is a constant fear-factor woven underneath every nuance, every situation is rubbed raw in not ever being entirely sure of just what the future holds, or even if Jacob has one. That dread is dolled out in buckets-full by the head honcho of Benzini Brothers--Uncle Al--who can have you "red-lighted" (tossed off the train) for any number of indiscretions, or simply to lesson the load. The incredible part is that, in the end, Jacob not only manages to become the circus veterinarian, he also gets the girl, a bereaved dog, one elephant (Rosie) and eleven horses. Who could ask for more, you ask? Jacob Jankowski, that's who.Then there are the animals. A team of "Liberty" horses, lions and zebras and llamas, giraffes, chimps, panthers, and Rosie--the elephant--the Polish elephant no less. The elephant that, like all elephants, drinks far more water than anyone could ever imagine carrying, which is one of many parables in this fast-paced tale.Did I mention the train? Benzini Brothers traveled exclusively by steam-train. The train becomes a powerful force that literally grabs up entire, failing circuses in its path and absorbs them like the little fish being eaten by the bigger one.Think shark.Uncle Al is a "take no prisoners" kind of fellow, unless he can get you for a song. Then he owns your soul.The secondary story line, that of old Jacob looking back on his days with the circus, added a depth to this novel rarely seen in most modern literature. He may not know his exact age, but there is a spark of life in him not quite ready to waste away in the nursing home that has become his prison. Then a circus comes to town and begins to set up shop right next door to the nursing home. It's an opportunity that Jacob simply can't resist.You won't believe what happens next...
5 Yes, I know the ending seemed a little farfetched, but I LOVED it...and the rest of the book too. Being ignorant about the behind the scenes drama and actions of a circus, Sara Gruen educated me with her well-researched Water for Elephants. The novel was informative and well, graphic at times, and I'll never again enter the big top without feeling some compassion for the roustabouts, the performers, and the animals...especially the elephants. Ah, Rosie. Silver Star too.In addition to educating her readers about the traveling circus life of a bygone era, Gruen also tells a vivid and believable tale about a vet student who, because of a "cruel twist of fate," runs away to join the circus. Although the primary story revolves around Jacob and Marlena, the author does a fabulous job of character development as she describes Camel, August, Uncle Al, and other assorted circus folks in a story of love, cruelty, sadness, grief, and triumph.About that ending, I still think it's awesome and quite believable, especially for someone like Jacob who lived his life to the fullest. Maybe there's a lesson in that for all of us.
3 I was really eager to read this book after seeing all the great reviews for it.  However,  I started reading it and could not get into it.  The whole first half dragged for me, with not too much going on in the story. The writing was difficult to read at times, and I agree with some of the reviewers here, it often read as a screenplay which made it that much harder to get into.  But about halfway through the book, the plot starts moving and I actually end up finishing the book and I'm glad I did.  I'm still not sure why the book itself is getting rave reviews, but I am looking forward to seeing how the movie version of the book will turn out.
5 I liked it because the characters were well developed. The  story was well told & really gave a wonderful view of circus life.
5 absolutely fell in love with this story, you will find yourself lost in not only the story but the era and the setting.
4 This is a good book that brings to light the underbelly of the circus that is not quite as glamerous as one might imagine. I book that leave you wondering what attracts performers to that type of life.
4 When his parents are killed in a car accident, 23-year-old Jacob Jankowski, in a state of shock, skips out on his veterinary school finals and hops a passing train. The train happens to be that of the Flying Squadron of the Benzi Brothers Greatest Show On Earth, a middle-of-the-road depression era circus. Jacob earns a job as the circus' vet, caring for a small menagerie of animals.The story is told by a 90- or 93-year-old (he can't remember which) Jacob living in a nursing home many years later. And although this aspect adds depth to Jacob's character, it dragged a little for me. However, the main story, that of Jacob's adventure with the circus, is full of energy. Parts of his romantic involvement with one of the circus performers felt a little predictable, but most of the story was engrossing. Gruen's meticulous research shows throughout the book. The story is never bogged down in details, but her vibrant writing brings the circus to life so well that at times I felt like I was watching a really good movie.
5 After reading the reviews of this book I knew I would not be disappointed. This is the first book I have read from this author and I found myself interested in the book from the first sentence.The main character (Jacob Jankowski) starts the story as a 90 (or is that 93?) year old man in a nursing home living out his life. He is unhappy and realizes that his kids and the world have forgotten him. He then thinks back to his early adult life when he was in school to become a veterinarian. He takes us back to those years of the Great Depression and the adventures he had while working for a small traveling circus.The book never lets you down and the characters that Jacob Jankowski meets will keep you interested. It is a book that, in my opinion, lays open the human experience. At times, the book takes a romantic and even very sensual tone. At other times, the cruelty of the Great Depression and the desperation of people who worked hoping for some type of income or food will remind you of the harsh life of those times.The book spends some time going back and forth from present day to the days when Jacob Jankowski was part of the circus. The ending surprised me and when I finished the book I was glad that I had the pleasure of reading such a great piece of fiction.
5 This novel is about love, murder and friendship and it's all centered around life in the traveling circus of the 1930s.  Not only does the author give history of a circus in the 30s, but she gives a very entertaining novel with very lovable characters.  She starts the novel out with the main character as an old man and then he tells the story of his days with the circus.  The old man is incredibly lovable.  The book only gets better with every page.
3 Maybe it was me, but it was just ok for me.  There was not a lot of action.  it was a sweet love story that took place in the setting of a circus.i like the ending
4 This was a wonderful story. It took you back to a world that was going through hard times but still managed to have some magic and hope. I truely enjoyed the story and think it is a great adventure to take.
5 If you loved The Help and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society, then you will love this book.  I regularly buy used copies of this book when I see them and give them to people just so they will read it.  The characters are amazing, the story is engaging and it is a truly wonderful read.  I haven't seen the movie because I heard that it just didn't live up to the book.
5 This book was very good  I could not put it down I would recommend it to a friend and my family
3 An interesting premise, Water for Elephants: a melodrama that takes place in a traveling circus during the first half of the last century. Throw in forbidden love, an abusive husband, murder, and a few other plot twists, and you're assured a best-seller followed by a Hollywood movie with a topnotch cast.I went to the circus as a boy; I never wanted to run away with it, but I enjoyed it; then again, I never feared clowns.I've had Water for Elephants on my reading list for more than a year; it was highly recommended to me but it just kept getting pushed down on my reading list. Finally, with the movie due out, I opted to make reading it a priority.I won't say I didn't enjoy it, but I can't say either that it's deserving of all the accolades it's received. Author Sara Gruen obviously had a passion for the circus, as evidenced by the research that went into this piece and the period.Normally I enjoy melodramas--Victor Hugo's Laughing Man comes to mind. But Elephants, for some reason I can't quite put my finger on, just missed.Maybe it's just me. Some call Romeo and Juliet the greatest love story ever written. I happen to think it's the most overrated piece of literature ever penned. I mean, come on, Romeo falls instantly in love with Juliet the first time he ever lays eyes on her, and only after they part does he realize he forgot to ask her for her name. Can true love be founded on such a shallow premise? No, he's just reacting to hormones. It's young love, which is not really love at all, merely lust.At first I thought it was because Ms. Gruen wrote the piece from the perspective of a male protagonist, and like a lot of cross-gender writing, it somehow lacks a certain authenticity. But Jacob is a likeable enough young man, flawed; recently orphaned, he joins the circus to what we in the 21st century would say, "Find himself." He certainly is attracted to Marlena, initially, for all the reasons a 20-year-old young man would be: she looks great in her pink sequined riding costume.But it wears old after a while--we want to see a relationship grow between them. What the story reveals is that Marlena, married, suffers from Battered Woman Syndrome. Her husband is mentally unbalanced and jealous to the point of insanity. He accuses her of infidelity with Jacob even though nothing has happened--except in their own mercenary hearts.Well, we were ready to impeach Jimmy Carter for admitting he'd lusted after women in his heart. Even the bible teaches that if your thoughts are impure, if you're unfaithful in your mind, you're just as guilty as if you'd committed the act. But nothing has happened between these two innocents except a shared kiss. But because her husband is such a beast we accept that it is okay and feel sympathetic toward Marlena since she is committed to make it work with her unbalanced husband because her parents previously told her, when she wanted to come home after admitting to them the marriage had been a mistake, that she had to lie in the bed she'd made.Yet I found neither Jacob nor Marlena very sympathetic; neither character was very memorable, even if the writing was sharp, crisp and authentic to the period. My sympathies lay with Rosie, the poor elephant who suffered such abuse at the hands of Marlena's husband she, the elephant that is, eventually killed him.Now that I've had more than a week to think about Elephants, to capture what seems to be an elusive reason for my indifference to this book, it occurs to me that a lot of books these days are written in this fashion, they expect the reader to connect with the character in their own way.I understand what that means and I don't disagree with it--until it's taken to an extreme and I'm presented with cardboard characters, caricatures.I want to connect with characters, not become them. I want to see how others respond to adversity. I can always later compare what I would've done, how I would've thought, were I in those circumstances.I guess, in the end, that's what was missing for me in Elephants: I just couldn't connect with Jacob or Marlena.Or, maybe at my age I just don't get young love anymore.
5 This is really a heart warming story. I especially loved the elderly Jacob. Working in Long Term Care, I so could see some of my patients over the years in Jacob and perhaps even caught a glimpse of how patients over the years have seen me! The ending warmed the cockles of my heart and left me smiling for days (well all day b/c I just finished it last night, but I can't see not smiling everytime I think about it). Definitely give this book  a chance. I waited when it was recommended to me b/c the Circus didn't really appeal to me, but it really was interesting to read about Circus life in the Depression Era. Loved the surprise twist when the epilogue picks back up at the end of the book! Didn's see that coming, but I guess that's the point. LOVED THIS BOOK!
5 that is, if they say that it is a wonderful read. It is, and then some. Great characters, great story, great writing. Someone will make a movie of it, but if I were you I'd read it before they do.
4 I was concerned that I wouldn't be able to finish this book, once purchasing, because of the comments from reviewers about animal cruelty.  I am very, very sensitive to that topic, so I was leery, and I imagine others out there may be as well.  However, my desire to read the best seller, and my husband's assurances (after listening to it), that he thought I would be ok, convinced me to listen to it.  For those of you that might have this same problem, I think you should go ahead.  I really enjoyed this story and it's worth listening to.  Yes, I could have done without some of the scenes, but it all turns out in the end, and the author doesn't get too terribly descriptive or excessive - so that you just can't listen to another second.  Also, these scenes are limited, and they are kind of an integral  part to the story.  I listened to the audio version and the narrators are excellent as well.  Very enjoyable story!
5 I didn't get an opportunity to see the movie in the theater, so I thought I'd read the book before watching it on DVD.  I'm glad I did.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It was nothing that I expected and wonderful all the same.
5 Wonderfully drawn characters, page-flipping plot,surprise grand finale. A long remembered main character who steals the show. A revelation of behind-the-scenes life with the circus.
3 I finally got around to reading Water for Elephants, it's been on my Kindle forever. I was interested in seeing the movie, but didn't want to until I read the book.It was good, especially the end. At times I wanted to finish just to move on to my next book, but at the end of I was hooked on seeing what would happen next. For some reason, I didn't get what all the craze was about though. Probably because I read a lot of really excellent books this year, including another circus book that blew this one away.
4 Seems to depict a type of circus life and it's hectic life style..  it had fun, love, action, sadness and raw life.  Interesting!
5 What a great adventure this books was.  I loved it.  I'll never look at an elephant the same way again.
5 This is a sad, happy and delightful book about life in the circus in the early 1930's.  It's a book that when finished, one feels a warm satisfaction.  I wish there were more books with that &#34;feel good&#34; feeling.
4 Water For Elephants tells the story of one man's life with the circus as the backdrop to all of his experiences.Jacob is a student studying to become a veterinarian when his parents are killed in an accident and he is left with no family, no money  and he walks away from that life.  He ends up picking up some work with a traveling circus and his life takes a turn that he never anticipated.  He becomes a part of the circus family (as dysfunctional as can be..........but they put the fun in dysFUNctional!)Jacob recalls his life, while he is over 90 years old and relegated to a nursing home. A nurse mentions that the circus is in town and everyone will have the opportunity to attend a show. As he sits at a dinner table with several other elderly folks, one man looking to gain attention from the women makes the claim that he "..used to carry the water for the elephants."  Jacob calls him a liar, because Jacob knows the amount of water that an elephant consumes, and those vast quantities could not be carried by one man.  When a nurse asks if Jacob worked in a circus he does not answer her, and that is when his memories are brought to life.  As he waits for his outing, the days pass and he relives the last 70+ years of his life in his mind.  The stories that are told about how the circus works, the value that is placed on the money coming in, the care or lack there of, for the animals, the living conditions on the trains for the circus workers...........all these things and more come alive in Jacob's tale.While it seems that the story starts a bit hesitantly, soon the reader is caught up in the tale, what happens to the different people, the relationship between the "stars" and the workers, many aspects of a traveling circus are revealed, even in the treatment of the animals!This story is an interesting portrayal of life in a traveling circus, and the ending is an unexpected one that takes you unaware.This is Sara Gruen's first novel and she is nominated for two Quill writing awards.
5 Enjoyed this book. Appears to be well researched and was very interesting. Good story, good read.
3 When I read a book, I want to immerse myself in it.  I don't want jarring inconsistencies to remind me that it's fiction, and not particularly well written fiction at that.  The speech of Jacob, who supposedly is in the setting of 70 years ago, is disturbingly nonauthentic.  People at that time didn't use the same phrases we use now and putting them in, when you're picturing them in the dress and background of that time period is annoying and unnecessary.  This author needed a better editor.  It's not a 'best' book and the fact that the author is begging for votes makes you wonder about her integrity.
5 Water for Elephants is a great read. I had a hard time putting the book down. This book has great characters, great scenes, and a great plot. I was fascinated by the narration of Jacob as an elderly man remembering his early days on the circus. I couldn't help but feel for the elder Jacob who was lonely and felt like he was just a trinket on a shelf that someone comes once a week to dust off. But the younger Jacob, I found myself rooting for him all through the story.The author has done a great job at incorporating the stories of the circus in to a story that seems so real. I was left with a connectedness to the characters and their struggles, their joys, and their feelings for one another.If you ever have ever been to the circus, and ever wondered what it would be like to work in the circus during the 1920's and 1930's when all the big circuses were traveling the United States, then this is a book you will have to read. You will not be disappointed.
2 I had high expectations for this, but it was kind of a chore to finish.  It was too depressing!  Too much brutality to the circus animals AND the circus humans, drunkenness, filth, squalor -- plus the portrait of life in the nursing home was grim.  When the narrator finally gets his true love, the author rushes through it in a few sentences and then goes back to the grimness.  I give her two stars because she's obviously done a lot of research on circuses, and I thought the photos were charming.
5 I have to admit that I wasn't initially excited to read this book. I kept hearing great things about it, but I just had no interest in reading about a circus. Then I saw the movie preview... and knew I wanted to read the book before seeing the movie (I'm rarely able to finish a book if I see the movie first). So I started reading, and had a hard time getting into it at first... I think this was mainly because I felt like I HAD to read the book... as if I was back in school! I eventually got past this and was able to get immersed into Water for Elephants.Usually, I rate books by how I feel while reading them, so my ratings are normally always subjective. In this case, I felt I had to give this book 5 stars based on the fantastic writing and the amazingly rich and unique backdrop of the train circus! It is obvious that the author did her research on circus culture and depression-era American history. She really dug into the down and dirty details of circus life. In the discussion after the last chapter you learn that many things in the story are based on true stories or anecdotes of the circus. The Bezini Brothers train circus is easily like another character in the book, flawed and deeply layered, like the characters themselves. I really liked how the story is told from Jacob's perspective as a spunky 93 year old man, having flashbacks of his life 70 year earlier. The altering perspectives (from young to old) effectively grounded the story and added another layer to his character.At times, this wasn't easy to read... It was sad to read about the indignities of being old, and I felt like Gruen's depiction was honest and very real. Though most of all, I had a really hard time reading some of the scenes with the animals. At one point I caught myself reading between my fingers, as if I was trying to block the scene from view as if it was a movie. I tried skipping over one but I had to go back and read it because I felt like it was important to the development of the characters and the story. It was, and they were. I just wish those scenes hadn't been seemingly timed to when I was getting ready to go to sleep.Seriously, I'm so glad I finally picked up this book. I highly recommend it!
5 I started this book with high expectations because of my sister's recommendations. It exceeded them spectacularly. This was a beautiful story - never a dull moment. It was so fresh and so different from other books I have read. I thoroughly enjoyed every page and was sad when it was over. I missed the characters. The ending was perfect also. I was really blown away by this. One of the best I've read! Truly wonderful, especially for those with an old soul.
5 This book is filled with adventure, history,and love. I'd seen the movie and decided to read it anyway. I'm glad I did because it was great.
5 I could not put it down, and I found myself reading long after I should have gone to bed because I had to know what was going to happen next!! Wonderful story, and a great ending. Quick read.
5 I was very pleased with this book. Not the harlequin romance I was expecting, but turned out to be even more. You can't help but fall in love with the relationships Jacob has with Camel, Walter, Rosie and Marlena. The author shows his humanity towards all the menagerie and roustabouts. I read the book before I watched the movie. Which I'm very glad I did. The book takes you on a deeper journey with Jacob at 93 and 23. The movie totally skips over Jacob at the nursing home. They didn't build Jacob at 93 for anyone who'd never read the book to understand him. Had I'd just watched the movie without ever reading the book. I would walk away happy, but in ignorance. I would definitely recommended this book to anyone and would advice to read the book before watching the movie.
5 This book was recommended to me by a few different people.  I knew NOTHING about it when I went to pick it up.  I was hesitant at first.  I am not a fan of the circus at all.  But knowing that one of the friends that had recommended it is also not a fan of the circus, I was cautiously optimistic.I am glad that I gave it a chance.  It is a well written story that really draws a vivid picture for you.  A great reflection of the times with a love story that had me in tears in parts.  Highly recommend to all.
5 I don't think words are beautiful enough to describe this book. I was in love with this from the get go. Throughout this book, I caught myself smiling as I read... full on cheesy smile, as I was totally entranced by the world I was lost in. I also found tears in my eyes over and over- both in joy and sadness. This book tore through me.I can't really review this beyond saying that Water for Elephants was magical. If you have yet to read this (which I highly doubt, considering I am one of the last people on earth to read it), stop everything and go start it now.This is one of those novels that I wish someone had thrust this one on me so I could have experienced the beauty that this story is earlier.
5 I'll start off by saying I usually sit down to read YA fiction - even though I'm 20 years old. I prefer something light hearted and breezy. I'd seen the movie before I actually picked up this book, But I was so impressed by the movie I decided i'd take the chance to sit back and read it. Let me say it made my morning commute to work far easier. I adore this book and have already passed it on to someone else in my family. It is one of those books that i was thinking was going to be completely different to the movie, and although there are a few sizable differences, it followed the plot extremely well.We first meet Jacob a ninety something withering old man remembering the good old days when he used to be able to do whatever, whenever.. and eat basically anything he wanted. Something the nursing home wasn't allowing him to do, much to his dismay. Flicking back between old Jacob and young Jacob we're presented with some humorous banter before delving into the heart wrenching tale of his life. I felt as though i'd been thrust back in time, and was there along with them at the circus, watching everything fall in to place. It all flowed so smoothly.The author did her research, she slipped right into that era without any troubles and i found it pleasant and enjoyable. A great summer read that leaves you devouring the pages wondering what is going to happen next. I highly recommend reading this. Although there are some scenes entailing sexual content it's easily read over. Water for Elephants is a delightful, delicious read.
5 I thought this book was wonderful!  I loved the way the author juxtaposes the young Jacob with the older Jacob; such a method has the potential to be jerky or awkward, but the transitions are smooth and the reader can easily manage to keep up with both storylines.Gruen is a skilled storyteller, I was caught from the first page and couldn't put the book down.  I love when a book does that, and makes me both happy and sad, and this book does both of these things at various points.  The most emotional aspect of the book for me was how Jacob felt about being in a nursing home, his frustration at having a "young" mind in an older body, and being treated as though he's senile by the nursing home staff as well as his own family.  This happens a lot in our culture, we tend to pack away the old because we don't want to be reminded of what we will be one day.  Wonderful, wonderful.  5 stars.
3 If you saw the movie, the book is the same. It was definitely interesting enough to keep you reading. In the end, though, I felt... a little unmoved. I expected a lot more since the ratings were so high. Maybe it just wasn't the kind of book for me. It was entertaining but not too exciting.
5 I got this book for a free read through my Amazon prime account, not sure exactly what to expect but at times I like to read outside of my normal genres and take a walk on the wild side. I was not disappointed.  This is the story of a man who is looking back on his life and how his actions helped him become the man he became.  After the death of his parents he jumps a freight train only to discover it is a circus train.  He was one exam away from becoming a veterinarian at the time of his families death and his time with the circus not only helped form his view of the world but also his view of mankind and himself.  It was moving, the characters were 3 dimensional and grew during the telling of this tale.  I couldn't put it down.  The ending was very unexpected and I found myself wondering when it was all said and done what happened next.  Although this was not in a genre I normally read I would highly recommend it.  I am an animal lover and his compassion for the beast that were used by the circus was very touching.  I found myself routing for the good guys and hating the bad guys and thinking to myself  I could so see myself doing that.  There are things that happen in everyone's life that shape them, change them and help them become the people they are meant to be. This story will touch your heart and make think back over your own life with new perspective. I give it two thumbs up a must read for anyone who has ever loved and lost or who has wondered what if?  A truly great read.
5 Possibly the best book I've read in nearly 20 years. An easy, yet difficult at the same time read, I found myself unable to put it down although there were parts so heart-wrenching, my eyes filled with tears throughout this realistically-written novel. Also, the movie based on this book is one of the very few which Hollywood did not completely destroy (but PLEASE read the book first!).And guys, this isn't just some flaky chick-lit...my boyfriend read it with me (HIS idea!), finished it first, then hounded me to hurry up and finish reading it so he could discuss it with me. And he doesn't usually take an interest in anything that's not Lord of the Rings-esque.So, go forth, read and enjoy-I own both the book and the Kindle version-either way, it's a winner.
5 I saw the movie before I read the book. Wish I read the book first, it was a great read.
4 Water for Elephants takes you to the time of the Great Depression on a circus train.  I was hesitating on reading this story because I thought it would be heartbreaking.  It's hard for me to read about animal cruelty and reading about a circus there is bound to be some ugly scenes.  There are some scenes that were hard to read, but for the most part I felt the author did spare us the raw details.  Sara Gruen knows how to write rich details in such a way that the circus jumped off the pages.  I felt like I was there surround by the sounds and smells of the circus.  I loved the characters and Rosie the elephant was the show stopper.  It was a pleasure reading this story and a huge plus for me that it had a happy ending.
4 This was a delightful book. I would have never thought a story set in the 30's about a 20year old man who runs away and joins the circus would have kept me interested. This book did. It was nice to get an understanding about how life would have been back then for Circus-folk. I took for granted for many years how a show is produced. It was so descriptive that I could hear the circus music playing.There was a few boring spots, but when the book picks up the tempo, it makes up for the few boring parts. Also I didn't like how the prolog made it seem like Marlena murdered August, when it turns out to be Rosie the Elephant. That was the books Far-fetched moment. The Kindle Version was for some reason, hard to read. They would have 1 word a page. Not sure why. The upcoming movie looks like good. I don't see Reese Whiterspoon as Marlena since of the age difference, but I'm sure it will be a great movie.
5 I absolutely loved the characters in this book (warts and all). I can't tell you when I last obsessively page turned like I did with this book! A beautiful read:)
1 The characters in this book just seem fake. They have no real personalities. I have a hard time reading a book when the characters are so one dimensional. The story seems to be contrived because of this.
5 A good read. Gruen hit a home run. The vivid characters make this tale interesting. It had me laughing and crying.
4 This was a pretty easy read and fun. It wasn't a very complicated story line but I would recommend.I am glad it was part of the kindle prime library.
1 I'm another reader who can't even begin to understand why this book was so popular, or why people rave about Gruen's writing.  I thought the writing was mediocre at best, and that the plot, narration, and dialogue were BORING!  Plus, the characters aren't very likable, and the frequent graphic sex scenes are completely unnecessary.  I tried to like this book, and I tried to finish it, but I really couldn't, on either count.
5 Although the book jacket suggested the storyline as a love story, I truly became engrossed in the life in the circus.  After reading the novel, I had to go online and check out historical facts on circus stampedes, fires, and train wrecks. Being a part of the circus family in the 1930's was no easy or safe occupation.The characters are filled with depth, and Jacob, the protagonist, gives the reader a true insight to an honest and loyal man in his twenties and nineties.Maybe it's not always easy to put in words as to the "whys", but it's definitely a book you don't want to put down.
4 Story OverviewJacob Jankowski is 90--or possibly 93. He's not really sure."When you're five, you know your age down to the month. Even in your twenties you know how old you are. I'm twenty-three, you say, or maybe twenty-seven. But then in your thirties something strange starts to happen. It's a mere hiccup at first, an instant of hesitation. How old are you? Oh, I'm--you start confidently, but then you stop. You were going to say thirty-three, but you're not. You're thirty-five. And then you're bothered, because you wonder if this is the beginning of the end. It is, of course, but it's decades before you admit it."Jacob lives in a nursing home--a bit of a grumpy old man but he does OK overall. He likes to give the nurses a hard time every so often. He resents having to eat Jell-O and the other soft food they try to pass off in the dining room. But his mind is drifting a bit; sometimes he finds himself in vivid dreams--and wakes to find himself unsure of where he is and why he is there. And when a circus sets up shop near the nursing home, Jacob's mind begins to wander more--back to when he was a young man of twenty-three. Back when he knew exactly how old he was. Back when his life lay before him like a blank canvas.He was studying to be a veterinarian. Unbeknownst to Jacob, his parents had mortgaged themselves to the hilt to put him through vet school. The idea was for Jacob to return home and join his father in the family practice--E. Janokowski and Son, Doctors of Veterinary Medicine. But on the brink of graduation, Jacob is called out of class. His parents have been killed in a car accident.  He's alone in the world. He returns home to bury his parents and finds that his legacy--the vet practice--is gone. It is the Great Depression and like others, his parents had fallen on hard times and there is nothing left--the bank claims it all.Although Jacob returns to school to sit for his final exam, he walks out without completing it, follows a road down to the train tracks, and hops onto a passing train--a n action that changes everything. For this isn't an ordinary train--it is the Flying Squadron of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Jacob has landed on a circus train.A less profitable and more shady circus than Ringling, the Benzini Brothers circus is its own society--populated by two basic social castes: the Performers and the Working Men. They live their lives on the circus train--crisscrossing the country and setting up in various small towns around America. With his veterinary background, Jacob soon finds himself in charge of the menagerie--the collection of animals that perform in the circus. From horses to tigers to monkeys, Jacob cares for the animals with compassion and concern--doing the best he can in difficult circumstances. (After all, when even the men don't get paid some days, there isn't much money for animal food.)He is befriended by a married couple who perform in the circus. Marlena is the beautiful star who performs with the Liberty Horses. August--Marlena's tempermental husband--is the equestrian director and superintendent of animals (in other words, Jacob's boss). Jacob is instantly smitten with Marlena but works hard to conceal his feelings--August has a dark temper that can flare unexpectedly. At first Jacob can control his attraction, but when the circus takes on Rosie--an elephant--things become complicated.The fates of Jacob, Rosie, Marlena and August become forever intertwined--linked together by love, hate, jealousy and violence. How this story plays out forms the core of the book--taking a path that is full of twists, turns and surprises.My ThoughtsSara Gruen does a brilliant job of creating a world that I've never read about before--the world of a traveling circus train in Depression-era America. What a colorful and fascinating setting this was. Gruen does a wonderful job of giving you the feel for a life of a circus worker, and the story is enhanced by the black-and-white photos of actual circus performers from the era. You feel like you're looking at photos of the actual characters that populate the book. In the Author's Note and the accompanying interview, Ms. Gruen talks about her inspiration and research for the book. There are a million little details that give this book such an authentic feel. She really did her homework and it shows. From the words used by the characters to the descriptions of the logistics of the circus to the types of men and women who made their home in what was essentially a traveling, self-contained community, I felt like I was really there on the circus train.Although the heart of the book is what happens to Jacob when he joins the circus, the book alternates between the elderly Jacob in the nursing home and young Jacob in the circus. I thought this juxtasposition worked well (except for the very end--I personally didn't care for the final choice that Gruen made for the elderly Jacob). When the circus comes to town and triggers Jacob's memories, his story unfolds in a natural way--with the reader getting more and more drawn in to Jacob's story as it unfolds in the book and in his memories.In addition, Gruen establishes a framing device in the prologue that influences the reader from the very start of the novel. I found this particular choice extremely effective--and I loved how she pulled it off and tied it together at the end. I love when an author plays with her readers a little bit, and Gruen did a great job in this aspect.If you're looking for a movie to go with the book, I must recommend Dumbo. I kept picturing scenes from that movie as I read the book, and I could completely imagine this story being told in a similar way.My Final RecommendationI definitely see why this book was a bestseller. It offers something for everyone--a unique setting, a bit of history, a romantic triangle, animals, an examination in what it means to grow old. This book effortlessly fits all of this in without seeming forced or strained. And on top of that, it is just a good story that makes you want to find out what happens next. If you haven't read it already, I think it is definitely worth a read. If I was attending the Benzini Brothers circus, I would be standing up and yelling "Encore! Encore!"
4 I enjoyed being transported to another time and place. To a vivid, colorful existence long gone. I admit, I expected this book to be fabulous, what with the hoopla and the fact that I saw it front and center for so long every time I went inside any bookstore. The writing wasn't why I gave it five stars, but the story and the research was impeccable.
5 This is honestly one of the very best books I have read in a very long time.  The author keeps you wanting to turn page after page.  I couldn't put it down.  I highly recommend this book.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book. I was able to picture everything in my head just like it were a movie! The writer is brilliant!
5 LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK!  I don't love fiction but I love literature and this one really made me happy!  I would recommend this to anyone and everyone!  Don't bother with the movie though.
5 Outstanding book... very well written.  A couple snafoos with the storyline but overall DEFINITELY worth reading.  I didn't think it would be the book for me (the circus and all) but I am so glad I read it.  I would definitely recommend it.
5 I usually dont read that many fiction books.  I happened across this one and did not put it down until I was done.  What a great book!  Great animal tale as well as adventure and romance.  I didnt think the ending was predictable as the others had said.  The ending was perfect.  Highly reccomend.
5 Loved it! This was a really complete story. The characters were fascinating, the setting exotic and the story enthralling from the beginning. The writing didn't get in the way of the story (which I love). I loved the animal characters and their relations with the humans. It had a "Life of Pi" vibe, but was more grounded in reality. I got very attached to the main character as an old man (it jumps back and forth - but not in an annoying way - really lends itself to telling the epic of his life while only delving into a few years of it). The author shows restraint describing any suffering of animals and lowly circus workers - which I appreciate - can't stand when they knock you over the head with it. Very well researched, no boring details - just the good stuff :)
5 This is a great, heart warming, well-written story that is probably one of my favorite books ever. It is one of those books you don't want to reach the end because you don't want to leave the people and the world the author has created. Highly, highly recommend!!
3 While this was a quick read it also lacked something for me. I would recommend reading it and judging for yourself.
4 Following a family tragedy, Jacob Jankowski abandons life as a college student, and instead of working as a veterinarian alongside his father, finds himself caring for animals in a traveling circus--the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Jacob befriends numerous characters, from the glamorous performer Marlena, to the alcoholic Camel, who works setting up the circus, to the Benzini Brothers' star elephant, Rosie. As he travels between different castes of the circus and across America, Jacob narrates the triumphs and hardships experienced by the people and animals of the Great Depression-era attraction.Interspersed throughout the novel are chapters that introduce the reader to the present-day, nonagenarian Jacob, as he laments his current living arrangement in a nursing home.Despite several graphic descriptions of animal abuse and the cruelty displayed the novel's antagonists, the story is ultimately fun, escapist and sentimental, with an optimistic, if improbable, conclusion.
4 This well-reasearched book brought the depression-era railway circus to life. The characters and circus scenes are described in such detail that after reading the book, you feel like you have seen a movie. The nitty gritty reality of circus life does not detract from the magic of the circus.
5 Ever since I got my Kindle I've been reading a lot more.  Im SO happy that Water for Elephants was one of my picks!  This book was not at all what I expected. It was MORE!! It kept me interested since the prologue.  I couldn't put it down, I absolutely loved this book.  I highly recommend that if to everyone!  I'm now trying to get all my friends to read it.
4 Well I can't say anything more then what has already been said about this book.  It is a very good read and I certainly recommend it.
4 Water for Elephants captivates the reader with its deeply moving and touching storyline.It is charming,magical.... laced with sadness,humour,joy. The story of a young man who loses everything dear to him in this world and then finds meaning and happiness in the most unexpected and least likely place....a traveling circus. The book really brings to life the spirit and times of a traveling circus(set in the backdrop of the Great Depression). Its many colorful,unique characters vividly bring to life this largly forgotten bygone era.Water for Elephants is simply a pleasure to read.  The only drawback to the book is that there is quite a bit of cursing and several sexually explicit passages that might offend certain readers.If you can overlook or skip these rough spots you will certainly experience great pleasure in reading Water for Elephants.
5 As an older person, I can relate to the 1930s and to reflecting back to my childhood.  I have not seen the movie nor do I  have any desire to see the movie version of this well written novel.  One can not improve on a great story.
5 this book was very interesting.  i loved the history of the circus-and the reality of the story.  engrossing and wonderfully written novel.
4 Yes, despite disagreeing with my whole book club and from the looks of it, many other amazon reviewers-- I cannot give this book a standing ovation.  I was even reluctant to give it 4 stars-- a high 3 would be more just.  Don't be turned away from this frank begining- I did enjoy the book-- and I can echo the reviewer who noted this as a "great summer read"  It is!  And it was painstakinly researched- you can tell- but for me that was part of the problem.  First off a good summer read is not the same to me as a great read. It was quick, painless, entertaining but I was not invested in the characters.  That is a crucial difference for me.  And while I received quite a good history lesson as regards circuses and other depression era details, I felt at the same time I was reading someones writing exercise or assignment.  There is a feeling of the author making sure she includes all that she has learned about good writing.  But read it you shall, as my review will be outweighed by the others, just don't expect more then a "jolly good time".
5 I loved this story. I purchased it a while ago when it was on sale and just got around to reading it. The story was memorable and it was fascinating to read and learn about life in a traveling circus in the early 1900's. I immediately looked for other books by this author, but since they weren't rated as well, I haven't gotten around to reading any of those yet.
5 (Review originally posted at GoneWithTheWords.com)The book begins with ninety year old Jacob remembering a very intense and disturbing event from his time with the circus that will leave you wanting to find out how it got to that point. The chapters then alternate between old Jacob and his very depressed state at the Assisted Living Facility and him remembering his journey with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. The circumstances on how he came to join the circus as the show Veterinarian were very sad. He went from being a young man about to graduate from Cornell, his whole future ahead of him and the possibility of FINALLY losing his virginity, to having no one and nowhere to go.Once on the show, he meets August, the show's equestrian director and superintendent of animals. August is one very questionable character. He can be the most charming man around and moments later he can turn into the most terrifying creature you've ever encountered. He also meets Marlena, August's wife, and falls in love with her on the spot. At a later point, the show aquires an elephant named Rosie who is thought to be stupid because she won't learn to do anything the trainers try to make her do. Rosie plays a huge part in this story, and she gave me the biggest surprise in this book. This story also takes you on an eye opening journey through the sad conditions circus employees and animals were under in 1931.Water for Elephants was a completely different read for me. It was Adult, and it was realistic, and I loved it. I was a little skeptical about the circus theme. Can't say I've ever been curious enough about its workings to read a book revolving around one, but I am so glad I did because it was sooo much more than that! It made me laugh, cry and gasp in astonishment sometimes. It was a huge plus knowing this will be a movie (coming out in April) starring Robert Pattinson and Reese Witherspoon as the main characters. I just pictured both of them the whole time! :D
5 I didn't see the movie but saw this book available for lending so grabbed it. I'm so glad I did. It was a lovely story with people and animals. It seemed to be extremely well researched especially regarding the circus terms. Some of the animal mistreatment scenes were hard to read but, again, it seemed correct for that time and location.
5 This is a GREAT read and I really enjoyed every bit of it. I loved the last few chapters the best. I even cried and laughed out loud several times while reading this book. It is now one of my all-time favorites and I'd recommend this book to anyone who is an adult.
4 I liked how the old man told the story of his life. The main character was easy to like. The love between Mar Lena and Jacob was believable. The way the old Jacob bonded to the nurse was nice. Interesting characters with a good storyline.
5 I loved this book.  There's nothing gimmicky or cloying about it.  It's an odd, fabulously detailed, intriguing story about a time and place totally unfamiliar to me.  It's beautifully written and has wonderful, unforgettable characters.
3 I was surprised to find that Water for Elephants did not live up to all the hype. In the beginning of the book I was hooked. Jacob Jankowski starts off the story as a man in his nineties reminiscing about his days with The Benzini Brothers traveling circus. Jacob experiences a family tragedy and runs away ending up as a veterinarian with the traveling circus. The animals are mistreated, the workers are mistreated, and the "ring leader" Uncle Al, is an egotistical, greedy SOB that you will love to hate. The things that Jacob witnesses are truly appalling.The research that Gruen did in preparation for this story was definitely the most interesting aspect of the book. However, then comes the middle of the book. I got very bored, and found it hard to finish chapter after chapter. Now having finished the book, I understand that Gruen was just setting up the end of the story. The middle was a  necessary "evil".Without giving anything away, the ending was interesting. Predictable, but interesting. I enjoyed the book because I love the era (early 1930's) and the characters in the book. Read this book but disregard the five star reviews and hype surrounding the book.
5 I decided to start writing reviews since I always read through them before buying a book. I'll probably only give a handful of five-star reviews. This and Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet are my favorite books from what I've read this past year, and I've done a lot of reading.  The story just sucked me in.  Usually when a book goes back and forth between past and present there is one time period I prefer over another.  I will trudge through the less preferred period of time just to get to the better part.  In this book, I enjoyed both past and present equally. It's just well done.
5 Though the movie was also very good, and quite accurate to the book, the book is by far the better story. I was so attached to these characters and felt truly involved in their lives. I read this book much faster than I usually read because I just couldn't wait to read what happened next. Recommended for sure.
5 I had trouble putting it down. I so badly wanted to know Jacob had a happy ending that I had to keep going.
5 One of the most enjoyable reads out there... A chance to run away with the circus, a well written page turner, and wonderful train ride through the age of the traveling circus.I Read this after several years of dealing with aging parents... Loved this thread in water for elephants. But the characters of the circus world fill the pages with all their escapades and big top adventures. If you want to escape into a book pick this one up!Loved every minute of it!
5 What a beautiful story Sara has woven with "Water for Elephants".  It really made me reflect on how difficult it must be for elderly people to have lost most of their friends and loved ones and how them can only relive the memories of their lives.  This book was captivating--love, adventure,friendship, excitement, betrayal, and the special love between animals and humans--all rolled into one wonderful tale.  From the time I started reading it-it was all I could do to put it down--kept me awake reading until I couldn't keep my eyes open anymore.I will definitely be keeping watch for any new books written by Sara Guren--she is a fantastic story teller.
5 I was hesitant to read this book- not sure why.  I am very glad I did.  It amazes me that it was written by a woman:  not to be sexist, but she offers the most astonishing points of view, verbage and mindset of multiple male characters.  I thought it was a great story- very well written.
5 I have never read anything like this and I loved every page.  Very few books have actually made me gasp in shock.  There is so much about the traveling circus that is appalling yet intriguing at the same time.  And who knows what is fact and fiction?  Gruen blends the two beautifully.  I am now really interested to learn more about this era of the circus.  I read my copy in 3 days and have already loaned it out.  Trust me, this is a good book!  And so different from any story line I've ever read.
5 I love this book!  I found it hard to put down at times.  I would recommend this book!
4 This is a perfect combination of the tender innocence and bizarre sophistication of a time when young boys ran off to join the circus.  Loved the weaving of past and present and the character of the young boy who gets drawn into a mess that turns out to be the love and joy of his life.
5 Who knew the circus could be so full of drama? This book takes place in a time when OSHA wasn't available, before PETA and the like. Sara Gruen does an excellent job walking us through this time, exposing us to the trials of finding yourself. It's more of a story of self discovery with the circus playing second show. Just a great read and perfect for book club.
3 The book has some good charactors, interesting story line, but some of the charactors seemed a little flat to me.  For example, the roommate in the stock car, I some how felt more connected to him than Jacob. Overall a fun and light read, but just lacking a little depth to the main charactors. I will absolutly read other Sara Gruen, I think she has some good talent as a writer. Just my opinion.
5 Great story, compelling.  Read it in one sitting.  Lots of wonderful inside information about the circus, elephants, the 1930's.  A wonderful book!
1 The parts of this book that dealt with the main character in old age, were very insightful and I enjoyed that.  But quite honestly had I known that it would detail the abuse of the circus animals and then also the detailed sex acts I would never had purchased this.  I wish I knew how to delete it from my Kindle.  I also wish someone else had mention this in the reviews that I saw.  I NEVER stop reading a book, but had to quit about 35% of the way thru it, it was disgusting and I am not a prude.I would never recommend this book, nor will I venture to the movie.
1 I lost the plot somewhere between the strip scene, the masturbating, and the detailed sex scenes.  If you like that kind of stuff this book is for you.
4 I found this book to be between 3 and 4 stars, but closer to a four. The first sentence had a grammatical error, and the descriptions were too involved and wordy, so I was afraid I would be disappointed. I wasn't. It turned out to be a well-written book. Gruen actually took me to the circus world in the early thirties, and I lived it along with Jacob. Not only that, but seeing Jacob in his nineties, gives the reader a new appreciation for the elderly. Although I could have done without the cursing and gritty sex scenes, I still found the book interesting, at times delightful, and well worth the read.
2 As a piece of light beach-reading, this is competent.  But it's also boring and flat, and the characters unbelievable.  It's very hard to locate the conflict for the first half of the book, and the shifts from the mind of a 93-year old to that of 23-year old is gimmicky and not at all convincing.
5 I tried to read this a few months ago and guess I was just not in the right place, however with the movie coming out I decided to make sure I read the book before seeing the movie.  Picked up my Kindle and never looked back.  It's just a great story and I enjoyed every minute of it.  The ending is absolutely wonderful, what we can all hope for at the end of our lives.
5 I really enjoyed reading Water for Elephants, it is such a different type of story than what I'm usually used to reading. I loved how it was about a circus group and the sort-of behind the scenes of it all. I cannot wait for the movie to come out!
5 I am always cautious about "best summer read" type comments as I have often been disappointed.  Not this time, fantastic read looking forward to the movie
5 Gruen masterfully brings us into the world of the Depression-era traveling circus with vivid descriptions and masterful storytelling. The characters feel like real people and within the first page any reader will become deeply engrossed in this beautiful story. A gem of a book!
5 Honestly, I did not think I was going to like this book, but I wanted to try and read something different.  I am really glad I did, this book was just pure gold.  I could not put it down!
3 Spolier Alert (kinda): I really enjoyed the reflection of the characters past and present. I found the love story to be a bit wishy washy.  when visting the main characters past I didn't really buy into the &#34;love at first sight&#34; idea. Not sure why, but I was asking why? Why did Marlena fall in love with Jacob? What made him stand out so much? It sounds bad that i say that, but I just didn't feel a spark between the characters. The whole damsel in distress was manufactured. Additionally, it was super convenient the way they ended up together in the end. Overall, I did enjoy the story and I was more drawn to the present version Jacob.
4 Water for Elephants is a novel. which is compelling, artfully conceived and written and reaches into fringe areas of human experience, which, when plumbed can furnish discernment of  common interest and experience with characters in those fringe areas..  A good read.
5 I would like to thank Ms. Gruen for writing such a pleasant tale . I knew a child who once "ran away to join the circus"  and her life did not have as happy of an ending as did Marlena's.  I thought of her often as Jacob's life unfolded and as Rosie saved them all.
3 Unusual subject and written in first person narrative of a man early and aged.  Amazing feat given that the author is herself a woman.  Story itself is a bit thin and somewhat sinister. Rather strange at times. Overall, I would rate it as instructive about the history of circus  but with some reservation on the storyline.
5 I was first drawn to this novel based on a short synopsis I had read on Amazon, and after many views decided to buy the novel.  I have never been so pleased with a book purchase as I am with this one.  Just reading the jacket alone draws you in to Gruen's amazing literary ability.  I finished the book about a  month ago, and am now on to Kite Runner, yet I can't help to be disappointed as I keep comparing it to Water for Elephants and am coming up short.  Congrats to Sara Gruen, I am absolutely blown away by how well this woman can not only write, but how easily one can picture the entire novel and feel as though they are right there at the circus.  The last few chapters I found myself both grimacing and smiling - completely drawn into the book and upset that it couldn't last longer.  If there is one book that will stay with you for a long time, I am convinced it is this one.
5 I love this book! Read it when it first came out and then my dog ate it :) Guess she liked it too! So I just had to reorder it so it would be in my collection.
5 I absolutely loved this story!  Elderly man looking back on his life and what a life it was!  what a love story!
4 Jacob Jankowski is a 93-year old man in a nursing home, and very cantankerous. The circus has come to the nursing home residents, and this takes Jacob back in time in the book as he tells his story. The book goes back and forth between the past and present tense.When Jake's parents die unexpectedly in a tragic accident,he is 23-years old and lost now. The house was taken away since unbeknowst to Jake, his parents had been in debt, and the house is taken away, and all because his father couldn't let the animals go hungry. He and Jake were in a veterinary practice together, and now it's all gone. Jake, not knowing what to do, went back to school to finish his final exams. He walks out in the middle of it though, and goes toward the train tracks. He climbs aboard a circus train unknowingly, which is the Benzini Brothers, The Greatest Show on Earth. From then on, his life changes forever.Camel is the older man that takes Jake under his wing, and shows him the ropes more or less. He is given the job of cleaning up after the animals, and later acted as a vet. Jake is introduced to Walter, and at first Walter deeply resents Jake at first, and having to share his quarters with him. But when Jake saves his pet Queenie, the two strike a friendship.The boss, August is a hateful cruel man. When an elephant, Rosie is brought in to the mix, August is absolutely sadistic to that poor animal. Jake saves Rosie from being killed by August more than a few times in the book.And the other part of the story is Marlena, August's sweet wife. Jake falls in love with her almost immediately, and knows that Marlena is miserable with her mentally ill husband. She falls for Jake as well, and when it is discovered that they are sneaking away by August, a horrible disaster strikes, and Jake almost doesn't survive.The book comes to an earth-shattering climax and has quite the ending which is a surprise.
5 I loved it! Her characters were impressive and her descriptive narrative provides a vivid setting. Both Jacob's young life as a student and a vet for a traveling circus and, as we first meet him, in his 90's in the nursing home are set before you in beautiful, & sometimes heartbreaking detail.Benzini Brother's circus is portrayed in all it's glory and in all it's horror. The Depression era, and circus life at the time, is richly described and well researched. It is a murder mystery whose ending is both surprising and yet somehow righteously predictable. Still,... it was FUN! You see the murder in the beginning, but not until the end when you have all of the story behind you, do you get to see the truth. I cheered, as did many in my book club! We all agreed that we had never LAUGHED when a murderer was revealed in a novel, until Water For Elephants!I suppose that the best way to describe this story is that it is a paradox. Our book club enjoyed it very much, with few exceptions.  It was a surprising story and one that stays with you. You will never look at the circus, or a nursing home and its residents the same way again!
5 I was right there with the characters, smelling the sawdust, hearing the cacaphony. Sara did a great job crafting her characters, including the circus itself. This is a delightful book that lingers long after the cover is closed.Janine Latusauthor of If I Am Missing or DeadIf I Am Missing or Dead: A Sister's Story of Love, Murder, and Liberation
3 This story alternates between present-day and flashbacks through the mind of our now 93-year-old main character.  The historical aspects of this book are incredibly well-researched and do a great deal to advance the plot of the story.  Unfortunately, the present-day scenes are rather dull.  I found myself skimming over those sections because I was eager to return to reading about Jacob's life working on the circus in the 1930s.The love story in this book - a tale of forbidden love between Jacob and Marlena, the married star of the big top show - is sweet, but ultimately predictable.  With the exception of one sharp twist, I felt that the love story ending of this novel is fairly cookie cutter.  That being said, I can't deny the fact that I was thoroughly entertained by every page.
5 highly recommend this book. I couldn't put it down!!!! every chance I got that I sat for more than 5 minutes I had this book in my hands reading it!!!
5 This book is one of my favorites... at least in a long time. Way more than a book about circus life. great for a bookclub too. we all loved this book.
5 Gruen's latest is a page turner from start to finish. Jacob Jankowski tells his story both in the form of memories while in a nursing home, and as the real time experiences of a 23-year old failed veterinary student in the midst of the Depression. Failing his exams, Jacob flees home and hooks up with a circus; he survives in this brutal world only because he has some skill with animals. Gruen paints a marvelous, completely believable portrait of a circus of the thirties, where the ruthless Uncle Al rules with the power of life and death. He deviates from planned appearances only to pick up the pieces of other failed circuses. Once someone ceases to be of use to the show, or if the money doesn't roll in as planned, they're gone--sometimes forever. It's a harsh world, but apparently historically accurate. And the old black and white photos at the beginning of each chapter are fascinating! Gruen's meticulous research makes the book--the plot line is a bit predictable and the ending a fantasy. But this is a great summer or airplane read--engrossing but not too heavy. Highly recommended.
4 Water for Elephants was one of those books that was difficult to put down.  The prose flowed very smoothly. The subject of the circus world during the depression was well researched and make accessible to the reader.  It could be read on many levels, but even a surface level was satisfying.My only problem, as with many best sellers, was that the action was in places not very realistic.  This may be a bit picky, but after suffering from a concussion, nobody is ready to climb on top of a moving train and hop between cars, no matter how pumped they are with adrenaline.  Such lapses in credibility hurt an otherwise wonderful novel.
5 I had this book on my "quesionable" lists to read,  I was concerned about the animal abuse I read about in some reviews.  After seeing so many other geat reviews pop up in the last few months, i bought it.it's a blast, keeps you going from page to page.  i would guess the abuse of animals is realistic to what happened in those days. hightly recommended.  its a fast and entertaining read -
5 I picked up this book at the airport with little idea what it was about... and spent my vacation trying to find time to read!  What a fantastic novel - tight writing, excellent character development, a great surprise ending.  I recommend it to anyone who ever heard stories about the Depression from their grandparents -- and for those who didn't, too.
4 Loved this highly entertaining story. Very different from all the other rehashed story lines out there. Unique and wonderfully written.
2 The book is extremely well written.  The descriptions are so vivid, you can almost smell the hay.  But it is filled with violence, vulgar language and sex which I guess is realistic considering the setting.  I read a few chapters but could not continue.  Returned it to the library.
5 Ever wonder about characters you've seen around carnivals then you'll enjoy this book about train travel circus. Great cast of people and animals. Easy to read book and print.
3 Gives very clear descriptions of life in the circus, and it isn't always lovely as some folks would imagine.  Enjoyed reading this book, but it isn't for everyone...
4 Water for Elephants is an immensely entertaining, well researched novel.  It's easy to see why this book is so popular.  That said; there are a few short comings, some minor, some more substantial.The research about depression era circus' (not that I profess to be an expert) is excellent and makes a fascinating backdrop to the story.  While the author makes great use of her research, the tone of the novel, particularly the dialogue, is too contemporary to sound authentic.  While this is a fault to some extent, it isn't one that will bother most readers.  In fact, it makes the novel more readable,likely contributing to it's success.  Fans of Faulkner and Steinbeck, of course, may beg to differ.I'm not sure why the author chose to make the novel's principal villain Jewish and allegedly Paranoid Schizophrenic.  The fact that he is Jewish is irrelevant to the plot (aside from the fact that it apparently makes his wife's family more likely to disown her) and his behaviour, while deplorable at times, isn't consistent with Schizophrenia at all.  These may seem like minor points, but they bothered me a little because they play into stereo types and were completely unnecessary.The romance that develops between Jacob and Marlena is predictable and uninspired.  The murder during the stampede is a little too contrived and highly improbable, and the final chapter is a little too sentimental for my tastes.  But despite these grievances, I was won over.The first half of the novel is definitely stronger than the second half.  Gruen's writing style is accessible, entertaining, and often very funny.  Jacob as an old man is cantankerous and vulnerable, and his frustration with growing old is truly heartbreaking.  These `present day' chapters are arguably the strongest in the novel.  While the love story is admittedly unremarkable, it was fascinating to read about life in the circus.  Greun weaves a series of amusing and presumably real (at least according to circus lore) anacdotes into the story.All in all, it isn't hard to see why this novel is a bestseller.  True, the love story is a little flat, but overall, the novel is hard not to like.  Water for Elephants isn't a literary masterpiece, but it's enormously entertaining.  If you are willing to overlook a few faults, it is well worth reading.
5 This is the incredible story of a man who was forced to say good-bye to the life he knew and expected to have to take a chance on something wild and unpredictable.  This is a story that lets you see the real person that this man becomes- with imperfections and all.  The author does an incredible job of telling the story about this man with a man's voice and perspectives.  The author is a woman and if you didn't notice that- you wouldn't be able to guess that from reading the story.  It is surprising how well she is able to get into the mind of a man.  One thing about this story that I truly loved was that it was told from a "real time" perspective and a future perspective.  We get to see what happens to this man after his long journey.  Plus, we see that that journey never actually ends.  I can't say enough about this book.  It was a pleasure to read each and every word on each and every page.  I give it the highest review.
2 Are you kidding me? This book was a best seller? It could have been written by a middle school student. I read this book in two days flat. The characters were very shallow. The only reason I'm giving it 2 stars is because parts of it were cute but overall it was a waste of my time.
5 I loved this book.  Writing was excellent and the story very revealing of what went on at that time.  I purchased this copy as a gift.
5 This book is very well written!  I loved the suspense and the authenticity of the main character. I loved that it presented a view of animals as feeling creatures without being remotely sappy. I love the brutal truth of life during the depression and the realities of aging in America.  I read it in two days and put alls of other things on the back burner.  It is a great book!
5 This is one of the best books I have read.  From page one until the end, I was completely taken with the story.  I was disappointed when the book ended and I ordered the next book this author, Sara Gruen, had written.I highly recommend this book.  Well done~!!  The story takes you to the circus and makes you feel as if you are living with the characters.I can't say enough good about this book~!!
5 This is exactly what reading fiction should be, and that is a story full of interesting history, characters and a plot that leaves you guessing and that is full of emotions. I waited so long to read this book, and I have no idea why for I enjoyed it immensely.
5 I was so pleased that I read the book before seeing the movie. It gave me an insight into how people perceive the elderly and how they react to the situations they are forced into. It also was a great love story.
4 I loved this book!  I found it absorbing, engaging and thoroughly vivid in its portrayal of the colorful world of Depression-era circus life.  I also loved the characterization of this nonagenarian who refused to let ageism stifle him in the nursing home where he resided, instead spinning his tale to his Nurse on her last day with him.
2 This book was just pointless. I feel like I was reading a novel generated by a random plot generator which spit out a circus, an old guy and a young guy-- nothing had the tactical feel of reality in this book. It was mediocre at best. Even the title of the novel was anticlimactic, given that one of old Jacob's nursing home fellows said he used to carry water for elephants and then not mentioned again. This novel is devoid of anything making it worth reading: Complex plot? No; Mercurial characters? No; Insights into the human condition? No; Stupendous vocabulary and/or Joycean constructions with the English language? No. Instead, we are left with chapter after chapter of a book better suited as children's literature.
4 This book was wonderful.  My wife and I both read it and enjoyed it.  It had a lot of depth.
2 I found this book fairly well crafted, but did not believe in the characters or the story, which seemed awfully thin and contrived. The author admits in a postscript that she borrowed extensively from old newspaper stories and made up composite characters based on real-life people and animals, which is close to plagiarism if you ask me. The main character, Jacob, who is 93, and tell the story in flashbacks, is much too lucid for his age to be credible, and Marlena, the woman he eventually steals, comes across as flat and uninteresting.Like other reviewers, I found the dialogue artificial and at times anachronistic. Haven't seen the movie but not much source material to work with.
2 Sara Gruen has an unbelievable capability of describing filth in all of it's trashy detail.  If you like gratuitously vulgar descriptions of adult scenes, this book is for you.
4 It was a very interesting story with true facts within the story line. Anyone who has an adventurous side would like this book.
5 The amount of time and effort it took the author to obtain the FACTS incorporated into this story are SO evident and appreciated. Both the facts and fiction parts of this novel will keep you in thought long after completing the last page!
3 I gave this 3 stars only because I did get engrossed with the novel at some point and felt propelled toward the end of the story.  However, everything that others have said about the believability of some of the situations holds true (as in Jacob taking the knife away from Walter when he would need it most).  My main problem with the story was the constant going back and forth from the 90 something character to the young Jacob.  The author didn't make these transitions meaningful in any way.  There was no reason why at some point it switched back in time and then for no reason whatsoever it switched to real time.  And, although I understand people can become forgetful and cranky in their old age, there was no way that the old Jacob was similar to the personality of the young Jacob.  People may get older, but their basic personalities stay the same, and these two Jacobs were totally dissimilar.  And, the author spent too much time in letting us know the horrid aspects of old folks in an old folks home and left us with none of the joys of companionship and the other qualities that people can enjoy in assisted living.  It got to the point where I skipped through the "old" parts, especially because they didn't advance the story line.
5 My husband loved this one. He is an avid reader and likes reading all kinds of books. This is a good one.
5 This book may start out a little dry but it gets to be super good shortly after. I really loved this book and would recommend watching the movie after you read the book!
4 This was a good book not one of the best I've read because it was kind of slow to get started. Once I got into the characters and plot it was a really interesting look into circus life not like any other books I've read.
5 One of the best books we`ve (my wife and I) ever read. Wonderful character building, fascinating story line, lots of suspense, and in every way a great book. I couldn't put the book down once I started.
5 My good mate John down at Matilda's book store  in Mount Waverley ordered this book in for me and it would have to be my favourite novel so far this year.The reader is introduced to 90 something year old Jacob who is a resident in an Old Folk's Home. Jacob talks about his past beginning with not completing his Vet Exams and finding himself in a travelling cirus during the Depression Era in America. Beneath the tinsel and cotton candy you find that the circus consists of hard men who never thought twice about throwing anybody from a  moving train.There is brutality and violence in this book and also the search for dignity in this cold tough world. Naturally 5 stars for this book.
5 I wish this book never ended. the time period, the characters, the pace of the story were all perfect.  I was sorry to see the pages winding down. this was by far the best book i've read in the last two years!
3 The plot is standard "the notebook" territory and so are the characters. This is a romance novel that leaves you hanging when it starts to get good. Its exciting until the 340 page mark, where at some point, you realize there is no extra layer of intelligence guiding the plot, dialogue, or character developement that could turn it into a classic. Later the plot goes completely off the rails and out of the hands of the main character, as people are murdered and "Jacob" himself almost becomes a murderer. This book is mostly dark stuff involving death, sex, and money. At times its cheesy and conservative, unrealistic. Its quite an exciting book and a fast read, but there is a lot more that could have been done. The author is quite talented, and I hope her next book is a classic, but this time she written a somewhat formulaic, generally nasty story here that ends in a wreck. The author cleans up Jacob's dilemnas for him by making the plot complete chaos at the end. A little too lazy for me. The book is standard romance with some problems, unfortunately.
3 I greatly enjoyed reading this.  It is not going to start any deep conversations, but it was very well researched and keeps the reader engaged.  Some events were rather predictable though.  In a sense, this book has two endings.  The first becomes clear a little bit before the reader reaches it.  The second, and "final" ending, is a nice surprise...
4 one of the elements I enjoyed was the switching back and forth of the main character's life as a young and old man; and how he experiences it. Well written with a formidable nemise(s) .  it's difficult to communicate a coherent thought here, being in the middle of an allergy_ induced sneezing fit...
5 I could write a book about this book but will keep it short and simple.  This book tells a very entertaining story of Jacob (never referred to as "Jake" in the book) and a twist of fate that sees his fate aligned with a circus after his parents are killed.  It's a very engaging book, well written and enough to keep you reading into the wee hours of the night.  I can't imagine the movie could possibly keep up but may give it a shot.  I don't see Robert Pattison as Jacob necessarily.Great book!  And for those who seemed to think the book fell flat - you're digging too deep for meaning - relax and enjoy a good read.
2 Though the plot occasionally compels page-turning, the author's tin ear for dialogue and the weak characterization make Water for Elephants much less exciting than one might expect given the hype that it has attracted.
5 such an amazing book..interesting plot line..amazing characters..vivid, real, amazing.
5 From the moment that Jacob Jankowski hops a ride on a circus train outside of Itaca, New York the story pulls you right into the circus life. A tragic chain of events have caused Jacob to hop on this train, but the ride also causes him to meet the love of his life. The author does a brillant job of telling this story of Jacob's circus life from his own memory at the age of ninty or is it ninty three while recovering in a nursing home. This story in a story is truly delightful how Jacob handles the aging process and the other people in the nursing home. I was very impressed how the author handled the transition between stories. While the circus brought many people laughter and excitment during the "Great Depression" and "Prohibition", I found that the life was very tragic for some of the workers and animals. It was frankly a very hard life.
5 Simply a great read.  Gruen grabs you from page one, plunks you down into the main character's universe (alternately a present-day nursing home and the depression-era circus).  You care. You ride up and down with him, and experience everything first hand.This is a great story blending historic facts (at least, facts in an anthropological kind of way - she did her research for sure) and great fiction. She uses the flashback as a vehicle perfectly, blending the main character's present-day circumstances with his past, lending a gravitas to his current feelings and actions that draws you in and holds you tight.I must admit, the very ending was a bit of a stretch on the imagination, but by that time I had tears in my eyes and was willing to suspend a bit more disbelief than I normally would.  I was sad to see this end.Kindle purchases be forewarned: each chapter has an historic photo from the circus; they show up OK on the screen, but the paper print might show this better.  I didn't have a major problem with it (the convenience of the Kindle outweighs the slight fuzziness of the images' resolution), but it is worth mentioning.
5 From start to finish, this book captures the readers attention.It contains romance and adventure unequaled by anything I have read recently. From the title of the book, you might not think the story would be any good. You are in for a big surprise! It's no wonder this book has almost 5 star rating.Check it out. You won't regret it!
4 Tapping into a unique and compelling piece of Americana, Sara Gruen has created an entertaining novel under the big top of the traveling depression-era circus. Cutting in and out of the present, the novel's 90- (or 93-) year-old narrator, Jacob Jankowski, brings us into both his life in a nursing home and his incredible 3 and a half months many years ago as the "vet" of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Like Salieri in "Amadeus," Jacob views his past as if happening in the moment, and we are treated to a host of nasty and pathetic as well as complex and individualized characters who live from stop to stop along the rail lines and entertain in towns small and large for the "rubes."Although this set-up is terrific, the love story around which the novel turns is thin and familiar, and the writing, somewhere around page 250, becomes repetitious and uninteresting. Even so, this quick read is well worth the time as an entertainment. I have no doubt, as well, that Hollywood will pick up on this work, as it lends itself completely to a 3-star movie. It's got love, it's got hate, it's got tears, and it's got laughter. And what a field day Hollywood will have with Rosie, the good-hearted Polish pachyderm who cracks open the plot and is nothing but adorable.
5 Water for Elephants is a superb book with a great beginning, a great middle and a great end. This book is surly destined to be on the "required reading list" along with books such as The Great Gatsby, The Red Badge of Courage and Hemingway's best.The book begins when Jacob, the hero, looses his parents to an accident at the time he is scheduled to sit for his final examine at Cornell University and become a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine. Under duress and without finishing the exam, he walks out of the exam building and into a tumultuous life with the circus.At the age of 90, Jacob finds himself in an assisted care facility where he blows his top when a fellow senior, a lawyer, claims to have worked for the circus and delivered water for elephants. Thus begins the story of Jacob's life as a vet for a disreputable circus owner, a novel that ends as Rosie, the elephant in the story, dispatches the evil ring master.From incident to incident, the mind-capturing story flows from rich characters making this book one for the ages. Tis a great read.
2 As a small town child,I always loooked forward to the circus coming to town.I thought this book would bring back memories.However,I was greatly disappointed that the author toook what should have been a good family story and infiltrated it with sexual incidents that added nothing to the story.I suppose the author was trying to make the book more "saleable" I would not recommend this book,most certainly not to young readers.What a ruination of what good have been a good story
2 Jacob Jankowski's parents perfunctorily die in the opening of this mawkish melodrama, and Jacob drops out of vet school and runs away to join the circus, where he finds fast work as a veterinarian for a menagerie of anthropomorphic animals. Jacob also finds romance (not with the animals), adventure and a real Snidely Whiplash of a villain. Sara Gruen copies the manipulative, crowd-pleasing instincts of Stephen King and Ron Howard without displaying any of the personality seen in those men's work. She writes in a bland, transparent, easy-to-read prose of cliche, predictability and cheap sentiment. This is the kind of book you can read in a single afternoon without ever having to pause to think. It goes down like a bag of circus cotton candy, and it's about as nourishing. Strictly LCD entertainment. It's like "Titanic" at the circus! It's like "Seabiscuit" with an elephant! After reading one of the most ludicrous endings ever written in the history of populist claptrap, I think I'm being more than generous with my two stars. To the critics who overpraised "Water for Elephants," I offer this quote from the novel: "Surely you can't all be happy with this ... this ... pap?"
4 The strength of the book is its narrative flow. I particularly liked the little catch-words that usually connected the "assisted living" chapters with the circus chapters. Gruen generally wrote in such connections, and I found them both ingeniously crafted and useful in uniting the narrative.In addition to telling a great story, Gruen gives a remarkably detailed picture of the circus world of the 1930s. I had definitely never heard of a "cooch tent" before reading this book, for example, and Gruen's depiction of its solo practitioner is thoughtful, humane, and free of cliches. The ideas of circuses getting booted out of town, of people getting booted off the circus trains, and of entrepreneurs cannibalizing the remnants of failed circuses were also quite fascinating.To the extent that Gruen wanted to make an analogy to the biblical Jacob story by obscurely dropped hints and anagrammed names, I think, however, that she pushed too far. This novel stands nicely on its own without this type of symbolism or metaphor.
1 Sara Gruen seems like a nice person. But this novel is total dreck. The structure reeks of baloney, the "different" characters are written with the same bland voice, and the whole melodramatic mess never rises above laughable soap operatics. I'd never want to take enjoyment of this kind of thing away from anyone, but if you've not read it, I'm sure there are better books about the circus out there for you.
5 I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a fun book that keeps the reader coming back for more. It is an absolute roller coaster of human emotion that develops characters that are identifiable. Gruen's "warts and all" approach to character development makes the story fell real and compelling. Excellent, well written book! A must read!
5 Wow! This book was on my To-Read list for awhile before I got around to it. Somehow I didn't foresee this being about the circus, I don't know why. I read this in 2 days, I couldn't put it down. I just wanted to know what happened next! I love the way it was written too. The cruelty of the circus animals brought tears to my eyes more than once. Loved it and will recommend to it my friends for sure!
3 This is definitely a slow starter, and the pace picks up only slightly about 2/3 through. A decent story line but not something I'd read again.
5 Beautifully written with characters that define humanity with their strengths but more so their weaknesses, WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a most touching tale that brings the reader into a completely different and lost world of the travelling circuses during the Great Depression.What makes Sara Gruen's novel all too unique is her ability to bring us into the lives of her ordinary characters leading such extraordinary existence in the circus world.  Amidst the spectacle to provide temporary entertainment lies the cruelty and the debauchery never seen outside the performance area. A grumpy dwarf and his pet, an elephant who exhibits exceptional talent and is more human than the people around her ... a circus star and a would-be vet ... who would have thought that an insight into their lives can so summarize the abandonment of youth ...and the sadness of old age reviewing an existence that has come to pass?One of the most worthwhile reads for quite a time, this novel is a gem.
5 I enjoyed this book.  Sometimes I just love wandering through Barnes and Noble and finding a good book to read - this book was just that.  A story of aging, the circus, life, death, loved ones and more - it really has it all.It is a fun book that made me feel emotion while reading it - good work.  I would recommend for sure.  JVD
5 I loved this book and I especially loved the fact that it did use the true carnival and circus language.You feel for and with the characers and I fully agree with the others that rated this book 5 stars.Read their reviews also they are great
4 It starts out a little slow but gets better and I ended up really enjoying the book. I would recommend it as a take along book on vacation.
3 After hearing so much hype about this book I quickly read it before the movie came out. I wasn't disappointed but I wasn't the super excited about it either. I liked the perspective from which the story was told - a feisty 90-something old man reflecting in flashbacks on his adventures in a travelling circus 70 years earlier, while lamenting the indignities of his current nursing-home existence.  Jacob Jankowski, just days from the final exams at Cornell University becoming a vet, had his world forever altered when his parents are killed in an auto accident. Alone, frightened and penniless, the 23 yr. old hops a train, never intending to &#8220;run away with the circus&#8221;. Harsh conditions at the circus and an insane animal trainer are some of the things Jacob has to contend with living his life with the circus.
4 Our Kindle Book Club gave this book 7 out of 10.  I liked the way Gruen brought a life together and illustrated the ways we gain respect and lose respect.  The history of the Circus life was based on fact, it showed the degree of cruelty toward animals and humans in the desire to make money. There was also a degree of cruelty and lack of respect in the Nursing Home. The love story was nicely developed without becoming the main story.  We loved Jacob he was a good man.  The ending was brilliant, he won!
5 This is the life of Jacob Jankowski, starting after the death of his parents... his parents who paid for his education by mortgaging their farm and therefore had nothing to leave him.He hops a train to nowhere so he thinks...but it is a circus train and he becomes a 'first of May'...that means a newbie. From that time on that is his home, his work, his life.The story is self-narrated by Jacob when he is in his ninties and in an 'old folks home' and he hates every minute of his life there. And so perhaps we can imagine he passes the time by telling us his story.Gruen has circus life down pat due to I am sure many, many hours of research and has such a beautiful rhythm to her prose that you are there with Jacob. You feel the exitement, smell the animals, hear the band music, envision the clowns, hear the roar of the cats and feel the thumder under your feet as the elephants begin their parade... and the laughter and applause of the crowds.Jacob's life is not easy but it is intriguingly exciting and different. IF only he had taken the last test for his vet license...if only his parents had not died at that critical moment in his life...if only...if only...I loved this novel because it drew on every one of my emotions and satisfied my hunger for a really good story. I will never forget Jacob!
4 A little slow but an overall great love story. No regrets for reading it. Most people I've talked to rave about this book.
1 I couldn't finish the book I was so bored and I HATE leaving books unfinished. I didn't like the crudeness of it either, I just don't see why it was such a hit...... blah!
5 Here is a delicious journey back to a gritty bygone era of big tops, roustabouts, circus trains, freak shows, midways.  Many of the extraordinary incidents in this novel, according to the author's notes, are rooted in oral history or based on anecdotes or actual written reports of those early 20th century years.  Those who rode the circus rails, many being family castaways and society's rejects, found family and home in that unique traveling milieu of humanity and managerie, and, in the process, grew tough in body and spirit.  BUT, even if you don't give a hoot about circuses or circus people, don't be put off by the title or theme.  (Although, is there really anyone in their 30s plus years who did not, as a child, sit and watch wide-eyed, delighting in the cheap glitz, the pulsating music, the flamboyant and rhinestone-studded costumes and, yes, the size and smell of the elephants, when the circus came to town?) This story is nostalgic in its telling, engaging in its characters, with a plot that clearly aligns the good guys against the bad.  There are wonderful descriptions of authentic circus activity, on-site intrigue, and a romance that you will really care about.  All of this, tucked into the ruminations of a contentious 90-year-old "assisted-living" resident whom you will also really care about.I suspect, however, one would have to have a soft spot for animals to want to open this novel and then to inhale it, as I did, in just a day and a half.  Like savoring a wonderful dessert, I was torn between the discipline of consuming it in small lady-like portions and making it last for as long as possible or just gobbling it down and enjoying it all at once.
5 I loved this book! I couldn't put it down! It was a bit "fluffier" reading than I originally thought it would be, but it was fabulous none-the-less. The descriptions are vivid, not cliched; the characters are interesting; and the weaving of present-day Jacob with the Jacob of a bygone era is delightful.I would call this a must read... not because it will change your life or make you think about the world around you, but because it is just so enjoyable. I gave it a 4.5 because it isn't a book that will make you think long after the last page is read, but it will make you sad you've left the colorful circus world of Jacob Jankowski.
5 I really enjoyed this book, as did lots of people I leant it to.
2 I really didn't like this book very much.  In its favor, it's well researched, but the crudeness of the characters and animal cruelty turned me off.  I'm sure it's very accurate in its portrayal of the times, I'd just rather read something uplifting.  I read it based on a recommendation from a family member.  I, on the other hand, would not recommend it.
5 I had heard of this book for awhile and kept considering it but I hate to say it wasn't until I saw the trailer for the movie coming out soon that really caught my attention. So the next day I went out and bought it, starting it immediately. The story is extremely well written, with details that enabled me to picture how everything appeared in a big top circus during that time. You immediately connect with Jacob from the start as his journey continues, pulling for him page after page. The other characters are well written with the story, feeling the happiness, joy and sadness each of them feel as the story continues.It's really hard not to say too much without giving the story away. This is a book I will be recommending to everyone as it is a story that has a bit of everything wrapped into one- so many emotions page after page. Knowing the fate of most the characters at the end, you want more but already have an idea of how their story ends.
5 College guy joins a travel by train circus and flips over the beautiful star married to a jealous, sadistic husband.  The first person point of view makes his crushing on her vivid.The author's historical research adds fascinating info.  She does not hold back on the sex or violence.  The characters are outsized; good idea for a circus story.This is one of the most entertaining novels I've ever read.
2 I was excited to read this book, but I was disappointed in it. Maybe I expected too much because of all the hype and the movie coming about a month after I read it.The premise was great- a Cornell educated kid drops out during his exams due the death of his parents, and finds himself transported into the world of a circus train during the Great Depression. The story is told sort of as a flashback, it goes back and forth between Jacob as a "90 or 93 year old man" and Jacob as a 23 year-old college dropout. It sets itself up to be touching, moving, etc., and it does take you back to a time that's grand and terrible. But it falls flat. The author could have done so much with Jacob, Marlena and August. The brightest spots of the novel are Jacob in old folks home- we really get to see his character there. Marlena was beautiful but boring, and August was brilliant but crazy. We see several spots where she could have gone deeper with all three characters, bur fails to so so.The author telegraphed the ending a mile away, but that era wasn't about happy endings. That era was about sadness, struggling and being down on your luck.The other bright spots of the novel occur when the author describes Rosie the elephant, and the ins and outs of the circus and how it works. It is clear she did a lot of research on how the circuses worked, and it was nice to be able to picture those details.The book had so much potential. I wish it would have been better.
5 A wonderful star-crossed lover story that takes place in the middle of a traveling circus back in the early 1900s.  For those that like 'The Notebook' or 'Eat, Pray, Love' I think you would like this one as well.
5 You will love this book! If you love fiction this book is great. I heard the movie shuffles some of the story around. However this is a great read and I could not wait to finish it.
2 So, this is the dreck that is passing for 'modern literature' these days? Honestly, after hearing some very good reviews about this books (actually, the reviews came to me via a co-worker who pressed a hand to her stomach, frowned and said, "my daughter and I loved this book") I figured I would give it a try.The first sign that this was not going to wind up on my favorite book list was that after an hour or so of reading, I realized that I was more than 100 pages in. Normally when I'm reading, I pause occasionally to think, reflect, sympathize, emphasize, synthesize, etc, etc, etc. But alas, nothing deep and worthy of reflection was to be found. Nothing to stop me reading for a moment to think about what I'd just read. Not that I was expecting much, but I find myself more appreciative of a book, story, news article, movie or television show if it can make me think about at least something more than the words in front of my face. Again, not here. There was nothing to be found.Eventually, as the story continued and I learned more about Jacob and the circus, I can't say I was surprised when I found myself not caring one way or the other what was going to happen to him, or the rest of the circus bunch - there was nothing for me to connect myself to these characters with. If anything, the more I read, the more impressed I became with the author's ability to keep me so detached!In addition to the weak and utterly predictable story, (I mean, who didn't see that August was either bi-polar or a schizophrenic, that Marlena was going to get pregnant, or that Jacob's family wasn't going to show?), the dialogue comes out incredibly thin - to the point that I'm actually thinking that the author has never heard two people speak to one another. The dialogue comes across as forced and, for lack of a better term, soap opera-ish. I half expected to hear the dramatic soap opera bumper at the end of each chapter "will Jacob get the girl, will August find out about their illicit love affair and will Rosie finally learn English? Tune in next chapter.."But I digress. For everything I've stacked in the negative column about this book, there is one redeeming quality - and that is the story. I'm (somewhat) not ashamed to admit that I literally couldn't put this book down. It was like literary candy on a rainy day (actually a smoky day here in So-Cal). I picked up the book at 8am and set it down again around 10pm (having stopped for food, news updates, etc). Needless to say, I was disappointed.Overall, a good book for when you require some mindless entertainment - like sitting in an airport, or on death row.Finally, I was not impressed with the authors use of 'authentic circus lingo.' Apparently, she did some research. Well, I should hope so!
4 I'm not going to outline the story, I'm going to point out a few flaws in the book and what I liked, to try to help you decide if you should read it for yourself.First, the flaws.  It really doesn't take long to figure out where the story is going.  You can see it coming a mile away.  Second, Ms Gruen is writing the story from a male perspective, but she needs a little more practice.  Jacob seemed like a mama's boy, but I don't think that was her intention, instead it was her inability to really connect to her male character.Despite these minor flaws I found the story engrossing and from my male perspective I didn't think it ever got into 'romance novel' territory.  So guys, it's safe to read.  The trains, boozin' and rough living of a traveling circus in 1931 was very interesting.  The way Gruen shifts the novel from the past to Jacob's current state of living in a nursing home is jarring and makes you feel just like Jacob when he is 90, or 93, you want to get back to the circus.
2 It is actually a waste of time and money! The plot could be very good, but filled with sensual and detailed pornographic material it could do without!
5 I enjoyed this book so much, I did not want the story to end.  Alternately told between the main character as a youth and reminiscing as an old man.  This takes you back to a time when the world was a lot simpler, if you remember the time when a circus would show up in your small town and just as quickly disappear.  The end is a gem, won't spoil it for those who have not read it.  I couldn't put it down, just pure entertainment.
5 Have you ever asked yourself these questions? "What is a life worth? How do you judge if someone is worth saving? What does it mean to be human? What distinguishes an animal from a human being?" Hidden beneath this easy-to-read though dark coming-of-age romance is a theme that prompts the reader to ask the above questions. The answer come through the reminiscing of protagonist Jacob Jankowski--a man at the end of his fascinating life. The story begins with the circus rolling into town, triggering a flood of Jankowski's memories, full of pleasure, joy, love, hate, regret & guilt. Sara Gruen brings the quaint circus existence of the mid 20th century to life through meticulous research and wonderful storytelling. Anyone who ever dreamed of running away to the big top or just dreamed of running away should read this book.
4 This novel is riveting from start to finish. What really surprised me is how well written it is. Water For Elephants is a great book for your book club or for a quiet night reading in bed.
5 I purchased this book to read before I saw the movie. Actually never finished it, and went to the movie--which was excellent.Overall transaction to acquire this book was fantastic.
4 Well written. Gave additional insight to the living conditions in the early days of the circus. Looking forward to seeing the movie. The book should make a great screen play.
5 What a wonderful story of a rag-tag bunch of people and animals, who just happened to be called a circus!  They traveled by train during the depression and had some fascinating adventures along the way.  We meet Jacob Jankowski, a young man who accidently lands  on the train.  He decides to stay and become the circus veterinarian.  He meets lovely Marlena and her evil husband, August.  Of course he falls in love with her, but the husband is a force to be reckoned with.  There is also Walter (Kinko)the clown, Big Al, Camel, and of course Rosie the Elephant.  The ending is extremely satisfying.  This book is well-researched and authentic.  I loved it!
4 It was a pretty good story.  Not my usual cup of tea but ok. I would recommend to you very interesting
5 This is one of those books that stays with you long after reading it. I saw the movie too but it was the book that held me in its grip. This book is hard to put down. It is so well written that you really feel you are inside the story. It takes you there. And it takes you there FAR better than the movie ever could. I will read it again someday. That is a rare statement from me.
4 Didn't expect to enjoy this as much as I did. Really fascinating characters that had me very absorbed.Excellent story with many unexpected twists & turns. Definitely worthwhile.An ending that will surprise.
5 Very well written. Interesting comparison between a youth & himself as an old man, and between characters with compassion and some with none.
4 A family disaster sends a first generation Polish-American almost-veterinarian down an alternate, precarious path; one filled with, among other things, murder, mayhem, mental illness, a menagerie, and an intriguing woman names Marlena. After the teaser of a prologue, during which a murder takes place, the story shifts to real-time in the life of ninety or ninety-three year old nursing home resident Jacob Jakowski, as he realizes that a circus has rolled up mere blocks away. He is resigned to suffering through several standard days of monotony - wakefulness alternating with bouts of night-time and inadvertent, memory-filled dozing as he anticipates viewing the upcoming circus performance. Although his brain founders, his wit and wisdom-filled thoughts and words are spot on: of memory "You start to forget words: they're on the tip of your tongue, but instead of eventually dislodging, they stay there," forced to take an antidepressant, "You want to drug me. You want to turn me into a Jell-O eating sheep," on nursing home life, "I'm so used to being scolded and herded and managed and handled that I'm no longer sure how to react when someone treats me like a real person," and after explaining his inability to keep track of his grandchildren and great-grandchildren, "My brain is like a universe whose gases get thinner and thinner at the edges." The story of his circus-related escapades is equally good. Although the ending seems more contrived than likely and the plot contains a fair amount of sexual situations, violence and animal cruelty, its uniqueness as well as several fact-based plot parts overshadow its few faults. Good books with similar themes: Life of Pi by Yann Martel, The True History of the Elephant Man by Peter Ford and Michael Howells, and All Creatures Great and Small by James Herriot.
5 Well I think the sign of a good book is when you put it down and you are still thinking about the characters or the storyline because you can't get them out of your head.  That was definitely true of this book!I had heard and read a lot about Water for Elephants which actually put me off reading it as It meant my expectations were sky high and I wasn't sure if the book would be able to live up to them.  But let me tell you that it certainly did.I was a little apprehensive about how it started, with Jacob in his golden years reflecting on his youth, but in the end I found this was actually one of the things I enjoyed about how the book was written.  Like Jacob, I longed for the times when his mind slipped back to his younger years when his body was whole and his mind sharp, when his passions ran high and his life was full of adventure.  I could relate to his frustration with his age, mental status and physically limitations.The story of his life was emotional, and felt very real.  The ending was surprisingly satisfying for the reader and Jacob, possibly because Jacob received what we all hope for at the end of a long life.  I'm not going to say anymore than that, as i dont want to give anything away so if you want to know more you will have to read it yourself.  I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did.
4 This is a good book about the circus (a comment I never thought I would ever make).  Jacob's story is heartbreakingly sympathetic.  Ms. Gruen's mastery of the circus vocabulary really sets the stage for the plotline.  A remarkable amount of reseach went into writing circus lore.  This is no Barnum and Bailey's Greatest Show on Earth.  This is a downtrodden, edging ever closer to disaster circus run by the same type of people.  I must admit I had to skip anything that resembled animal cruelty (although I am sure it is factual).  My inability to deal with this led to my giving the book only 4 stars.  A reflection on the reviewer more than on the book.
4 It took me a long, long time to get into this book.  I kept picking it up, reading a few pages and then putting it down again.  It wasn't terrible, but it didn't really grab me until well after the 100 page mark.  Nevertheless, I did enjoy it and I'm glad I stuck with it.The book jumps backwards and forwards in time from Jacob's life as a vet in a 1930s circus to his life today as a 93 year old in an old folk's home.  Not much happens in the present day chapters and for a while I wondered what they were adding to the book, but the pay off at the end is very satisfying.  While I don't know a lot about circuses in the depression era, my impression was that the book is well researched and certainly it brings that world very vividly to life.  The book is peppered with sepia toned photographs from that era which is a clever touch.Overall a good book and one that is worth sticking with.  I was caught up in the central romance and I very much enjoyed the character that is the elephant, Rosie.
5 This was a delightful summer read. Everything about this book was good. You could really identify and feel passionate (good or bad) about the characters, including the animals. All the loose ends are wrapped up. It makes me feel nostalgic and she has a way of transporting you back in time without being too wordy. The book is well written and entertaining. This was pretty  much the best book I read all summer. I even cried a little at the end. :) I really hope they make this book into a movie. It would be such a great movie if it was done correctley. Everyone should read this book.
5 I fell in love with Jacob Jankowski even if he is 90.... or 93!I ordered this book through my online bookclub "Audible" and am so glad I did.The cover of the book interested me and I had almost bought the book to read but thought.... naw I am really not into the whole circus thing. Besides, I am more of a Non-Fiction kinda gal lately.Then a few days later this book was listed on Audible  as one of their bestsellers so I gave it a try and immediately fell in love with the narration of old man Jacob.  The story drew me in and I couldn't stop listening to it... even after we had all gone to bed I was up past 2am last night listening to it trying to control my laughter at the really laugh out loud parts to keep from waking my husband.Now to me that is a really great read so I thought I would pass along a little note saying how much I enjoyed "Water for Elephants: A Novel" and to say thanks to Sara Gruen for writing it!I enjoyed the Awesome Narration also by David LeDoux and John Randolph Jones that really added to the enjoyment of this novel!!!
5 The story is well written, fun to read, and has an unexpected ending. Although a bit gruesome in places, it was great fun to read.
4 This book was amazing. The pace is almost like the circus train itself: it starts chugging forward slowly and then before you know it, you're flying so fast you can barely keep your balance! Gruen's writing is so evocative -- you feel like you are on that train and in those tents. You taste the food, smell the smells, hear the sounds, feel the animals and the movement of the train. It's amazing that she could write so vividly about an era in history with which she had no prior knowledge before writing the book.The only thing I didn't like about it were the scenes involving animal cruelty. I knew they would be there, given the subject matter, but it was still difficult. However, I give Gruen credit for not making them gratuitous. They were important to developing the story line and the characters.All in all, a great ride!
4 Had a lot of fun reading this and I fell in love with the characters. I want an elephant for a pet and to visit nursing homes....
4 Waited awhile to read this book and a friend recommended it to me...so I thought...why not? I loved the story of the circus and felt like I could picture everything. It was a very, easy read and found myself wanting to have more time to enjoy it :) Now, what are YOU waiting for?
3 Story didn't blow me away, althought I finished it with no problems.  I would recommend this book as a light summer read.  Nothing more profound about the story.
4 The title of my review pretty much says it all. This was a very easy, enjoyable read full of characters you can't help but love - and love to hate. There were some inconsistencies in details, but most of them would sail right past the average person and weren't a big deal to me.It is almost always hard for me to initially get into a book, I don't know why, but it is. This book was different, it had my rapt attention from start to finish - though the end was disappointing to me. After chapters of such a great story, I found the almost ridiculous improbability of the ending to be quite out of place. I also could have happily lived without the animal abuse and the unnecessary deaths of Walter & Camel, but the ending sat particularly poorly with me. In addition, the final chapter seemed to bring the previously well paced story to a very abrupt halt that felt all wrong. I enjoyed the rest of the book, however, and feel it's well worth the read.
5 Books are always better than the movie, and that's true for this one.  The choking scene in the movie upset me greatly (having been a victim of domestic violence), so I was glad it was not in the book (it was referred to, but a pulling of her necklace rather than the full-on, two-hands choking scene of the movie.  Love this one, as well as Gruen's other books.
5 When my friend first mentioned I should read this book, I hesitated because of the subject of animal abuse. But I did read it and from the beginning was drawn in by the old man as he begins to tell his story. The story is so deeply sentimental and vivid in descriptives. The characters are unforgettable and this includes the animals. Yes it was painfully sad and I was angered when the abuse was occurring but still I read on. I must say this book made a big impression upon me as far as a story of adventure, travel, history and love all rolled into one. When I had my first book read for my debut novel on Friday, June 13th, 2008 the store manager (who took a chance on an unknown self-published author) predicted that my book, like "Water for Elephants", would have the same impact in time. She had said that Sar Gruen at first couldn't get the attention her book deserved but on went life to where WFE ended up being one of the most interesting accounts of US circus story ever told.  Although I saw no comparison with WFE and my novel, The Skye in June, I welcome her prediction and await the results. But! Buy WFE and like me, keep it in your library to reread in the years to come.
5 Wow! Water for Elephants was recommended by a friend of mine. She loved the book so much, she bought it for me. I am happy she did!! This story was heartfelt, mind blowing, awesomely good!!!!!! Sara definitely has a masterpiece on her hands. Jacob and Marlena' s life, Rosie, all the crew, and other animals. What they went through and how they end up. I loved and cried. Camel and Walter, so sad. Water for Elephants is A must read!!!!!!!
1 This is one of the worst books I have ever read. I have to admit I did not finish it. It was simultaneously boring, cliched, badly written and trite. Oh and repetitive. The only redeeming feature of the book was the parts where Jacob was an old man. If the author could write like that more consistently then she would be on to something. I cannot figure out why people love this book so much. If you compare it to another recently very popular book, The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, at least that book was riveting, even though it was also not very well written. I am not looking for Faulkner, but if a book is not high literature it should at least have a compelling plot. This book had neither neither good writing style nor an interesting plot. Don't waste your time.
4 I truly enjoyed this book except for the parts detailing animal abuse, but I'm very squeamish.  WFE is a wonderful book and I definately recommend it to everyone.
5 It honestly took me weeks to finally talk myself into buying this book, I just said screw it and did it. I started reading it and could not put it down. By far my favorite book. (this month anyhow) I love to read the books before I see the movie and even though 9 out of 10 times I am very disapointed with the movie I honestly can not wait to see this movie! I think that the book was so real and made me feel like part of the circus so much that watching the movie will make me feel even more so part of the circus. I passed this book along to a "reading buddy" of mine and told her just read it! She text me the next day and said she had just finished it and it was SOOOOOO GOOD (This girl in not one to read a book in a day) If you are reading these reviews trying to descide weather to buy this or not by suggestion is.... Just buy it! Well worth the money!
5 I read this book at the recommendation of a client...I loved it!  I read this book quite some time ago about two years ago and still think about some of the characters.  While reading this book, I often found myself so deep in the story, I could smell the smells and hear all of the people talking.  I want to see the movie as I am sure it will be entertaining, my only concern outside of the obvious, (if you read a lot you will agree it is a rare movie that can compare to the book).  I  so enjoyed this book and I would be disappointed if the characters were not portrayed as beautifully on the big screen as I have them in my mind.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a beautifully written story that is sure to stay with you long after the final page.
5 my father read the book first... He then talked my mother into reading this book... who then talked me into reading this book... we all came away from the book with loving different parts of the book... If your looking for a great book to read and have not read this book... I will try to talk you into reading this book.Its a great book for all ages.
2 It appears as though I'm in the minority once again.  All of us are entitled to our own thoughts and opinions but for the life of me I can't understand the number of 5 star ratings given to this book.  I'm not even sure I feel good about giving it a two.I wanted to like the book.  Really.  Who doesn't love a cute, little, old man telling his story of the good ol' days?  But as endearing as the concept was, I couldn't get past the fact that I honestly didn't care that much about any of the characters.  Sorry but it had to be said.  The characters were flat, the story was more fantasy than fiction and worst of all, the whole thing felt quite familiar.  It was only later that it occured to me that this story was trying very hard to be Fried Green Tomatoes and/or Driving Miss Daisy; the difference is that I actually cared about the characters in those stories.  Frankly, Water for Elephants read more like a screenplay than a great novel.For my friends, I would suggest:If you want a story of reflection - The Green Mile, Driving Miss Daisy, Fried Green TomatoesIf you want a story about elephants - Hannah's DreamIf you want a story about a circus - well, I've got no idea.  :)Having said all of that, I would like to see the movie.  As stated before, this read like a screenplay -- bare bones, generally just waiting for someone to bring life to the characters and story.
4 The wife and I started reading this book after seeing the movie and were not disappointed. Kept our interest all the way through. Recommend to anyone over the age of 13 (some mature subject matter). Loved the characters especially Rosie. Bound to be a classic. Worth buying the audio book too!
4 When I first started hearing the buzz about this book, I politely declined offers  to "buddy read" and group discuss. I've never been attracted to all that goes on under the "big top;" and, if I didn't want to attend a circus, then why would I want to read about one? The book had the added downfall of an elephant as a main character and while I love animals, I generally don't like to read about them. I thought this book had nothing to offer me . . . and I was very wrong.Reliving his young years right along with 90 year old Jacob Jankowski was a beautiful journey. I normally don't care for the sentimentality inherent in an old narrator looking back on his young days, but I found Water for Elephants didn't use cheap tricks to manipulate the reader's feelings. Instead it had a slow build and satisfying finish - marks of a novel well written. As the old man (Jacob) tells his story, I began to feel all the emotions that he did. By the end, I was fully invested.Gruen brings to life - the Depression era geeks and freaks of the circus with generous but not overdone descriptions.  I became so engrossed in that world that it was jarring to come back to reality when I closed the book. The love triangle between man, woman and beast was a beautiful thing and the ending for me came far too soon.I highly recommend Water for Elephants for 16+ and for anyone who enjoys a beautiful love story and being transported to a different day and age.
4 I really liked reading about the history of the circus. I loved the images and Sara Gruen knew how to vividly describe something. It's definitely worth reading.
5 I loved this book.  It was sometimes hard to read, when Rosie the elephant was being beaten, for example, but overall, it was so incredibly good.  One point that bothered me, though.  WHY did the author NOT have Jacob turn back and look for Walter???  Just because the other men said he "probably did not survive the night" does not mean he didn't.  At very least Jacob SHOULD have gone back and found out for sure, especially since Walter had done a lot of good for him.  That was the only part of the book I felt let down by, although I still loved the book.
5 This book was so wonderful and so interesting that you can't put it down!  I read it in less than a day and even forgot to eat because I just couldn't stop reading because I wanted to see what happened next.  It is a must read!!!
5 Easy to follow with strong philosophical and social belief shown.  Will be using examples from book to help my students to the common core.
4 I dont need to go into too much detail, as most of the reviews here have covered the plot.  I downloaded this on my kindle app during a horrendous layover at the airport, and it was nice read that kept my interest.  For some reason this book reminds me of Mitch Albom, in the style it was written and the flashbacks.  Looking forward to the movie, as I had envisioned the main character Marlena to look very similar to Reese Witherspoon during my read.  Pictures kept the chapters interesting as well.
5 I loved this book. It's about an lonely old man in a nursing home who's memories are sparked with the circus comes to town. He remembers back to his youth when he left veterinary school because of his parent's tragic deaths and joined the traveling circus. He details his unique experiences in the traveling show and of all the colorful people he became friends and enemies with. As mentioned in the title, there is an elephant, but the story is really about a young man's experiences as he struggles and learns his place in the hierarchy of circus and in life. Highly recommended!
3 I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depression-era life.  I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book.  Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears (from her author's photo) to be barely middle-aged, I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well, because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much, and there's a lot lacking here.  The young version of Jake never takes off as a character, nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider.  We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she'll obviously be his love interest, but their relationship never actually develops before they're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms. Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains.  Her two main villains are August, a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals, and "Uncle Al", the cruel circus boss, but their villainy never really jumps off the page.  For some reason, she chose to make her main antagonist (August) Jewish.  I still don't understand the reasoning behind that, nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well.  Oh and for good measure, he's also a wife beater.  He's simply too many things rolled into one.  Perhaps if she'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality, she could have made him more believable.  And unfortunately, since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character, it's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as anti-semitic.  Perhaps if she'd actually used the "show, don't tell" philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters, he wouldn't have seemed so two-dimensional.  As it is, I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake, at least not as a young man.  One minute he's making a vow to himself that he'll stay with the animals so they won't be hurt, because that's what his dead father would want him to do.  Yet, he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook.  It's hard to respect a character like that.  Jake rarely takes any real action; he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen *around* him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram.  In books that take place on ships, there's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action.  I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where  a good 40% of the crucial action takes place in this book, and that was a major barrier to getting into the story.  Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled, those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall, I am giving this book three stars because of the research, the informative author's note at the end, and the sections with Jake as an old man.  I also really got a kick out of the ending.  But on the whole, I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book -- definitely NOT one you pay full price for.
5 I judge a book by how compelling it is. To me, this was a great read. I couldn't put it down. I thought the movie was disappointing in comparison.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I felt like I was right there with the characters as I read.  Couldn't wait to see what would happen next.  There were many twists and turns to the story that I didn't expect, and the ending was a suprise!  Thought I had it figured out, but not so.  Don't hesitate to pick up this one.
5 This is a great book to get lost in. The characters are well developed and you can see the story the author is tells about life during the great depression working in a circus.  It's about people who are down on their luck that come together to help others and the animals.  It's one of those rare books when your lucky enough to find one that's hard to put down. Great fiction with a historical basis that lends credibility.
2 I purchased this book because it received great reviews from readers on amazon.com.  Truthfully, I was disappointed because I found the book rather dull.  There was very little action in the novel and I did not emphathize with any of the characters other than Jankowski in his 90s in the assisted living facility.  The insight provided into the "circus world" of the Great Depression was interesting, but overall, I would not recommend the book.
5 It was hard to put this one down.  Very easy to follow.  I laughed a little and cried a little.
2 This book intrigued me because it is not something I'd normally be interested in reading. I was expecting to be "moved"--as so many reviewers had indicated. Instead, I was only "moved" to flip the pages as quickly as possible to at least come to the surprise ending that was indicated in some reviews.The premise, the whole idea of a story set in a circus backdrop during the Depression, was fantastic. The story itself, in my opinion, failed. It failed for several reasons. The characters appeared to be no more than pawns for moving the story forward--they never made it beyond the cardboard cliche stage. Even Jacob, whose latter years were more endearing to read, was always seen from afar. We never really got in his head at all. He was totally unbelievable. Kid drops out of vet school and joins the circus and acts like a thirteen year old with thirteen year old dialogue.Which brings me to the dialogue in this book. Horrible! I caught myself laughing out loud, in disbelief at the cheezy sentences. And at one point I thought if I read "uh" or "um" one more time I was going to scream and toss the book in the trash.All that aside, if it was meant to be just a gaudy quick genre-type read, then it wasn't marketed that way. No one ever rose above the surface level, and I simply didn't buy it--the narrator, the girl, the speech during that era.The ending, well, it was okay. It meshed with the rest of the book.And Jacob, he seemed terribly stupid and sophomoric to be a lifetime vet who'd attended Cornell, etc. He was also grouchy and not likable, except when he finally got real about himself growing old. In fact, I came across this passage in ch. 16, "...my brain is like a universe whose gases get thinner and thinner at the edges..." I thought YES!! This is what the story is really about: a man who once had keen senses and awareness, and traveled with a circus of all things, has come to the end of the "show" and he is facing it and fearing it simultaneously. That was the story Gruen could've warmed my heart with instead of the basic, shallow, ridiculous story in Water for Elephants.
5 I feel so lucky.  I read A Thousand Splendid Suns and now this! And I don't know which I liked more.There were a few holes in the storyline, but that's easily forgiven with her wonderful insight and delightful way with words.The present day Jacob gave me a good laugh.  The latter day Jacob made me sad.A book I will recommend to many.
4 "Water for Elephants", by Sara Gruen is a compelling read that is fast-paced and difficult to put down. At times the plot ran so quickly I found myself trying to search for a way to slow down the course of the story, but to no avail. The quick pace, however, does seem to fit and reaches a broader audience that seems to want rapid conclusion and catharsis. Reversions to the present time are a nice break from circus life and I believe are Gruen's most vivid and compelling depictions of the novel. Her illustration of life at the nursing home and perspective of the `patients' which Jacob catches a nurse stating when the correct political term is `residents' provides an accurate and refreshing look at assisted elderly homes. The circus lifestyle is portrayed truthfully, but is often overshadowed by the dynamics and major plot-line concerned with the Romantic relationship and triangle of Jacob, August, and Marlena.Gruen's, "Water for Elephants", is an easy read with relatively simple themes and motifs to comprehend including: animal cruelty, abusive relationships, circus life in the 30's, life during the Great Depression, coming of age, and older age/aging. It truly encapsulates a broad range of topics, but the overlaying plot and issues are prevalent and riveting, if a bit rushed.
5 Loved this book from start to finish! One of the best books I have read in quite some time!
5 The first book I've read on my kindle. Loved it, couldn't put it down. Definitely putting itbon my reread list!
5 I've been done reading this book for weeks now, and I still can't stop thinking about it. What a great find.
5 I loved this book and never wanted it to end. I've read it several times and each time I have enjoyed it even more.If you like a great book with adventure this is the one for you. It was absolutely amazing. Never a dull moment.
4 I'd probably never have picked up this book on my own, but it was chosen by a book club I've been coerced into joining.  It was an enjoyable book and very quick to read.  It's the story of a young man who accidently joins a mangy circus during the depression following a personal tragedy, and grows up in the process.  The background of the circus, particularly at this time in recent history, was vivid and fascinating, and it would be worth reading the book for that alone.
5 The story was captivating.  I never lost interest and could hardly put it down.  Although I never had any real interest in circus life or the shows in general I had been told it was an interesting book.  I found the story one to draw you right into the action and drama as it unfolded and the ending was just perfect.  When you finish the book it is with a smile and a good feeling.
4 Sara Gruen kept me reading.  Her circus research paid off. The characters and the circus life were credible.  What was not credible for me was the ending.  Idealistic yes, but not credible!  I also thought Gruen jammed a lot of information into the last couple of chapters.  I would have liked the storyline in the last few chapters to have been developed more in the previous chapters. The ending was disappointing for me.
5 The best contemporary novel I have read in a long time. The book was obviously well researched, the characters believable, and the setting was intriguing. I had this book a while before deciding to read it...and I'm glad I finally delved in. I wish Tobey Maguire were in the movie as Jacob. I can see him clearly in my minds eye....Oh well.  That's why books are better than movies, lol. You can cast whomever you want in the starring roles.
5 This fascinating story held my interest throughout. I did not want to put the book down, and I did not want it to end. At the same time I learned about working and living on the road with a circus, and how it was that people survived in rural America during the depression era. This was a truly remarkable human story that will be of interest to anyone, but especially to those who are interested in knowing more about those years in the US.
5 This book was a great read from beginning to end. It's hard to believe it was a novel as the history of the old circus life seemed all to real.. it will make you wonder why anyone would have ever said I'm going to run away and join the circus. A must read.The
5 This sat in my closet for a few years and I finally pulled it out. LOVE!!!!!!! I'm hoping my momtakes my advice and reads it herself
5 wonderful  story really enjoyed it, never looked at the circus the same way. very heart wrenchingand touching from the perspective of an outsider.
4 This is about a young man lost a down time of now family, no work but finds a Circus and gets on by watering the elephants, Not fitting in but still clinging on.  Fell in love with someone he could not have, finally wins the love, but looses frightening friendship with the crazy Ringmaster, and manager of the Circus.  We go through the hard times of the circus money not knowing what comes next and everyone is Leary of everyone.  At the End he learns he had a great life even as strange as it was. It was a good story about the hard time in that timeline and period.
5 Loved it. Had me hooked right from the beginning.  I'm not much of a circus person, but after reading this book it made me look up more books about that era of the circus life. I would highly recommend this book.
5 This book was a fun read.  There was a real twist at the end!  Loved it!
5 This book was nothing short of amazing. From the first page to the last, I did not want to put it down and when it ended, I was sad it was over. One of the things that makes the book so strong is the characters. from Jacob to August to "Rosie", there isn't a character that I did not feel moved by at one point or another.There is a dark side to the circus life and this book will show you things you never imagined that happen outside the Big Top. So, if you are going to buy one book this year, make it this one.
4 Although this is a work of fiction, author Sara Gruen did extensive research into the circus world during the Depression years.  She weaves some real-life incidents into the story of Jacob Jankowski, a beloved only son who is well on his way to becoming a veterinarian.  Shortly before he is due to graduate, his parents are killed in a car accident and he is left penniless.  He accidentally climbs on a circus train and his fate is then sealed.  Despite the fact that he has not finished his veterinary training, he is taken on as a circus vet.  The story is told by Jacob when he is 90 or 93 (he can't remember which) and is waiting for his family to come and take him to the cicus.  The book is interesting and creative, and is a very good read.
4 This story is a great picture of how our memories affect our present.  Jacob's story from 70 years ago informs his present, and brings us along for the ride.  The writing is beautiful, and his memories are as real to us as they are to him.  The message of loyalty and love shine through, and the details ring true, because of the thorough research.  Read it before seeing the movie, which looks good too.
5 This book is like no other I've ever read.  The setting, main characters, and plot are very interesting, letting you in on a lifestyle that most people would never get to experience.  I was totally intrigued from the very first page! A good book and very different.  I highly recommend it!
3 I am not quite sure how to rate this book.  It was a book club pick or I probably would not have read it.  I picked it up and put it down countless times before I could actually finish it.  I just could not get past the animal cruelty scenes.  Plus I am probably one of a minority of people that do not believe animals are here for our entertainment.  The fact that they were and still are, I am sure, in many third rate circuses/traveling zoos mistreated makes it all the more heartbreaking for me.  I had to give the book stars for the scenes involving Jacob in his old age and also for making you care about the characters.  I cried over Walter's fate.  The author also took pity on me and at least made me think some of the animals received a better fate and future.  I keeping thinking about Rex though...........
5 Fantastic story, it had me from beginning to end. Quite brutal in places. After reading this book I had to watch the movie which does not quite do it justice!
5 This was a wonderful story of how life is on the traveling circus and how lives were intertwined. The characters were great and easy to get into. I could not put it down.
4 For the past few months, I seem to have only been reading thought provoking books.  Some were illuminating, some were disturbing, some made me think about some of my most deeply held beliefs.  All in all - I am very glad I read these books, but as I started into "Water for Elephants", I realized that it had been quite a while since I read a book mainly to find out what happens at the end.My dad recommended this book - and I'm glad he did.  It's a wonderful story.  We experience, along with the main character Jacob, two parts of his life.  We travel through the Great Depression with him after he runs away and joins the circus (!) and we also see his current life as a patient/resident of an assisted living center.  Both times of his life were interesting to me.  I know next to nothing about circuses - yet I could almost smell the sawdust and hear the music as I made my way through this tale.Gruen has filled her story with the colorful characters one would expect from a circus troupe.  Beautiful acrobats, tortured clowns, animals with personalities almost as big as their trainers (and sometimes bigger!).  The details are excellently woven in, letting the reader see just enough without blocking one's imagination.  As the story builds towards the climax - I found myself doubting the ending I had been sure would take place.  Gruen creates just enough tension and suspense to keep the reader turning the pages at a brisk pace.I enjoyed, too, the scenes of Jacob in the present day.  All circus aspects aside, the book has some excellent insight into a man who feels as if he has outlived his life...without becoming a man who was finished with living.  His fears of losing his memories and mind, the despair he feels at the sameness of each day, and the appreciation he has for the few delights left in his day to day existence are beautifully crafted.  He may come across as a crotchety old man at times, but the reader, and a few characters whose eyes still see a man instead of an old man, know that not to be true."Water for Elephants" was a very enjoyable story.  It was an interesting and fun book - well researched and well-written.  While I didn't take many notes while reading, it was not for lack of content, but because I didn't want to miss a minute of the story.
3 Ok, I guess I should start off by saying this review contains SPOILERS!  I always like to warn people just in case, but in this situation I really don't think it's necessary, becuase the very first chapter sort of ruins the polt anyways.  In the very first chapter we are given a flash back to all the actual drama of the book and we are told that in the middle of a stampede in the menagerie of a circus... rosie the elephant kills her trainer August.  This did grab my attention and get me into the book.  But as I went along, I realized,  I think they gave away all the good stuff in the first couple pages!  I would much rather have not known that this incident was going to happen so early on!  Because really, this is the major turning point of the book.  THE event the whole story is leading up to.  So, really, there are no real surprises here.However, with that being said, I must admit that the story is very beautifully written and does a great job of creating to amazing beautiful mental pictures as you go.  It will make a very visually appealing movie.  And I liked the scenes in the nursing home where we really get to know Jacob the main charater.  And I loved the bond created bewteen all the circus people and the animals throughout the story.  I just felt that since they told the ending right away, they took all the mystery and suspense out of the book.  :(And on a final note... the very very ending, was cute in some ways, but it was incredibly unbelieveable, and kinda silly.  I won't ruin this for you by spilling the beans, I'll let you get a little surprise with this ending part  ;)
4 I was practically forced to read this book by my partner, who loved it and would not stop insisting that I had to read it. I offered lots of excuses as I put it off, but the truth is, I couldn't care less about the circus. When I finally gave in and started reading Water for Elephants, I realized on the first page that my apathy for the circus didn't matter.This was a touching, clever, totally unexpected story. It offers a window into how we treat the elderly, animals, and people of a different class, without ever being preachy. There were times when I feared it would become a depressing wallow, but that never happened. The unexpected upswing at the end was particularly satisfying. A great read.
5 This book has it all...devastation, adventure, friendship, humor, romance, plus it's beautifully written with a wonderful ending to boot, what's not to love!Jacob is extremely naive and young in his life, from a nice home with loving parents and a successful career in plain sight; what he learns on the train is a real jolt into the life of a nomad and as a reader you get to experience his growth into a man.  One women in my book club felt it was a tad graphic and even though I agree to a point I felt it was necessary for us to see Jacob experience a world of unspoken truths.  The life on a circus train exposes him to situations that he definitely wouldn't have seen as a neighborhood vet, including, sex, alcoholism, prostitution, starvation, survival... This is written from Jacob's perspective, a boy who's been snatched from a life of predictable comforts and is thrown into a nomadic life aboard a, virtually life-threatening, train to nowhere; of course it's going to be a bit graphic and detail emphasized!This book really transports you into an era long past and I could feel and smell the circus.  It also makes you want to run to the nearest retirement home and volunteer.  The characters were very well developed and believable as were the animals.  I didn't turn the last page with any disappointment; the story was complete and satisfying, no open endings, no need for a sequel.  Excellent, one I will read again.  The movie didn't hold a candle to the book.
5 I have read the author's other books and this has been my favorite. I love all of the history. Very easy and enjoyable read.
5 What a fun story, cleverly delivered as Jacob moves back in time to relive his story and returns to the present, his disgruntled present.  Some critics have complained about the ending, but I'd have to say they are Bah, humbug critics.  The ending is delightful, one of the best ever. This is a feel good story and it IS fiction, so the complainers, IMO, just don't understand Suspended disbelief.  The story is magical in its authentic setting and making you feel you are under the big top. It is sometimes shocking, sometimes painful, always compelling. Don't miss this one.  ...Karleene Morrow, author of Destinies, a novel.
5 While certainly Water for Elephants includes the harsh reality of what circus life was like during the depression, I found it more of a story of hope, love and survival. How desperation drives people to do tragic things to one another, yet just when you think all is lost, a surprising hero can save the day.As with any good story, the author must offer conflict and contrast, and as much as animal cruelty existed in the story, so did an intense love for animals that some of the characters had. In many ways this story was one of good vs. evil set in the unusual backdrop of the circus train.This is one of my new favorites.  I read it twice, about a year apart and I enjoyed it as much the second time.
5 I was surprised on how much I liked this book.  Once I started, I could not put it down.  Loved the story from the lead male characters perspective. The detail was so good, I could envision the Circus environment like I was there.  The story was both sad and funny and had several good supporting characters. I can definately see Reese Witherspoon in the movie as the female lead.  Great Reading!!
2 This book has been hyped up by many of my friends. I was excited when the price was lower because I wanted to read it. It took me weeks to finish because I wasn't interested. There was too much "jump" from one time period to another. I understand the Author's purpose, but I was truly disappointed.
4 I am picky. If I am not drawn in by the first few pages I stop reading. I lean towards a combination of mystery, murder and love and this book, though much different from my normal reads, kept me completely enthralled. I would highly recommend!
5 I wasn't sure that I would like this book but I felt the need to read it (as always) before I saw the movie. Wow. I really liked this book! And even though it's been weeks since I've read it: the story stills resonates and I still hate some of the characters and love some others. Very well written and well paced story.
4 First, the good:1. This is a fast-paced, easy read. It's easy to become engrossed in the description of circus life during the Depression era. It kept me reading and kept me interested.However:1. There were so many characters that are suddenly mentioned, without any introduction. This happens especially when Jacob joins the circus. I almost gave up trying to sort out who all these people were and believe it or not, a lot of them weren't mentioned more than a few times. Still, it was jarring trying to figure out who was important and who wasn't.2. As soon as Jacob sees Marlena, the beautiful equestrian performer, we know that they are going to be romantically involved. But when their romance does take off, there's no real build up. I didn't find myself caring about their romance because it wasn't something they fought for: they just happened to fall into bed together one day. Woohoo.3. Jacob at 23 has these epiphanies once in awhile about how he loves and wants to protect the animals at the circus because his father would have wanted him to and blah blah blah. But he simply doesn't. I found it difficult to care about him when he doesn't do anything to protect the animals he claims to care for.Overall, I enjoyed this book. There were some things that could definitely have been improved upon, but overall, it was an interesting and intriguing world to be pulled into.
5 I love this book because the characters are engaging and unique, the settings both mundane and fantastical and the ending perfect! I want to be Jacob J. when I get old(er).  Thank you for a marvelous book.
2 I just can't get past chapter 5.  I bought this based on all the reviews.  Sadly, I must move on.  I alsways feel guilty for not finishing a book.  Even time at the beach did not help.
4 A man in a nursing home relives his younger years as a vet for a circus. To this reader, not a very compelling premise, yet once I read the first paragraph I was instantly hooked. By the second chapter, I had grown so attached to the main character that I truly felt for the things that happened to him. The story is told in rich, vivid prose, capturing each character so well that they soon became my friends and enemies, depending on the character. This book addresses a wide range of human experiences in a tasteful manner in which this reader was left in a pensive, awe-struck mood contemplating far more important questions and ideas about human existence. It also needs to be noted that this book is extremely well researched and bases its story around actual happenings in Circus history.
4 Great storyline and colorful description. Just loved it. Found myself caring about the characters early on. Enjoyed the historical photographs and the detail about circus life in the 1930s fascinating.
5 A good read and most enjoyable.  The humor in this book about nursing homes is right on the mark. The characters are believable and likeable.  The story line is good and romantic.  The ending is open for discussion--but good.
3 Thank god for a happy ending - the entire book depressed me - the human and animal cruelty, the redlightings, the drinking of Sterno (!?), the depiction of the folks in the "Assisted Living" facility (sounded more like a nursing home than ALs I know).  I read it in a day and a half just to get through it for book club, but I wouldn't have finished it otherwise....  and I finish virtually every book I start.
5 This is the best book I've read in a very long time. I can't stop thinking about it. The characters are so real, so colorful. I am in love.
4 Great book, I like the way the story moved between the character as an old man and his younger days in the circus.  However, the formatting in this book is so screwy, I'd often have to reread sentences so I could work out what they were saying and that really pulled me out of the story.  There were multiple instances of missing spaces between words and paragraph breaks in the middle of a sentence.  Did the publisher even have someone proofread the ebook version?
5 After reading the book I rented the movie.  The movie held true to the book.  The developing love story between Man, Woman and elephant was totally engaging.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an exciting tale of circus life.  Job well done.  I look forward to reading more by this author
5 This was a very good book. It was interesting moved quickly. The characters were well developed and about mid book I worried the book would have a sad ending (I don't care for sad endings). But I was pleasantly surprised. I eloaned this book to my daughter who is enthralled with it as well.
4 And man in a nursing home tells his life story from the past and now in the present. Most of this read is sad but reality to this man. Even his present life seems sad.Talks about his life adventure as he embarks on a traveling circus company that travels by train.If you are sensitive to animal cruelty,  beware as some of this book has exposure to this matter.Had a great ending. It was written well.
4 This book was a quick read, and I thought it was very interesting. The reader gets a close up view of the inner workings of the circus, the performers, animal caretakers, etc, mixed in with a love story of sorts. However, even though the book was good, it was not great. It's not one I'd want to keep, or read again. The author introduced too many characters too quickly, and only after reading on for awhile do you sort them out. I didn't really come to love any of the characters enough to care much about what happened to them. The plot seemed weak, character development weak. I liked the HBO series Carnivale, and although this is also a circus book, it was slightly disappointing to me.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel. The author does a great job of holding the readers interest by flashing back and forward. I never felt a lull in the story.
5 I am truly enjoying the story and the characters.  There are certain parts of the book I felt the author could have left out and really added no benefit to the story.  The sexual content of them was too much for me.  But all in all worth the read.
5 Probably any tale set at a travelling circus is going to be wonderfully colorful, but this one surpassed my expectations. I was so engrossed in what was going to happen with all the characters, and just absolutely loved the whole thing.
5 I don't think this story could have been any better than it was. I read it front to back in one sitting. I just couldn't put it down! I don't read reviews before I read a book, I'll read anything I can get my hands on. When I got this book I flipped through it, and I didn't think I'd like it because of the pictures. But after the FIRST page I was hooked. I LOVED LOVED LOVED Jacob and Marlana...and HATED Uncle Al and August. I wanted to cry everytime Auggie went to the tent to lay it on Rosie. It made me sick. It's been a while since I read something so moving! A+++++++++
5 Read the book in two days. Pulls you in and keeps you wanting more from beginning  to end. Also, one of the best book endings I've ever encountered. Absolutely loved this book!
5 Definitely one of my favorite books I've read recently!  The historical accuracy and intriguing plot line had my attention from the first chapter.  MUST READ!!
5 Loved the story telling, wish I had read it BEFORE seeing the movie. Felt like I was traveling with them.
3 I have read this book and listen to it and I preferred the audio book, which surprised me. I felt you could follow the story much better by hearing the 2 different voices instead of reading text.
4 I bought this book because I ran out of things to read. I wandered around the store and noticed how much display this book was given to. I purchased it solely based on its popularity.I started reading it and had a bit of a hard time moving forward. English is not my native tongue and all the circus talk really made my head spin. I took a short break and finished an easy read and then resumed this book. I am glad I did.I felt very engaged after 1/3 of the book when most of the characters started to build and show their individual qualities. As the book went on, I felt I was also living in this circus train and witnessing all the activities.My heart definitely melted when they acquired Rosie, the elephant and at the same time, I started loathing the character August for abusing the elephant so much. In addition to that, the performer Walter/Kinko also transformed into this loving person that looked out after others.About half way through the book, I think almost all readers wanted nothing more than Jacob and Marlena being together and the death of August and Uncle Al. One thing I do believe a good author offers is the connection between the readers and the characters and I definitely felt that engagement with some of them and my heart ached at times as the story continued.I am not sure if I am a big fan of the Old Jacob. Not that it is bad but I really just did not quite get why it was important to keep his voice in. I did not see how old Jacob has contributed to the book and I think it could do without.Overall, I enjoyed the book so much and I was very happy to have resumed and finished it. It is a book that broadens your mind and showers you with all the circus knowledge. A fun and great read!
5 I couldn't put this down! what a great series! I read through it so quickly and really enjoyed the story behind it!
5 Sara Gruen's gorgeous new novel, 'Water For Elephants,' unfolds as a dual narrative, alternating between Jacob Jankowski's life as a nonagenarian, and his time spent working for a ragtag Depression-era circus as a young man. The plot is captivating (I missed two meals because I didn't want to put the book down) and Gruen's writing, as always, is transcendent. She deftly evokes a fascinating period in American history that deserves to be revisited, and her characters--human and animal alike--will stay with you long after you turn the last page.
5 This book was extremely well written and absolutely amazing!  I love the story and the author's vivid descriptions.  There were parts that angered me, parts that broke my heart, and parts that made me laugh out loud!  Very well done!
5 This book is one of the best I have read in a very long time. The author puts you in the depression era circus travels. The writing is so good you can almost smell the popcorn and peanuts. You experience the animals and the humans alike. I could not put it down and finished it in 2 days. Well worth your time!! I am sending it along to my family members.
5 I loved this book and especially liked the ending.  I couldn't wait to finish reading it so I could pass it on to others to enjoy. The narrative by the protaganist was so real you could feel and smell the scenes depicted as though it were you experiencing the events.  I highly recommend this book.
3 This book was an OK read--The circus setting & the Depression-Era settingwas a refreshing change from books set in modern times/places.Characters were portrayed as characters that everyone meets while trying to succeedat a first job.
3 We tried to listen to it in the car.  BUT our car was too noisey.  So we had to listen to it at home.  The voice could be clearer.
5 I came into this book not expecting much at all, and ended up excessively loving it! This is one of those stories where you think you've figure out exactly how everything is going to go . . . And then nothing turns out the way you thought it would.Books that have a frame for the story like Water for Elephants had will, if done well, really get me to know and love the characters. Having Jacob's narration of the circus events interrupted by `present day Jacob' was a nice little detail. I definitely felt sad for the ninety-something year old, feeling nearly helpless and lonely. As he feels he's losing control of his life, his mind slips back to the past, and through these lapses we're told the story.I never knew anything about how circuses traveled about in the past, and hearing about the cutthroat America during the Great Depression certainly brought an overpowering feel of reality to the story. Jobs were few and far between, and those that had them did anything they could to keep them. Describing the desperate times, the hobo jungles, and the pay cuts served to present a great representation of the time period.I loved hearing about the different circus acts, though I know that was but a miniscule part of the story. The tiny facts and funniest little things kept my interest and had me smiling. This book is definitely dark and depressing at moments. At others, it is brilliantly bright and full of hope. Any novel that can pull off both sides of the spectrum nearly flawlessly is excellent in my book.I give Water for Elephants 5/5 stars. It was fantastic, and I'll definitely have to check out the upcoming movie now! I really recommend it. I have a feeling it is one of those books I will never forget.
5 I loved this book, it was one that I couldn't put down. I would recommend this to anyone who has done time on their hands!
5 If everything this author writes is this enjoyable, all I can say is, if she writes them, I'll buy them!
5 This is truly a well written book. The author let's you clearly see a very frail old man, his present hospital-like surroundings including the nursing staff and other elderly people in this assisted living facility.The author is clever enough to break up the terrible animal and human cruelties and sadness of the early 1930's era, the circus itself and the indignities some humans endured by inserting enough humor and back flashes to keep the reader from getting very depressed.This is not a pretty story, but it certainly reminds me of the era, which I am old enough to remember, not from a circus life, but from the life of a very poor, homeless family.The author took me back to places I have not been in several decades. I can smell the circus animals, see the uppity "performers" as well as the horrible "tents", the freaks and the laborers who set up and take down the tents.  I can visualise from the words of Sara Gruen, the trains in which many circus people travelled. Oh, yes, believe it or not as a little child, but old enough to remember, this is a mode of travel I recall vividly.I have put Sara Gruen's other books on my Amazon wish list and if I don't receive them as gifts I will eventually buy them for myself.  Her written words come close to looking at old photograps in her novel "Water for Elephants".
5 Lovvveeee this book. The story is awesome! I cried soo many times. This book def tugs at your heart! ESP, for animal lovers!
5 I loved this book.  The author really wrote this book in a different way.  A 93 year old in a home in one chapter then the next it is about himself as a young man.  Then back to the nursing home and back to the young man's life.  I could not put the book down.  I hope I can find more books written as well as this one.
5 Wow. I hope that's not all I can say about this book, but that's where I'll start. Wow.Every time I hesitate to think I'll find a book that is captivating, entertaining, and that will keep my interest and keep me thinking about its characters long after the book is over, I somehow seem to find myself happily surprised. Water for Elephants was one of those books. It was really that good.I heard good things about it, always saw it on the shelves at bookstores, but it wasn't until recently that I decided to give it a chance. Why? A book about a circus in the depression/prohibition era is probably as far away from my "normal" reading zone as I can get.  But I'm telling you - it doesn't matter! Not one bit.Entertaining and engrossing from the very first chapter, I was taken away on this journey with the characters. Nothing short of fascinating, in ways I wouldn't have thought possible.  Part love story, part coming of age, this is at its roots, a story about life and the unexpected paths it may take. I really came to love the character of Jacob, and sympathize with his situation and his love for animals. It's been over a week since I've finished the novel, and I still think about the characters every day.  I really got caught up in their world which is something, I must say, is sometimes way too rare in the books I read. Many are good stories, but with Water for Elephants, I really felt like I was traveling along with them in their adventures. A pleasant surprise.Overall, I have already recommended to more than a few friends, and would encouragingly recommend it here. It may just be one of those precious few books that when you finish it, you stop and, at a loss for words, say - wow.
5 how could you not love this book, or the movie... they are both fantastic stories... and beautifully done... i loved everything about it...
5 This book hit every note for me.  Gruen had me the moment she introduced Jacob as a veterinarian and Marlena as a horsewoman.  Perfection!The adventures, the setting, the desperation of the animals, the workers and of the lovers all came together to make such a beautiful, memorable read for me. Sweet revenge and a perfect ending make this one of my top ten reads (and re-reads) time after time.  I've since recommended it to many people and it remains a favorite to this day.
4 Book has been extensively reviewed, with detailed plot descriptions, and also made into a movie.  It was an enjoyable read that captures the essence of the 30's beautifully.  The characters were compelling, and memorable, making their struggles something the reader gets on board for very quickly.  I do not wish to reveal any plot points, but I was left with a few unanswered questions with respect to the main character, and why his relationship with his children in his later years seemed so distant.
3 I had quite high expectations based on other reviews provided. Actually I didn't particularly enjoy this book. The writing style didn't quite gel for me and the characters weren't particularly believable.
5 I read this book last year and am sincerely hoping that the movie is able to sufficiently capture the adventure, romance, and poignancy.  I not only enjoyed the flashbacks to the days in the circus - I REALLY enjoyed the perspective of the character in a current day nursing home.  This book has it all and is written in a way that it easily became a movie in my mind as I read.  Many times books like this have sad endings but the ending to this story is excellent!  I highly recommend this book.
5 I love it when a friend hands you a book and says it's one of the best she's read and I can pass it on to everyone I know!  Hope you love it as much as I did.
5 I had this book on my to read list for some time, when I saw that the movie was coming out soon I decided I better get to reading this.  I listened to this as an audio book and it was very well done; they have two readers one for Jacob in his twenties and one for Jacob in his nineties.  It was a good read and I enjoyed learning about the circus.Jacob is ninety three and living in a retirement home, through his dreams and daydreams he relives a tumultuous time in his life in his twenties.  When Jacob is in his twenties he is getting ready to sit for his Veterinarian finals at Cornell University when he gets a call; his parents have been killed in a car accident.  Then when he gets home he finds out that the bank has seized his parents' house.  In a fit of grief and sorrow he abandons his exams and hops a train that just happens to be part of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  Through a series of circumstances he ends up working for them as their vet; taking care of the exotic animals in their menagerie.  In the process of all of this he falls in love with a beautiful performer named Marlena who has a brutally viscous husband, who also happens to be Jacob's boss.There were a number of things I liked about this book.  The story moves quickly and has a sense of mystery and doom about it as Jacob falls deeper into the seedy goings on in the circus and deeper in love with Marlena.  It is very engaging.It is clever how you see into Jacob's life in the present while he is in a nursing home.  These portions of the story really tug at your heart and give insight into an old man struggling to retain his sense of self in an environment where everything is sanitized and ordered.  These glimpses are bittersweet in contrast to the crazy life Jacob lived; obviously this man has lived and lived well and it is heartbreaking to watch him struggle with the descent into age that we are all faced with.The majority of the story is about Jacob's life in the circus.  Gruen doesn't shy away from the nitty gritty including sex, violence, language; as such this is definitely an adult read.  Issues such as animal cruelty, squalid living conditions for workers, and the Depression are woven throughout.  Making the story very believable and easy to relate to.All of the characters in this book are very human and engaging and have a lot of depth. Even the villainous characters (Al and August) have moments of graciousness and goodness.  While the main "good" characters do things that border on bad, if only through neglect.The only thing that really bothered me with this book is that I thought Jacob made too many bad decisions and too many mistakes.  I understood that he was young and hot-headed, but at the same time he is supposed to be very smart...and well...let's just say he doesn't spend much time thinking about his actions.  A lot of what happened he brought on himself and I think that this was inconsistent with the way he was presented as an upstanding citizen and character.The book ends well and should leave readers happy and smiling.  The story is expertly told and the look into the way a circus runs fascinating.  It would have been nice to have an afterward of Gruen talking about how accurately she represented the circus in this book.  Were all circuses like this?  Or was this one particularly bad?Overall this was a very engaging story, I enjoyed it a lot, and am happy that I read it.  The characters are fascinating, the glimpses into both life in the circus and life in a nursing home intriguing as well.  I loved how the book was set up with us seeing the elder Jacob's memories/story through his eyes.  Definitely a book to check out if you are at all interested in circuses or people living during the Depression Era.
3 This is not a great book. It suffers from a predictable plot, cardboard characters and formaldehyde dialogue, and its success is obviously due to the imprimatur of the Oracle Oprah (and you will notice that nearly all the positive reviews here are from the distaff side), but it does have one salient virtue. It gets all the facts right.I become enraged, when reading a novel, if I notice that the author was too lazy to research (look up) what he's writing about. In detective stories such errors are usually about guns; in other novels inaccuracies are often about cars or planes. But Ms. Gruen, to her everlasting credit, has all the arcane details of the bygone circus life perfectly accurate. Because of this, I'm eager to forgive the book's other shortcomings.Now, obviously Sara Gruen did not work in a circus in the 1930s. She has never worked in a circus. She obviously learned all the arcane details of circus lore from reading other, better books. One such book isCircus Paradeby the hobo writer Jim Tully.Circus Paradeis ten times the book that this one is, and the original story of the elephant who got revenge on his mean trainer can be found in it.
5 This was a fantastic story.  Jacob Jankowski is a 93 year old man.  When the circus pays a visit to the lot across from the Nursing Home he lives in, it takes him back to when he was employed by a circus during the depression.  And so the book alternates between today and the 1930's.  This book grabbed me from the beginning.  Especially since Jacob attended school at Cornell and caught the circus train on it's way to Utica.  Places I am very familiar with.  The fact that he is Polish is another plus.  This story is put together very well.  Gruen obviously did her research and I finish this book with some knowledge about Jamaica ginger paralysis, exotic animal behavior and of course, the circus.  It is definitely going on my personal list of "classics" and "1001 books to read before you die".
5 This was a great book!  I knew nothing about the circus and the life of its performers and workers.  Now I feel like I lived through it!  Sara's story was a page turner for sure.  Excellent!
5 I absolutly LOVED this book! The characters jump off the page and you are transported into another time, in another world that is the circus life.  Once I started this book I never wanted to put it down.  I can't wait to read Sara Gruen's other titles, she is obviously a very talented author.Take my word for it, you'll LOVE this book!
5 I don't know how I've missed this one---it is such a powerful, emotional read.  Make sure you have your Kleenex handy because Water for Elephants is a tear-jerker.The story is told in the first person with Jacob as the narrator.  The story switches from Jacob in his nineties in the nursing home to Jacob in his twenties during his circus days.  Sometimes alternating perspectives can get choppy but Sara Gruen gets the pacing just right.Water for Elephants is about a traveling circus, but it is mostly a love story---or at least it was for me.  Fans of historical fiction, or readers just wanting an engrossing story will love this one.Just One Gripe:It can get a little graphic at times.The Best Thing About This Book:I loved the ending.
5 I started reading this book because I had seen the movie and loved it. Everyone said the book was better. The book is better but I wish I had read it first. It was a page turner - I had trouble putting it down.
3 Part of me feels like this book had all the trappings of a steamy romance novel without all the sexy bits. It was certainly readable enough, but the love story between Jacob and Marlena was what kept the story going and for me, it just wasn't enough. I needed more feeling, more passion, more drama, and (if this was the angle the book was going to take) more sexy bits.Having recently readThe Night Circus, I like the angle of the dark side of the lives of traveling circus people, but it almost seemed like too much of a trope when Jacob ran away with the circus. Still, I suppose enough people must have done so back in the day for it to become a saying.I thought the book was good, but I was expecting something great given the book's popularity and I just don't feel like I found it with Water for Elephants. There is some good action and some romance but to me it felt like more of a romance novel without much sex than a contemporary literary classic. Even then, I love a happy ending and couldn't wait to read this one as I got closer and closer to the climax. Just could have used more climax...
5 This was a great book. Could not put it down. I wanted to read more adventures from the main character.
3 Ok,I hate giving an even average review for books, but for this one I am going to say it was a little below average. The ending was not good. PERIOD. Even if we as the reader were sopposed to interpret it as beleivable; it wasn't. Also, if we were made to make up our own interpreation about the ending it still doesnt sit weil.Also, there is alot of catching up. The female lead character spills her story at the end, but it's too much information without a sense of who she really is. Overall, the book was just ok. If the ending stopped a few pages before the end it would have been better. I also felt that besides the obvious differences; the movie and the book were both a little below average. Usually, the book is either profoundly better or ridiculously worse than the movie. I read the book twice and saw the movie once, and I rate them as follows:The book 3 starsThe movie 1 star (because it costed way more money).I am glad everyone loved the book though! Maybe it's just me?
5 I enjoyed the book much more than the movie (always do)! It was as touching as &#34;The Notebook&#34; for me.
4 At times the story can be sad but overall the resiliance of the main characters makes it a story you'll think about for a few days when you are done. You'll never see a circus the same way again.
5 This is a beautiful novel about the trials and tribulations of being on the road with the circus. The horrors that befall the working men as well as the animals are absolutely atrocious but it is written in a heartfelt and sympathetic way.
3 After the sudden death of his parents, veterinary student Jacob joins the circus, where he falls in love with the elephant Rosie and her rider Marlena. Both of his loves, though, are horrifically abused by August, the animal trainer. The setting of a circus during the Great Depression, and Gruen's obvious affection and knowledge of the period and setting, create an engaging book, but the plot and main characters leave much to be desired in terms of originality or interest. Though gritty and unflinching, particularly in its look at animal cruelty, the book's potential is wasted, sadly. Turns out to be pretty meh. Grade: C+
5 I was curious.  I knew there was a movie based on the book.  I had never seen that movie as I thought it looked cheesy.  So I took a chance on the book and was not disappointed!What a view into the circus culture!  Things the customers don't see and would never expect!  I've been dying to see the movie since and can't find it in Redbox and none of my friends own it.  And it's not On Demand!  I will see it at some point though.  I think now it will be worth it.
2 I had the opportunity to meet Sara Gruen recently. She came to Fort Collins because her German Shephard needed open heart surgery, and while she was in town, she held a discussion/book signing at a local bookstore. Something she said struck me as rather odd. She said that she wanted the old circus photographs included in her novel because she didn't feel her readers would believe what she had written without the pictures. I'm not sure why she would feel this way, because as many reviewers have noted, her descriptions of the circus where the strongest parts of this novel.This was a book that I wanted to like better, but after all was said and done, it didn't leave much of an impression, other than her extensive research. The story, particularly the love story, was cliched, and the entire plot is predictable. Additionally, some parts of the story don't seem plausible. *SPOILER* For example, why would Jacob walk away from an Ivy League degree, needing only to complete a final exam? Yes, his parents were killed, but he knows that they made great sacrifices for him to attend Cornell. And what are the odds that when he jumps onto a passing train in the middle of the night, it just happens to be a circus train?In addition to the predictable plot, it was hard to relate to any of thecliched characters. I think it says a lot when the most interesting character in the book is Rosie the elephant. Jacob displays little or no character growth. And the book has a typical "Hollywood" ending where the good guys get everything they want, even though they've had to sacrifice virtually nothing. And some of the dialogue in this book reads like a romance novel.That said, there are flashes of quality in this novel. The sections that take place inside the nursing home are well done, and in fact, old Jacob is a more interesting character than young Jacob.I just wish that the author had taken as much care in plotting her book and developing her characters as she did in doing her research.
5 Water for Elephants is a very fine book, well worth the read, for many reasons:1.  The book wonderfully captures place and time.  Set in the depression, it authentically  captures the spirit and feel of the era, including its description of the economics of the time, hobo life, the depression, etc.2.  It vibrantly and realistically describes life in the travelling circuses of the era, including the freaks and other performers, the pecking order between management, performers and workers, life on the train, stops for shows in the small communities, and vivid descriptions of the performances.3.  The characters have depth and breadth, and touch you with their humanity (which is sometimes kind and more often than not, evil--as humans can be).4.  The novel very effectively contrasts the protagonist's current situation in a nursing home with his recollections of the bulk of the novel's depression-era actions.5.  Without giving too much away, the novel very satisfyingly (if perhaps a bit unrealistically) concludes with a feel good ending--and who can resist a happy ending.In conclusion, this book is a decently written, plot driven, page turner, which tells a touching tale, set against a colorful background of time and place, populated by characters which are larger than life (yet realistic in thought and deed).  While the writing perhaps does not qualify it as "great literature," its easily the best of the ten or so books I have read over the past six months.Ken
5 Very good novel. I could not stop reading it. I was engaged at all times during the reading and loved every chapter of it. Easy to read.
5 Not your typical love story at all. I haven't read a book in some time and couldn't be happier that this was the book I chose.  Captivating, thought provoking, touching and just plain wonderful. Easy to pick back up and remember where you left off, if you can put it down.  I just loved it.
3 This book flashed between Jacob as an old man and Jacob as a young man just after his parents' death.  Despite his being utterly destroyed by his parents' death, he never really mentioned it again after he joined the circus.  That seemed odd to me.  And the roughness with which he was greeted when he joined would make most ivy league softies run for the hills, so that was odd, too.  I could never understand how he was finding comfort from his parents' death by being treated like crap and working like a dog with barely any water to drink or shower.I enjoyed the elderly Jacob much more, and was charmed by the ending.  I did not enjoy the lengthy descriptions of rolling up circus tents and beating of animals.  I know it happened, but it made me feel ill.  And the sexual descriptions?  I don't like them.  I'm not a prude and I certainly enjoy sex and all its wonders, but I'm sick of reading about it in every single book I touch.  Just once, can't we just leave the details of that out and let a tale stand on its own?I guess the ending made the book worthwhile, but I wouldn't recommend it as much as others have recommended it to me.
5 I loved this book! So well written. It has everything you want in a book! Don't miss this one.
4 This is a good book that keeps you interested through the whole thing. The characters are developed nicely and it has a great ending
5 One sign of a skilled novelist is the ability to write convincingly from the point of view of characters who share little in common with the author.  (I would liken this skill to that of a masterful actor capable of playing a wide range of movie roles.)In "Water For Elephants" Sara Gruen showcases this rare talent, telling a Depression-era circus tale from the perspective of a veterinarian named Jacob Jankowski (both in his twenties and flashing back from his nineties) in a convincing and captivating manner.  The contrast between the innocent young Jacob's foray into the rough-and-tumble world of a traveling circus and the old Jacob's cynical ruminations on life in a nursing home creates a "book end" effect that makes his story feel more real and meaningful.Gruen has also infused her novel with enough historical details to bring the sights, sounds and smells of the midway, menagerie and big top to life, without cramming in superfluous details that could have dragged on the story line.  The dialogue is sublime, especially the banter between the working men who handle the behind-the-scenes grunt work.  Her characterization is strong as well: I was moved by the star-crossed romance between Jacob and Marlena, repulsed by the evil of August and Uncle Al, and captivated by the antics of Rosie the elephant.All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience, most deserving of its long run on the best-seller list.
5 What can I say that hasn't been said? This is a great book, and at this writing is $4.17 for Kindle, which cannot be beat. If you're even thinking about buying it, go ahead and get it. You won't be disappointed.
5 This was a great story! I found myself unable to put it down, completely immersed in the characters. And the ending was everything I hoped it would be.
4 I enjoyed this book. It's not going to take great intelligence to get through (or offer much of a challenge), but it was an easy fun read.
4 This was a great, easy read. I'll read it again eventually. The author paints this story in such a way that I enjoyed the visions in my mind as each scene unfolded. The characters are grandly unique. Enjoy!
5 I read this book at a very busy time of my life, when I had only about haft of a month to finish my MS degree of Chemistry (something related to "water":) No regret at all about spending 1 day to finish reading! Love it, love the characters, love the elephant :)And, the book became an excellent bedtime story for my husband, who doesn't like (and doesn't have time) to read novels at all :)
4 On the recommendation of some co-workers, I read this book.  This was a great story about a traveling circus.  I probably read this in less than a week.  Everyone I know who has read it really enjoyed it.  The only thing I didn't like was the unbelievable ending.  Maybe I set my standards too high, but I just did not like it.
5 I purchased this as an audiobook.  My husband and I listened to it on our trip down to and back from Iowa over Christmas. This was his first audiobook ever.  (Actually, his first book for pleasure since he was in high school.) This was a fantastic story! We found ourselves discussing the characters and storyline as if they were real when we would stop for lunch, etc.  I typically sleep for most of the drive (thankfully I am the passenger) but this book kept me awake the entire drive.The storyline starts out with main character as an old man. Then switches to him as a young man and how he ends up working with a circus that travels by train from location to location.  The characters are introduced beautifully. Each character has a distinct voice in the audiobook. Even though the story moves from present time and back to the past throughout the story, there is no confusion as to what "time" the story is in.  We are still talking about this book every so often.Kimberly
5 I really enjoyed this book!  I bought it a while ago, but have had so many books to read, I'm so glad I finally got to it.  What a wonderful story and a fast read. Adding it to one of my favorites :-)
5 This is a real page turner.  I started it yesterday and I cant seem to put it down.  It shows you what it must have been like to be part of a traveling circus in the 20's.
5 After reading Water for Elephants, it was hard to pinpoint what made it so great. The honesty in the writing, the splashes of romance, or the fascinating events. Perhaps it was the inside view of circus life as it used to be. Whatever it was, I have to say Water for Elephants is, as the ring leader might put it: Spectacular!
5 Kimberly Bowling OH USA.then this is it... I never knew a story based around a circus would be so good. A read woth reading. Cant wait to see what eles the author comes out with.
5 I saw the movie and the book was great. You get such a better incite into the characters. I thoroughly enjoyed it
5 "Water for Elephants" is wonderful Depression-era circus history retold with a compelling story line. I was fascinated by this carefully researched, well-written look at the circus as a community with its own cultural norms, traditions, pecking order, and social bonds.A little-bit love story, a little-bit adventure,the underlying message is that individuals can overcome adversity if they are brave enough, or desperate enough, to take their lives into their own hands.This is the story of Jacob Jankowski, a Cornell vet student who loses everything in the Great Depression; parents, home, incipient career. Almost by accident he becomes a circus veterinarian. After a long and successful life, the elderly Jankowski escapes from a nursing home to once again join the Big Top.The author agiley shifts between Jacob's memories of circus life and his life in the nursing home. As Jacob's memories and present-day realities merge, the line between truth and fiction blurs. Perhaps Mr. Jankowski really did toddle off in his walker to be reabsorbed into the circus world; perhaps he died dreaming in his wheelchair.This is a lovely book; well-worth reading if you are interested in early twentieth-century history and/or the aging process.Kim BurdickStanton, Delaware
5 OK... this is the classic, "don't read a book by its cover".The title of this book and the cover picture caused me to leave it sitting on my bookshelf for almost a year (it was a gift). I finally picked it up because I had nothing left to read... and I really, really enjoyed it!93 year old Jacob is the narrator and he flashes back and forth from his current life, in a nursing home, to his past life as a member of a traveling circus during his early twenty's.There are two stories going on here: the story of his youth, which is a fascinating one, and the more subtle story of the passage of time and the process of aging on the human body, psyche, and relations.The stories of Jacob's youth as a circus "veterinarian" and his relationships with the other performers were not only interesting as stories, but historically educational and informational. It is all about life in the Circuses of the 1930's, the great depression, and prohibition. However, it is the secondary, more subtle, story of the aging process that I find haunting me still.
5 A great story wonderfully told!  This book had been on my list for months.... now I wonder why I took so long getting to it!
5 As with most books made into movies, this book is better. It provides thicker, more complex/developed characters, relationships and events. The writing style was perfect for the tone of the story and the storyline was fast-moving.
1 I've decided I just can't finish this book. The main character is a 23-year old male, but c'mon - I just don't appreciate some of the details the author is having him describe and they are totally unnecessary to the story. I've read almost nine chapters and decided I don't need any more images like the explicit strip scene, the details of a graphic "8-pager", and I certainly didn't need the picture of what the dwarf is doing alone on his cot while looking at the graphic magazine. It's a big disappointment because the story is actually interesting and I want to find out what happens but not badly enough to wade through the sludge. I don't think I've been this disappointed in a story since the ending of Angela's Ashes.
5 Best book I've read in a long while.  I enjoyed the the way the author move back and forth in time.
5 This book is written in two narratives: the past and the present. It is written with such elegance and grace, that each voice is like a piece of silk weaving in and out like a slice of humanity screaming to be heard.Jacob Jankouwski tells this unbelievable tale from a rest home at ninety or is it 93? And his memories are so lush and tragic that the reader will be transformed into his past along with him.Jacob enters the `circus life' by no desire of his own, but this world changes him beyond belief.  The reader will be changed, too, and utterly awakened by this world within a world.  The caste system at The Benzini Brother's Most Spectacular Show on Earth reminded me of working on the cruise ships----the engineers, waiters, and third country employees working below the ship (boiler room) and the showgirls, casino staff, and shop girls working and living above the ship--as if they were superior in some respect.Rosie, the elephant, becomes the voice for all animals, whom deserve respect and caring for.  She also becomes the voice for old folks, such as Jacob, who for some reason are tossed to the side because of old bones, old minds, and loss of memory.Oh, but Rosie has not lost her memory as the reader will see.  And the abusers will pay for their sins as we all do.Sara Gruen has created brilliant, memorable characters, people whom I fell in love with and cared deeply about.  For example, Walter, the dwarf, who was so hard and incredulous on the outside, but had a dog he adored like his own baby.  The characters are articulately developed, and one will even feel empathy for the hateful August."Water for Elephants" is a book about humanity:  how it can be dark and light at the same time, how people can change, how others do not, how survival is connected to love, and above all, how giving water to elephants is like giving water to the world.I dreaded turning the last page, exiting the circus and all of its peculiarities and delights.  This book will leave the reader thirsty for more and more and more.*** A must read for fiction freaks!
4 I read this book from cover to cover, and I'm glad I did.  But I thought it was very sad, because of the old man in the nursing home narrating the book, because of the animal abuse to the elephant and other species, and because of the spousal abuse to the elephant rider.  Oh, there were elements of humor, friendship, love, and happiness.  The ending was good as well as unexpected.  Still, if I had to describe this book in just one word, it would be "sad."
5 Loved this book...it was for our book club otherwiseI wouldn't have read it...and come to find it willbe a movie this year too which I'm also looking forward to...loaningthis one to my sister who's a brand new Kindle owner--I normally dont alwaysread a book this quickly....but this was so good I couldn't put it down andread it in a weekend!!
4 Easy reading and interesting story.  Never saw the movie but saw trailer and it seemed very interesting.  Will watch movie
5 I had already seen the movie and enjoyed the story. But the novel was very descriptive, to me that makes or breaks a book.
5 When I first started to read this book I thought I would never be able to stay interested in a "circus" book. I was sooo wrong. This is a book about circus life but it is so much more. I read it in a day. Once I got into it I couldn't put it down. Buy it....you won't be disappointed.
5 How do we see older people as burdens or a trove of interesting knowledge and life experience. Water for elephants brings these thoughts to the for front and makes you look deep into the values of life itself.
4 This book was great.  I liked it way more than the movie.  It is gripping and well written. Definitely would recommend it!
5 This is one of those reads that, when you are done, you cannot get out of your mind!  I have loaned my book out many times, always insisting I get it back.  The characters are endearing, and the story line is great!  I can't wait to see if this becomes a movie!  Whenever I have someone ask for recommendations for good reads, this is at the top of my list.
5 We are all going to be old one day and remember the times of our youth. This book takes you back to the time of a young man as he slaved his way for a traveling circus. It is all about trials, hardships, and love prevailing, of course. I could not stop reading this book and in the end could only imagine myself as the character wanting for a last taste of my youth.
5 This was an excellent story! Puts truth to the phrase, you never know where life will take you! I definitely want to visit the Ringling museum in Sarasota, fl. This book gives an insight to the circus that I never would have imagined. Great Story!
5 A beach read or a mental health day, I spent my day on the back balcony at the circus.  Just my childhood trips to the circus, this book makes want to run away with the circus.  Best book i have read in a long time.
5 Have you ever experienced an unexpected disaster, something that leaves you completely alone? Water for Elephants tells the story of life after tragedy, when Jacob Jankowski is accidentally thrust into a chaotic circus whirlwind. He discovers the truth about life on a circus for both the performers and workers but more importantly the circus animals. A veterinary major at Cornell university drop out, Jacob needed a break from the world that had plummeted toward him at a thousand miles an hour. Leaving him with not a cent, not a family member, and no certain future.This 5 star book opened the eyes of many across the world to the condition of a circus life in the early 1900's, and how this life could go spinning out of control at any given moment. Each page rich with love, hate, and jealousy, Sara Gruen creates a masterpiece of twists and turns aboard the `Flying Squadron' with the `Benzini Brothers most Spectacular Show on Earth'. This book shows the greed and hunger for money and wealth and the harsh conditions of the Great Depression from front to back. Her writing leaves you hanging on every word, and her distinct characters introduced throughout the story never expose their comfortable selves among the dishonest businesses of the circus. Definitely a 5 star novel, I recommend this book to both teenagers and adults as a MUST read book, Water for Elephants truly makes a difference.-kd
5 I know there are hundreds of reviews for this book, but I liked it so much, I just had to add mine. I usually read a book before seeing the movie. I fing that the book is generally better than the movie. This book was amazing. I felt like I was living in a real circus. I am also a nurse, so can identify with the main character in a nursing home. Nursing home people are so very lonely. anyway, this is a real story, like the ones you were told when you were young. It took me back and made me feel like I was truely there. You have to read it. Maybe I'll see the movie now.barbara
5 This is a wonderful story. I never thought I would enjoy a novel about life in a circus so when my friend recommended this book I was very sceptical. Even the title seemed a little strange. However I loved every page.  Go on. Read it. It's great.
4 I saw the movie so I had to read the book and the movie is pretty accurate with the book pretty detailed into the circus life I liked it alot and would probably read it again
5 Sara Gruen's gorgeous new novel, WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, unfolds as a dual narrative, alternating between Jacob Jankowski's life as a nonagenarian, and his time spent working for a ragtag Depression-era circus as a young man. The plot is captivating (I missed two meals because I didn't want to put the book down) and Gruen's writing, as always, is transcendent. She deftly evokes a fascinating period in American history that deserves to be revisited, and her characters--human and animal alike--will stay with you long after you turn the last page.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  Couldn't put it down. This was one of the quickest reads I've had in a long time.  Well written and paced with alot of drama and humor that keeps you interested in the book.I could tell that this was written by an author that knows what she is doing and gives you just what you need to keep this book in hand.  Well done.
5 I absolutely enjoyed this book from beginning to end!  A great story with memorable characters blended with true history. Highly recommend!
3 Despite haunting cover art and a great title, despite obvious research and well thought out prose, and despite the fact that this book is the darling of the Independent Booksellers Association, I felt let down.  Part of the problem was that I expected a lot and had held this book on my shelf, until I could really savor it.  It does start out strong, and Gruen keeps her time periods well separated.  But the characters, especially the narrator, feel stock and unfinished and merely devices on which to hang the proceeds of research.  Because of the plusses of the book enumerated in the opening sentence of my review, I give 3 stars, but for the back story, it would be fewer.
5 I was looking for something different to read instead of my usual style of book and found this to be a great decision! The story was capturing and really gave you some interesting insights into the original traveling circus.
5 I knew nothing of this story before I read this book. I haven't seen the movie so I went into this completely unbiased. It was Great !!!  The storyline and the details of this book are incredible.  Even though the story gets very sad and hopeless at times it is a wonderful book.  A must read !!!!!
4 Better than the movie with all the extra context. I enjoyed this book as an easy fluff read. It wasn't something I couldn't put down, but was a good book.
5 I have to admit I was a bit skeptical of this book. "A book about a circus? How good could that really be?" I thought. It took awhile for me to get into it too. It wasn't that the beginning was boring or anything, it just took me a little while to get into the plot of the story. After I did though, I couldn't put it down. I lost sleep over the need to finish this book. Some parts I found surprisingly funny. It was an overall, all around good book.
5 As usual, the book is so much better than the movie. A great novel, about relationships and finding who you are.
4 What a terrific read!  It personally took me a few chapters to get into the book, seemed slow in parts but the story line made up for it.  My sisters ranted and raved about this book when it first hit the scene in 2006 I believe and I just read it-- and it was worth the read.  The depth and substance of the book was what kept me interested and invested in the characters.*Taken from another reviewer because it's said so well and I believe the same thing of the book: "Water for Elephants is a great book for a summer read.  It's obvious that the author did her research into the time period (post-Depression America), and the subject matter (traveling circuses).  According to the author's note at the end of the book, many of the compelling anecdotes in the story were based upon real events, culled from the diaries and personal histories of old-time circus performers.  As a result, Water for Elephants is a novel that boasts the rare combination of being both entertaining and informative."
5 I'd been hearing a lot of rave reviews of this book in the writer's groups that I'm in (ALL rave reviews, as a matter of fact) and when I heard that the movie was due out soon, I purchased the e-book now so that I could compare the book to the movie. There are so many great things about this book, when you put it all together, it was just one of the best books I've ever read.The point of view for Water for Elephants is unique. Jacob, the main character, comes to us first as a 90 (or is it 93?) year old man who is living in a seniors home. Most of the story is Jacob recalling his life with the circus, with short trips back to his here-and-now. I felt that I came to know all of Jacob. From his beginning, losing his parents in an accident, to his experience with the circus and his true love, to his last days feeling trapped in a body and mind that he wasn't free to control himself any longer.With the story being set in the 1930's and in the Depression, the book was even more interesting to read about days in that era. At the end of the book, the author describes all of her research that she's done for her book. It's obvious by how thoroughly and well written Water for Elephants is.I highly, HIGHLY recommend this book!!!
4 Water For Elephants was just what I wanted in a book right now: an easy read, fun, romantic, with a unique setting. Sara Gruen's research into the life of long forgotten train circuses and America in the 1930s was obviously extensive and the way she used her knowledge in the writing of the book was loving and playful and made me want to learn more about it. There were a few things that I looked up, curious to know if they were the author's invention or actual historical facts that she incorporated into her story. For example, I had never heard of "Jake Leg" before and commend her for revealing in the context of her book parts of American history that most people must be unfamiliar with. The characters were well drawn and the fictional Circus she created was completely believable. I loved the photographs that accompanied each chapter which added to the believablity of her story. I would recommend this book to anyone looking to immerse themselves in a good old fashioned yarn filled with romance and even a little danger.
3 There were many good qualities in "Water for Elephants".It starts off with a very action-packed prologue.Then, suddenly you're witnessing a confused, aging old man who is being shuffled around in a nursing home- losing his memory and therefore also his mind."Water for Elephants" then switches between the old man, Jacob's, life versus the younger version of Jacob when he was in his early twenties- during probably the most important period of his life, ever.Then you are brought back to the action-packed prologue (except this time when reading it, you get the back story leading up to the event).In his 20s, Jacob was a vet for traveling circus for three months.  Obviously traveling with the circus is going to make for some really interesting stories.There are many details throughout the book that I didn't think were nearly as bad as others have made them out to be in these other reviews on Amazon.-The sexual content really wasn't that explicit.  There were maybe two sex scenes and they really weren't that bad.  If you want explicit sex in the middle of a fiction story (without being considered erotic fiction) read John Irving's "The World According to Garp" and/or "A Prayer for Owen Meany" and/or "The Fourth Hand" and/or "The 158-Pound Marriage".  All very good books that have way more detailed sex scenes that may or may not make you squeamish.  "Water for Elephants" barely grazed the surface of reproductive organs and whatnot.  So, if you're worried about that, don't be.-The animal cruelty also was not that bad.  Yes, it is written that someone would walk off and you could hear the animal cry out, but... other than that- it wasn't detracting from the entire story.  And not only that, but, I'm sure things like that really happen on the road.  There are definitely people who are capable of doing such things.  If you watch any show on "Animal Planet" or watch any real animal documentaries on late night television, you'll see that things are much worse.  So, if you're leery of the cruelty content, don't be.  It is also grazed over.There are many real elements- as far as I can tell- and whether or not the research was done before writing the novel, I think the descriptions are pretty believable.The only characters that really stood out were Walter and (in the beginning) Camel.  Jacob was a very strong narrator, but I didn't care for his burst of love for Marlena (a married performer).The back story behind Marlena and August's marriage was important, but it was summed up in about two paragraphs.The story behind Uncle Al's creation of the circus was interesting, but we barely meet Uncle Al.  And both August and Uncle Al seem to be bi-polar, which was annoying and unnecessary.  It is okay for there to be "normal" performers.  I don't think it was needed to move the story along or to qualify their actions.Most of the characters are added as bodies, but none have interesting or "deep" back stories.  To make it easier to remember their names and who they are (as the names are mentioned often), it would have been better for me to know more about these guys so that they really stick out in my mind as real people.There was nothing memorable about Camel by the end either- he lost his appeal about halfway through the book.Walter was interesting and probably my favorite character.Marlena was a bother.  I didn't get the whole tragedy of her marriage to August and felt that his temper was added in as only an excuse to make her want to be with Jacob.  The tangled love story wasn't even as interesting (to me) as the whole circus thing:  Redlighting and setting up the stage, and canceled wages, and the whole life of a circus performer.By the middle of the book, people started to become "missing" and/or dead, but I didn't care about those characters anyway- so, it seemed like those events were added just to make "Water for Elephants" interesting as a whole.This is my first Sara Gruen book, but it felt like "Water for Elephants" was a first novel for her too- though it was written well, the plot kind of fell flat by the middle of the story.  It was entertaining enough to finish, but I probably won't be recommending it.  I may try her again, in the future, but... I won't be jumping to it.
3 I loved this story line but because of the few sexual instance, I will not recommend to my friends or my teenage children. It was not necessary to be explicit to be effective. I loved the elderly community and how the novel flashbacks between present day and depression era.  I have grandparents this age and it was true to life in many ways.
4 Loved it! Absolutely loved it! The story was sweet, complicated and funny at times and it didn't leave me hanging. The story was completed and I love that! So many books leave you without finishing what was started and I liked that this one didn't. You find out exactly where the characters end up. I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because I could've done without the nursing home flashbacks, and I felt that the elderly Jacob's personality didn't match the younger Jacob's personality. At times i wished the whole book was set in the circus days, but then I feel like the reader wouldn't have gotten the sense of closer that comes with knowing where the character ends up in life.Overall, a wonderful story! I highly recommend it, and hope the movie doesn't ruin it.
5 Best book I've read in a while!!! A must read!!! Buy it! Trust me! It's fantastic!!!!! The only disappointment was that I finished it so fast (couldn't put it down), now, what will I read?? ;)
5 This book was soooooo good I cannot even put it into words without spoiling it for you!!! You will not be disappointed! I read this book in 2 days, when I wasn't reading it thats all I could think about! I HIGHLY suggest this book to anyone looking for a book with an EXCELLENT plot!!!!!
4 Ninety-year old Jacob lives in a nursing home where he spends most days parked in the hallway, waiting for Sundays when a visitor comes.  He's excited because a traveling circus has set up next door and he can't wait to go.  He flashes back to his youth during the Depression, when he was penniless and joined a third-rate circus as an almost-qualified vet.  There, he fell in love with Marlena, the beautiful star horsewoman.  Unfortunately, his boss was her brutish husband.I absolutely loved this book.  It contrasts the misery of being old and helpless with the non-stop action of life "on the show," though that certainly had its share of misery, too.  The pathetic circus Jacob joined was full of lively characters, some kindly, others cruel, and Jacob was forced to grow from naive youth to courageous man.  There were many pages that reduced me to sobs, especially those detailing the agonizing despair of some nursing home residents and some instances of animal cruelty at the circus.I would have given this book five stars, but I didn't like that it was written in the first person (which immediately takes away some suspense as to the future of the narrator), and it was written entirely in the present tense which struck me as awkward.  The story itself is engaging, exciting, touching, and rewarding.  Highly recommended.
5 What a GREAT book.  Never saw the movie until after and I am glad of that.  The book was amazing!!!
4 Another book that kept me up into way too late each night.  I would have loved to read more historical info behind the circus and its hype in the 1920s and 30s.  This was an amazing book and I loved how it was told from present day in the eyes of someone who had lived it.
5 Once I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down! Grabs you from the first page, and doesn't let go! A fast-moving read with lots of action, and no filler. It has love, romance, mystery, murder, animals and history. All while riding a circus train during the depression in 1931. Cutting deftly back and forth from the eyes of an elderly man residing in a nursing home, to the days he spent traveling with the train circuses in the 1930's, this story is gritty, realistic, fascinating and highly entertaining. You won't be disappointed.
4 As I usually do I read the book first and then saw the movie. Both were great but like all the movie changed some things. Both were good but sometimes I just wish they wouldn't change the movie.
5 This took me to a different time and place than I've known before.  I felt like I was there.  The stress of the hard work, living conditions, lack of money and food, social hierachy, hidden relationships, and an ill schizophrenic fueled a desire for resolution.  That's what good books do.
5 Did not care for the animal cruelty, other than that it was a sensual story with good characters.  I hate the circus but really enjoyed this book!  It starts off slow so give it some time.  I really enjoyed the perspectives between the narrator as a young and old man. I read it in 2 days.
5 This is the first book I have read for a while that I read within days. I loved the end and how it flowed.
5 Please read the book; ignore the movie. The book tells an amazing love story!! Take a few hours to learn about human and animal bonds
5 I had first seen the movie and enjoyed it tremendously. Knowing that the books are far better than the movie, I read the book. I enjoyed the depth of the main character, Jacob, and the way the author interspersed his recollection of his circus days with the hassle of a nursing home. I was cheering his escape all along! A wonderful character, a great story.
2 It wasn't obviously my type of book. Maybe it was because I had such a high expectation? The best part of the book was the author's note at the end. I enjoyed reading that.
5 Water for Elephants should not be missed! It is a beautifully written story with a lot of heart and soul.  The prologue will completely captivate you and you will be hooked from page one!The story begins with a 90 year old, who also could be 93, he doesn't actually remember how old he is, named Jacob Jankowski. Jacob is your typical old man. He's seen too much in his life to give a crap what people say and think. From the first line Jacob spoke, I knew I loved him. He was sarcastic and funny, but also sad and lonely. His wife died a few years before, and his children and grandchildren only visit him in the nursing home for a few hours on Sunday. All Jacob has left are his memories of working for a circus when he was 23 years old (Rob Pattinson played young Jacob in the movie and it was wonderful having to picture him as Jacob. It was a beautiful sight!).At 23, Jacob is about to graduate veterinary school and go on to work for his father caring for animals. When his parents die in a car accident, he learns that his parents left him with no money and the bank repossessed their home (it takes place during the depression, and the Jankowski's were struggling along with everyone else). Jacob, having no where to turn, jumps unto a moving train and in this moment his life will change forever.Water for Elephants has an amazing cast of characters that all bring something to the story. Jacob meets the beautiful, Marlena, her charming, but sadistic husband, August, as well as many others that all shape Jacob's life one way or another. Even the animals play a huge role in his life!I think my favorite part of this story was the last few pages. Not because it was over, but everything came together so beautifully. We last see Jacob as his 90 or 93 year old self, and you will not be disappointed on how his life will turn out.Water for Elephants is a must read! I just hope the movie will do this amazing book justice!
5 I've noticed that some have said they wanted to like this book due to the high praise others here have given it. I will try not to gush. But honestly, this is one of THE best books I have EVER read.From the beginning to the magnificent and most satisfying end, I was entirely delighted. Not every page was perfection I will admit but my annoyance was due to my own impatience about wanting to get back to a certain character rather than learning a bit more about another.It is quite clear from the moment you begin that the author did some seriously extensive research about the Depression era in general and circus life specifically.The way the author weaves the story between present day and older Jacob (at 90 or 93, he can't quite remember) and the flashbacks to the past (when Jacob was in his 20's) are fantastic. She handles aging and its inherent frustrations quite well, and Jacob is funny, endearing, and intensely likable.I enjoyed this novel so much, I immediately took it to my parent's and insisted they read it. Usually they stick to Nelson DeMille and Janet Evanovich novels (whom I also enjoy) so I knew this would be a little outside their comfort zone, but they humored me and read it. They both loved it! My father was as impressed as I at the ending, the satisfaction of it.They both commented that some of the nursing home scenes were depressing; Jacob discussing his failing memory or lack of motor skills. But I say again, the ending completely makes up for anything depressing in the home, at least for my family!Truly an amazing novel and I daresay, should be on the list of best books for the 21st century.  I read this book straight through, without stopping to sleep.Just an FYI, I actually HATE circuses. I find them tedious and beyond boring. NOT my sort of thing at all. Ugh. This book transcends all that.
3 In recent years, publishers have put out a number of collections of early twentieth century circus photographs.  The photographs are intensely interesting, revealing the grime, brutality and absurdity underneath the surface glamour of the traveling circuses of that era.Gruen was inspired by the photographs to write this novel.  Gruen thoroughly researched her subject matter, collecting scores of anecdotes that revealed the brutality and desperation of that world.  She weaved the anecdotes together with a love story worthy of a three-hanky weepie from the 1930s. The combination of grit and sweetness works only to a point, but the inherently interesting nature of the subject matter managed to hold my interest to the end.To me, however, Gruen never managed to transcend her source material.  The primary problem was the narrator's voice.  Although the book was sprinkled with circus-specific vocabularly of that era, Gruen utterly fails to capture the rhythm or syntax of the time or milieu. Gruen's language felt inappropriately contemporary, which undermined the overall credibility of the story.  The subject matter cried out for a writer with an ear for the street; I kept thinking about what Damon Runyon or Ring Lardner could have done with this material.The other major problem was that Gruen over-anthropomophized and over-romanticized the animals in the story.  Gruen could have honored the animals' intelligence -- and decried the brutality of their treatment -- without veering into fantasy.In the end, while I wasn't sorry I read the book, I would have preferred to read a non-fiction account of life in the Depression-era circus from a first hand source rather than this watered down trifle.
5 I bought this book because I wanted to see the movie.  I opened it and the first few pages compelled me to download it immediately.  I have been reading it through the new year and hate putting it down!  AWESOME book, it has everything you'd think went &#34;behind the scenes&#34; in the 30s in a circus...  :)Plus the Jacob J character at 90 or 25 is an amazing write... being a writer, I can say that the character had me at the visual in the first few pages!
5 A different story from a different life. The characters seemed real. I was able to connect with all of them
5 I saw both the movie and the book and I liked the book better.  The hype is worth the read and I would read the book again.  This was an easy and entertaining read.
4 This book was enchanting.  Immediately you become under it's spell from the first words. The mystery, history, action, and love stories of the circus all wrapped up in one.The story is about Jacob Jankowski, the circus vet.  Under tragic circumstances, he joins a second rated circus and becomes entangled into all their lives, whether he wants to or not.  Bouncing between his current status, which is in a nursing home at the age of 93 or 99 (he's not sure) and his circus life, there is a mystery deep in the heart of it.
4 I actually wanted to give this book a 4.5 because it was more than your average "I like it" 4, but not quite the brain-exploding-spectacular 5. It was close, though. When I started reading, I wasn't sure if I'd like it; the story started slowly and felt disjointed at times. By the time I was about half-way through, however, I was flying through the pages, sneaking off to read every moment I could spare. I even read in the middle of the work day! Crazy. But it was that good. The circus culture of the early 1900s always intrigues me, particularly where it relates to animals. Gruen treated the topic with affection and accuracy, both of which she deftly imparts to the reader. I love Rosie the Elephant. A word to the wise: this novel was fairly gritty both for violence and sex, so not for YA readers.
5 I found this book while perusing Amazon.com.  It is rare for me to find a book that is so entertaining but this one was.  I have never read any of the other books by this author, but she is excellent.  The book takes you into the time of the depression and you feel, smell and experience everything that the charachter is feeling.  The main charachter is in his nineties now, but we get to travel back in time through him, to this time in U.S. history and experience how a traveling circus worked back then.  It is such a richly written story, you will not want to put it down.  The desperation of the times, the way people lived, their expectations, their feelings, etc. are all here.  I have recommended this book to multiple friends, which I rarely do.  You will not be disappointed with this story.  There are no low points that drag.  It's a green light read from start to finish.  There is an authors note at the end, and she explains how she came up with the idea and her research to write this book depicting this time period and the circus era.  Although it is fiction, she got the facts first and melded it into this novel.  Very good indeed.
5 Water for Elephants has all the makings for an entertaining read: tragedy, humor, romance, affairs.  I put this aside for awhile, trying to avoid all of the hype this book has received, but I am definitely glad I finally picked it up.Told from the point of view of his 93-year old self as he relives his life through his dreams, Jacob, a then-student about to finish gain his veterinary degree at the prestigious ivy league, Cornell, is abruptly summoned home to identify the bodies of his parents, who have tragically died in a car accident.  Left with no money, no practice, and no home, he starts to walk, unsure of where his once bright future now lies.  He stumbles upon the train of the Benzini Brothers circus.  The show's ringmaster, Uncle Al, whose ultimate goal is to "one-up" the more prominent Ringling circus, takes Jacob on as a vet to the animals in the show (because of course, if Ringling has a vet, he needs one too).Life on a circus train, however isn't all it's cracked up to be, and the circus and country has fallen on hard times & the working men find that more and more of their co-workers have been redlighted (tossed off the train in the dead of night) in order to cut costs.  With being redlighted as a real possibility, workers have to do their part to earn their place on the train and work hard not to make the wrong people angry, often without pay.As Jacob adjusts to life as part of a circus, he finds foes, friends who become family, and of course the love interests of the married star of the show! A tangled mess of jealous, mental illnesses, and the struggle to simply survive unfolds as the memories of his life come back to the 93-year old man in the nursing home.Definitely one of the best books I've read of all time, with 100% ability to become one of the classics that children will one day read in their English classes.  If you're looking for a book to transport you back in time, with the excitement that life on a circus trail brings, this is definitely a book for you to pick up.
5 This is one of those books that will stay with me for a long time.  It tells a good story (2 actually), it keeps the reader interested and it has a lovely ending.
5 I loved this book.  I could not put it down, because I was in such suspense about what would happen next.  I particularly love the storyline of the character as an old man in a nursing home - having worked in nursing homes, the descriptions are spot on.  I laughed out loud at his antics, and cried when characters I had grown to love were lost to tragedy.  I have never read a book where an elephant is a main character and pivotal to the story.  All I can say is "WOW."
1 I could not finish this book. It might have been interesting were it not for the terrible language, the graphic and totally disgusting sex scenes, and the cruelty to animals... ugh! I hated it!!! I still have the scene of the masturbating dwarf etched in my mind, and I read the book over a year ago!
3 I was excited to read this book because so many people loved it. I wanted to love it, I really did, but something just fell flat. The story was good, although I found the flashing back and forth distracting, and Sara Gruen obviously did copious amounts of research, but I just couldn't get excited about it.The character of Marlena could have been a really interesting and multi-layered person, but instead she is really only presented as a delicate flower who loves animals, married a psychopath, and sometimes displays teenage acts of defiance. Why did Jacob love her so much? There must have been more to her than that, but the reader is never let in on that secret. It's even more odd because the author is a woman. They had strong female personalities in the 1930s, I'm sure of it.As for Jacob, I thought that he displayed a lot of the conflict and inner questioning that you like to see in a lead character and his development as he gets to know the people that work for the circus was enjoyable. His relationship with the animals was obviously meant to heal him after the death of his parents, but again, I felt like that connection was rushed and then brushed aside. His relationship with Rosie, the gentle and abused Polish speaking (well, Polish understanding) elephant, was an excellent metaphor for his own gentle nature and his inability to stand up for himself and break free. Of course, in the end, everyone is free thanks to Rosie and we get the happy ending.I did not hate the book at all, but I wanted more from it. I think if the author had been allowed to write about 100 pages more, it could have been a great novel instead of just ok. The descriptions of the 1930s era circus and the care she took in researching every detail made the book very interesting. It's certainly worth a read.
2 Given all of the five-star reviews and the hype surrounding this book, I simply had to review.The good:  The overall setting and tone of the book were spot on. I really felt the genuine desperation of the Prohibition and the Depression.  The 1920s/30s traveling circus was interesting and well-researched.  Also the passages in which Jacob is 90 or 93 years old were beautifully written and very believable.The not-so-good:  The author often devoted long passages to the mundane and then just jumped over the parts of the story that a reader wants to spend time on (such as key dialogue between the main characters which would provide the reader with their back stories and develop a genuine love story)...which brings me to:The bad:  the characters are, for the most part, one-dimensional and the character dynamics and relationships are unrealized and unbelievable.  At its core, this is a romance and yet I never understood how and why the two characters fell in love.  They meet and next thing I know, they are in love.
4 I saw this book in the bookstore and it sounded very interesting so I got it out of the library. I wasn't disappointed. It was very easy to read and flowed nicely. Very interesting and quirky characters which I liked. Rosie the elephant was a great character. I agree with one of the other reviewers who compared the book to Sophies Choice. I thought the same thing when we meet the ringmaster. I really enjoyed the book but I was disappointed that there were a couple of parts that were unnecessarily crude (as opposed to necessarily crude?). It's like the female writer of the book had to prove that she could be as crude as any man. Other than that, it was one of my favourite books this year.
4 I loved the story but disliked how explicit it was in places. Call me old fashioned, but not to my taste, especially in the printed word. If that does not bother you, you will love the book.
5 This book was fantastic.  I could hardly put it down.  No, it wasn't terribly deep, but it was a great lighter read.
4 I listened to Water for Elephants as an audiobook.  The portrayal of old man Jacob by John Randolph Jones was spot on.  The enactment of the young Jacob by David LeDoux was good, but a little bit monotonous in tone.  He did do a good job on the other characters' voices, making them sound different from Jacob.  The book was well-written, with excellent characters who all had distinct personalities, and dialogue that rang true.  I bought the depression era plight of a young veterinary student doubly shocked at losing his parents and then their home.  This made a credible segue to his becoming the veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers circus.  Ms. Gruen does a believable portrayal of the Depression era, the working class, and the animals in the menagerie.  The story flows well, but is a bit melodramatic to my taste, in spots.  The love story between Jacob and Marlena works, but is a little long in development.  At first I did not see the relevance of the old Jacob interludes in the story, but they did lead to a sweet and appropriate ending to the book.I have one issue which maybe someone could answer.  I don't understand the relationship of the prologue to the rest of the book.  The text of the prologue duplicates the climactic event of the book itself, yet has a completely different outcome, and one that contradicts what happened "in real life".  I don't understand why there should be such a contradiction, and it wasn't explained by something like "and then I woke up from the dream".  Instead, the prologue merely ends with "in 70 years I never told a single soul" or something like this.  So why do we have a difference of fact between two parts of the book?  It is jarring and strange.  I also note that in the movie, the character, Uncle Al, was deleted when the screenplay was written.
3 I was compelled to finish the book and found the circus hx interesting.The story itself felt very Nicholas Sparks-like.So if you like his work, I think you'd like this book. The protagonist character didn't seem real...he was too good, too kind, too selfless. There were no real surprises about how the plot would unfold. But I'm glad I read it and it was a good escape.
4 I found  the subject  matter of circus trains very interesting. Along with the difficult and dangerous life the performers and workers had.
5 This was a book that I truly did not think I'd like. Not a big fan of circuses, I just didn't think it would interest me. Boy, was I ever wrong! This book thrust me into its story from the very first page, and left me wanting more. The ending is wonderful - perfect and satisfying. While I am very leary of any book that contains abuse to animals, I found that I could endure the occasional abuses described somehow. I was so completely enthralled by the characters of this book, and could see the whole story in my mind's eye as I read. The author does say in an interview that the elephant, Rosie, was based on a real elephant (two, actually) she discovered when doing the research for this book. I often felt like I needed a shower while reading the book because it is so atmospheric and real that I felt like I'd been riding on the train without a good wash! At the same time, I felt I was a resident of the nursing home depicted in the book and wanted to have a good meal myself.  Excellent book, one of the best reads of my adult life. It will definitely stay with me a long time.
5 Water for Elephants is a great read that is sure to please fans of every genre !Come to Inkk reviews and check out our VIDEO REVIEW for Water for Elephants[...]click Review Archives then scroll down to WATER FOR ELEPHANTS !
5 Normally this type of book isn't something I would read but after receiving a few recommendations I gave it a shot. I am so glad that I did. What a great story! You definitely get to feel an array of emotions reading this book. Anger, hurt, happiness. If you aren't sure you'd enjoy this book, I'd give it a try. You won't be disappointed.
5 I'm not one to read historical pieces, mostly because I don't think I'll relate to the people and times, but this book is an exception. An exceptional exception! I loved "Water for Elephants." Tragedy, mystery, adventure, humor and romance -- this book has it all. This is the story of a young man who finds himself working as a veterinarian for a traveling circus during the Great Depression era, but it's really so much more. So, step right up, ladies and gentlemen, and enjoy this masterpiece!
5 For me, this book reminded me of being a little kid.  I could picture myself sitting at the foot of my grandfather's bed as he told me stories of his youth and the adventures that came with it.  I was instantly transported to the 1930's and to the world of the traveling circus.  The author wrote with such clarity and viviid realism, that I was shocked when I later read that at the time she started writiing the novel, she has never been to a circus.  This novel is beautiful and moving, and certainly one that I will pass along to others.
5 Great book I loved it and the way the author incorporated the old Jacob and the young Jacob was brilliant
4 This was a fast, enjoyable read on many levels.Jacob narrates the story, and we switch back and forth between his current age of "ninety of ninety three" and the seven years he spent working in the circus.  In the beginning of the story, I found switching between the present and past a bit jarring, but I thought it worked out well in the end.There is a line in the book, "'The whole thing's illusion, Jacob,' he says, 'and there's nothing wrong with that.  It's what people want from us.  It's what they expect'".  I thought this was a great way to summarize the story because it shows the illusion the circus performers put on, but gave you behind-the-scenes details into everyday life in a circus, and what it takes to create the illusion.Warnings: There are several sex scenes, which I didn't think were required to tell the story.  Also, there is a lot of what would be considered animal cruelty in today's standards.  Since this is set in 1930s, I believe it is realistic to what circus animals probably endured.
3 I had heard so much talk about this book but I wasn't that impressed or intrigued. It gave me a glimpse into how hard a life the circus folks had and gave me the feeling it was the place you ended up when you had no place else to go. Definitely took the glamour out of my fascination with circus'. I am glad I read it, it wasn't a waste of time but it just wasn't as good as I expected.
3 I was rather disappointed with the way some of the sordid details took away from an otherwise interesting story line.  I really liked the "backstage" peeks into the real life of what being on the road (or on the rails) could be like. And the general story line was very interesting. Not totally my cup of tea, but perchance my high expectations going in didn't help. Keep your expectations a bit lower & it may even be more enjoyable for you!!!
5 This story feels magical, while containing it's fair share of hard-hitting reality. It's a depression era story of a lost soul joining a traveling, American circus. It reads like a memoir of the story's main character, Jacob. The story begins in a modern day setting, where you meet Jacob as an elderly man, living in a retirement home.A circus is setting up just across the street from Jacob's retirement home, and the whole place is buzzing about it. It brings back Jacob's memories of his time traveling around the country with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. As a young man, he worked as their veterinarian.Jacob's relationships with the animals in the circus, as well as the crew members and performers are my favorite aspects of this novel. The author reveals that many of the most entertaining stories and plot twists concerning the animals were based on real occurrences. The author really did her homework, and it shows. The story line in endearing and entertaining.
3 Maybe it was all the hype around this book when I read it, with the movie just coming out, but I was expecting it to be better.  It was a decent book and I don't regret reading it, but it was missing something for me.  I didn't really like the ending either.
4 Good read for when you are entertaining yourself on a rainy day.  Enjoyed the book more so than the movie.
5 Water for Elephants had a slow start for me, but I was soon dragged into the story, full force. It is apparent that this is a fully researched tale by the author, and you become truly immersed in the time period, what it was like to be part of circus, and just how greatly and entertaining these shows were at the time.As an employee at an independent resident home, I greatly enjoyed the back and forth between the old and young Jacob.  The situations the elder Jacob went through while at the nursing home, were really poignant and beautifully written (albeit, sad). You really felt for Jacob, and it was a bird's-eye-view on what it is like to age as you feel the same mentally and yet your body betrays you, no longer being able to keep up with your needs and desires.The characters were really fleshed out, especially August.  Even Rosie seemed like an actual person herself. The interactions of Jacob with the animals were really touching, especially because a lot of it touched Jacob's inner monologue about many things but also of his passion for taking care of these creatures.The relationship between Jacob and Marlena rang true for me, and were a bit reminiscent of the two lead characters in Nicholas Sparks' "The Notebook," but BETTER!I absolutely adored the ending, it was whimsical and inspiring. There is nothing better than finishing a story and feeling content with the journey you just undertook. You will most assuredly feel this as you complete this novel.I would definitely recommend this all encompassing story. It's not a mere love story, but the chronicle of one person's life, love and his insistence on not resigning himself to growing "old."
5 I loved this book set during the depression in a third rate circus, The Benizini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  The book is told through the eyes of 90 (or 93) year old Jacob Jankowski, as he recounts the events of that fateful year of 1931.When Jacob Janowski's parents are killed in a car accident just before his graduation from Cornell veterinary school he runs away and somehow ends up working for the Benzini Brothers circus after they learn he is almost a doctor. The harshness of both the ever encompassing depression and circus life is brought vividly to life. We meet the side show `freaks', the stars, the roustabouts and rubes and come to care for many of them, especially Walter, the educated dwarf.  The story centers on Jacob and his falling in love with the beautiful star of the equestrian show, Marlena, who is married to the questionably sane August who is the animal trainer.  It also involves the wonderful elephant Rosie, who is brought in as the star of the menagerie, but seems to have her own ideas about that.The ending is incredibly poignant and brought a smile to my face, as it brought the whole story full circle. I really loved this book.
5 I didn't think I&#34;d like the subject matter but I was wrong. The story and characters are so vividly portrayed that the story played out in my head with color and audio.
5 Gruen is a wonderful author who not only captures the history of the circus but also captivates the reader in following the life of Jacob from youth to old age and provides a spirit lifting ending one will not likely forget.
4 Never having been particularly interested in all things circus-y, I put this book back on the bookstore shelf more than once. But an Amazon review of another, quite unrelated novel referenced this book so I picked up a copy. Really glad I did. This is a well-paced novel that doesn't fall into the trap of doubling as a documentary on the early twentieth century circus trade. It is engaging, romantic, with sufficient drama and excitement to keep the pages turning over well into the night. Maybe at times a little cute, but a solid four-star effort.
5 Water for Elephants is a wonderful book. The storyline is unique, and held my attention so much I needed to read the entire book at one sitting. It is an excellent book for book club readers!
5 Best novel I've read in a VERY long time.  One of the few books I've ever read that I'll pick up and read a second, perhaps even third time.  Such great character and plot development, along with a few humorous and tragic surprises.  You can tell the author did a lot of research on the subject of the circus.  And the reflections of the 93 year old man are PRICELESS!  A must read for anyone wanting to read a fun story.
5 Not sure what else to say, just a beautifully told story capturing the whole of the characters' charm, quirks and warts.
5 I read this book with my book club and we enjoyed it very much. Lots of discussion material and I watched the movie, which was good as well.
5 While I would not recommend this book to a young reader due to a couple pretty explicate scenes I would recommend it to any adult who just loves a good book.  Once I started reading it I could not put it down.  I hesitated reading it because I didn't think that the subject matter would be interesting, but I was so wrong.  This is a wonderfully written book.
5 Very good read. Keeps you reading and learning about the circus trade as it was/is. Lots of human interest too.
5 Really one of the best book's I've read. You'll remember this long after you've finished it.  Do yourself a favor and order it, you won't be sorry.
4 Alternating between times, prisoned in a nursing home, 90-something year old Jacob recalled his life in the circus.Life pretty much changed overnight for Jacob Jankowski.  Jacob dropped out of veterinary school.  He just had to take the last test before graduating.  However, his parents' sudden death changed all that.  Now, Jacob could have gone back and finished the test.  However, he felt guilty once he learned that there were no money left from his parents because they spent all they had to finance Jacob's schooling.By some strange turns of events, Jacob found himself riding with a traveling circus, one that aimed to be better than the Ringling Bros.  It's here that Jacob is made the circus veterinarian over the circus' animals.  However, Jacob is falling for the Jekyll/Hyde-ish ringmaster's wife.I don't know if it was a reading fluke or not but I just couldn't get into the book at the beginning.  I wanted to like the book because my friends were telling me how great it was.  I just couldn't get into it.  After about 100 pages and days later, it finally picked up for me.Overall, the story was interesting as it was something that you don't see often.  Plus, archived pictures at the end of some chapters made the book even more interesting.  I became so engrossed in the story that it looked like Jacob's adventures with the circus spanned over years when it actually spanned over weeks.  So, it was a good read but not one of my favorites.
5 My daughter has been asking me to read this book for years.  I resisted because I read the synopsis and thought "a story about a circus in the era of the great depression? Nah."  I finally downloaded it and gave it a go and couldn't put the book down.  Seriously this is one of the best books I've read in years!  I felt like I was right there.  The narrative shifts back and forth between old Jacob and young Jacob seamlessly.  I strongly regret waiting so long to read this book.  And for you Nook/Kindle lovers, this book is only $5 to download.  I would have paid full price.  It is a haunting story and often had me thinking of my own aging.  What will it feel like to be inside a body that is old and doesn't function like it used to, yet the mind still feels young?  I can't wait for the movie to come out in April.
5 This book is in my top five. i loved the character and all his struggles, i love how you can so easily fall into the character and see what he sees, in the home and in the circus.
3 This book was fun.  The old circus is always fascinating and fun.I read the book very quickly, which is unusual for me.  If you like fun easy books, then this is a good one for you.But this book is not literature, and will be forgotten soon, and won't be read in 10 years.  It does not compare with Amy Tan, who has written literature that will probably continue to be read for a hundred years.
5 Great book.  Love to read but am an impatient reader.  If a book doesn't 'grab' me quickly - first two or three pages - I'm likely going to put the book down and may not pick it up.  This story reeled me in quickly and kept my interest and attention.
4 I like this book. To read through about the depression era and about the lives of people going through it, trying to earn a living, trying to survive is amazing to me. The train traveling circus of the day had to try, really try to also just survive. And the bittersweet love story that is entertwined into this story, I think, is beautiful. Thanks Amazon.
3 I'm torn on my opinion about this book which I just finished last night.  I loved the parts where Jacob was old; it successfully portrayed the anguish and confusion anyone would feel when their independence, privacy, and basically their rights are taken away from them. I really felt it.  The story grabbed me right away and continued to be enjoyable and interesting through about half the book; then it deteriorated a bit after that.  All in all though I enjoyed the book and the characters and am not sorry I read it.  Definitely easy reading.Laura
5 This book draws you in from the first line and doesn't let you go until the last page.  Perfect, perfect, perfect!! This is my favorite book and is the BEST book I have ever read!
5 I hesitated to pick up "New York Times Bestsellers", because most of the time I don't fully understand the hype around them, either they're just a mediocre book or they fall extremely short of the hype that surrounds it, this was not the case with Water for Elephants. Sara Gruen literally places you in the middle of a 1920's traveling circus and dosen't drop you off until the very last page. I felt like I was right along side Jacob and Marlena and the rest of the Characters in the novel.The story was breath-taking, and captivating, and the characters and even the animals were so easy to like and so different in their roles and I loved it. This is one of the first historical fiction novels i've read in a long time, at least that come to mind, and although I was apprehensive to start this, i'm so happy I picked it up when I did. I'm really looking forward to seeing the movie adaptation of this as it is currently in theaters now, and as a true book-lover must read the novel before I go see the movie adaptation of it!! I have high expectations for this film so we will see what I think, but so far i've heard good things.Water for Elephants is an absolutly delightful story, it covers everything a truly remarkable novel should have; love, crime, secrets, drama, etc. this book has it all!flag
3 A pleasant, quick read.  The circus details were nicely researched and its full of colorful characters.  I did, however, find the alternating time periods intrusive, and the plot sadly predictable.  I also wish the villain had been more complex -- although the author provides us with mental illness as an excuse, it seemed too convenient, and frankly, not quite clinically credible. A sweet ending, although perhaps a bit sentimental. All in all, not an original book, nor one that will stand the test of time, in my opinion, however, for all that, an agreeable way to spend the afternoon.
5 Sara Gruen spent months researching circuses that traveled by trains and they paid off in the realistic Water for Elephants that she turned into fiction. The novel begins with main character Jacob Jankowski, a 93-year-old man in a nursing home, when the circus comes to town. This begins his flashback of his time with the Benzini Brother's Most Spectacular Show on Earth in the summer of 1931.While it focuses on the cirucs, the novel weaves back and forth between a 23-year-old Jacob on the circus and present-day Jacob with his nursing home struggles.Jacob had never intended to end up on the circus, but once he does he is caught in a whirlwind of romance and drama. He has to learn the ropes of a struggling circus that can't always afford to pay its employees. Each character has his/her own unique qualities that make each seem as real and relatable as the next. Even the circus's animals take on personalities that make them seem real.After the great reviews I wanted to give it a shot and I had trouble putting it down. The novel has a little something for every kind of reader as it falls into multiple genres of mystery, romance and adventure. Gruen continuously surprised me through the last page. Each page was as compelling as the next. I would absolutely recommend this novel to everyone.
5 As a former circus performer, I really should have read Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants when it came out in 2006. As it turns out, I just finished it and quite simply, it's fantastic. Set in both present time and the 1920's, it tells the tale of young Jacob Jankowski's circus days: how he stumbled upon the spectacle, how he made himself useful, and how he found true love. Told through flashbacks of himself at ninety...or ninety three, a fact he keeps forgetting, you see how the circus life effected him and what became of him after his years under the big top.After leaving Cornell, Jacob made his way onto the Benzini Brothers most Spectacular Show on Earth, a not as good as Ringling Brothers, but still decent traveling circus. He became the show's veterinarian, watching over the lions, chimps, horses, and, of course, elephant. There, he meets a dazzling array of characters including Walter, the show's midget clown; Earl, the strong man; Uncle Al, the show's ringmaster and owner; August, the moody and arrogant animal keeper; and his wife Marlena, the lovely horse tamer and elephant rider that Jacob falls for.Accompanied by archived photos from the Ringling Circus Museum, the book accurately portrays the life of a traveling circus member, riding the train daily going from city to city, hoping the town is looking for an afternoon of entertainment. In a time when entertainment was scarce, the circus really was a legendary spectacle. Money was tight and the sleeping quarters were tighter. The performers were treated like Gods, but the workers were seen as slaves. But when you were living cent by cent, it was a job--and a good job at that.As a reader, you're wrapped up my Jacob's tale, following him through his four month stay with the Benzini Brothers. You cheer him on and fear for his life all at the same time. You become attached, friends. And the ending leaves you satisfied, fulfilled and content.Personally, I was disappointed that they didn't concentrate more on the acts, however that's a small complaint from an otherwise fantastic read. Even for those who have no interest or knowledge of the circus lifestyle will get something out of it. Because at one time we've all seen the show. We've all seen the clowns, the elephants, and the acrobats. We've all eaten the pop corn and cotton candy sold from the striped tents. And, really, at some point, we've all wanted to run away and join the circus.
1 I bought this book because it was rated so highly and it was a NaNoWriMo novel. Somehow I made it to the bit that describes the old man having a shower which is about a 1/3 the way through according to my Kindle progress bar. I don't know how. I found it so incredibly vulgar that I just couldn't keep going. I didn't even care enough about the characters or the story to skip to the last few pages to find out what happened. In fact, I wish I could erase what I did read from my head and gain back the time I wasted reading it.
5 Oh how I loved this book! The story is told by its main character, Jacob who is now confined to a nursing home, reminiscing about his time spent in the circus. It tells of Jacob's life travelling in a circus during the Depression and of the harsh conditions for the workers in during this time. There are so many great characters in this novel that have great depth to them, including Rosie the Elephant. This is much more than a novel about the circus, it has a great story that everyone should do themselves a favour and read! I'm looking forward to seeing whether the movie can capture just what a truly captivating story this novel tells. Highly recommended.
5 This book was an absolutely fantastic read. It is delicious and complex and gritty, with a fresh and intriguing storyline. The movie did not do it justice - they took an intelligent, R-rated book and turned it into a somewhat comedic PG-13 movie. You should definitely read the book before you even THINK about renting or buying the movie. It will definitely be a reading experience you won't soon forget.
5 I bought a copy of this book at a local store. I found this story unique and adorable! An elderly man tells you about his life once he joins the circus. You follow him through meeting the love of his life, to being all alone. Amazing story! So much better than the movie!
5 This book pulled me in from page 1 and never let go.It is riveting.This book was recommended to me becasue my grandparents traveled the Carni and Vaudeville circuit during the depression.I would recommend this book to everyone.I would have plowed right thru if not for work and sleep.Great character development and fast paced.Worthwhile read! Well written!"
5 I loved the book. A well written story about circus life during the great depression.  Can't wait to see the movie.
2 I picked this novel up in the airport as I was waiting to get on my flight to Orlando, mostly because it is coming out as a movie and I wanted to read it before seeing the movie.  That's my general rule after all.  And I was sorely disappointed.In this historical novel, Jacob Jankowski, the protagonist, has left Vetrinary school at Cornell after suffering the loss of his parents, who have died in a tragic car accident.  He learns fairly quickly that his father, also a vet, was heavily in debt and actually died owing money.  So Jacob leaves school and his home and literally joins the circus. He travels cross country with the circus, acting as the show's vetrinarian and working under August, the head trainer and Uncle Al, the show's ringleader.  August is an interesting man, alternately charming and brutal.  He's also married to the beautiful Marlena, a performer, that Jacob forms a special bond with. This novel is about Jacob's relationship with Marlena, with the new elephant, Rosie and with Uncle Al.There are definitely several themes that are prevalent in this novel, which are super easy to pick out.  Water is for cleansing, for instance and the train tracks are for choosing a life path.I was not impressed by this book at all.  The themes were easy to spot and the ending was just as easy to spot.  The characters were shallow and one dimensional and I found myself annoyed with them more often than I was intrigued by them.  I just didn't really like it - I kept expecting it to get better and it didn't. It was a complete and utter failure.
3 I have never been a fan of the circus, but I do enjoy historical fiction, so I gave this one a try. I was skeptical at best when starting. The story is mildly interesting, entertaining,and entirely predictable. The characters were shallow, not well developed, but the story moves along quickly enough so this is not a big distraction. An earlier reveiwer summarized the book as "melodramatic" and I completely agree. It is like popcorn; light, fluffly, easy to digest and quickly forgotten. Not a bad way to spend a rainy weekend -- if there is nothiing on TV.
5 I just finished this book, and oh my word, what a fun, very quick read :-)  The story was wonderful and I loved the back and forth from the "old" Jacob to the "young" Jacob, the the past reality, to the current reality.The detail of the writing was so descriptive that I felt like I was in the hobo "city" or seeing the high trestle that Walter & Camel were thrown off of. It was just an amazing story, I'd suggest it to anyone, at any age.
5 This book will not change your life.  You will know everything that is going to happen.  I learned a bit about early circus life.  I learned a bit about how Depression impacted families and choices.  The best part was the view from the patient on life in a nursing home.  Other than that, it was entirely pure pleasure.I don't even know exactly why I like this book so much- it was such an easy read, it almost felt like a Danielle Steele novel, but there was more to it- it truly felt like drinking a warm cup of cocoa on a cold night.I read the negative reviews because I couldn't figure out how someone could not like this book.If you are looking for a life altering literary experience this isn't it.  If you are looking for a nice summer read that is a bit more substantial than chick lit, this is a good choice.  We read it in our book group and to be honest, there wasn't a lot to discuss, despite the controversial topic of circuses and nursing homes.  It was more of a love fest of how nicely the book was written.I recommend it.
5 Water for Elephants captures your heart from page one and you will not want this wonderful book to end!Wonderful flowing writing that brings the characters alive! You will cry, laugh, and cheer Rosie the Elephant at the end!If I could give this book 10 stars, I would. It would have to be rated in my top 10 favorite books ever read.
5 I absolutely loved this book. The descriptions of the circus, the towns, and the train travel with all the animals seemed so authentic. However, I thought that canceling several shows and rushing west to buy an elephant and book someone for a sideshow seemed to be stretching things a bit. The expenses to feed all the animals and the employees would have been huge. I kept thinking this would have been handled by having either Big Al or one of his managers travel alone and make the transaction while the show went on back East. Other than that part, though, I was completely drawn in. I thought Jacob and Marlena made a wonderful couple. Marlena, by the time she met Jacob, already needed rescuing. And Jacob was a gentleman, who responded not only to her beauty and talent, but to her need for rescue. It's not surprising to me that they quickly fell for each other. My other favorite characters were Walter, a dwarf, and Rosie, the elephant.The circus part of the book was set in 1931, a time when people would take just about any job and put up with a lot of abuse to keep it if they had to. This helped to make some of the events more interesting and believable. The rest of the story is told by the 93-year-old Jacob and the author did a superb job of portraying the world from the point of view of someone who's in a care center and isn't always allowed to make his own choices. The switches back and forth between the two Jacobs were flawless and really help make the story. The ending was perfect, exactly what I would have wished for Jacob. Highly recommended.
4 The book was well researched and had an interesting plot.  I would recommend it.
5 Ever want to run away and join a circus? Gruen brings her readers into this mysterious world and introduces them to unforgettable characters. Run away with her.
5 If you're looking for a book that's entertaining and different, Water for Elephants is perfect.  The novel is about Jacob, a 93 year old man living in a nursing home evaluating his present condtion and reflecting on his past. Through flashback, he tells of his experiences as a caretaker and sometimes veterinarian of the animals of the Benzeni Brothers Circus. There is adventure, suspense, murder, and even a love story. While it is fiction, Gruen does an excellent job of researching the history of the circus which results in an interesting and insightful look into what it means to be a part of a traveling circus.
5 The best book I've read in years...a must read for all!!!!!  Enjoyed the happy ending so rear these days
5 This is one of the best books I've read in years.  It was incredibly refreshing.  I could smell the animals and the food and I could visualize everything so easily.  Jacob was fascinating and courageous.  I wept for him and I feared for him.  The circus came alive for me and what an ending!!!  Don't miss this fantastic read.
5 Water for ElephantsSara GruenA 90-year-old man--or is he 93?--narrates the story of his one summer as a veterinarian with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth during the summer of 1931 in Depression-era America.  Jacob Jankowski resides in an assisted living home with other elderly people, many of whom require more medical attention than he.  He is quite mentally astute for his age, yet because of his age, most of the people in charge of the facility treat him as mentally incompetent, all but Rosemary, a forty-seven-year-old nurse, who treats him and the rest of the patients/residents with the loving care, dignity, and respect they deserve as human beings.  But she is moving away and will be quitting the facility, which in the end leads to Jacob's decision to continue his life--what little he may have left--in dignity.There is a circus that has come to town.  It is so close to the facility that the big tent and other goings on can be observed from the window.  All of the old people reminisce about their experiences in their youth going to the circus.  One old man and a newcomer to the home, Mr. Joseph McGuinty, who is considerably younger than Jacob, brags about having worked in a circus, carrying "water for elephants."  Jacob becomes upset because he knows Mr. McGuinty is lying to attract the attention of the other residents; and the memories of the truth of his past life are triggered.Flashback to young Jacob Jankowski, a veterinary student at Cornell University in his last year!  Just before he is scheduled to take his final exams, after which he will graduate and receive his degree, both his parents are killed in an automobile accident.  After their burial and after learning the truth of his financial situation, Jacob is unable to focus.  He leaves the exam room and leaves Cornell.  Distraught, he leaves with only the clothes on his back and no money in his pocket.Because of the Depression, people were unable to pay for his father's services; and his father, also a veterinarian, worked for people even though they could not pay him, taking whatever they could give him--eggs, chickens, whatever they had.  Therefore, his parents had nothing to leave their son but debts.  To pay his tuition, the house had been mortgaged.So not being able to focus, he leaves without ever putting pen to paper.  Without aim or destination, he walks and soon finds himself beside the railroad tracks, when along comes a train.  Like a hobo, he hops the train with no idea where he is going.  He soon learns this is a circus train and is not tossed off it because the Benzini Brothers, whose circus it is, discover he is a veterinarian; and his services are badly needed.Working as a veterinarian that summer leads to all kinds of experiences, tantamount among them which are falling in love, getting married, and eventually working with the circus's one elephant.After his summer with the Benzini Brothers, he is hired by Ringling Brothers.  He, along with his wife and his growing family, spends seven years as a circus veterinarian.  He then becomes the veterinarian for the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago.  His seven years experience with exotic animals and his degree, in addition to bringing an elephant with him, insures him the job when the former vet suddenly dies.Jacob, ninety years old--or is he 93? he asks himself, recognizing that his old age has caused some memory loss--struggles to hold onto his humanity and his dignity as long as he can.  It is he who in his reminiscences about his circus life, his friendships, and his deep love for his wife narrates the story.  The reader falls in love with Jacob and develops an even greater love and respect for "old folks."  Sara Gruen's novel awakens the reader to the often mistreatment of and disrespect for the elderly, evoking empathy in their cause.  Especially hurtful is seeing how their own families, their own children, mistreat them, or forget about them.  Old people are still human beings.  In many cases, their bodies may be broken, their hands and fingers gnarled, but in all cases, there is a brain inside their heads as Jacob proves.  In having Jacob tell his story in Water for Elephants, the author informs us of this and reminds us of the fact that we will grow old someday.  At the same time Sara Gruen affords us a moving and delightful read--so do not be misled by the title.
5 Where to even start with a review of this book...  There are over 2,600 reviews already and I doubt I'll be able to add anything new or groundbreaking.  My mom and my friend have been trying to get me to read Water For Elephants for the past couple of years, but I've resisted.  I didn't want to read this book for a few reasons, namely - the subject matter (a traveling circus) didn't really excite me, the idea of an old man telling the story in a sort of flashback manner reminded me too much of The Notebook (of which I only saw the movie), and most of all, I didn't want to read this story because I absolutely adore animals and I knew there would be parts about abuse that would be difficult for me to read.  But now that the movie has come out, I knew it was time to give it a go.  Books are always so much better than movies and I wanted to check this novel off my list before it possibly became tainted by Robert Pattinson's portrayal.... just in case.  :)If, like me, you also have these reservations - don't let them stop you.  Yes, the story is rather sad in parts, and it will make your heart break, but it's so much more.  It took me a while to really get in to the story, but I absolutely tore through the last 200 or so pages.  It's not so much a love story as it is a life story.You can really tell that the author did her homework.  There are vivid, graphic descriptions of everything and you feel like you're right there with these characters.  The true mark of a good writer (at least for me) is when they can create characters that you hate and abhor so much they can actually make your skin crawl even after you've read the last page.  This author did that - and with more than one character.Overall, it was a fantastic story and I highly recommend it!
5 I read this book before the movie had ever been filmed and despite the movie being a fail, especially after reading the book, it is still one of my favorite books. It is so well written and every single detail keeps you wanting more. I could not put this book down and it is such a shame the movie didn't depict the book the way it should have. This is truly a classic and a must read.
5 One of my favorite books now. I devoured this book. Easy read and gets you hooked right away. I love historical fiction and now am reading all kinds of things about the circus during the early - mid 20th century.
4 The book was very well written and different from most books I have read. I would recommend it!
5 A wonderful, Must Read Book, an insight into a lost era. The Author is a master of the written work. The end is a tear jerk er and the story is a mover. Best of reading.
5 This book was a SPLENDID, completely absorbing read!  I kept thinking I was reading a screenplay (although this didn't bother me, I did note it).Cornell-educated Jacob Jankowski looks back upon and retells the story of what became his unlikely life as a Circus Veterinarian. Sara Gruen makes the characters jump off the page in her writing.  There are villians, heroes, sequined angels, kind-hearted drunks, big hearted dwarves, and smart, quirky animals.  In all, a virtual smorgasboard of entertainment that transports you to another, fascinating day and time. Set during Prohibition, the circus train and its dark,frightening contents rumble from town to town holding the lives of hundreds of men, and us readers, in the balance!The only criticism I have (and this is very minor), is that I found myself skip-reading over the parts about Jacob in the nursing home.  While I valued being able to get this perspective, (and see that just because you are old and it may LOOK like you don't have all your faculties, you really do), I just couldn't stand but to get back to the main story.  I was chomping at the bit.Loved the book.  Loved the ending. Sad when it ended.  I should have made it last longer. Lots of fun!
5 This is a light easy read that will transport you.  A very enjoyable read.  I tried reading other Sara Gruen books but they are not in the same league as Water for Elephants.
4 I had a good time reading this book even if it wasn't one of the best I read. The story is nice and entertaining.
4 Wonderful story telling. Easy read.Tells Jacob's story in two threads:- as a 93 year old living out his days in a nursing home struggling to maintain his sense of self and dignity.- as he starts his adult life which begins as a graduating animal vet but veers off instead as a lost soul who happens to fall into joining up with a train-traveling part of a Ringling Bros wannabe second rate circus in the 1930's America.You meet memorable characters in both story lines but the circus part is the focus of the book.- the hard bitten owner, Uncle Al, whose always just one step ahead of the law- the paranoid schizophrenic ring master, August- his young pretty wife, Marlena who performs a horse act- Kinko, the dwarf clown and his beloved terrier dog- many others who range from roustabouts, tent builders, animal caretakers, to hoochy cooch ladies, strong armed men who bully the other staff to keep order, cooks, candy vendors, etc.In the midst of this are the menagerie including a chimp, llamas, a panther, a lion, horses, camels, zebras and Rosie the elephant who, herself, is almost a separate story line.I got swept up into this book pretty rapidly and stayed buried in it up to the end which is both horrific and magical.
5 One of the best books I have ever read.  The storyline and characters keep you captivated.  I highly recommend it!
4 Water for Elephants is the first book in a long time to allow a reader to savor the pages while thirst for the next.  What more could you want out of a book???THe story revolves around the main character, Jacob Jankowski, and a part of his young adulthood.  During this period of time, Jacob must fend for himself as he migrated from what he believed would be a promised and lucrative life to a life of uncertainly and of poverty.Jacob stumbles into a lifestyle within and revolving around work in a traveling circus during the Great Depression era in the United States.Sara Gruen's writing brings alive every event and character very vividly; the setting simply demands only her very apt and transporting descriptions.Sara Gruen does transport the reader; the captivating read that feels as if you are just plunked down in the middle of Jacob's life.  The reader is absolutely the quintessential "fly on the wall".We not only observe but feel Jacob's pain, struggles, anxiety, happiness, discomfort, and grief.  She has managed to include the reader in her words.I enjoyed my role as a reader and can only hope that Gruen's other titles enable me to be transported yet again to another world that only Gruen can create.
5 A+ in my opinion, this is the story of circus life in 1931, two years after the beginning of the Great Depression. Jacob has just lost both of his parents several days before his final exams to become a veterinarian. When he then tries to take his exams, he freezes, and walks out of the room, thereby not getting his degree, but still having his education. He almost accidentally falls into a job with a traveling circus. It's a rough and uncertain life, but he comes to love and care for the animals. On the other hand, he doesn't do so well with some of the people. From the author's notes, I would say this is a pretty good re-telling of what actually happened between people/people and people/animals, although this is a fictional work. I suggest you come out of your box, as I did with this book, and read something other than your usual norm, be it mysteries, romances, or science fiction. Oh, and you will love Rosie!
5 Loved this book.  It was easy reading even though it jumped from present to the past.  Made you think you were right there with him working in a circus.
4 Liked it.  already watched the movie...but friends were reading it.  So gave it a try, like always book so much better than the movie :)
5 I guess my age (82) allowed me to relate to many aspects of the story.  It was well written and believable,
4 Was glad that I read this way before all they hype and the movie.  The &#34;behind the scenes&#34; of the circus life was fascinating reading.  To me the love story was a back drop to the sordid story of the circus.
5 I wasn't sure about this - circus and elephants and all. I was afraid it was going to be about animal abuse and very sad. Well - there is that, but it's so much more than that. You'll be transported to a different time and a location most of us will never experience - the backdoor view of a circus. Each character is so real, I felt I could regonize them.  And although I wasn't even around when the story took place - at least the early part, I could picture everything right down to the smells and sounds! The author has a terrific grasp of aging as well. Sympathetic but not syrupy. The aged Jacob is quite a character as he struggles with the indignities associated with 'assisted' living and the recollections of a past - recollections that he was just now ready to reveal at age 90 or was that 93?
4 I've been seeing this book for years at book stores and amazon website but for some reason I wasn't interested. The idea of a novel that takes place in a circus didn't seem exciting to me. Then, the kindle version of the book is offered with a great price and I reluctantly buy it and even more reluctantly read it. What a surprise... I really enjoyed it and couldn't put it down. The main character, Jacob, is brilliant especially at old age. I learned a lot about circus life and people. I thought the ending was marvelous. Now, I have to watch the movie and see how it compares to the novel. Very enjoyable read and highly recommended.
5 Great read! Heard the movie was coming out for this book so I wanted to read it first. It's a fast read and I really enjoyed it. Hope the movie is as great as the book is.
5 I started this book because it was affordable and I was thinking about seeing the movie.  What a great surprise! This book was funny, sad, and totally caught me I could not read fast enough. NOW I will see the movie.
3 WE was terrific out of the starting blocks, vivid and well-researched, replete with interesting characters.  Along the way, though, it increasingly took on the feel of a creative writing exercise -- ever lighter on research, weaker on character development, and thinner on plot.  In the end, I found WE disappointing.  Like many historical novels by contemporary young authors, WE is only shallowly situated in its particular historical context (depression era, circus).  Every now and then the author tosses in a cliched reference to food lines to remind the reader of the historical moment; otherwise, nothing to suggest the landscape (literal and figurative) through which the Benzini Brothers train chugs ever onwards.  I emerged from WE with far less of a feel for circuses or society in the 1930s, or for aging and the elderly today, than I should have.  WE reads like an entertaining short story stretched to the breaking point.  There just isn't enough 'there' there...
5 I loved this book and can't believe I didn't read it until now!  I laughed out loud and had moments I wanted to cry.  I loved the surprising end and recommend this book to anyone!  I even went out and bought it for my mom while I was still reading it on my Kindle!
1 I didn't get into the characters at all, I skipped the last 100 pages and read the last chapter.
5 I recently finished reading Water for Elephants.  The historical elements in this novel were carefully researched which made for a thrilling book.  I loved the way the story was told by an elderly man living in a nursing home and it bounced back and forth between timelines.  You fell in love with the grumpy man and you think about what the elderly actually feel like when they are forced to live in places like this. His story is touching and you really get to know all of the characters.  The elephant is a sweetheart and it's amazing how smart she is.  Great book and look forward to seeing the movie to see how well it was done.
5 Fell in love with the book from page one. The Author does a great job of developing the characters. She also made me fall in love with Edward Cullen (Jacob) all over again.. Definitely recommend this book.
3 after a visit to the ringling circus in sarasota,i realized what a good book this is.ican appreciate the fine hardworking performing community.this is a must read for circus lovers.
4 "Water For Elephants" paints a runaway's story of joining the circus, interspersed with an old man's sad realities.  Bringing to life colorful characters that abound in the time of the train circus, Gruen strikes a balance between the despondency of the 1930s and the timelessness of hope and longing, both in the past and present.  An easy coming-of-age  must-read to curl up by the fire with!(I can't say I'm surprised that the book is being turned into a movie, though it'll be interesting to see if the movie manages to capture the poignancy of the old man's recollections...)
5 I couldn't wait to read and this book didn't disappoint.  The circus was an incredibly vivid background, as well as the life of Jacob as a senior in an old home.  The novel was well-researched and interesting!  The love affair was intense and problematic.  My bookclub of women 30-80+ all loved this book.
5 I really enjoyed the book.  It was very easy to read and you can't put it down once you are started.
5 What kid hasn't wanted to run away to the circus? I wanted to be an acrobat at one point, swigging around high up in the sky. I don't think I ever really considered the repercussions of such a life though-always moving around, having to live with who you work with weather you like it or not, constant work...now it sounds more hard than fun to me.But Jacob Jankowski never really had a choice in the matter. Emotionally wrecked and financially bereft when his parents die in the great depression, Jacob hops on a train and ends up in the middle of the Benzini Brothers most spectacular show on earth. With his status as a (not graduated but) Cornell trained Vet, Jacob is hired on to see to the shows animals.Its decent work, but hard. And Jacob's boss August only makes it harder with his mercurial temperament and his very beautiful wife, one of the circuses star performers-who might like Jacob a little too much. But it's an arrangement Joseph can live with-until Rosie comes along.Every circus needs an elephant right? And Rosie becomes Jacob's. As circus life becomes more and more perilous-Can Jacob get out with his friends, animals and possible love of his life alive and intact? Come to the show and find out?"Water for Elephants" is a fantastic little gem of a book. The writing is marvelous, engaging, funny, sad-it's perfect really, except for one thing. And how could one fail to read the book after reading the prolog? There is no doubt this is an author to watch because she is going places!Just one problem-the disease that August is eventually unveiled as having is completely wrong for the symptoms he was exhibiting. I doubt the author really researched it or she would know that. It didn't bother me too much but for people who are suffering from or love those who really are paranoid schizophrenic it could be seen as stupid and offensive.But still, five stars.So step right up folks! Admission for this five star show is only the price of a good book.
5 What a good book, characters were great!. It was a good read!Now I am going to rent the movie!
5 A very well-written piece of literary fiction that is not easily forgotten.  I picked up the novel because of its great reviews and my disdain for the circus and inhumane treatment of circus animals, but ended up loving it because of a very engaging plot and my great affection for the main character in particular.  This novel is SO much more than a great story of Depression-era circus workers and performers; that simply lays the very interesting foundation. The ending was the best I've read in a long time and brought the novel full circle.  I look forward to more books by Sara Gruen!
4 I had no desire whatsoever to read this book until I saw a trailer for the movie. The tailer caught my eye and since books are always better then the movie I took a chance and found that I thought it was a great story. The story felt real. It's a very believeable read and I liked that it wasn't sugar coated. It held my interest and taught me a lot about circus life in that time period. The ending completely caught me off guard. Water for Elephants is a story that will stay with me forever. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading!
4 Jacob Jankowski is 90 or 93 years old - he can't remember -- living in curmudgeonly isolation in a nursing home where he reminisces and dreams of a time in his youth when he was an uncertified vet with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth traveling circus in the 1930s.  Uncle Al, the unscrupulous and chiseling owner, runs a tight train.  He has thugs who throw non-productive and trouble-making employees off the train to their deaths in a practice known as "red-lighting."  He also buys down-and-out circuses and, in one such act, acquires Rosie the Polish speaking elephant, who is smarter than anyone but Jacob knows.Jacob is the only person in the book who has a handle on a moral compass and as his reward he spends most of the novel beaten, broken, concussed, bleeding, swollen and hung over.  He is the self-appointed Protector of the Downtrodden who makes a dangerous mistake: he falls in love with Marlena, an animal act performer who is married to the brutal August, the menagerie supervisor.  His cruelty to animals and his violence are probably due to paranoid schizophrenia.  It is enough that he terrorizes everyone in his life and every animal, too.Jacob is forced to bunk in the horse car with the Shakespeare-reading Walter, aka "Kinko," a dwarf who is devoted to the Jack Russell terrier that is part of his act.  As the train carries the circus across the US, the lives of the performers and workers intertwine, relationships and loyalties are tested, and Jacob becomes a hero through simple humanity to Camel, a drunken laborer who is poisoned by drinking Jamaica ginger.The best scene in the entire novel is the descriptive passage of Marlena performing with her horse team and with Rosie, the elephant in her pink sequined costume.  Gruen manages to humanize people who really seem to be populating a fairy tale for adults.  Not a great book, but a diverting one.  Gruen seems to specialize in animal stories.
5 This book is a wonderful tale of life and of growing old.  It is touching and heart warming on so many different levels.  If you are ready to experience a full range of emotions from laughter to anger, from fear to surprise, this book will touch them all.Linda C. WrightAuthor, One Clown ShortOne Clown Short
4 GOOD STORY, NOT GREAT BUT FUN TO READ.  I HAD HEARD IT WAS SO GREAT....SO WAS A BIT DISAPPOINTED.  BUT GLAD I READ THE BOOK
5 I liked the fact that the author kept going from the present to the past, at least you knew he was not &#34;redlighted&#34; from the train. This book was a total insite int circus life I'm sure most of us didn't know,  Best part: it had a happy ending!
5 At times brutal and sad, at times hilariously funny, it was a terrific book and a fun book to read. I have recommended it to all my friends. The book had me captured within the first page and I didn't put it down until I was forced to, or until I got to the end.If you're looking for something that you can read fairly quickly and be greatly entertained, you need to read this book. It's more than well worth the time.
5 Just finish reading this last night around 1 A.M.Good BookOne of those stories told by going back and forth between past and present. I love books written that way.Anyway the story is about a young veterinary student who falls into terrible misfortune and with few options joins a travelling circus, The (unscrupulous) Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.Time period is in the 1920's or 30's, during The Great Depression. Narrated by an old man, 90 or 93 he says. Who is (unhappily) living out his days at a nursing home. Ah but he wasn't always an old man.The book appears to have been carefully researched and many of the characters and incidents are based on actual people, animals and or occurrences in circus of times past.At times funny, sad, heartbreaking yet hopeful this one will stay with me for a long while. I highly recommend it.
2 This is a best seller and has been lauded by many as an accurate portrayal of circus life in the 1930s.  Perhaps this is true.I loved the narrator, an elderly gentleman who is living in a nursing home.  I related to his upsets about the way he is being treated and understood his desire to get himself to the circus which has pitched its tent across the street from the home.  I felt empathy of this old man and felt the several chapters relating to his present life were done well.Through his voice we learn his story in flashback and most of the book takes place in this circus in the 1920s when the old man was young.  As the fresh-faced new kid, he's a stereotype.  And so is the woman he falls in love with.  Problem is that she's married to the ringmaster.  How this all turns out is mildly interesting, especially the parts about the animals, but I kept hoping the book would get better and I would feel some empathy for someone.Therefore, while this book has a few good moments, I can't even give it a lukewarm recommendation.
5 While I enjoyed the movie, there was no comparison to the book by Sara Gruen. I didn't want this book to end...
4 This author did his research, blending the history of the american circus with his fictional characters.  I enjoyed this book.
5 I am going to make this short and sweet. I bought this for the kindle and really enjoyed it . If you are looking for an interesting book this is a good choice . Read it before the movie comes out
5 Absolutely the best, most wonderful book.  I'd highly recommend it.  The story is wonderful and the ending is everything you'd want it to be.I'm telling everyone I know to read this book!
4 This is a very good book. It may be slightly over hyped, but it certainly deserves of most of the praise it's receiving. Water for Elephants is a moving tale about circus life during the depression era with quirky characters and complex emotions underlying the character's actions. It's uniquely told from the perspective of one character at two different stages of his life; Jacob at 20 and again when he was 93 and living in a nursing home. The story moves seamlessly between these two timelines and although I was more intrigued by the introspective old Jacob, the complexity and volatility of young Jacob also captured my attention, just on a different more concrete level. The book touches on what's important at different phases of life. The story is sweet, tragic and entertaining and the emotions that surface range from sad and lonely to happy and in love. In short, the story is haunting and brings to light the strong bond that develops between man and animal and shows the true meaning of friendship. An excellent selection for those who enjoy a good character driven story.
5 I enjoyed this book.  While, at times, I skimmed through quickly over the more violent parts, the book, as a whole was very satisfying.  The technique of telling the story of the past while relating the events of the present was interesting too.  I liked the ending.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in years.  It had excellent character development and I had to keep reminding myself that it was fiction.  Since hearing about the dreadful Hartford circus fire from my mother (who had friends perish), I have always found it to be such an interesting topic.  This bridged the gap from story to reality by referencing some of the real aspects of the circus by utilizing that backdrop with an interesting storyline.  I cannot wait until the next book!
5 Well written and researched, the author descriptions are vivid and keep the reader unable to put it down. Highly recommended.
4 It took me a couple of chapters to get into this book.  Having borrowed the book at the recommendation of a friend, I had no preconceptions.  I started reading and wondered if it was a dreary book about life in a nursing facility. When my friend asked about returning the book, I ordered an audio version so that I would not have to admit I could not get interested in the story.  I can almost always get through an audio book on my commutes to work.  The book quickly became an engrossing story.  I was cheering for the animals!  The mal treatment some of them received was very hard listening.  The one criticism I had, was Jacob's naivete.  Could he not figure out he was putting his friend's, and his own life, in danger?  I would have found him more attractive had he been more discerning.  As it was, I would not have been surprised had Marlena really not been attracted to him.  Also, I wondered if a talented circus performer such as Marlena was, would not have had to start very young instead of at the age of 17 when she left home and married August.  The ending?  for the circus it was terrific!!  But for Jacob at 93... found it less than realistic!
5 This audiobook was so well done! Two different readers provide for the voices of the man at 93, living in a rest home and his 23 year old self in memory. Alternate chapters keep the reader torn between hearing the story of Jacob and his experiences with a circus during the depression and his later self coping with another type of depression as he deals with a worn out body and his limited life as he waits to die. Anyone with compassion for older people will find this story heart wrenching and enlightening at the same time. Excellent!
5 This was a really good book with a suprise ending. A little different from the kind of book I usually read. I have given away a couple of copies and I've recommended it to lots of other friends.The story is about the early days working for the circus.
5 This delightful novel, set in a circus, is worth the read. I was put off by the title for the longest time and when I finally realized it was about a circus, I picked it up. Boy am I glad. The movie will be out later this year so be sure to read the novel first. You will be glad you did.
4 Very good book about a different subject but takes a little time to get into. I would read it again!
5 I loved this book. I read it before the movie came out, still have not seen the movie becasue I don't want to ruin such a good book. Very sweet.
4 Gruen has such an elegant and inviting writing style that you can't help but get sucked into this story from the get-go. While I loved how she developed her characters (especially old-man Jacob), the ending was weak and didn't live up to the build-up throughout the book.
5 A story of circus life was not especially enticing, but my book club was reading this novel. I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed the narrative. There is a little bit of something for everyone. Disappointment, joy, romance, a view of youth and of old age. Take a flyer and buy this book if you want a well written escape! Thanks!
5 The last novel I read and reviewed was also about animals but this could not be more different and after struggling to get into the last one, I loved this from the minute I picked it up and found it to be an exceptional read. The authors love of animals and the tremendous research she did for this novel make it not only a fascinating portrayal of life, ugly and vibrant in the American circus of the 1930's but a beautiful and tender love story. I had never even heard of circus trains until I read this either and learning a little something when I read also appeals to me.The title had been on my wishlist for awhile so I was delighted to obtain a copy recently and wanted to get on with reading so that I can see the film, which has been recommended to me.Since seeing elephants up close in Thailand, I also have more understanding of just how intelligent they are. Wonderful creatures which will treat humans well if they are given the respect they deserve. Sara Gruen portrays the nature of the elephant perfectly, for me Rosie was the real protagonist of the novel. The novel is told as two separate but connected stories, as well as being immersed in the circus world, we are also given an inside view of a home for the elderly where the hero of the story Jacob is now living. Again the author has done her research as the scenes in the nursing home were poignant and all too familiar to me in many ways.When the novel starts Jacob Jankowski is in his nineties and living in a nursing home and the imminent arrival of the circus in town revives some very stirring memories for the old man and it is these that are told in the other storyline.It is the American Depression and when Jacob's parents die while he is studying veterinary science at university, he discovers that they were in dire financial difficulties and he cannot even afford to complete his studies. Confused and bewildered with no plans for his future he finds himself hitching a ride on a circus train and in that moment his whole life changes. By the following morning he finds himself working for the travelling circus and by that evening he has met and fallen for the woman who will for evermore be the love of his life. Marlena, the star performer, however the love should remain unrequited as she is married to August the strangely mad animal trainer. Of course it is not long either before he also meets my particular favourite, Rosie the elephant. Whilst struggling to survive in the world of this second rate travelling circus this young couples love overcomes obstacles that you can not begin to imagine.The two stories are ultimately woven together but to find out just how you will have to read for yourself. I highly recommend you read this if you have not already done so. I think most avid readers will find something they like about this one.
5 The book is very accurate in depicting life in the great depression. I enjoyed the themes that were explored in the tale. Good read.
5 this is easily the best book I've ever read and I've read thousands of books! You understand and get completely lost in the lives of these characters. it's an easy read and so easy to get lost in that you could easily forget your family unless they start screaming for food! lol. this was definitely a worthy book to read, no matter what type of books your into.
5 What a wonderful read!  Sara Gruen draws you in immediately and keeps you engaged the entire book.  A talented writer and a wonderful story with characters that truly come to life!
5 This is not normally the kind of book I would read.  I knew going in that it was going to be gritty and depressing;  what a shame it would have been If I kept letting that stop from reading this masterpeice.  It is going to be a while before I find another book as enchanting as this one.  I highly suggest you to give it a try,  I think it will be well worth it.
5 This book will be one I read again and again. I have suggested it to many friends and they have all told me it's a new favorite to add to thier lists too.
5 This book arrived in good time in good condition.  I love this story and couldn't put it down until I finished reading it
5 What a terrific read! Water for Elephants has been lauded as a "great pick for summer", but this book is so much more. It has a depth and a substance to it that you don't usually find in your typical "beach read". It's obvious that the author did her research into the time period (post-Depression America), and the subject matter (traveling circuses).  According to the author's note at the end of the book, many of the compelling anecdotes in the story were based upon real events, culled from the diaries and personal histories of old-time circus performers. As a result, Water for Elephants is a novel that boasts the rare combination of being both entertaining and informative.The main character is a cantankerous, still-sharp 93-year-old man, and his frustration at being trapped in an old man's body is palpable. The story of his incredible life and adventures with the Benzini Brothers circus unfolds in a way that is emotionally wrenching, and yet flashes of good humor pervade throughout. The characters are richly drawn, and even the animals are given complex personalities that make them a pivotal part of the story. There is something in the novel for everyone: it is equal parts adventure, mystery, fictional memoir, love story, and historical account.I highly recommend this book!
5 A feast for the literary senses, Water for Elephants makes you feel the characters' hopes, fears, and dreams. Highly recommend!
4 This book was very good. I liked reading from both ages of the main character. The ending was more of a surprise since from the first page I thought it would end completely different!!!
4 I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie. Now that I have, I'm not sure the movie would do it justice. It took place in a time I couldn't imagine and they lived a life I know nothing about. It was really interesting.
5 Old timey Circus stories are so interesting! I loved going as a kid, but I love hearing about the other side of the ring even more. Gary Jennings is an author that does an amazing job of researching and writing about post civil war circus life, so check him out (Spangle), but Water for Elephants is an engaging, interesting, horrifying and a "can't put it down" read, for sure. I highly recommend!
5 What a great book.  I am so glad I read a review on this book in the newspaper.  I could not put this book down - I grew so attached to the characters I did not want to finish the last chapter.  Read this book - You will love it!
3 The historical story was interesting and kept my attention, even though I think TOO MANY people here are giving Ms. Gruen too much credit.  Personally, I don't think she used enough historical fact and instead relied on a very formulaic plot-line that was very predictable, i.e. the love relationship, the MC and head of the animals will be foiled in the end, and the preposterous ending where our dear wonderful elephant kills the cruel animal director.  Too contrived for me.I can understand the popularity of this book.  I cannot understand why it's a runaway bestseller.
4 Picked up this book to read based on the fact it was a local Book Club's Selection.  Immediately was drawn into it and read it in a day.  Book is 331 pages and for me it read quickly.My opinion the book is that it is thought provoking and also educational - communicated through the day to day thoughts of a man now facing the day to day realities and drawbacks of living in an "Assisted Living" facility.Gruen is able to effectively weave a lot of bittersweet humor into her character and has also imparted quite a bit of history of the period of the Great Depression and also circus life.Read thru the ratings that were less than 3 star - guess it goes to show we all have different tastes.  The reviewer who stessed going back to the old classics made me remember dry, horrible, rambling selections that to this day I do not value.Water for Elephants goes beyond boy meets girl, falls in love with girl, walks into the sunset hand in hand.  The interjection of the character in  his later years keeps the book flowing and gives the reader a chance to develop empathy for the main character.The end is upbeat - seems a bit unbelievable - but then again it keeps the "spark" of the book burning bright.Looking forward to more reading from Sara Gruen.
5 This book is a glimpse into circuses and carnivals of the past, in all their sordid glory. I was as fascinated with the circus life as I was with Jacob's story.  I wasn't sure what to expect, but I was fascinated with the book's description and became determined to read it. On an unexpected day off, I began reading and couldn't put it down. It has an unexpected depth.
4 I didn't not expect to really enjoy it since I'd  held off reading it for a while.  however the characters' stories and interactions capture your attention.
4 i have to start by saying that this is not the type of book that i normally would have picked up. but i've been reading almost nothing but tom robbins, chuck palahniuk (ak on the spelling, author of fight club) and christopher moore for awhile, and needed to get out of it. i was stuck in a rut. so at borders, i hounded all the employees for their book recomendations, and one suggested this book. it looked interesting, started out ok, so i bought it.it took me awhile to get around to it, but i'm glad i did. normally it would have taken about 2 lunch break weeks to finish it (it's frequently the only time i get to read) but i just had to take it home and finish over the weekend. i really enjoyed the story and tone, the sort of reminiscent theme, and the detail that went into the book.it really was a good read. i'm now interested in reading more on the circuis now, in general. at least the historical aspects.
3 Water for Elephants follows two alternating storylines: the first traces the veterinary career of Jacob Jankowsi, a Cornell dropout who finds work with a little-known circus during the Great Depression. The second sees Jacob years later as a bored, temperamental old man in a nursing home. Having nothing but time, the older Jacob slips in and out of memories, mentally revisiting his days with the circus.The main focus of the "circus" storyline is the love triangle between Jacob, the circus's equestrian director, August, and August's beautiful wife Marlena, a performer. Although they all start out as friends, it soon proves to be a disjointed friendship at best. Despite his charming exterior, August is a two-dimensional bully prone to violent rages. Jacob, on the other hand, is relatively sane, competent though naive, and shares a mutual passion with Marlena (also somewhat two-dimensional) for the circus animals.The story has potential. Honestly, what's a more romantic setting for a love story than the surreal world of the circus? Unfortunately, the circus merely serves as exquisite background scenery for the main drama, which turns out to be nothing more than a predictable love story between two cardboard characters I could honestly care less about. That said, it's still worth a single read just for the background material itself.
5 Great story.  Brings you right back the old days of the circus.  Interesting, exciting, dark and romantic all in one book! I even got my husband who never reads to listen to the audio and he loved it!
5 after reading the book I bought the dvd  to see how they compare, i have not had time to watch it yet but, I am excited for a rainy day to come when I can kick back and ENJOY!
3 Nice enjoyable reading.  A very nostalgic look at what circus life must have been during those times.  A very fun book!
5 Another one of those page turners!  Wanted to read for years, and it was worth the wait! Now I will watch the movie. The only natural progression, right?
1 Some parts are entertaining enough, but left me wanting more. Lacking in character development. Predictable with a thin story line. Skip it. Better stuff out there to read.
