5 there is not really too much that I want to say about the thomas covenant series of books --- I love epic fantasy and after tolkien i think donaldson's 6 books plus of thomas covenant and "the land" is the next best read.  truthfully, donaldson wrote the first 2 sets (6 books) in the late 70s --- I have read these 6 books perhaps 30 times since then --- I don't think I need to say much more than that...on top of everything, donaldson is a very down to earth and nice guy --- altho he is a bit harder to reach now after all these years --- the last book of thomas covenant (that would make 9) is coming out this fall I think...5 stars is not enough for this epic --- i would do 5 stars for each of the first 6 books...
5 Along with its sequels, A Good Clean Fight and Damned Good Show, this is one of the best books to come out of World War II.  The three of them are certainly the liveliest and most entertaining I've read about the air war (along with Len Deighton's Bomber), almost as if Dickens or Tolstoy had been in the RAF.  I think what most distinguishes the three novels is the character of "Skull" Skelton, a kind of Candide figure.  An Oxford history don pressed into service as an RAF intelligence officer, "Skull" simply cannot resist explaining to the fighter pilots, bomber pilots, military administrators, and other RAF types he is supposed to be encouraging just exactly how practically and morally futile their activities are in a historical context.  He keeps getting kicked around for this, but he keeps on doing it, which brings a profound and even somewhat hopeful dimension to what might otherwise be dismissed as nihilistic thrillers (which Robinson's work unfortunately gets dismissed as judging from its limited availability in libraries and other establishment venues).  "Skull" is not the main character-- he just keeps popping up at odd moments.  And that is part of what makes him so effective, because the novels' anti-war theme never gets preachy like Hersey's The War Lover or programatic and repetitive like Heller's Catch 22.These three books should be much more widely available as a unit, although Damned Good Show falls off a little from the first two, as though Robinson was getting discouraged at the sparse response to A Good Clean Fight.
5 I read this book in 1993 when it came out. Having served for five years &quot;in the ranks&quot; of the RAF (1953-58) I was enthralled and enchanted by seeing so many of the people I had known, come to life. The  feckless irresponsibility of the young pilot officers having races down  mansion staircases seated on silver serving trays, the stubbornness of the  Wing Commander who held tight formations no matter how fatal ... real  people, real life.Perhaps to American eyes there are aspects of the  class interaction that may seem to be cariacatures, but they are not. The  chap who attended a &quot;good&quot; public school (means &quot;private  school&quot; in the U.S.) was accepted by his peers as a person &quot;of  station&quot;, and his foibles were viewed as the right of the privileged  class. The poor erks (as we were known) were as far down the pecking order  as it was possible to be, and only longed for a condescending glance of  approval from those above us.Living, lively, if you want to know what  real war felt like, this book does it. You'll never forget  &quot;Baggy&quot; and his unfortunate demise.
5 Piece of Cake ranks right up there with Winds of War, and Catch 22.  Wait a sec!  Those two novels aren't anything alike.  That's what makes Piece of Cake so different and wonderful.  There's all the drama and hilarity of the other two, but tied into an incredible story that not only puts you in the cockpit, but in the midst of battle.  Some would say P of C is a drama about the Battle of Britain.  More than that.  Much more.  A fighter squadron is made up of people who think quite differently, about the world, about the war, and about staying alive.  What are they fighting for?  Themselves.  Their buddies.  Booze.  Women.  Pretty much in that order.  King and country?  Well, yeah, sort of.Piece of Cake also has a history to tell and in the telling, lays low myths like a well sharpened scythe in a field of lilies.  Gives you a new perspective on the war, but more than that, like any great novel, it works its way into your brain and into your guts enough to make you wonder what you know and what you think you know.The characters stand out from the page, as if you'd just had one beer and they'd asked you to buy another round.  Or, more likely, they'd held you upside down until all your money fell out and you had no choice but to buy another round.  These are men who live in the same small room as darkness and danger.  You'll meet quite a few of them and you'll be happy you did.  I don't give one care if you don't like novels about flying and war and historical events.  Doesn't matter a whit.  You'll still love this book.
5 I looked for this book after catching the end of the miniseries on TV. I guess the author broke a lot of "rules" about characters and probably other things, too, but I loved it. You might be introduced to a character, learn all about him, and find him dead two pages later. This gave me a sense for what it might have been like to live through those harrowing years. The readers, just like the aviators themselves, don't know who's going to make it through. An absolutely fascinating drama. Highly recommended!
4 The Battle of Britain. Dashing, fearless young patriots out of Shakespeare take to their machines to save Albion from Nazi bombers. Battling hopeless odds and a vastly superior enemy, these lions of the sky prevail against evil, save democracy, and land back at base in time for their tea.Or not.Derek Robinson's "Piece of Cake" has to be one of the most brutally cynical, myth-debunking pieces of historical fiction ever put to pen. In its 650+ pages it methodically, and at times gleefully, ravages the heroic sterotype of Britain's fighter pilots cemented by the hundreds of books, movies, and documentaries which have come out since the war. In the language of the book, it puts paid to all that bumf and tells the truth --or rather, Robinson's version of it."Cake" is the story of Hornet Squadron, a rather average collection of fighter pilots flying Hurricanes, between September 1939 and September 1940. It details their involvement in the "phoney war," the Battle of France and lastly, the Battle of Britain. From the very first chapter, when a number of the pilots wreck their car while driving home drunk from a pub, then steal a tractor, and finally horses, to get back to their base, the reader begins to realize that we few, we happy few, we band of brothers, is nowhere to be found here. With the occasional exception, Hornet Squadron is a collection of snobbish, selfish, sophomoric, not-too-terribly bright adrenaline junkies who joined the RAF in the hopes of blowing things up without legal consequences. It's a case of be careful what you wish for, times two.For a story with so many characters -- the squadron has more than a dozen, and chaps are always getting knocked off and replaced -- Robinson does a terrific job of keeping them all fresh and distinct from each other. Each reader will have his own favorite "good" guy -- goodhearted flight leader Fanny Barton, the cold-blooded American volunteer Christopher Hart ("CH3"), the crazy as a loon Flash Gordon, or possibly the non-fighting duo of "Uncle" Kellaway (the squadron adj) and his sidekick, an Oxford don turned intelligence officer "Skull" Skellen, who spend a lot of time arguing about squirrels. There is no question about the squadron's biggest bastard -- not since "GoodFellas" Joe Pesci/Tommy DeVito did I hate somebody as much as Lance "Moggy" Cattermole, the big, smooth-talking sociopath who seems to enjoy tormenting and using his squadron mates even more than he likes to machine-gun German pilots as they hang helpless in their parachutes. Robinson takes positive delight in showing how how Hart's theory that "up there the world is divided into bastards and suckers" also applies on terra firma."Piece of Cake" was a contraversial book not only for its thoroughly unglamorous depiction of the RAF jocks but because it expands on the touchy and undiscussed issue of the RAF's kill claims. The pilots, who in fairness can hardly be blamed for making mistakes given the nature of air combat prior to the installation of the gun camera, claimed about 2.5 German aircraft destroyed for every one that actually was. The vastly overstated statistics issued by the RAF made their way into the postwar literature and contributed to the mythos surrounding the battle. In point of fact, the Germans had about 900 fighters to the Brits 600, and the Me 109 was badly hampered by its extremely short range and the necessity to try and protect the bombers. The odds were somewhat closer than the Brits care to believe."Piece of Cake" wasn't written to disparage the courage of the British pilots or denigrate their accomplishments, but to show them for what they were -- young, often immature officer-boys of varying character who sometimes died stupid and futile deaths. In other words, human beings at war. In this sense, Robinson does the RAF a favor, for heroism is much more impressive when it comes from real people rather than Hollywood cartoons. After all, peacetime flaws often make for wartime virtues. Or as Hart says to Fanny Barton about Moggy: "He really does like killing people. You don't know how lucky you are to have him."
4 I remember a few moons ago (about 20 years ago really) seeing something about the mini-series Piece of Cake and not being able to watch it (sorry, to poor to afford it then) and being a little interested in aviation warfare I decided I'd have to read it at some point.  After spending sometime looking about and finally deciding to deal in the second hand market I picked up a copy of Piece of Cake.Piece of Cake describes a British squadron (Hornet Squadron, flying Hurricanes for those that are interested) in the early days of WWII (September 1939 thru September 1940).  Mr. Robinson uses the cloak of early WWII (historical setting and British tactics) to tell the story and interactions of the men of Hornet Squadron.  All of the characters are larger than life, at times making them a little hard to believe, but having known many fighter pilots in my day I can say that the only possibly making it difficult to believe is having all of these "characters" in one unit.  Each character is nicely done, with personal details that are amazing, whether its Moggy and his egocentric/homicidal ways, CH3 and his this is the way it was done in Spain, "Lord" Rex is proper British, to "Fanny" Barton and his caring ways.  The exploits are fascinating, there's some interesting romance situations, especially given the Phony War and the lead up to the Battle for France.  The historical perspective is nicely done with Mr. Robinson showing good awareness of RAF tactics and battle situations.  If there's a weakness in the book it's that Mr. Robinson's dark humor sometimes overshadows thing to much and he overemphasis the inflated claims of the RAF during the Battle of Britain and their losses.Rating wise this ones a very solid 4 star book.  The first half is a little slow and drawn out as Mr. Robinson explains Hornet Squadron's makeup and things begin to gel.  As you pass from the Phony War to the Battle for France there's a nice step up in the story that pushes the book toward 4.5 stars.  This is eventually reached during the Battle of Britain with a momentary 5 star piece with the interactions between Moggy and Steel-Stebbing (you need to read it, great for a laugh).  Given everything, a solid 4 star performance.
5 Piece of Cake is much more than just a very well written war novel - which it is.  In Piece of Cake, aviation author Derek Robinson uses the small group genre by focuses on the notional "Hornet squadron" as a means to bring to light many of the Royal Air Force's doctrinal, equipment and personnel deficiencies in the first year of the Second War.  Piece of Cake is also a darn good examination of character and leadership - or lack of - in warfare.  Typically, "the few" who flew for Britain in 1939-1941 are presented as an exemplary elite, who sacrificed themselves for the greater good.  In Piece of Cake, Robinson may have angered those who favored such a hallowed historiography, but he gives the reader a greater insight into what was probably much closer to the actual mark in Fighter Command in this early phase of the war.  Indeed, it would be fair to rank Piece of Cake among the best war novels ever written.Robinson's plot line follows the notional Hornet Squadron from 1 September 1939 to 15 September 1940, and the unit is equipped with Hurricane I and II fighters (not Spitfires, as in the film version).  The reader is presented with three different leadership styles in the squadron leaders: the self-destructive style of Ramsey, the arrogant style of Rex and the fatalistic style of "Fanny" Barton.  The squadron adjutant "Uncle" Kellaway and the intelligence officer "Skull" Skelton also add considerable depth on the human and scientific sides of warfare. The pilots themselves are a pretty stock bunch, as they are in most Robinson novels, with the exceptions of the sociopath "Moggy" Cattermole and the American, Chris Hart.  Indeed, one of the major differences between the book and the film is the relationship between "Moggy" and Squadron Leader Rex, which is never explained in the film.  In the book, Robinson paints "Moggy" in the role of the "squadron enforcer," who is fiercely loyal to Rex due to perks provided.  Indeed, "Moggy" even kills to protect Rex, which is odd for a character that displays no loyalty to anyone else in the squadron.Robinson's portrayal of the RAF's inadequate tactics and doctrine is quite interesting.  In particular, the large formation "fighting area attacks" put the RAF at a major disadvantage against the Luftwaffe's more fluid "finger four" tactics.  Indeed, through A Piece of Cake, the reader is presented with a year's worth of tactical and doctrinal evolution in the RAF, with the initial faulty methods yielding grudgingly to more sensible means of waging air warfare.  Robinson also seems to include every fighter pilot "lesson learned" in A Piece of Cake, which makes the novel virtually a primer for dog fighting (e.g. never climb away from the sun, don't always break left - the favored direction).  Yet despite Hornet Squadron's tactical improvements, Robinson shows that survival in warfare still comes down to a certain matter of luck, as even the veteran pilots succumb to mistakes and fatigue.  Few other accounts of the Battle of Britain demonstrate how punishing the August-September 1940 campaign was to RAF fighter squadrons as well as Robinson's fictional account.Probably the only defect in A Piece Cake is the lack of perspective from the enemy side.  In Robinson's later A Good Clean Fight, he does provide some insight from the enemy perspective, but this is lacking in A Piece of Cake.  The number of squadron veteran pilots is ever dwindling in the face of the massed Luftwaffe attacks, but the results are uncertain given Skull's exposure of dubious pilot "kill" claims.  In Robinson's novel, the reader is unsure who is actually winning the Battle of Britain (certainly the actual participants would have been uncertain at that moment, too), but it is suggested that the British are exaggerating their "kill" claims for propaganda purposes.  Certainly in retrospect, the Battle of Britain seems more like a "goal line stand" than an outright victory, but Robinson's portrayal may strike some readers (armed with knowledge of the end result) as ambiguous or even defeatist in tone.  Furthermore, the Luftwaffe also suffered from faulty doctrine (being designed as a tactical, not a strategic bombing force) and inadequate equipment (short-range Me-109s, the clumsy Me-110).  If Robinson had provided a bit of enemy perspective, even with a captured pilot or two, this might have shown that the campaign was punishing and frustrating for both sides.
3 The author of this well-written story aimed for controversy; this is an attack on that British sacred cow, the Royal Air Force in the Battle of Britain.  Although well researched and presenting some uncomfortable truths  there is a good deal of mean-spiritedness in the depiction of the  characters and a lot of unnecessary ugliness.Robinson presents us with  the doomed pilots of Hornet Squadron, a collection of largely inexperienced  soldiers sent to war with what the author considers misguided tactical  training.  One of the book's main points is that British losses were  heavier, and German losses lighter, than the British claimed at the time.  Pilots are lost long before the squadron sees any action, however, and a  good deal of stress is laid on the personal shortcomings of the airmen.  An  American veteran of the Spanish Civil War joins the squadron, and the  author makes some points about military class-consciousness A La &quot;The  Revolt of Gunner Asch&quot; (oh, it exists in other armies? What a  surprise!)The BBC TV version was quite faithful to the book.  I found  both to be a little too unpleasant for my own taste.
5 Great book about the Battle of Britain.  Take off in a Hurricane to face Hitler's aerial assault!  I don't think this author subscribes to the &#34;greatest generation&#34; theory!  Hooligans are just as much a part of this story as heroes.  I really liked that the author showed exploits on the ground as well as the air and that they were not necessarily laudable!  Pick this book if you are interested in England, World War 2, the Battle of Britain, or aviation.  Great read!
5 This book was made into a Masterpiece Theatre series on PBS in the late 1980's.  It is an enthralling production.  Years later, I read the book and highly recommend both.  Robinson gave some very vivid scenes of aerial battle in the skies over England and the Channel.  Whether you read it first or view it first, you'll want to do both.
5 This book, which was the subject of a Master Piece Theater presentation  is witty and fun to read. Even though it is a work of fiction, The story takes the reader directly into the world of the RAF early in the war.
4 The story of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I, from her auspicious birth as the daughter of the fascinating Anne Boleyn, through her fears of losing her life under her father's, brother's and sister's reigns, and continuing until the end of her life.Jean Plaidy always presents history in such a fascinating way.  By presenting Elizabeth's story from her own perspective, it makes the history seem alive and Elizabeth as a vibrant woman, not as the dry mannequin she seems like in history books.
4 I've been a Queen Elizabeth I fan since I was a little girl and I enjoy reading or watching anything about her. This book was right up my alley.I do love that this starts from the beginning of her life, as all Jean Plaidy's Queen's of England series do. I like how Plaidy shows how precarious her position was under her father and half-brother and sister, Edward and Mary. She shows how Elizabeth looked to the mistakes of others and learns from them. She even shows the mistakes Elizabeth makes and shows them to be learning points for the queen she is to become.But Elizabeth isn't all glory. She is a vain and selfish person at times and sometimes I felt that was all she was. But in her characteristic style she was able to pull me back into loving her again.I felt that Plaidy has taken a wonderful and great person and made her more human than the history books can. Even though Elizabeth's selfishness sometimes made me want to scream, it was who she was and that gives the book something different from others.In comparision to Phillipa Gregory's novels Plaidy's Elizabeth can think for herself without having men to do all the thinking for her. This is the Elizabeth I've come to love. I do like how Jean Plaidy shows that, although she loved Robert Dudley, she didn't give into thim, and felt that she didn't have to marry and have a king beside her in order to rule. She truly was a woman ahead of her time.We have Queen Elizabeth I to thank for the defeat of the Spanish Armada, the settling of Virginia and William Shakespeare. And in Plaidy's novel all of these things are place in perfect rhythym with Court life, Elizabeth's affections for certain men and her hatred of others.I do feel, however, that her hatred of Lettic Knolly's was really unfounded. I found no reason for her to hate her, other than the fact that she just does.This is a good and meaty book that is sure to give hours of pleasure.
5 I've read several nonfiction books on Queen Elizabeth 1 now, and Plaidy did a wonderful job of fictionally portraying her.Obviously, we will never know the Queen's true feelings on some subjects, because she did a great job of keeping people guessing, but I liked the Elizabeth that is in this book!
4 really enjoyable story of QE I's life from her perspective. easy reading, great gossipy drama like we chicks love, and you learn much about brit history.if the author wrote on a little higher intellectual level like umberto eco or something on penguin books it would b a 5/5.would be a great gift for young girls because QE I is a great role model - she kicks butt in a man's world, she's smart, and doesn't let men control her.
5 I have read a dozen historical novels about Queen Elizabeth I, and this one is by far the best.Comprehensively researched, richly detailed and written in an exciting and vibrant manner, there is not an aspect of Elizabeth's life that the author does not touch on.From her childhood trauma at the execution of her mother when she was three and Elizabeth being branded as a 'bastard' through to her precarious hold onto her life while she came under danger during the reigns of her father, brother and sister.Wonderful examination of her  sexual exploitation by her stepfather Sir Thomas Seymour, how she escaped death under the reign of her elder half-sister Bloody Mary, as illustrated by her carving of the words "Much suspected by me, Nothing proved can be, Quoth Elizabeth prisoner" into a window at Woodstock Manor.The book well illustrates what shaped Elizabeth into the cunning and wily, and vain but not unmerciful ruler.It explores her deep love for Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, her life soul mate,of whom even he, she would not marry, determined to share her throne with no one. also her fascination and adoration of the vain and foolish young Earl of Leicester who she was forced to have executed after his attempts to depose her.Her religious convictions are shown to be of expedience. she would choose the faith her subjects wanted England to be governed by, which was why she was a Protestant in a fervently Protestant England, reeling from the horrors of Mary I's attempt to transfer the Spanish Inquisition to England.The book is sympathetic to Elizabeth, nothing like Philippa Gregory's vilification of her, but at the same time does not gloss over her faults.It portrays her great guilt at the execution of Mary queen of Scots and her finest hour in rallying England to defend her shores and win the great victory against the Spanish Armada that threatened her realm and the freedom of her people-the Spanish ships carried devices of torture designed to bring all of the horrors of the Inquisition to England.Great characterization, realistic and yet fascinating and gripping . True to form of one of Jean Plaidy- who with 50 intriguing title to her name, remains one of the greatest historical novelists of English historyWell worth the time and effort.
3 For those looking for a detailed and surface historical account of Queen Elizabeth's reign, then look to this novel by Jean Plaidy. However, for those looking for drama, intrigue and a thrilling read, look elsewhere.The book begins on an interesting note as it traces Queen Elizabeth's childhood, which often is not included in movies and other accounts. Her childhood, I might add, was the most entertaining part of the book.As Plaidy takes her readers further into the life of the Queen the yawns from boredom increased. Her novel becomes too technical and spends way too much time talking about who each and every subject related to the Queen is...often at times, even delving into characters that the reader need not know at all.Lastly, I found it most disappointing that Plaidy wrote as if the Queen truly had remained a total and utter virgin (even down to abstaining from any romantic kiss). Yes, Queen Elizabeth was a supreme ruler and an admirable woman, there is no doubt to this fact, but maybe it's just me...I find it hard to believe that a Queen, who had her pick of all the men in Europe, would not once in her 70 years indulge herself romantically. Was she not completely in love with Robert (it is stated as such over and over again in the novel)? I am sure that at least once there was some passion between them. Just don't expect to find any of it in this strictly G rated novel.
5 Plaidy has done a great job with Elizabeth. Although it's written sort of like a diary, which can get boring, she manages to keep the pace going well. Since she a writer who stays true to history, we gain not only knowledge about this period but also insights into the young girl frightened for her life who matures into an old queen still longing for love and admiration. A really good read, and there aren't many books these days that can keep me engaged for four hundred pages.
5 Queen of This Realm is one of Plaidy's best novels; a complete fictional look at the youth and reign of Queen Elizabeth I.  Written as a memoir by Queen Elizabeth, you will learn about her first scandalous love affair with her step-mother, Katherine Parr's, husband and the following life-long, unconsummated love of her life, Robert Dudley.  Love and betrayal were all a part of the Queen's life and it often reads like a soap opera!Queen Elizabeth was bold, highly intelligent, supremely vain, and one of the greatest monarchs of England.  You will be taken in and enthralled by the story of her close calls with execution at the hand of her sister, Queen Mary, and her fascination with and eventual execution of her cousin, Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland, who plotted to claim the English throne as her own for most of her life (her story is told in Royal Road To Fotheringay to be reissued Fall 2004).This is a stellar novel; you won't believe how fascinating history can be to read until you've read Plaidy!  She has written over 50 books, most of which are out of print, but can be found in libraries and online.  Once you start reading her, you can't stop!
4 I liked this book very much. It conformed pretty closely with my own image of Gloriana... a woman who couldn't afford to let herself act like one, and a tempermental, vain, but most of all, very intelligent monarch.I also very much appreciated that Ms. Plaidy didn't choose to dabble in the 'multiple lovers' and 'secret children' nonsense so prevelant among historical fiction accounts. It's so refreshing not to have to wade through the garbage.However, there was one aspect of the story that bothered me... only a little at first, but by the time I finished it had nearly ruined the book: Elizabeth's constant physical violence against nearly everyone. She everlastingly reports 'nipping,' 'pinching,' and 'slapping.' In reality, there are only a few recorded instances of this happening, and I doubt that her ladies would have loved her as much as they did if they had been under unceasing physical attack while performing their duties.Also, I didn't appreciate the furthering of the myth of 'Bloody Mary.' (Cue thunderbolts and scary music.) I think history has pretty well established that Mary was not a monster, nor were her years as queen a waste or a prelude to the time of Elizabeth. Mary Tudor was a sweet, sensitive person who went through unimaginable pain and emotional torment. I think that's quite enough for one person without also being constantly maligned by popular history.In the end, I realize that these are fairly small complaints, when compared with such a very good book. Thank you, Ms. Plaidy!
5 This is the second volume in Jean Plaidy's well-written "Queens of England" series of books. As in all the books in this series, it is written as a first person narrative, creating an intimacy of style that makes the book all the more compelling and immensely readable. Replete with fascinating period detail, political machinations, public personages, and historical events that were a part of the life of Queen Elizabeth I, the author builds a fascinating, three dimensional portrait of a woman and queen.The author recounts the early years of Elizabeth, a troubled child, unsure of her place in the affections of her father, King Henry VIII. Knowing that he had had her mother, Anne Boleyn, beheaded, an impressionable Elizabeth observed the succession of women who took her mother's place and assessed how they fared at her father's hands.Elizabeth lived through the reign of her younger half-brother, Edward VI, as well as that of her half-sister, Mary, during whose reign Elizabeth would come perilously close to losing her life under allegations of treason. Having survived the reign of her sister, whose legacy would forever enshrine her in history as "Bloody Mary" for her fanatical persecution of Catholics, Elizabeth would come to the throne as a Protestant with a penchant for religious tolerance towards her Catholic subjects.The author takes the reader through the ascension of Elizabeth to the throne and her glorious reign, making the reader understand why Elizabeth I is revered as one of the greatest monarchs the world has ever known. From the early halcyon days of her reign to the more troubled ones that were to follow, the author fully engages the reader. The author also recounts the story of Elizabeth's close relationship with Robert Dudley, her Master of Horse, whom she would make the Earl of Leicester.Through her, Dudley became one of the most powerful men in her kingdom, as Elizabeth I granted him all but his most fervent wish, which was to have her hand in marriage. This wily and scholarly Queen would not share her power with any man, not even Dudley, a man she professed to love. Nonetheless, she would have a life long relationship with Robert Dudley, and his death, while in his fifties, would mark Elizabeth I for the remainder of her long life.The fractious relationships Elizabeth I would have with some of her courtiers are recounted, as are the ones that were more harmonious. Familial relationships, scandals, and intrigues would also have their impact, not just on Elizabeth I, but on the monarchy and the world, as well. Such is the lot of monarchs, and the reign of Elizabeth I was no different. World events and their effect on England also pepper this book, and at the center of it all was the indomitable Elizabeth I, a queen regnant who made England into a world power with which to be reckoned. Her reign would go down in history as the glorious Elizabethan era.This is a wonderful book that those with a penchant for historical fiction will, no doubt, enjoy. Ms. Plaidy is a master storyteller, seamlessly weaving a tapestry of events and personalities that make this book one to be savored.
4 This book gives a multi dimensional perspective of one of the most complex people of all time.  Queen Elizabeth was surely an engima and Jean Plaidy brought her to life in a most believable way.
5 From the opening lines, "When I look over the first twenty-five years of my life and consider the number of times I was in danger of losing it," the reader is swept up into the majestic mind and spirit of the iconic Elizabeth I. Jean Plaidy began writing historical fiction in the fifties, and to the modern-day reader she may seem a tad dated and naive; yet her consummate command of history and ability to effortlessly transition from scene to scene are commanding and refreshing in an era of overheated fiction and an emphasis on the lurid.A friend loaned me this book; I found it captivating and immensely easy to read, even as I learned about Elizabeth and her times. This is a vastly different Elizabeth from the devious narcissist of Philippa Gregory's works or the volatile spirited girl of C.W.Gortner's book, but she is worth exploring all the same.
4 This is the seventh Jean Plaidy novel that I have read. I enjoyed it and read the book within 4 days. I got a good overview of the life of Elizabeth and I think the best part was getting her life in chronological order. Some movies that I have seen recently (such as Elizabeth: The Golden Age) decide to completely disregard her age and the mood of the English people.I gave it four stars because it is very repetitive (which is my main complaint with almost all of Plaidy's novels). She repeats the characterizations of Elizabeth's men numerous times and it is a bit irritating.However, I would recommend it as a good novel for Elizabeth fans. But my 2 favorite Plaidy novels remain The Thistle and the Rose and Mary: Queen of France (about Henry VIII's 2 sisters).
5 The complete story of Queen Elizabeth.  This gives a very believable account of the virgin queen and her would-be lovers.  To Elizabeth, power was what love was to other women and ruled her life.  She instinctively knew that yielding to a man would diminish her power. This was an educational story of the Elizabethan times as well as a warm account of Elizabeth.
4 Queen of This Realm tells the story of one of England's most remembered monarchs, Queen Elizabeth I, beginning with childhood and continuing on with her adult life as Queen.As usual, Jean Plaidy tells a detailed, mainly historically accurate story, this time from Elizabeth's point of view.  The novel is a bit slow in places, but overall a great read.  It is especially interesting to read Plaidy's take on Elizabeth's feelings at certain pivotal times of her life, such as with the death of Amy Robsart.  And who knew she enjoyed pinching people's arms so much :) (Plaidy often refers to her doing this - kind of humourous).Recommended for historical fiction and royalty fans!
5 i love jean's first person narrative create  a style were you feel you understand the character point of view.you understand her relationship with her father,brother,sister and stepmothers.her longing to no her mother.
4 I'm a big fan of Jean Plaidy's novels.  This book provides a thorough look at The "virgin queen"  She didn't shy away from pointing out Elizabeth's flaws, which as a fiction writer she had some liberty with.  Though Elizabeth's pattern of surrounding herself with young male courtiers and being notoriously jealous of other women is factually known, I think Plaidy nails it here and maintains a balance between portraying a strong female who was ahead of her time and knew that marriage would mean giving up her control but also one who is vain, jealous and attention seeking.Though Elizabeth was not tyrannical like her father she does share his abilities of self delusion, desperately trying to hang onto their youth and reliving their "glory days".  I found her behavior towards Lettice Knollys both hypocritical and unreasonable and a far cry from trailblazing queen you learn about in history class.  Plaidy provides a complete thorough portrait, in contrast to the Elizabeth inThe Virgin's Lover (Boleyn)who I found needy and gullible.
4 I have always loved James Herbert's books, and although I have read this book before, reading it again reminded me why I adore this man's books. The build up of wrongness creates a tension where you feel as if you can shout at the characters to turn around, something bad is coming, but yet, you take every step with them. I love the character of Ash, the turmoil within him which makes the story so much more scarier. The author's ability to describe so vividly a place or situation where you can actually picture it your mind (the classroom for example) is another reason why I enjoy his books. As with the first time, I absolutely enjoyed and loved reading the book again.
5 The Ghosts of Sleath is what I would call a true horror novel. It covers everything that most horror fans could wish for including (but in no way limited to), violence, the unknown, zombies, murder, a very descriptive sex scene, rape, you name it. Oh, and it also contains ghosts, obviously. To me, the most enjoyable thing about this novel was the way it did not let the reader know what was going on too soon. I love the unknown factor in horror novels when they use it but usually you find out that the book is about zombies, vampires, some monster,  a restless spirit, or just some guy who hates barking dogs right in the beginning. If you like these kinds of books where half the plot is given away on the back of the book and most of the rest by the cover, you may not enjoy this horror masterpiece by James Herbert. I can easily say that this is my favorite Herbert novel so far, some how managing to beat out The Fog and Domain. Some details from other Herbert novels make an appearance here as well. David Ash returns in this far superior sequel to Haunted to smoke a lot and drink Vodka, and to attempt to do his job. Thick impenetrable fog is in the book, rats, and even the word portent. Maybe I am reading into this a bit much but I like when authors mention their other works because of Stephen King's habit of doing so.Over all, a viciously terrifying book, one that I actually stopped reading one night because it got to me so much. I have read hundreds of horror novels and maybe one out of every hundred scares me now. The Ghosts of Sleath has that great honor and I can't thank it and its author enough for it. I will end this with a visual. If you know what a jack plane is, imagine a crazed carpenter using it on a helpless nineteen-year-old boy's face, after beating him horribly with a heavy wooden mallet. If you don't know what a jack plane is, several tool purchasing sites should assist you and ultimately convince you to read this horror gem
5 I read this novel many years ago, but ordered it to read it again.  James Herbert is a master story-teller, and a very scary one.  Who are the ghosts, and what do they want?  Just as importantly, what is the cost of finding out.  Follow David Ash in his paranormal investigation and be involved in a convoluted tale of a town with a horrifying past that has come back to haunt and to collect its dues.  Be frightened, be horrified, and be utterly aghast as the climax exacts its toll not only on the town and the investigator, but also on the reader.
4 This is the first of James Herbert's stories that I have read.  It's a shame he died last March, because he probably had a lot more stories in him.  The Ghosts of Sleath manages to hold your attention and draw you in to the story pretty quickly.  The main character, David Ash, is likeable enough, and his confusion about what is going on in the little town of Sleath is very believable.  The main female character, with whom he falls in lust, is less believable and less likable. All in all, the story moves along quickly and Ash's attempt to figure out what is happening is believable. The ending, with it's explanation of what has prompted all the ghostly sightings, is pretty far-fetched, but what would you expect in a ghost story?  A good summertime read.
3 As a horror/ghost story, 'The Ghosts of Sleath' is pretty good.As another entry in the apparently ongoing saga of David Ash, it's...okay.Overall, the book is worth reading, but not spectacular, and it falls somewhat short of the promise of the first few chapters.Herbert actually addressed some of the problems with 'Haunted' and fixed them here, except he overcompensated.While 'Haunted' didn't have very many characters or too much action, since it was leading up to a big 'surprise revelation' at the end, 'Sleath' becomes overcrowded with supporting players, as we see the haunting of the town from from the perspectives of various residents. This approach worked well for Stephen King in some of his epic novels,(and even for Herbert, in 'The Rats' and 'The Fog', among others) but for some reason, it didn't 'click' with me when Herbert tried it here. Most of  the characters were a bit 'off' or 'weird' to start with, so I didn't get that sense of sympathy for 'regular people' caught up in weird situations, with the exception of Ellen Preddle.Herbert is often praised for his descriptiveness, as well as his ability to write 'gore'. I felt that he overdid both of those aspects here.The passages mentioning child abuse are downright uncomfortable to read, while even the gore loses its shock value because there's so much of it.In addition, some of the scarier moments, as well as even the 'down to earth' passages, are simply TOO long and 'rambling'.There was one scene in 'Haunted' where a character rambles on in a 'north country' accent for a couple of pages. Herbert removed almost all traces of 'rural' speech patterns here, and while I didn't mind it in the previous book, I thought it would have made the dialogue in 'Sleath' a bit more believable.Ultimately, 'Sleath' falls short of classic status because Herbert just tried to cram too much into the story. It felt like there was too much going on, and too many characters to keep track of(especially in the later chapters). The 'mysterious fog' sequences were too reminiscent of Herbert's earlier work ('The Fog'),suggesting that he was running out of ideas.Also, when a very minor chracter is reintroduced into the story later on, and the author has to remind us of who that character is, and where we last saw him, it's not a good sign. Unfortunately, Herbert does this twice at crucial points.While there's usually something to be said for paying close attention to the text and keeping track of characters and plot developments, Herbert's pace, alternating between languid and frantic, makes it hard to keep track of absolutely everything.There are more than a few passages that readers may find themselves skimming over, simply because they've got the gist of the details, and Herbert is only repeating himself. This novel often reads as if he was paid by the word.Finally, some thoughts on David Ash: While there is some development of his character, and a few moments recalling 'Haunted', I just didn't find him to be a very likable, or charismatic, character. He sounded a little too much like any other 'cynical English bloke' so often found in stories like this. His personality was a bit bland, even considering all he'd been through, and his few attempts and black humor were so perfunctory, Herbert should have just skipped them. I like the idea of the 'Psychical Research Institute', and would like to see more of it...but I'm not sure if David Ash should be the focus of any more stories..unless Herbert decides to actually do something with the 'personal/working relationship' between David and Kate.If not, then just do away with Ash, and let someone else from the 'Institute' encounter HIS ghost!
3 '48 is as about as action packed as you can get.  It starts off running and never really stops, the book is almost exhausting to read.The plot is pure b-movie pulp.  Hitler uses an unstable chemical weapon that, ala The Andromeda Strain, turns blood to dusty clots in the veins of victims.  Too bad it spreads and kills everyone in the world, except for a lucky few.  The luckiest of the dead died quick, in a matter of minutes.  But some live on, clots slowly forming throughout their bloodstream and causing gangrene and other nasty and terribly slow ways to die.  It is from these last few, and quite insane, hangers on that our mixed bag of immune heroes must alternate between fleeing and fighting.Most of the novel uses plot points taken from either the cult classic Mad Max or the cheese classic The Omega Man.  It's a quick enough read that is easy to forget.  Mr. Herbert may have written far better books, but this one is as about as exciting as a plate of literary whipped cream can get.  Recommended to those looking for light, fast paced, and exciting reading.
4 _'48_ is the sort of book James Herbet writes better than anyone.  It's not a classic by any means, but this is a lean, mean novel, which reminded me again why I was attracted to Herbert's novels in the first place.  More than half of the book consists of extended chase scenes, with economical descriptions and well-defined characters. Plenty of twists and turns in a plot reminiscent of the film _The Omega Man_ (adapted from Richard Matheson's _I Am Legend_).  Definitely recommended for fans of James Herbert's earlier novels (like _The Rats_ and _The Fog_).
2 I've nearly read everything by James Herbert, and I have to say he writes a lot of bad books. And a lot of average books. And some rare really good books. This one belongs in the middlefield.The story sounds interesting, but he doesn't make anything of it really. The war scenario is also useless. Even the title sounds sooo interesting, but in the end... well, is has some suspense, but it's pulp suspense with no real content.This is fast-read stuff. Okay, but time can be better spent.
2 I had to read this book as well as "The Haunted" after watching the movie on which, both novels are evidently based. I'm often amazed when a movie is better than the books. And in this case the movie was far superior! In writing, in plot, and pacing, the movie outstrips the books in a way that the author probably finds offensive.Do not waste precious time on these novels, rent the movie instead. If you must read a suspense novel, particularly a british one, read a great one! I recommend anything by Phil Rickman who is phenomenal to say the very least.
3 Unfortunately Herbert somehow fails to capture the imagination in The Ghosts of Sleath as much as he does in most of his other books. The story centres around psychic investigator, David Ash, who delves into mysterious events that are terrorizing the community of Sleath, where he comes across a dark character called Phelan. Though the premise of the book is sound, and though there are solid descriptions, somehow Herbert doesn't quite capture the imagination. Maybe it's that word `solid' that gives the clue.None of Herbert's books could be called weak, and I'd like to give this one three-and-a-half stars, but The Ghosts of Sleath doesn't quite come up to the spendid page-gripping terror that this author is well capable of. Don't let that put you off either this book or James Herbert, because it's still darn good reading.
2 Herbert gets an extra star because he clearly spent a lot of time researching war time London. However, the good research wasn't nearly enough to save this novel. The premise of the book is that at the end of  the second world war, the nazis released some kind of virus that wiped out  most of the world population rather than admitting defeat. The problems are  as follows:1. He used a noir-ish tone for his characters, but it wasn't  well done and instead of stylish, it just came across as badly  written.2. The constant action scenes were better suited to a bad film  than a bad novel.3. The characters were cardboard cut-outs, and their  actions in relation to each other made very little sense at all.Total  summation: Skip this one.
3 James Herbert's '48 is a good example of the "last-man-on-earth" theme that has been growing in creativity and gore in recent years (compare 2004's Dawn of the Dead or Resident Evil to 1978's The Omega Man for a rather graphic representation of this progression). Set in post-World-War-II London, this book is the story of a small band of survivors struggling to flee the evil, destructive "black-shirts" in a world decimated by Hitler's last-ditch, desparate, horrific attack. The "B2" bombs, warheads filled with a devastating virus called the "blood death," have wiped out nearly all of the world's population. The only survivors are those with the extremely rare AB-negative blood type and a handful of other, less fortunate souls who survived the initial attack but are slowly dying from the blood disease nonetheless.The story starts with an immediate pulse-pounding chase scene as the protagonist, Hoch, is pursued through the London's empty streets by a gang of murderous thugs loyal to Hitler's ideals and infected with the blood death. Their only hope for long-term survival is to capture Hoch and drain him of his healthy blood, then attempt a transfusion.We follow Hoch down into the tunnels of London's Underground, into lavish hotel halls, and eventually to the top of the Tower Bridge, where he engineers a final standoff with the black-shirts who want his blood. Along the way, Hoch encounters a few other healthy individuals. One of them, Muriel, becomes a love interest in two drawn-out and unfortunately quite graphic sex scenes. Another, a German named Wilhelm Sterne, becomes the focus of Hoch's hatred in a series of character-development scenes that add surprising depth to the otherwise action-based plot.The body count in '48 is unknowable. Beyond the initial deaths of billions of people worldwide due to the blood death, Hoch singlehandedly kills hundreds of black-shirts during the course of the story. In one brief but nonetheless disturbing scene shown in a flashback, Hoch runs over an insane man in the street for no reason other than the fact that the man is in his way. Hoch's female companions continually entreat him to spare the lives of his enemies ("Hasn't there been enough killing?" is a common refrain from these characters); but Herbert's protagonist is unaffected by their pleas.This is a dark story that ends without imparting much hope for the future. It is without question entertaining--the rapidity of the plot and the well-written scenes of nonstop action see to that--and the characters are multilayered and for the most part believable. The book accomplishes exactly what it sets out to accomplish. However, due to the unoriginality of the story, the graphic sexuality, and the overwhelming scenes of violence, it is not one that I feel can be recommended.
2 Review '48Apocalyptic ActionThis story is about an alternate history where the Germans launch a devastating biological attack using V-2 rockets.  It is in the final days of the war in 1945 and Hitler's Reich is finished so he launches a virus that very well may kill off humanity.  The virus for some reason does not effect people with ABneg blood.Flash forward 3 years and the story begins.  The protagonist is an American who came to England as a volunteer fighter pilot to help the war effort.  He has been holed up at the Savoy, a fancy hotel with his trusted dog companion.  Immediately, his location is found and he is soon running for his life.  The bad guys are called the Black-Shirts.  They wear, you guessed it, black shirts and they have the virus and are slowly dying.  Yes, not all people affected died immediately.  The black shirts believe in their fascist leader and his belief that they can survive by performing a blood transfusion from someone who has ABneg blood.  The American hero of the story meets up with a few other survivors including an escaped German POW, a working class pub girl, and a upper class previously rich girl.The rest of the story is mostly boredom as they hole up somewhere and you are told in great detail the layout of the room and given detailed tedious descriptions of every piece of furniture and item in sight followed by being discovered and running and action and shooting and so on.  I'm not impressed at all by this book.  Because I like apocalyptic fiction, I refrained from giving it only one star since the idea is not bad.
2 Here's the run down: You've got a emotionally compromised psychic investigator who has been sent to an intellectually compromised town. He's heard creepy stuff has been happening and he's a scientist sent to do his thing. He does everything but behave like one however.To give him credit, 'ol Herb the author did have some suspense going. But as I was turning the pages, I was grimacing to find out what was next. There was an exceedingly large portion of icky violent scenes. And by ick, I mean things being ripped off, oozing down, cracking apart etc etc... Another con, would be the psychic-link romance quotient... Yeah, who'd a thought.
2 As a kid, I always classified Dean Koontz as the 'suspense' guy, Stephen King the 'scary' guy, and Herbert the 'sex and gore' guy. I loved his stuff - screwing in the woods one minute, guts being eaten by rats the next. I've not read him in 20 years, however, and was drawn to '48 by a dust jacket that seemed to promise a pretty interesting scenario. Unfortunately, the scenario is all this terrible book has to recommend it.I don't know if Herbert was just having a very bad day or if his writing has always been this bad. The 'story', what little there is, consists of being chased, getting caught, being chased again then winning - no suspense, no twists and turns, no suprises, no excitement, no gore, no sex. I would never have belived that my beloved James Herbert could have written a boring book, but with '48 he's managed it. In addition to such sins, he writes from the first person perspective of an American GI while failing to find a remotely believable American voice for him.On a seperate note, Herbert really needs to get himself another editor. '48 contains more typos than any book I've ever read from a mainsteam publisher. For example: "That suited me line", "the back of Iris head hit the floor", "the husband was sewing in the forces", "creeping Up on us", "a dent in Iris twisted logic".A grave dissappointment from a childhood favorite.
5 What if, in 1948 in the final phase of World War 2, a biological weapon was released?  After all such `wonder weapons' were really in development buy both Britain and Germany.  And what if, as a result, virtually all of the population of Britain were killed in one catastrophic day?  Only a few, the partially immune, survive for a while and even fewer, the naturally immune, live on untouched (at least by disease).  What would life then be like in 1948?  Thus the novel's title.As you can see, this is an alternate history, and so technically is science fiction.  James Herbert usually writes horror, but this effort is definitely not second rate as a result.  Herbert is "Britain's No.1 best-selling writer of chiller fiction, a position he has held since the publication of his first novel."  (&lt;'48>, p.1)  Herbert's novels "have sold over forty-two million copies." (Wikipedia)Hoke, the main character and first-person-narrator, is a US pilot who joined the British air force before his country joined the war. He is a hard-boiled character who is embittered by his experiences before and after the war.  The novel itself is thus also hard boiled and the reader is propelled headlong through it accompanying Hoke in a series of chases and fights.  Herbert reveals himself to be a master of tension with cliff-hanger chapter ending and surprise plot twists. There is one steamy sex scene, though it would only offend the most conservative of readers.A novel could hardly be written about 1948 without Fascism being mentioned, and indeed it is furnished with a band of British Nazis to serve as foe.  The novel is most `pat' on this issue, but then Hitler really did make those, now comic, speeches complete with huge rhetorical gestures and frenzied, shouted deliveries.  Considerable depth is given to the contemplation of this topic by the inclusion of the character of Wilhelm Stern.  Stern was involved in the war, but he at least &lt;seems> to be a decent person. Hoke's reaction to Stern is driven by a wild kind of hatred.  Hoke sees Stern through the eyes of propaganda.  Childishly, he cannot even stand the German's pronunciation of v for w (as in Vilhelm).Class is another theme covered by the novel.  Hoke and Cissie, another British survivor, are both lower class, but Hoke admires the British upper class' "stiff upper lip".  At one point the survivors wonder what happened to the Royal Family.  But isn't this sort of thing as much a result of propaganda and stereotype as `evil Germans'?  Herbert certainly digs deeper than this.The theme of madness is also developed in some depth.  Can anyone survive disaster virtually untouched mentally?  Is post-traumatic stress disorder in fact a sane reaction?  Doesn't paranoid caution have survival value?  As we have seen from his reaction to Stern, Hoke is touched by a kind of madness.Despite the `pat' appearance of the hard boiled style Herbert has constructed his characters with some depth.  Hoke is very interesting.  As we have hinted his judgements should not all necessarily be trusted.  This ambiguity makes the reader think rather than the author doing all the thinking for him. Muriel, an upper class survivor, is the stereotyped weeping floosy, clinging to the neck of the capable hero, but we should remember that in the era virtually no women worked and at least some were a product of social pressure which told them that they were exactly that: weak and in need of a man.  Cissie is much more a determined woman: feisty and willing to stand up to Hoke.  Modern female readers will like this character.This novel gets a rare 5 stars from me because it is both exciting and thematically rich.  The characterization is excellent and the style is intriguing and emotionally engaging.  Herbert manages to be both `popular' and deep: no easy feat. There is something in here for many different types of people: even the history enthusiast.  &lt;`48> is well worth the price.
3 The very first time I stumbled upon James Herbert,I read his novel "Nobody true" and was thrilled enough to give him chance several more times although nothing ever matched that first excitement - in fact,I noticed a certain sameness in his work so approached "48" with caution,ready to give up upon first negative character who happens to be big fat woman menacing the world. To my biggest surprise,this one turned out to be gripping read - in fact,action is happening so fast that I didn't have time to think about boredom,repeating or cliches - I was pulled on into never ending run through tunnels full of water,bombs falling on decrepit buildings,streets full of dead bodies and so on,really post apocalyptic world.Sure,it is obvious re-thinking of "Omega Man" and "28 days later" but it's fine by me,I like apocalyptic worlds and one survivor fighting bad guys. This time Herbert sets his story in post WW2 Europe where germans have infected the whole world with some deadly virus and only handful survivors is left to fight pro-Nazi army who is searching for fresh blood (literary). The main hero is american pilot (Hoke) and if he is not exactly nice character, the story around him is interesting enough to keep you reading long into the night.Interesting device: at the end of each chapter,Herbert introduces new twist in the story so it keeps you hooked and reader is pulled into next chapter.
4 I suggest that you first read Haunted (also written by Mr Herbert) before reading this book. It really would clarify a lot of things concerning Juliet (the protagonist's sister) and what happened to him at Edbrook. Both books revolve around David Ash's investigations and what happens to him in Haunted is constantly being referred to in this book, so much so that it actually becomes part of his character.In THE GHOSTS OF SLEATH, we're introduced to the once tranquil village called Sleath. Once tranquil only (but NOT solely) because a boy named Simon showed up. Yes, the same Simon who was just buried!Ghosts do not exist?David Ash works as a psychic investigator for the Psychical Research Institute. He has just completed his investigation in the 'mysterious' Bonadventure case and is immediately given another assignment. . .Ghosts do not exist?. . .Sleath. Apparently, many supposed hauntings are taking place in Sleath and David is the lucky one to go there and investigate. Almost upon arrival, he already has an encounter with something he refuses to acknowledge.Ghosts do not exist?Once in Sleath, he starts his investigations and what he finds. . .what he finds. . .the actual findings are. . .hidden within the pages of the book, where - without a doubt - GHOSTS.DO.EXIST.If you interested in things like ghosts (theres a variety of them, including a particular one that gave me the creeps - A GHOST WHO ACTED UPON HIS LUST FOR A CERTAIN LADY IN THE BOOK), poltergeist activity, dark secrets, lots of paranormal phenomena, psychics or just a well-paced, beautifully written and compelling story, then this is the book for YOU.
4 It seems that '48 was a huge let down for the vast majority of people that have given their reviews here. Although it seems that Majority Rules would be speaking volumes in this instance, decrying the book as nothing more than pulp, I want to offer a more balanced opinion.Firstly, James Herbert is a master of horror fiction, he has always had a great ability to write with an immeadiacy that quickly pulls the reader into his world. Notice how, even though many people critisized the book, the resounding agreement was that '48 was an action packed, fast paced read. A curious oxymoron since many great reviews of populist fiction will often include the words &quot;fast paced&quot;, &quot;a page turner&quot;, &quot;non-stop action&quot;. How did these reviewers turn these comments into negatives?!!Approaching '48 as an example from the Horror genre is the first mistake when reading this book. It's clear to me that the tone of '48 is dervived from the &quot;Boy's Own&quot; style of action/adventure stories popular in the era in which the book was set. Kudos then need to be payed to Mr Herbert for deciding to write a period piece in the style of popular fiction from the period it illustrates. On that level it was clearly a resounding success.'48 is without a doubt an exceptionally visceral novel. It doesn't make any claims to be of any social relevance, or offer any intellectual or political dogma. It is just a story created to offer high level, low brow entertainment, something you can pick up and throw yourself into on a rainy afternoon.In cinematic terms, sometimes you feel like watching &quot;Schindlers List&quot;.... sometimes you feel like watching &quot;Die Hard with a Vengeance&quot;.... In this case '48 is a &quot;Die Hard&quot;. I loved it.
4 This book was one that I didn't think I would enjoy, Enjoy is perhaps the wrong word. I was held spell bound to the pages. James Herbert creates such an atmosphere that you feel you are actually in the story. I must say it had me looking up at every creak and groan my house made. It is a long time since I have felt quite so scared and I must admit that I did get scared. A book that holds you right to the finish and it is an unexpected ending. This book is an A grade thriller.
5 Psychic investigator David Ash delves into the mysterious events terrorizing the community of Sleath, and as each dark secret is unveiled, evil forces are unleashed, and Ash fears for his own sanity as well as that of the village people. This one of the best ghost stories ever written, scary, compelling and very well written. One of Herbert's best.
5 Herbert's story is orginal and riveting, I find hid writing so good, you will not be disappointed, so go for it
4 This sci-fi/horror/thriller page turner from James Herbert takes place, obviously enough, in 1948, after the allies have lost the second world war in ravaged London.  Due to one of Hitler's biological devices, the vast majority of the citizenry have been killed, while only those with the extremely rare AB- blood type have been spared, and a slightly larger minority have been condemned to a slow, lingering death.The main character, Hoke, is one of the fortunate few that has been spared the disease, and he spends a good deal of his time fleeing those who are dying the slow death (they are attempting to capture him to steal his blood and in theory his immunity to the disease through a transfusion).  Along the way he meets a few other survivors, and, of course, races towards a final showdown with his pursuers.By no means a deep, meaningful, or socially conscious novel, '48 simply offers vivid scenery and top notch entertainment, and I was completely incapable of putting it down. (I stayed up till 4AM to finish it) It's non-stop action from cover to cover, and its the perfect answer for an otherwise quiet evening.  Don't listen to all the negative reviews, because in terms of sheer entertainment value this book is quality.  Enjoy.
4 This is a superb fictional book with twists and turns when you least expect it, but not for everyone. Adult only
4 Interesting book that does a good job of blending stories from the English and German sides of the fighting in North Africa.  We learn quite a bit about the planes the Brits flew, but less so about their German counterparts.  Like the way the stories of two officers, one a courageous, bright and adventuresome Brit, and the other a cool, erudite German major.  Story line is well developed, as are most of the characters.  The Italian doctor is very appealing, and steals part of the book.While we learn quite a bit about the Brits and Germans in North Africa, little of interest is provided about the role of Americans in the Cactus Air Force of North Africa.Overall, this a quick and enjoyable read.
5 good story on the British pilots during WWII and it kept me glued to it till i finished it great book
3 It's fiction.  The desert war was hard and people real characters.  Could it have been like this?  Maybe.  He forgot that he had killed the one guy off in the last book.
5 Good fictitious, but fact-based, war story. Set in WWII North Africa, it covers the activities of an RAF squadron and a group of SAS troopers.  The author does a good job capturing the feel of fighting in the desert and I can highly recommend this book to anyone who likes historical military fiction books.
3 ...and I don't say that lightly. I think Robinson's PIECE OF CAKE is flat-out one of the best books I've ever read, and as this book was billed as a sort-of sequel, I was all too eager to lay my mitts on it. Now I wish I hadn't bothered. Here's why.CAKE It followed the lives of the men of the Royal Air Force's "Hornet Squadron" over a period of twelve months, from the outbreak of the war until the climax of the Battle of Britain. Because a lot of nothing happened during the first six months of World War II, we were able to get to know the pilots quite well, and thus, were emotionally invested in their fates, not to mention engrossed in how the strain of combat flying and command responsibility changed them. CAKE was many things - a great story, a beautifully written account of aerial battle, a superb, if not very flattering, psychological study of fighter pilots, and a supremely cynical and ironic look at the overglorified Battle of Britain. In short, it was a masterpeice, not in the least because it produced so many memorable characters - Moggy Cattermole, Lord Rex, CH3, Flash Gordon, Uncle Kellaway, Skull Skelton, et al - but in the main because it was a patient, oak-solid piece of storytelling.A GOOD CLEAN FIGHT is a very different sort of book, and it is not a case of viva la difference. It is set in 1942, in the North African desert, about two years after the end of CAKE, and it involves four distinct storylines involving1. Jack Lampard, an SAS commando who raids German airfields;2. Paul Schramm, a Luftwaffe intel officer with a grudge against Lampard;3. Fanny Barton, CO of Hornet Squadron, who is in danger of being grounded, because his squadron isn't racking up kills;4. Henry Lester, an American reporter in Egypt looking for a scoop.And herein lays the first problem. Robinson has too many stories to tell. This could have been a quite remarkable novel about the dirty side of a supposedly "clean" fight if he had just stuck to 1 and 2 - that is the cat-and-mouse struggle between the reckless glory-hound, Lampard, and the troubled cynic, Schramm. Because in fact, Robinson's depiction of how the SAS operated - not just technically, but psychologically - is masterful, as are his descriptions of the desert itself. I would have preferred Hornet Squadron not be included in the story at all, since its presence wasn't really necessary, and since Robinson doesn't handle it with anywhere near the aplomb or respect of CAKE. Firstly, though we get five characters from that book - Baggy Bletchley, Fanny Barton, Pip Patterson, Uncle Kellaway, and Skull Skelton - there is no real emotional connection with any of them, and certainly not with each other. Barton in particular has changed out of recognition, and Robinson makes no attempt to put us in his head and explain how he has transformed in two years from a conscientious leader into a near-total psychopath, one willing to see every one of his men killed just so he can stay the leader of Hornet. There's an odd, unpleasant coldness to the scenes with our old Hornet friends, a sense of a reunion nobody wanted or needed, that everyone wishes would end as quickly as possible and then be forgotten. For me, that was a huge disappointment. I'd always wanted to know what happened to these guys (and we never do find out what became of CH3 or Mother Cox, by the bye), but as I said before, now that I know, I wish I didn't. (I haven't felt such distaste with the way characters were handled in a sequel since HANNIBAL.) As for the Lester story, it was quite purely and simply unnecessary. Pointless bumf, as Rex would say.The four-layered structure of the novel detracts from it in other ways. The "new" characters in Hornet, not having the time or space to become distinct from each other, take on the appearance of cannon-fodder. They are introduced and killed off as fast as the interchangable teenagers of a FRIDAY THE 13th movie, leaving no particular impression on the reader. Had Robinson devoted the whole book, or a separate book, to Hornet, these unfortunates might have had time to develop into the same type of hauntingly real people as CAKE's Fitz Fitzgerald or Squadron Leader Ramsay. Alas, no. Hornet is here, but the essence of Hornet is not. Furthermore, there are signs everywhere in the writing that Robinson was not trying his hardest, not bringing his "A" game to the typewriter. For example: in PIECE OF CAKE there is a character named Daddy Dalgliesh. In A GOOD CLEAN FIGHT there is a character named Pinky Dalgleish. In P.O.C. there is an American assigned to Hornet Squadron named Hart; in A.G.C.F. there is an American assigned to Hornet Squadron named Hooper. The character of Baggy Bletchley, who was killed in the previous book, shows up alive in this one - no explanation. Bits and pieces of squadron-room banter are recycled, and small errors are made which led me to believe Robinson didn't re-read PIECE OF CAKE before he started A GOOD CLEAN FIGHT. For example, Moggy Cattermole is mentioned having been killed by friendly fire, when in fact he was killed by Germans. Uncle Kellaway is described as disliking whiskey when in the previous book he fantasizes about drinking it at the end of a hard day. Fanny Barton is described as having black eyebrows when in fact he is platinum blond. I realize these things, individually, don't mean much, but collectively I found them jarring and annoying. I loved these characters, and I didn't want to see them carelessly handled. And anyone who doesn't think they were should re-read the "this is what happened to" bit at the end. Embarrassing.I could go on, but you get the point. Having created the iconic Hornet Squadron, Robinson should have been very jealous of how, or even if, it should ever appear again. Instead, I was left with the feeling he just traded on its good name to deliver a "sequel" which is really nothing more than a depressing cameo appearance.
5 Honestly this is a second rate novel, but if you have read the author's brilliant World War One Trilogy and his World War Two epic &#34;Piece of Cake&#34; this book is bound to seem derivative. It tells several different stories of World War Two  in North Africa from British, German and Italian perspective. The story telling is linear, the technical details excellent but it seems a little rote and not nearly as biting as his WWI novels of the air war.I am a huge fan of Robinson's writing and would read a roll of toilet paper authored by him, but read the other novels I have suggested first and if his twisted view of the joy and despair of war gets its grip on you then you can come to this later, when you will understand his unique talents.
5 I've read everything Mr. Robinson has written and for me this is without a doubt my favorite story. Dark, funny and full of grisly action it transports the reader in to the bleak desert war in North Africa. I've read this story more times that I care to tell and will read it a dozen more time before I die. I love this book and I want everyone I know to read it.
5 Derek Robinson's novel, A Good Clean Fight, follows the remaining characters from his earlier Piece of Cake to the North African Desert in May 1942.  As in previous Robinson novels, much of the focus is upon the fictional "Hornet Squadron," now led by "Fanny" Barton and equipped with P-40 "Tomahawks."  The pilot "Pip" Patterson, the squadron adjutant "Uncle" Kellaway and the intelligence officer "Skull" Skelton are also on hand.  However unlike other Robinson novels that focus mainly on life within the squadron, A Good Clean Fight has substantial roles for the Germans and for a British ground unit.  Captain Jack Lampard is a British Special Air Service (SAS) officer who leads daring behind-the-lines raids on German airfields and Major Paul Schramm is a German intelligence officer tasked with finding and defeating the SAS raiders.  There are also a number of other SAS and German supporting characters that add depth to Lampard's and Schramm's roles.  A Good Clean Fight also has considerably more combat action than any other Robinson novels and the book crackles along at a very good pace.  Indeed, the novel starts off very well and could have been a truly great war novel if Robinson had not allowed himself to get distracted with several unnecessary sub-plots in the middle of his work.  Nevertheless, A Good Clean Fight is very good and probably one of Robinson's finest efforts to date.The main plot with "Hornet Squadron" in A Good Clean Fight focuses on efforts to entice the Luftwaffe fighters to come up and fight in the quiet period that preceded the Gazala Campaign.  Barton, afraid that his hard-luck unit might be broken up, offers to conduct a systematic ground attack program in order to get the German fighters to commit to action (the Germans preferred to hold their fighters back in order to prepare for the main battle coming).  In effect, Barton commits his unit to an attritional campaign that can have but one end for the squadron - whittling down pilots and aircraft in the hope that something will "break loose" before the unit is combat ineffective.  Barton has changed somewhat since A Piece of Cake and is no longer very sympathetic; many readers might feel that he is sacrificing his unit for his own sake, but that is unfair.  "Fanny's" efforts to "outfox" the enemy as he says, and "Skull's" pointed explanations of why this is unlikely are quite interesting.  In the midst of this growing tension in the unit, Robinson delivers several excellent and exciting descriptions of air-ground attacks on assorted targets.Lampard begins the novel with an exciting raid on a German airfield and even briefly captures the intelligence officer, Schramm.  Robinson's depiction of these raids gives great insight not only into SAS tactics of the period, but the type of men who excelled in this type of work.  Lampard in many respects is the SAS leader par excellence - aggressive, physically impressive, cunning and ultra-competent.  Unfortunately, Lampard has some flaws which may not be uncommon in the special operations community: he is a "risk junkie" who doesn't know when to quit and he lies to superiors and subordinates in order to cover up his mistakes.  Like Barton's attrition tactics, Lampard's "risk tactics" seem preordained to eventual catastrophe, of course, with much bravery along the way.Schramm starts out as a very interesting, witty character but gradually withers into a sour, introverted, pathetic sort.  While Schramm and his peers do provide some tension in the novel with their "cat and mouse" game with Lampard, one feels that the SAS are never seriously threatened by Luftwaffe intelligence.  Indeed, the one German effort to send a large patrol out into the desert to ambush the in-coming SAS patrols ends up in total and ridiculous disaster.  The worst parts of the novel involve Schraam's involvement with an Italian female doctor - this goes nowhere and means nothing.  On the Allied side, the antics of two reporters is also quite distracting and useless.  Were it not for these distracting minor characters - who somehow elbow out the main characters in midstream - A Good Clean Fight would have been nearly perfect.As usual, Robinson's humor is very dry and very dark, and is certainly the most compelling aspect of his novels. Robinson is able to show both the bravery and the stupidity in war, as well as just the sheer misery of trying to fight in blast-furnace heat, covered with flies.  In a historical sense, Robinson also delivers insight into neglected facets of the desert war, such as the "Takoradi" trail the Allies used to ferry planes across Africa and the German air raid on Chad to interdict the trail.
2 Usually enjoy Derek Robinson's books but this one I was quite disappointed with,had the tendency to even miss a page and still not lose any of the story
5 Although A GOOD CLEAN FIGHT shares some characters in common with an earlier book, PIECE OF CAKE, and it's also about the fictional Hornet squadron, it's not a sequel in the traditional sense. A sequel implies a certain safety, the security of routine: Biggles, Sharpe, Hornblower. With Robinson's books there is no such thing as safety or security. The only thing predictable about this book is that it is just as riveting and blackly funny as any of his other novels.There is a very large cast of characters occupying North Africa in the spring of 1942, in a lull between battles when the two armies, German and British, are eyeing each other across the desert and waiting for something to happen.  Fanny Barton, leader of Hornet squadron and survivor of the Battle of Britain, needs to get some results or else he'll be taken off ops, reassigned to ferry brand-new airplanes across Africa. He hatches a plan to strafe German camps and ammo dumps, and whatever other targets he can lay his hands on, even if it means leading his squadron of clapped-out Tomahawks to the brink of destruction.Jack Lampard, a captain in the SAS, has a similar motivation. He's the sort of man only suited to life during wartime; anything less than a life-or-death adventure -- preferably in the desert, with a good chance of having one's head blown off by a German sentry -- is not worth it. He leads commando raids on German airfields, driving his patrol through the desert, behind enemy lines, and striking at night. He gets results, but he also gets addicted to danger: his men can see that Lampard doesn't plan on coming back from their latest raid. An American reporter comes along for the ride, looking for a hero to sell his newspapers.Paul Schramm is a Luftwaffe intelligence officer determined to find some way of combating the SAS raids. He's forty-four, walks with a limp, and knows he's no killer, but he's had a taste of action and he wants more. He struggles with these impulses: "War doesn't use brains. War replaces brains. There's no such thing as intelligent violence." Major Jakowski of the Afrika Korps comes up with a scheme of his own to outfox the SAS patrols, by leading a force into the desert to intercept them. The result is about as effective as Don Quixote tilting at windmills: "I expect they were up to no good, just like us," Lampard says, "The difference is we're rather better at it, aren't we?"The characters are sketched in quick, deft strokes: you recognize them and empathize with them, even though they might only hang around for a few pages, even if they're not the sort of people you'd like to know. Dialogue is one of Robinson's strengths, and he is on top form here. He describes the desert with a remarkable intensity: flies, heat, sun, sand, flies, spectacular sunsets, dust, more flies; everything comes to life with a harsh vividness that is second only to the real thing. The action scenes are equally graphic, sparing no details. They are as emotionally gripping as they are thrilling.Mr. Robinson has written some fantastic books. A GOOD CLEAN FIGHT is probably not his masterpiece, but it is the widest in scope and perhaps the most lucid in its depiction of the bravery, futility, and utter absurdity of war.
4 I enjoy Robinson's style and his unwavering desire to keep the facts accurate. I have read several personal accounts of the air action in the desert war and they are certainly in tune with his efforts. Having read little about the ground actions in the desert I cannot attest as to the accuracy of his account of the LRDG/SAS efforts but I am sure they are as accurate as the rest of his works.
5 I just started reading this author and was looking for another in the series.  Being a UK author I was glad to find him on Amazon.  The book arrived quickly and in good shape.  Note the UK book sizes are a bit taller than US paperbacks so you may need to adjust shelf sizes.
5 I read a couple of Robinson's WW1 novels and wasn't impressed, but this book and Piece OF Cake are in a league of their own.  Highly recommended, you'll never romanticize the air war again!
5 Man...you have to read this book. It's incredible!!  This book has everything a great book should have. Interesting char, plot twists, and a writing style that holds the readers attention.When it comes to char's, they have to be interesting.  For the good guys, Alex Cross has what it takes. Smarts, courage, and is never willing to give up.  He has to get back two children that were taken my the master criminal Gary Soneji.  The reader can't help but to be drawn to Cross.For the bad guys, the reader has to be drawn to them...and you'll be drawn to Gary Soneji.  Throught the powerful writing style of Patterson, the reader will get into Soneji's head, and see what makes him tick.  We are exposed to his backgroud and see what has  happned to Soneji as a child to shape the monster that he is.  When you read about Soneji's childhood, the reader can't help but to feel sympathy.Patterson has a writing style that will keep the reader guessing what will happen next, right up the the last page. There are so many plot twists in ALONG CAME A SPIDER, it will keep you on the edge of your seat.If you saw the movie, and liked it, then I highly suggest you run, not walk to the nearest bookstore, and get this book. I liked the movie, but loved this book.  Do yourself the favor, and pick it up. You won't be sorry.
5 This book was a slam dunk.  I am glad it was the first Patterson (featuring Cross) book that I read because it set up a lot of things that might have seemed odd or inconsequential later.  Now that I have read all the books in the series, I rank this one and KISS THE GIRLS as his two best.Much has already been said by others ... about the thrilling plot, the surprises and etc., so I will focus on two aspects of the book that have remained with me long after reading.  The first is the deft insertion of social commentary in the book.  When I first read the book, I thought James Patterson was African American, and I mean that as a compliment.  He became Alex Cross, and Alex Cross is a black man with real life black man problems aside from solving serial killings.  His family is authentic; his associations with black and white people; his romances (with white and black women) without being condescending, cute, or stereotypical--I should maybe write more about this category it was handled so well without making Cross a whitegirl chasing Tom, despite his affair with Jezzie, good job, good job, good Job Mr. Patterson; his reluctance to be pulled off a case involving working class blacks to solve one involving elite whites.  In short, his attitudes about things is not typically black, but typically Alex Cross, who happens to be black.  Get it?  He is real first.  And he is black second.The second aspect that burns long after consumption is Soneji/Murphy as a husband and father in suburbia.  There is humor, humanity, and lurking danger in these scenes.  I kept praying that when he finally snapped--which I suspected was coming and boy was I right--that he wouldn't hurt his daughter.  Patterson pulls no punches, and reading these scenes I began to buy why a man with such a regular looking life (dull normal life) might secretly be a serial killer.  Just looking for fun.  OK, that's sort of a simplistic assesment of Soneji/Murphy's particular psychosis, and to understand him better, we would probably have to consider what we know about his Freudian footnoted childhood on his grandfather's farm and whatnot.  Nevertheless, Soneji/Murphy is scary BECAUSE he is looking for fun, on some level.
2 A U.S. Senator's daughter is kidnapped from a tony upper-class private school in Washington D.C. Dr. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman) becomes involved in the case when the perpetrator plants some evidence in his mailbox. Dr. Cross teams up with a beautiful Secret Service agent (Monica Potter) who was working on a security detail at the private school (to look over the welfare of another student -- the son of the Russian President). Together these two crime fighters piece together clues that apparently point to a highly intellectual and challenging criminal oppenent: Gary Soneji (played by Michael Wincott).This movie is being marketed as a kind of prequel to the movie Kiss The Girls, starring Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman -- who played Dr. Cross, a retired forensic detective who is called on a difficult case to track the whereabout of a Congessman's daughter who was kidnapped by a sexual predator. Morgan Freeman also starred as a criminal detective in David Fincher's film Seven (also starring Brad Pitt), and it seems that he has found an acting role that many find appealing -- playing a quiet, extremely thoughtful, criminal profiler, a kind of modern day Sherlock Holmes.That being said, Along Came a Spider looked like a promising thriller, but it turns into an ugly mess in a very short time. Almost every hunch that Dr. Cross ponders turns out to be correct. Almost everytime the kidnapper is cornered, red herrings (something used to confuse the viewer and turn the attention away from the basic issue) are thrown out.As the movie chugs to its "dramatic" conclusion, any tension that the director worked to produce in the audience evaporates when it becomes obvious that trust was invested in the wrong person. That's about all that I can say about the surprise ending. Current advertisements for this movie caution those who have seen it to "not give the ending away." Yes, this movie has a "surprise" ending (although I question that claim) and ostensibly the producers of this film want to lure new viewers into the theater by building extra intrigue into the movie -- ala the famous and long-running London stage play "Mousetrap" (Agatha Christie's whodunnit play).
4 I've listened to a couple of his other books on CD, but Along Came a Spider was my first read of any of Patterson's work, and my first forary into the Alex Cross series.  Outstanding plot and top quality writing - Patterson develops plot and characters gradually and continuously throughout this book.  Can not wait to read more in this series.
5 Patterson is a effective writer- Has the ability to keep you spellbound-  This on keep you wanting to keep on reading to see what happens- Go  for it-
5 Great development of characters, you begin to feel that you know each very well. Evidence in the cases is well established and bits and items are exposed to allow you to reach conclusions.  I find the writing style and story and plot arrangement to be very compelling.I highly recommend this first installment in a series.
4 is my favorite character. I have enjoyed this book. It has good story and it keeps reader in expectation what will come. I like books written by Mr. Patterson.
1 If the only book you have ever read was the Waikicamucau (pop. 13) telephone directory, then this would be the second-best book you ever opened.If you are 9 years old or younger, you may find this as exciting as eating spinach. Without salt.If you are sophisticated enough to realise that a story should be credible, make sense, and entertain you - then leave this book on the shelf.There's a four-letter word: it starts with CR, and rhymes with PAP. You should know it. It's extravagant praise for this book.Avoid this book like the plague. Avoid anything written by James patterson like the plague. In fact - if you are given a choice, take the plague. You'll feel better.
4 I plan on reading all of the Alex Cross novels. Loved this book. Got really involved with the characters. I didn't care so much for the relationship between Alex & Jezzie...I don't know why, I guess I just wasn't sold on the bond. Otherwise, great book.
4 What I Loved: This is the first book in the Alex Cross series and it was a fantastic introduction of the Cross Character. I had seen this movie but I don't think I had ever read the book. The case was compelling and the twist (even though I knew it was coming) still kind of caught me off guard. James Patterson truly has a way of sucking you into a story and never quite knowing which way he is going to turn.What I Liked: The pacing was a little off in this book but with that in mind I liked how each new element of the book was introduced. I also like how no storyline was dropped and forgotten. It was interesting to read the physical characteristics of the characters because they were a little off from what I thought they would look like so I had to adjust my mental images of the main characters.Complaints: NoneMovie Comparison Thoughts: Physically I don't think any of the casting matched the actual characters in the book---that being said I think everyone did a great job in their roles. I know these are older movies but as thrillers I think they have stood the test of time.Why I gave it a 4: I didn't like it as much as Kiss the Girls (I seldom like book 1 in a series as much as the rest of the series) but it was still a really good read.Who would I recommend it too: Thriller/Mystery fans.Author Website:[...]Books in this series:Along Came a SpiderKiss the GirlsJack & JillCat & MousePop Goes the WeaselRoses Are RedViolets Are BlueFour Blind MiceThe Big Bad WolfLondon BridgesMary, MaryCrossDouble CrossCross CountryI, Alex CrossCross Fire
3 A tiring read. Took way to long to tell the story. James has done better. I am not sure that I will read the next book.
4 A very suspenseful novel with a plot that captures your attention with its twists and turns.  The characters are likable and the writer gave a superb end to the story.
5 First James Patterson book.  I have found a new author.  This book was mainly about perseverance.  In both a positive and negative way.  I look forward to reading more and becoming a huge fan
5 I bought this book through kindle and I was not disappointed. James Patterson has become one of my favorite authors. If you have read his previous books and loved them, you'll love this one too. If you haven't read his books you are missing out on a great author.
3 I gave this book 3 starts because it was really good in the beginning and great at the end.  The only problem is that the middle just seemed to drag on forever.  I think some of the middle could have been eliminated and still achieved the same purpose.
5 I have enjoyed every book I have read with Alex Cross in them.  I find them suspenseful and captivating. When I am reading I can't wait to see what is going to happen next.
5 I loved this book!  James patterson always writes well!  The kindle version was really affordable!  Five stars all the way!
5 I love this book.  It is fast reading and holds your interest.  I was reading it at red lights on the way home.It is a great follow-up to Kiss The Girls.  Enjoy...
4 I've ready a few crime books but, this one was my favorite. I never knew what was going to happen from page, to page, which is what made it so good.
5 Very good read. Keeps you wanting more. This book although Law Enforcement was once again on the wrong side of the Law it was with a very interesting twist.
4 I think that all fans of detective novels - particularly those of a psychological nature - will get a big kick out of these eight legs! James Patterson brilliantly keeps up the tension throughout the novel. As with great stories like this the villain seems unlikely at first but all the clues are there and it all fits!Detective Alex Cross, a hardbitten black cop / psychology major from DC, is investigating a series of gruesome deaths in the ghettos of Washington when he and his partner get dragged off on a case involving the kidnapping from an exclusive private school of two children. One is the son of the secretary of the treasury; the other, Maggie Rose, is the daughter of a famous movie star. Initially Dr. Cross is annoyed at all the attention being focussed on the privileged but he finds himself getting dragged into the case.It appears that a Gary Soneji, a teacher at the school who was so well liked he was named Mr. Chips, kidnapped the children out of the blue. As the plot thickens, leads seem to connect to the ghetto killings, one of the children turns up dead, a ransom is paid and lost and the kidnapper proves elusive. Alex Cross, vilified for his role in the handing over of the ransom, finds solice in the figure of Jezzie Flanagan - the prime secret service minder of the two children. The relationship, crossing racial boundaries, adds more tension.The figure of Gary Soneji, the alter-ego of a Gary Murphy, is a brilliant creation up there with the likes of Hannibal Lecter. At least you know where you are with Mr. Lecter - Murphy/Soneji keep you guessing all the way - scary!James Patterson brilliantly handles all of the threads, not letting any of them unravel and adding twist after clue after hint. The final unveiling of the villain is wonderful - suprising, but the clues are all there to find.
4 This is James Patterson's first novel starring his well rounded hero Alex Cross. A brilliant African American detective with a higher moral agenda than your average suspense novel protagonist.  In Along Came a Spider we  are introduced to Patterson's seamless blending of first and third person  narrative that works so well with a many faceted character such as Alex  Cross.  This book succeeds on many levels: as the villian Gary Soneji is  trully vile but not unbelievably so, the supporting characters such as  Alex's family are made interesting and revelant to the story, and it  progresses quickly with twists and turns that lead to a surprisingly  emotional ending. Along Came a Spider has a little of everything: criminal  psychology, courtroom drama, love, murder, kidnapping, insightful family  interaction, and the kitchen sink!  This is a smartly written, superior  book!
3 I gave When the Wind Blows a horrible review and had only read one other book by Patterson, which was a terrorist thriller of average quality, when I decided to bite the bullet and try this one out.Obviously some people really like his style and stories, so I figured this one, made into a movie, couldn't be THAT bad.  I wasn't too disappointed, in fact, since I expected it to stink, I was actually a bit impressed.If you're into chick written mystery thrillers, then this one will probably appeal to you.  I tend to enjoy more meaty offerings, Caleb Carr's great historical murder thrillers come to mind and Scott Turow's mysteries (lawyer based).  These types of books really get into the characters and don't rely so much on the "hyper" plot with out of the world, head line grabbing stories.This book makes the same mistakes that I found in the decent thriller Absolute Power, in which stuff happens that really could never happen.  I understand that is one of the points of certain types of fiction "Blockbuster" fiction, if you will, but it doesn't have to be so over the top.In any case, this one's a fairly quick read, and not a total let down, as for those that give this book the kind of glowing "best novel ever" type reviews, well, I don't believe those people have read much fiction.The cover of the paperback copy I read of this title had a glowing endorsement by Nelson DeMille, who is a superb writer, I'd recommend all his books before going to this series, but if you're a quick reader with lots of time, I'm going to give this an okay recommendation.
4 Great book and a very good movie. However, that being said, don't try to compare the two. I kept waiting for more similarities to the movie. These similarities didn't happen. Well worth reading but I probably would have enjoyed it a LOT more if I hadn't seen the movie. I enjoyed the plot and the characters.
3 I read this book in the wrong order because I first read Cat and Mouse which is an unbelievably enjoyable novel (Read my review) so I already had  a small idea of what happened in Along came a Spider.  I will just say that  this novel was like reading two different novels.  One was a very  intelligent suspenseful mystery about a kidnapping carried out to go right  where the Lindbergh kidnapping went wrong.  The scenes of Alex Cross trying  to find Gary Soneji, the court scenes, and the conversations between Cross  and Gary Murphy are wonderful. This part of the novel gets 5 stars.However,I subtract two stars for the unbelievably boring and uninspired  romantic twist to the story, there was a point where I just decided to skip  whole chapters that didn't add anything to the story.  I got through the  first three hundred pages faster than I did the last two hundred.  It was  just mesmerizing to think that the same brilliant mind that came up with  the suspenseful mystery came up with the other garbage.  Don't get me wrong  I do enjoy romance in a mystery novel, in fact I think its an important  part but Patterson should ask Jeffery Deaver, who writes so well about the  relationship between Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs, or maybe ask Ridley  Pearson, who does so well with Lou Boldt and Daphne Mathews, to give him a  few tips on mixing romance with suspense.My reccommendation is read this  novel but if the mood starts getting romantic don't waste your time, at  least not until the end where the romantic scene is important.Alex Cross is  a great character and Gary Soneji is the perfect nemesis, I just feel that  Patterson did a better job of mixing his romantic chapters with the story  in Cat and Mouse than what he was able to accomplish in this novel.
4 Once again, Patterson keeps turning the pages. You are completely immersed in the story and its characters and boom, a curve ball. You are sucked in alongside Alex Cross trying to analyze the psychopaths.
5 I had some sleepless nights reading this book. I enjoyed this book so much, I had dreams about Cross and him capturing Gary. I would recommend this book to those who would like to read a good mystery.
1 I didn't like it, honestly.  People consider the Alex Cross trilogy thrillers, (If you call them thrillers at all...I just call them straight out slow paced and boring) fast paced.  They're not fast paced! There's hardly any good action scenes and gun battles, no Shoot 'em up lethal weapon stuff, which was what I expected yet didn't get it.  The only reason that people consider this book fast paced is because of the short chapters.  Yeah, I admit it, there are some very short chapters.  Lots.  But that doesn't mean that it's fast paced.  It's fast paced compared to Stephen King, but I think it's a slow paced book.  I want action.  I want adventure.  The killer kills a lot of people.  I didn't need disgusting and awful as well as dull details that James Patterson gives out.  And also, Patterson had a good chance to make this a good cop thriller.  He failed miserably.  I don't think I've ever read a good detective novel...all I want is a book with a bunch of action scenes.  If you think this is fast paced, good for you.  But if you desire more action, more events, more UNPREDICTABLENESS, then go to a different book.  I don't know which one, since I've never read one like that...anyways, don't get this book.
4 I listened to the audio book that I received from a friend and I really enjoyed it. There were times that it was a bit drawn out and certain things just seemed unnecessary and unimportant but over all I did enjoy it and will continue to read the series. I just wish the ebooks were cheaper, I know I can find this book online for less then five dollars used.
5 The book keeps you interested from start to finish! Very exciting with twists and turns. Must add to your list.
5 My very first james Patterson book and it want be my last going to read all the Alex CROSS books
1 After several recommendations I picked up this book. More than one of the reviews on here mentions 'Smartly written' and 'Supurb' I question where their bar of judgement is. 3 prime examples (there are many more) are:1- This serial killer did his first job at 12. Later in the book it refers back to this (from the killer's perspective/POV) and he is looking back on it SIXTY years ago. Simple math (apparently not done by the editors, writer, or any praiseworthy readers) puts our serial killer at 72 years old. And this 72 year old man bests kids at video games and kills an FBI agent with a knife in hand combat? -Get real.2- Yeah, we get it, Alex Cross is black. Does it really need to be mentioned on every single page? Was race the major motivator in this story? Seems like it was more of a focus than plot. Does it really matter what race he is?3- No matter how good Alex Cross might be at his job, a detective mouthing off to the police chief and the *Mayor* keeps his job and is allowed to say things like F__ you to his superiors? Unrealistic!New York Times Bestseller... about as realistic as the Academy Awards has become.
5 This book is hard to put down.  Another great Alex Cross adventure.  His whole family is so interesting.  Plot keeps you guessing.
5 This was, simply, the best mystery/thriller book I've ever read.  Constantly kept me guessing, surprises around every corner, and superb characterization!Alex Cross was especially moving, and Gary Soneji...well...though not my favorite bad guy, he certainly is the most clever I've ever seen.I liked the shifting viewpoint; you know, first person Alex Cross in one chapter, then third person somebody else in the next, and back and forth and so on.  Also, the very short length of the chapters was especially useful--I hate chapters that go on and on and on so you can't finish them in one night.I am verymuch looking forward to Kiss the Girls; I hope to finish reading all the Cross novels before the next one, FOUR BLIND MICE, comes out in November.And as for the movie, don't blame them!  This novel was HUGE, with LOTS of events and plot and scenes, so it's no wonder that they had to cut so much of it in order to cram it all into a 2 hour movie!  Blame the production company!  Paramount, I think.  In that case, there might have been at least a LITTLE justice.  The movie did fairly well considering how much of the plot it was able to get from the book...okay, maybe not a lot, but enough to make it's own story!!Oh, and my only problem with both book and movie, I don't get why it was called "Along Came A Spider".  I mean, I know where that phrase came from, but how does it fit into the novel?  It's never explained.  Oh well, maybe I'm just a crackhead.
3 Not as exciting as some of his books.  I didn't care for the ending.  Maybe because I have read other books with this murder that were more suspenseful.
3 Too violent.
5 This book was everything I expected from James  Patterson. I can't wait to read the next one in this series.
4 This was a wonderful read.  The book centers around a psychopath who gets his kicks by murdering people.  Some are planned murders and some others are on the spare of the moment.  His most recent victims were children of the rich and famous who reside in the Washington, D.C., Maryland areas.But have no fear, homicide detective, and psychologist, Alex Cross, Ph.D. is to the rescue.  He stays on the psychopath's trail until he is beaten to a pulp.  Additionally, I loved the way Dr. Cross does not let the young and beautiful Jezzie Flanagan trick him into believing that she had fallen in love with him.  Now that does not mean that he didn't enjoy slipping between the sheets with her little creamy white body for carnal satisfaction.  But that was all it was.  In the end, Dr. Cross took care of business in a way that would make you proud.  Read it for yourself and see if you agree.
4 This is the first installment in James Patterson's Alex Cross series, and it left me wanting more.  This author has the capability of combining psychological suspense with the horror of the unspeakable acts that some people are capable of committing.  In order to find this killer, Alex Cross must try and think like the killer does, thus taking you on a journey through the warped mind of a psychopath.  This was the first James Patterson I have read, but I will definitely keep reading this series.
5 Starting the first Alex Cross novel was one of the best books i have ever read. The first 200 or so pages really keep you hooked and then the last 300 make you not even want to get up. There are twists and turns everywhere especially towards the end with a "Silence of The Lambs" type of ending. In one review someone said the romance with Alex Cross didn't really contribute to anything and i will agree because there really was no use for the relationship considering the only real relationship they had was sex and mind games (towards the end). But this book has the greatest twists and turns in almost any novel i have ever read that you can esily over look the dumb romance. I want to tell everyone the mega twist but i urge you to find out for yourselves. I will go ahead and say it concerns an unthinkable betrayel and you find out at the end of chapter 75. Thats all im saying. What also will keep you enthralled is the characters because they are so real and interesting to read about. But despite the useless romance this book is about the best suspense thriller your gonna get, I urge you to pick this one up. Now I can't wait to start "Kiss The Girls."
5 Once you get started reading you can not stop lots of different turns and  twist well worth reading a must read
5 James Patterson has created one of the most frightening characters in recent memory. What makes Gary Soneji so scary? Well, I think it is because Patterson has made him so believable. Gary Soneji is someone who could be living next to you right now.This book is fast paced and scary.  It is a great read, especially if you have seen the film.  They are very different!
3 This book is one of a series, it appears.  A highly competent investigator has to track down a killer of the serial variety, who, is most definitely crazy.There is also a female FBI agent involved, and it appears that she is most likely more than a little bit dodgy, as well.  A dick, deaths and a dodgy dame.
3 All in all, I liked the fast-moving plot, interesting characters and the mystery of trying to find out just who the bad guys were.  There is a problem with the book, however, because the author decided to do too much too quickly.That whole business with the trial and the unusual defense could have been made into a seperate book easily, but combining a trial with a kidnapping made for two weakenned storylines instead of one strong one.Also, I didn't care for Gary at all.  I guess I just don't 'get' those kind of villians.  I preferred Jezzie.
5 This was a great book. This was my first time reading an Alex Cross book and I am thrilled to read the rest. The book was filled with all kinds of mysteries, twists, and turns. I look forward to reading the rest of the Alex Cross series and if you love mystery/thriller/detective novels then this is the book for you
5 Alex Cross is an amazing character. I began reading James Patterson after seeing the film Alex Cross. This book kept me hooked and made time go by during long twelve hour shifts. It's a great psychological thriller and I recommend it for anyone interested in that genre.
5 This was a gifted item for a friend. She was bored and needed something during her time away on deployments.
4 I really enjoyed this book which was the first book by James Patterson that featured Alex Cross.  Although not as fun to read (in my opinion) as &quot;Kiss The Girls&quot;, I still found this book very hard to put down.  There were numerous enjoyable plot twists and, for a lot of the book, I was  guessing what was really going on.  Also, the ending was very exciting and  I did not see it coming at all.  Fans of the suspense/thriller books and  fans of James Patterson should not be disappointed with the book!
5 This book was amazing. One of the best books that I have read in a long time. I was interested in a book that would keep my attention and this one definitely delievered. At the end of each chapter you couldn't wait to continue the book. LOVED IT!
5 I am not much on novels but this one is very good. I read this while on vacation and thoroughly enjoyed it.
5 I've seen the movie several times.  Good movie, but this is my first time reading the book.  WOW, what a difference!  Great book, a lot more story, wonderful character development, lots of twists and turns.  Only problem was I kept 'hearing' Morgan Freeman 's voice when Alex Cross spoke.  Kinda hard to picture him in his early 30's.  He's one of my favorite actors, but I just can't remember him ever being young, LOL.
5 Once again!  James Patterson writes a great read!  This is his first in the Alex Cross series.  I read all the newer ones before I found these early "nursery rhyme" books.  As always, Patterson delivered!
5 The first book in the Alex Cross series by James Patteron is a hit! This book introduces Alex Cross, and as you get deeper into the series, you will not want to put them down. James Patterson is an awesome writer. A must read!
5 I have become a fan of Alex Cross.  I enjoyed the way the mystery was solved.  I would recommend this book to any mystery lover.
5 I have not had a chance to read it yet but I will very soon.  Waiting for the nesxt book to come out.
5 My first Alex Cross novel, and certainly not my last.  Very good book.
5 Read Alex Cross in order and you will be a happy reader.  Enyoyed it very much
5 Patterson wins once again. His presentation of Alex Cross takes on New lives. What appears as New loves across the race differences excitement prevails.
3 I'm one of those people who first saw the movie and then read the novel. I must say I absolutely loved the movie and wished the book would be just as good. The problem is that the events in this book span for so LONG (events take place in a period of almost two years). There actually are pretty good suspense scenes, but they are buried among pages and pages of Cross's reflections. I'm not saying this is bad -actually Alex Cross is one of the better constructed fiction characters I have ever come across- but it really slows down the action.I do agree entirely with one of the reviewers who wrote that the love scenes were tedious and one too many.Maybe it's because the book is so different from the movie (actually the movie just takes the beginning of the novel and then goes on it's own way until the end) or because I rather enjoy Jeffery Deaver's extremely fast paced Lincoln Rhyme novels, but this book didn't do it for me. This is my second Patterson/Cross novel. The first one was Pop Goes the Weasel which I didn't found that good either. I'd like to give the author another shot by reading Roses are Red or Cat and Mouse which seem to be the best books in the series but I just hope they are more of the "roller coaster ride" other reviewer's talk about.
1 I'd heard that Patterson was a bad writer, but I wasn't prepared for the true impact of his shoddy, grade-school prose. The story is plodding, kept alive only by single-word paragraphs and two-page chapters. The line-by-line writing is juvenile and the story developments - such as a split-personality killer being hypnotised in court - feels more like a parody of a psychological thriller than a NYT best seller. Avoid.
5 This was the second book i had read of JP's.  I'm glad it was because now i am addicted! - this book was fantastic, thrilling right to the very end i couldn't put it down.  I read this book in a little over a week prior to this i would usually read novels over a period of about 2 to 3 months.  JP has changed my whole overlook on reading novels and the Alex Cross series is a fantastic chain to begin with - top rating for Along Came a Spider.
2 I know James Patterson has sold millions of books,but I didn't care for his style.I'm in no way a genius,but it's almost like he dumbs down his books for the masses.I've tried two books,same opinion on both.
5 I really enjoyed this book by James Patterson.  This is the fourth book I've read by Patterson but the first in the Alec Cross series.  Very imaginative story telling.Must read for those who enjoy mystery stories.
4 First, I'm reviewing the whole series just right here at the start, no point in going book by book.Each book has a fast pace and well developed characters. What I like most about this series are the bad guys actually. These guys are bad, yes, but not stupid/common. Soneji at the start and Kyle later are the main high points. What I like least about this series is Cross. Way too goody-goody and perfect.
2 This book is completely uninspired. Huge swaths of pages are almost unreadable. This is fiction at its worst, pressing every button to garner the highest thrill quota. Patterson does do a little better with his following novels `Kiss the Girls,' and 'Jack and Jill,' and this is his first novel I presume from over ten years ago, but it pales in comparison to some other better works. Try Jim Thomson, Edward Bunker, or `Silence of the Lambs' (Which Patterson sadly rips off left and right here).This book leaves a disgusting film over the reader's cerebral cortex. Its only saving grace is an interesting twisting plot line that really packs a well thought out wallop.Read the two in the series that I recommended and stay away from the rest of Patterson's toxic waste land.
5 James Patterson books are all great and thrilling especially in the Alex Cross series! You will want to keep reading with out a doubt! If you buy you will with out a doubt not be disappointed! Great book to the beginning of this series.
5 This was the first time I had ever read a James Patterson book and I loved it! I can't wait to read more from him.
5 NEVER NEVER a disapointment This book is no exceptionI always think he can't outdo the last one but he always doesCan't go wrong with this thriller
4 If you've seen the movie, do not let that stop you from reading the book. It is a great suspense novel and quite different from the movie...much more character development and more to the story.
4 I can't understand how many people hate this book! I find it extremely entertaining, suspenseful, exciting, and I'm not "illiterate", nor am I a "12 year-old". I think some people take these books way too seriously! Was I wrong in thinking that books were all about losing yourself in the story? I'll admit some things in the story annoyed me, but that happens with every book. I have enough of reality everyday, I like a little unrealistic getaway every now and again. If you want to be entertained and just forget about reality for a while, I definitely recommend James Patterson.
5 This was my first Patterson book and it certainly won't be my last.  The book was well written, enjoyable, and I loved the characters.  To me the makings of a good book are looking forward to the next page and the one after that; what's going to happen next is not apparent; and I want to read more by the author.  All these were true for me with this book.  I'm white, but I thought it was great to have the heros and main characters black for a change.  My husband and I have very different tastes in books, but there are some we both enjoy and this was one.
1 I truly believe that Patterson believes three-fourths of the world (if not  more) is illiterate.  This book irritated the hell out of me.  For goodness  sakes, I am a sentient, intelligent person who can structure a sentence and  appreciate a good phrase.What is this regurgitated madness? Yada,  yada, yada.Stop pandering for the sake of a buck.  One word to the  reader: NEXT!!!Smooches!
5 James Patterson is a great author.  I am hooked on Alex Cross and buy them when they come out.  A great read.
3 The title seems to have no connection, but the story is good. The end just seems to happen fast and good bye. Not like the several others I've read. I'll try another though.
4 This book kept me on the edge of my chair from the first chapter. Alex Cross is such a believable character and the paths he takes through this book are so exciting! The ending was not a complete surprise because I  could kinda see it coming, but Patterson's book definitely surprised me in  other ways!  I'm definitely going to look for other books by Patterson and  especially Alex Cross!
5 The villains are notorious and the plot twists are legendary in the first Alex Cross novels. This remains Patterson's best work and the closest he ever came to topping this was 'Kiss the Girls'.Nasty serial killer Gary Soneji (even the name sounds scary) kidnaps two kids from a school in Washington DC. But they're not just any kids. They belong to those of a US senator and actor and then the manhunt for Gary Soneji begins.This was Patterson at his peak. His characyers were well developed, unlike his earlier novels, and Alex Cross especially. In this one he's portrayed as a black detective who struggles to raise his kids in the ghettos of Washington. In his later ones, he's just desperate and dateless, not unlike Ally Mcbeal.I was rather dissapointed with the movie adaption, but hey, that's Hollywood.
5 Having missed this one in the Cross series I have planned to read it for a time. As usual it was a great book. I really enjoyed the short chapters and constant thinking of the Mad Man and what runs through their minds. The research was as always first class. The plot runs and twists always please. I guess to put it plainly it could not have been a better read. Fast, smooth and elegant.
4 This book was a fun read. I enjoyed the story and there was a really strange twist. I have to say that I was scared several times...I mean really scared. I do not recommend reading this book at night...or in the dark...or alone....
5 I am hooked on James Patterson's books.  There are lots of twists and turns and a bit of a surprise ending.
5 I choose this book for the title and I had never read J. Patterson before.  The author described the main dective's inner thougts, emotions and his family conection in every chapter.  He is always looking for the answer the to kidnaping and not quite reaching it,  twists and turn keeping you wanting more.
4 This book has been around since the mid 90s, but I just got around to reading it.  As you might expect it was a lot more detailed and better than the movie.  The one problem I had was Morgan Freeman stuck in my head as the protagonist due to the movie.  If you haven't already read the book, read it then watch the movie again just to compare.  I found it entertaining to do so.
5 I love the Alex Cross series.  I always wonder, though, why Patterson has to have a new chapter after only three or four pages.  The storyline isn't changing that much.  Waste of paper and ink.
5 Patterson keeps the suspense going right up to the end. Every time I think I have things figured out, they take another turn.  On to the next book asap.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  It was fast pase and kept me guessing.  I enjoy reading Jame Patterson becuase his chapters are short and to the point.  I also like dialogue and not long descriptive chapters.
5 I wasn't sure what to expect as James Patterson writes so much and I questioned his ability in this particular genre. However, I found that he did a great job with this one and it was an amazing way to introduce the central character - Alex Cross, as well as the position he found himself in both life and career. Good read.
5 This book didn't disappoint me - it was another good read in this Alex Cross series. I love the personal style and yet action and mystery James Patterson weaves in these stories.
1 The reason why virtually all of this man's novels are on the New York Time's bestseller list is because they are all politically correct to the extreme -- brilliant black psychologists and heroines , racist police and villains, heroic Black figures assasinated by racists.You can only go so far before you start to delude reality and make the book unbelievable and James Patterson certainly does that, particularly in this book.
5 I picked up Along Came A Spider as something to read on the plane.  I ended up getting delayed, which was annoying, but in the end, not a bad thing, as it gave me time to spend with this book.  Once I started reading, I ended up using all my free time to finish it, which I did the following day.The protagonist of the novel is psychologist/detective Alex Cross, a black man living in the &quot;South East&quot; an area near Washington D.C.  Cross and his partner are among the elite in the police force.  Described as &quot;the Last Southern Gentleman&quot;, Cross is a great and unique character, who likes to dote on his kids and play the piano in the middle of the night on his porch.Cross and his partner get called into investigate the kidnapping of two children of influential figures in Washington.  We know from the start who committed the kidnapping, and we even get to explore their motivations through the third person point of view.  However, this doesn't ruin the story.  The kidnapper, Gary Soneji/Murphy, has planned everything to the last detail as he tries to pull off the crime of the century.  Cross has a challenge on his hands.Just when you think you get everything figured out in this story, you come across an unexpected twist.  This may be a bit of a spoiler, but they do catch Soneji, much earlier than you would expect.  Just when you would expect that to be the end of the book, the real scheme and plot kicks in.  This portion of the novel reminded me a bit of Hannibal Lechter from Silence of the Lambs and Aaron Stampler from Diehl's Primal Fear.  However,  Patterson has added some twists that those novels didn't explore.  I hesitate to elaborate, so as not to ruin the surprise.  In the last fourth of the novel, you'll find yourself racing through the pages, just to find that just when you had it figured out, your expectations get dashed as the story takes another unexpected turn.  I know, it sounds cliche, but I felt that Patterson pulled this off well.This novel does have a bit of a social commentary to it.  Cross rebels at being pulled off a murder case in the beginning of the novel to be put on the kidnapping case of two white rich children.  The victims in his murder case were poverty stricken blacks.  Patterson also explores a relationship between Cross and Jezzie, a white Director in the Secret Service, which leads to a confrontation with some ignorant drunk men and a cross burning.  These sub plots do tie into the story fairly well though.This is the first of the Alex Cross series of novels that I have read.  It is also the first novel by James Patterson that I have read.  It won't be the last as I am eager to move onto its sequels.  I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in suspense, crime, or psychological thriller novels.
4 This book flies.  I had just read a couple of books that I thought were pretty lame and needed something fast and exciting.  A woman I work with recommended James Patterson to me.  I did a little research and found that this book is the first in a series for fictional detective Alex Cross.  (I hate to read a series out of order, even if the stories are independent and  don't continue from book to book.)  Along Came A Spider is a perfect  &quot;fun&quot; read.  It moves at a very rapid pace.  (The chapters are  usually just a few pages.)  It has pretty well developed characters  considering its quick pace and more plot twists than you'll ever  anticipate.  Just when the romance element in the book started to bore me  Patterson turns it on its ear.  Another thing that makes this book so good  is that despite the surprising plot twists everything is fairly believable  within the context of the story.  I read a lot of mystery/suspense and one  of my biggest complaints is that I'll get really into a book and the climax  will be totally ridiculous.  You know, the killer will turn out to be the  sister of the girl that was accidentally drown in the rich family's pool  the night of the prom thirty-five years before but nobody recognizes her  because she's a master of disguise or whatever!  Along Came A Spider has  none of that.  It's consistent, quick and exciting!  Read it!
5 This was the first book I've read by James Patterson.  I thought it had a lot of surprises which I love. It was very hard to put  down.
5 I had already seen the movie on TV, but the book took a slightly different twist on the story line.  There was a surprise in every chapter.  Was hard to put the book down.
5 I enjoy reading James Patterson and this was not a disappointment.  I would recommend this book to any James Patterson fan.
5 First and foremost, let me quote reviewer &quot;dan x&quot;: ...&quot;I did a little research and found that this book is the first in a series for fictional detective Alex Cross. (I hate to read a series out of order, even  if the stories are independent and don't continue from book to book.)&quot;I also did some research and came up with the same results as he did,  and I too, hate reading books out of sequence. It is indeed, a very fast  and engrossing read that has pretty much of everything in it. I will  doubtlessly look forward to reading future Alex Cross novels, there's no  doubt about that. If they are anywhere near as good as &quot;Along Came a  Spider&quot; was, then they're excellent.
4 Alex Cross, a street-smart psychologist, who happens to moonlight as a detective, crosses paths with the brilliant and deadly &quot;Son of Lindbergh,&quot; a multiple kidnapper, who targets Alex's children as his next prey.  A real page-turner, with plenty of plot twists and surprises.
5 This book was a subject that distresses me, but I could not put the book down I had to read it.  Very compelling!
3 Alex Cross debuts in James Patterson's book with clumsy entrances.  Alex, a strong, black, intelligent and handsome black psychologist and detective is sucked into a case involving two kidnapped children.  One, the son of the Treasury secretary guarded by two secret service agents, is killed shortly after the kidnapping and the other goes missing.  They quickly find the kidnapper and killer but fail to find the little girl.  This story would have been good had Patterson chosen not to interrupt the scenes with boring and useless romance scenes.  These scenes, which would have prevented most thriller readers from consummating the book, are bulky and do nothing but add pages.
4 The audio book was very good.  I was able to listen to it going to and from work each day.  I have not seen the movie, so I do not know which version is better.
5 If you love James Patterson, you will love this book.  The story is well constructed, the characters sparkle.  Alex Cross has lost his partner and is back in action with the assistance of a new side kick.  But can he trust her?  The action is fast paced and the suspense stays with you until the last page.  Who is the bad guy?  Will Alex lose this partner in his attempt to locate the Senators lost daughter? Who will die and who will survive? Alex Cross is in a race with time, and he does battle with the unique mind of a serial killer as well as a set of bad guys that comes as a surprise in the end.  Be ready to begin reading and not stop until you have reached the end.  I highly recommend this book.
4 This is the novel that launched one of the most read and beloved detective series of all time. The protagonist, Alex Cross, has the authority expected by crime readers, and enough humanity to keep casual readers interested. Patterson's short chapters and clean prose allowed this to be a great, fast paced read.
4 Great plot, believable characters, and not overly wordy.I read this novel and watched the movie and hated the movie so if you saw the movie first, just remember the movie is terrible compared to the book.  The movie had a large number of unbelievable concepts, which thankfully the book did not include.  The only annoyance was the 80+ chapters with 3 or 4 page chapters.  All in all, the book was fun but they didn't need to waste so much paper with the big bold words:  &quot;Chapter #&quot;. hehPOSSIBLE SPOILER:Last comment on the book is that Patterson gives away a little too much information in the part where Jezzie is in North Carolina with another man besides Alex.  It spoiled everything so I'll drop it a star just for that.
3 Edition Reviewed:  Warner Books Paperback, February 2001, 520 pages (including the brief excerpt from _1st to Die_ at the end of the book)My personal enjoyment rating: 8 out of 10My recommendation rating: 7 out of 10.  Explanation of recommendation rating: "Genre fans should enjoy it as well as a lot of people with a more passing interest in the genre.  Flaws are starting to show.  Serious literature fans (someone who reads a few books per month but doesn't have special feelings for the genre) should give these more consideration before spending their time or money.  Casual non-genre readers (who read one book per month or less) should generally stay away from 7's or anything lower."The good news is that James Patterson's _Along Came A Spider_ is fairly unpredictable, and quite a page-turner.  It is also very interesting structurally.  The bad news is that, at least in this book, Patterson's writing style occasionally comes across as mildly hack-like.  However, some of the hack-like mannerisms are peculiar enough that they almost become endearing by the end of the book, and if indicative of Patterson's writing style overall, could turn out to be an attractor for long-term fans rather than a set of annoying quirks that would turn a reader away from his work._Along Came A Spider_ is Patterson's introduction to what has turned out to be a continuing character in a series of suspense/mystery books, "Detective/Doctor" Alex Cross (to date, the character continues in the novels _Kiss the Girls_ (1994), _Jack & Jill_ (1996), _Cat & Mouse_ (1997), _Pop Goes the Weasel_ (1999), _Roses are Red_ (2000), _Violets are Blue (2001), and _Four Blind Mice_ (2002)).  In _Along Came a Spider_, we begin with Cross investigating the latest crime executed by a serial killer who is striking targets in the ghettos of Washington, D.C.  Cross, who still lives in the ghettos himself, despite the fact that he's a bigwig on the D.C. police force and has a Ph.D. in psychology, is suddenly called away, with his partner John Sampson, to investigate the kidnapping of two rich and famous kids by one of their teachers, and it all happened right under the nose of Secret Service agents.  Patterson weaves all of these threads and more together as we delve into the mind of the kidnapper, discover whether maybe there's some connection to the ghetto serial murders, and discover whether there is more than one villain.Structurally, _Along Came a Spider_ is very interesting in that for quite a few chapters in the beginning of the book, Patterson alternates one chapter of first-person, writing as Cross, with one chapter of the more traditional third-person omniscient, which at first is primarily concerned with the villain, Gary Soneji.  On the negative side, for some readers, this technique might be distracting as it breaks up the flow more than a mere change of setting does, and at first Patterson seems to have laid out a plan saying, "All of the even numbered chapters will be first-person; all of the odd numbered chapters will be third-person".  However, as the book progresses, one gets used to the flip-flopping perspectives, and Patterson eventually finds a more natural flow to the changes, letting a number of chapters at a time continue from the same perspective, as fits the story.For a first-time reader of Patterson, at least--and that includes me--the first few chapters might also prove to be relatively rough going because of Patterson's hack-like quirks.  One place this is easily evidenced is in his titles.  We could even come up with probable future names of Patterson books on our own.  _Kick the Can_, _Follow the Leader_, _Hickory Dickory Dock_, and _Pocketful of Rye_ are likely titles, if they're not already taken.  Patterson puts many "slangy" and clich&eacute;d phrases in his writing, like "Cool beans", "Cold as a meat locker", "A lot of sound and fury, signifying _nada_", etc., and they often come across as if he's thinking, "I need to put some slangy, hip, street lingo in the story here".  His descriptions meant to provide character depth often seem calculated and choppy, and he gives characters odd quirks like playing Public Enemy songs on a piano, which seems like maybe Patterson just quickly did an Internet search for urban bands that were supposed to be hip at the time.  He also has a middle-aged black man wear, say, a Hoodoo Gurus baseball cap, with no character background that would give it a believable context.  It ends up reading like maybe Patterson likes, or knows someone who likes the Hoodoo Gurus, and decided to stick the name in the book.  These kinds of quirks occur very often--a few times per chapter on average.  We might also count as a flaw that there are too many characters, and some, such as Sampson, seem like they should either have been fleshed out more and made more important or dropped altogether.On the other hand, when we get down to the bare bones of the narrative, Patterson certainly knows how to compose, and more importantly, propel, a good suspense/mystery novel.  The overall flow of the writing works well enough, and the basic plot is well constructed enough, that you keep reading despite the flaws, and you soon get hooked on the story as well as the characters.  The hack-like quirks almost start to become charming in a goofy way.  And even though Patterson occasionally slows things down with a chapter or two, his chapters tend to be very short, so it's not long until you get back to "action", exciting plot developments and revelations, including a few nice twists.The most telling comment, however, is that I just finished _Along Came a Spider_ this morning, after reading it fairly quickly, and this afternoon I'm going to stop by the bookstore to pick up _Kiss the Girls_.  That overrides any negative criticism about _Along Came a Spider_ being a less than perfect book, and should be compliment enough.
5 Great book. Could not put it down. Love all James Patterson's book. Can't wait to read the next book. Excited
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book, especially the Alex Cross character, who is played by Morgan Freeman in the movies.
1 So mad at this book.  It was pretty good for the first 3/4.  Then it completely goes off the rails.  First is some annoying, distracting moralizing about interracial dating.  It's totally out of place in a psychological thriller.  Did the author need to fill pages for his book contract?  Then the farce of a trial.  Somehow the allegedly split-personality killer gets hypnotized during the trial.  Yes, hypnotized.  During the trial.  You could not make this schlock up.  Well, I guess you could.  If you were an overrated hack.  There's 8 hours of my life I will never get back.
5 Held your interest.  Well written.  I would read another James Patterson book such as Along Came a Spider.  Excellent book
4 First I went to see the movie and maybe that's why I found this book has a lack of concise story. First I want to give this book 3 stars but since I start to read his second Alex Cross novel 'Kiss the girls' I found that James Patteson is one of the greatest mystery novelist. The plot is good and reasonable, it has unexpected twists but in the middle of the book after kidnaping, it seemed as Patterson didn't know how to continue the idea he has started with. So there is like 100 an plus pages you can easily skip, but the ending is unexpected and really surprising. It's just somehow irritating as suspense novel is everything but taut in the place where you want to let your dog starve for a day and your finacee is waiting for a ball game just for you, but you are in your own universe.  The serial kidnaper is an intelegent person and so the hero needs to be, so this is a good premise which run well in the novel. As it's his first novel, you can see that character of Alex Cross isn't build-up very well yet, so sometimes the hero reacts or behave in out-of-logic manner and in some parts of the book he's not so belivable. Story is well buid, there is enough of suspense and unusual twists. Still, worth of your time and money, just to introduce yourself to the 1st part of great mystery travel to Crossland.
4 Very good book. It really kept me guessing. It had a lot of twists and turns.  I would recommend it.
3 This book is structured in short two to three page chapters that are engaging and practically will you to turn the page.  I think this is the first Alex Cross, I enjoyed the characters and settings their were some great twists and turns.  James Patterson writes some of the fastest moving thriller novels out there!
5 Having read everything by Michael Conelly and Jeffrey Deaver, I was looking for a master of suspense with an imaginative and intellectual lead character. I found both with James Patterson's Along Came A Spider and Dr. Alex Cross.Alex Cross is a lead detective with the Washington Police Department. He is also a very able licensed psychologist. While investigating a series of murders he is called out to take the lead in the investigation of the kidnapping of a politician's son and a movie star's daughter (Maggie Rose).  It isnt long before he finds out the murderer and the kidnapper are one in the same. The manhunt for Gary Sonjei and the search for little lost Maggie Rose have Cross teamed up with the FBI and the Secret Service. Sonjei proves to be evil incarnate with a master plan and a high I.Q.  The plot thickens and surprises abound, keeping interest at a high level throughout the book.Patterson delivers what every suspense reader wants.... a vulnerable and loveable good guy along with a bad guy that has you afraid to turn out the lights at night.  Just when you think you have it all figured out he kicks up the intensity another notch.The book is a smooth read. There are little to no dull spots. You will finish this book wanting to read another Alex Cross novel. I know I did. FIVE STAR THRILLER !!
5 A pleasantly written suspense novel, masterfully thought out turn of events, much insight into a deranged mind and its consequences.  I like the short chapters, almost everyone filled with a surprise.  Great reading, very entertaining.  I will read James Patterson again.  Gerborg
1 Stop bothering me with asking for reviews before being able to read another. Good way to turn people off from reading more
5 Awesome excellent reading. Well written James continues at his usual interest holding capabilities once again you won't be disappointed.
5 Patterson is such a good story teller.  This novel stars Alex Cross at his best. Mysteries like this keeps me wanting more.
5 I have been reading his books for several years and this is a good read. He knows how to keep your interest right to the end.
5 this is one of my favorite authors, i've read just about all of his books but had read this so long ago i didn't remember all of it and saw the movie and had to reread
3 I found this book was hard reading.  It jumped from one thing to another. I was disappointed with the book.  Hopefully the next book in the Alex Cross series isn't hard reading.
4 James Patterson, with this first Alex Cross novel, has written a classic.  ALONG CAME A SPIDER is a gem.  It is a world class highly sophisticated thriller for the ages.  It is a heart stopping thrill ride of the imagination, a ride into darkness so deep you wont know which direction is up.The emotions of the reader are guaranteed to run high when two celebrity children are kidnapped, and when it turns out they are held by a mass murdering psychopath, your eyes and your hands are guaranteed to be glued to your kindle for the duration of the read.We are introduced to the legendary and brilliant Washington Detective, Alex Cross.  His wife was killed in a drive-by shooting three years ago but he is still grieving.  His partner, John Sampson, is a life long friend.  Cross and his two children are living with his grandmother who still volunteers at the local primary school.  Cross the man has an incredible career - and amazing potential -  ahead of him and given his background, he is understandably happy to stay (in Washington) where he feels he can achieve the most for the common good.  But there are people above him who can see his talents and intelligence (he has a PhD in Psychology) and are consequently pushing him toward higher things.  So there is tension on several levels in this fine, fine tome.The kidnapper is a lunatic. Seriously.  Mr Gary Soneji is a mass murdering delusionist who kills for the fun and self imposed glory of it all. After slashing the throat of a high powered member of the FBI, the reader finds him crying out for a challenge in his life.  Well, guess what buddy!  Alex Cross is about to give you a challenge you will never forget!We also meet 24 year old blonde bombshell and secret service agent, Jezzie Flanagan, who comes to work everyday on a high powered black BMW sports motorbike.  She too is a highly qualified cast member of the story and those in the know recognise her for what she is.  A player.And so to the writing.  It is beautifully balanced, with excellent building of suspense and tension as you progress through the story.  The characters are fantastically created and each have their own set of histories.  The book itself has longer and deeper chapters than the newer releases from the world famous writer and the book feels more solid as a result.  The language is strong - another difference from the newer books but given the setting of the characters and their histories, I guess the reader can overlook this.  The book is violent.  It certainly is not funny.  That would be totally ridiculous.  There are moments of poignancy and emotion scattered like grains of chalk across an empty blackboard.  It has an excellent feel and will make the reader deeply, deeply satisfied at the end.And so to the ending.  It is quite extraordinary.  It is multi-directional with twists and turns. And chops and changes.  You wont know where to look except for at the white of your kindle screen, or the psperback you sre holding.  And the final chapter is exquisitely thrilling, exciting and nail biting.  A final moment of poignancy finishes this classic thriller of the 1990s and you will find yourself a little sad at book's end.  Another true sign of greatness.  At least there are 20 more books to read.I think i have said enough.  This is one of the modern day classics of the genre and i consider myself privileged to have come across it so long after it was released.  The world owes it thanks to James Patterson for giving us such a fantastic tale and yet another superhero to stand up against the evils that exist in our world.BFN Greggorio!
4 Very exciting with a twisted ending.  I fell in love with the short chapters and the changes of charectors in the first person.  I liked hearing what the killer Gary Soneji had too say and then Alex Cross great  writing style.
5 Along Came a Spider was a great read!  James Patterson's way of getting into the killer's mind is amazing!  I can't wait to read more!
5 This is the first series of the Alex Cross novels created by James Patterson.  I have read all of them three or four times each by now..they really are that addictive.  Alex Cross, the fictional love-of-my-life, is a tough, detective/psychologist in the Southeast side of Washington D.C.  Alex has a wonderful family and best friend Sampson (who I always imagine as a Forrest Whittaker type) who help him get through his daily doses of crime and maiming.  Let's talk about the story...it was a normal day at the Washington Day school, until two students, Maggie Rose Dunne, and Michael &quot;Shrimpie&quot; Goldberg are kidnapped. Their favorite math teacher, Gary Soneji takes them, burries them in the ground and demands a huge ransom.  These two students were children of the most prominent families in the area.  Alex and Sampson are taken off a brutal crime in the D.C. area and forced onto the Goldberg-Dunne kidnappings.  Everyone gets involved.  Secret Service, FBI, and the Washington police all try to work together to solve the crime.  This book has so many twist and turns, and plots within plots, it will make your head spin.  Every page you turn reveals something new and exciting.  Even when Gary Soneji is caught....nobody is sure who is responsible...Gary seems to have a split personality (Remember Adam Stampler from &quot;Primal Fear&quot;) and the outcome of his trial is questionable.  You have to read this book...Alex Cross books like this one, and &quot;Kiss the Girls&quot; are movies now, but they never let you see Alex in an intimate way.... he has a loveable family, his best pal Sampson, and lots of juicy romances.  All of these are left out of the movies.  Why? because Patterson wants you to see the movie...love it...and then read the books..because he KNOWS you too will like it better than the movies and read the whole series.  I promise, the books are really are not comparable to the movies.
3 I didn't by this book but did read from library on kindle. Was ok . Didn't keep me wanting more. I was able to put down and pick up later. Witch suprised me cause I love James Patterson. His woman's murder club. I can say Give it a try you might or might not like it. I'm not going to give up on it. Just cause I didn't like the first one in series doesn't mean can't get better. I did like how each chapter was short so it made you feel like you was getting far in the book. Like I said i'm not going to give up just yet.I can say if you have it at your library try it there first Just incase you don't like it.
3 Jezzie plays Sampson with ease. As he falls in love, she uses him divert his attention from Maggie Rose. Gary's multiple personalities emerge to get to the truth.
4 Liked the book. It was full of action and suspense. I didn't see the twist coming until the very end.
5 December 21, 1992. At a high-security private school, math teacher Gary Soneji kidnapped two students - Michael Goldberg, whose father is the Secretary of the Treasury, and Maggie Rose Dunne, the daughter of a famous actress.Alex Cross is a forensic psychologist who works as a DC homicide detective. After being pulled off a serial killer case in one of DC's lower-income neighborhoods, Alex is thrown into the hunt for Michael and Maggie Rose, as well as apprehending Gary Soneji. Michael soon turns up dead, and Gary Soneji is arrested in a McDonalds far from the capital city.There's just one problem. Gary Soneji is known to the world as Gary Murphy, a quiet man who works hard to provide for his family. This is not the image that the kidnapper, who calls himself the "Son of Lindbergh", has given himself. Does he suffer from multiple personality disorder? Or is he just putting on an act for the police? And what has happened to Maggie Rose?During the next two years, Alex Cross develops a relationship with Gary. But when things start to look strange, he begins to ask questions that reach far into the government. Who is Gary Murphy/Soneji? And how exactly does Secret Service agent Jezzie Flannigan fit into the puzzle?"Along Came a Spider" is James Patterson's first Alex Cross novel, and it is truly a page-turning thriller. With a vividly-described and likable protagonist and a mystery with more turns than a maze, Patterson has created a world that will stay with you long after the final secret is revealed.
5 Of all the James Patterson books, Along Came A Spider had to come along, this is an engrossing read, It took two sits for me to read this, it grabs you from the first page and doesn't let go, It follows Detective Alex Cross and his adventure to Stop Gary Murphy/Soneji who appears to have a split personality and he's been accused of murdering two children, one is a famous movie star's child. It's up to Alex to hypnotize Gary and get the truth, he meets Jezzie Flanagan an FBI agent whom he falls in love with. This book will shock you until the ending which has an amazing twist to it. I recommend Beginners of James Patterson this Book, I also recommend it to any body, If you like this read Cat &amp; Mouse which has Gary Soneji in it to. I cannot wait for Violets Are Blue.
5 If you can, read them from the first book. The stories are intertwined and you get more by reading the series in order.
5 Another great book by James Patterson.  The story and characters were complex and the situation plausible.How well do we know the people in our lives -- particularly the ones who are involved with our children is the crux of the story, and that is thought provoking -- as it should be.Highly recommended. 5 stars.
4 I must say,  this novel was a very entertaining novel or at least most of it. The part that was actually mystery and suspense is no doubt five stars.  But why I  chose to give this book four stars is because of the boring romantic part of it. I do hope Kiss the Girls is more entertaining  novel than this one is. I don't  want to be the only James Patterson fan that just thinks the series is only good; I want it to be great.
3 Kept me guessing, with numerous twists and turns.  First rate suspense with good character development.  Look forward to another Alex cross story.
4 I thought I'd give this a go due to the immense popularity James Patterson has garnered. I enjoyed this run of the mill detective novel but not as much as I enjoy Harlan Coben & Michael Connelly's detective novels. The hero "Alex Cross" is a detective who has psychology qualifications.Moderately recommended.
4 ALONG CAME A SPIDER by James Patterson.The plot, the events, and actions were very well done.  I was surprised and pleased.  The book definitely kept my interest.  The main reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because I didn't smile.  I think of Grisham who takes me to the 5 star level.  He writes a similar genre, but he makes me smile, either at the intriguing characters, or the "wow that is so exciting" when being chased or trapped or wondering if the hero will survive.At times I felt impatient to get some answers.  The result was it felt a little slow.  I've read other police procedural mysteries that had me less impatient and enjoying the journey more.The narrator Charles Turner was fine, but I wish Morgan Freeman had narrated.  The character Alex Cross is a black man from the south.  Morgan played Alex in the movie, and I kept thinking about him.  He would have been a great narrator.The story is told in first person from Alex's point of view and then third person for other characters and events.  That structure worked ok, but I would have preferred third person for all.  When he switches to first person, I am almost taken out of the story, thinking of myself - my perspective.DATA:Unabridged audiobook reading time: 12 hrs and 21 mins.  Violence: strong.  The killer likes cutting off body parts.  Swearing language: strong.  Sexual language: none.  Sex scenes: about 8, referred to no details shown.  The couple is a black man and a white woman.  Setting: the early 1990s mostly east coast U.S. locations.  Book copyright: 1992.  Genre: mystery suspense police procedural.  Ending: the good guys win, but there are many victims of violence.
4 I am working my way through the Alex Cross series and am truly enjoying each book. I will be reading more of Patterson's books when I finish this series.
5 Loved this book.....I love a psychological thriller....makes you think about what CAN happen in real life...this is first Alex Cross book I have read and can't wait to read the next one
4 Lots of ups and downs in this book. Keeps you guessing. Really had me feeling for the people in the story.
4 Along Came A Spider is an extremely interesting story with a twisted plot and plenty of suspense. It is almost like two stories in one&#8212;the evil of the psychopathic perpetrator, and the events experienced by Alex Cross as he becomes immersed in his investigation. The plot is definitely interesting and kept my attention from beginning to end. It is a wonderful mystery, a mind boggling psychological thriller, and contains enough action and events to make one wonder when it all will end. James Patterson still spins a tale that will entice me to read other books written by him.Jeanette Cooper, Author ofWhen Justice is Served
5 Good read. I could not stop until the book was finished. Many twists and turns. Five stars all the way.
4 To me, Gary Soneji is FAR and AWAY a better crafted character than Hannibal Lecter is.  Almost jumping off the pages and into your nightmares is what James Patterson manages to succeed in doing to you.  Here is fair warning: IF you have a penchant for dreaming about the books you read, you may want to avoid Patterson's books at all costs!  His characters are SO BAD they almost defy the words in the English language to fully describe. Gary Soneji is also one thing many serial killers are not: He is VERY smart (maybe not smart enough NOT to kill, but pretty darned intelligent) but he is also hopelessly past all ability to rehabilitate, too.  Patterson's pace is so fast that there is practically a new chapter on every-other-page.  The pacing is like a semi coming down a steep grade with no brakes.  Watch OUT!  If you are into SMART storytelling (Gary Soneji isn't the ONLY smart one in this book) than Patterson's Alex Cross novels are the bar by which everyone else is judged.
5 This was the third Alex Cross book I have read and so far it was the best.  In this exciting story Patterson creates a suspenseful plot with some extra twists.The main plot is detective Alex Cross searching for a murderer/kidnapper.  But Alex Cross has a number of social and political issues that he deals with on a daily basis, an example is being pulled off of the murder case of a black family in the projects to find the kidnapper of some rich white kids.Cross' witty replies are always entertaining when he is confronted by one of his superiors.  I also like the way that the subplots in this story came together, it wasn't just filler material.  This book left me wanting for more.
5 Alex Cross is such a likable character - exciting in his official capacity - touching as a father.Along Came a Spider keeps you on the edge right up til the end --a MUST READ for suspense lovers .... what a gripping story!!
4 A great book. The storyline was great, but lacked in description of the scenes. I couldn't imagine myself in the scenes very often. It was a great suspenseful book, though.
5 Absolutley stellar writing on Patterson's part, found myself having a hard time putting it down and finished in a couple of weeks, now I am not much of a reader due to my visual impairment but loved the book...really keeps you going and wondering what happened to the kidnapped girl Maggie Rose Dunne, will say that I suspected one of the supporting roles to be in on the caper from the begining, Highly reccomend this to anyone from avid reader to modest/beginner readers....keeps you on your toes and grabs you by the short and curlies from the first page.  First Rate all the way
5 This is the second time I have read this book.  It had been a number of years since I had read this for the first time.  This time  and also first  time, when I started reading this mystery I found it was intriguing enough to make me want to read more.  I thought it was cleverly written in how the abduction of a child took place and then the cat and mouse game of catching the teacher who kidnapped her.How Alex Cross came to be drawn into working the crime, after he had stopped working any cases because of an unfortunate incident when he was in charge of another case.This was number one of a series of books about Alex Cross and I have enjoyed  every one of them.  Some more so than others but I still enjoy reading them.
5 James Paterson writes in a way that it is fast past, conise and to the point. I feel when you read his books there is no guess work, just let the story flow. When you get to the end, you like "Wow!!" I just couldn't believe it. All his books are very entertaining. This first book of the Alex Cross series introduce you a detective name Alex Cross who is not just a detective but an African American detective. I feel he is a hero for all people. The way James Patterson decribes Alex and his family gives you a different viewpoint than your average run of the mill detective story. This book is an excellent read, as always, read the book first before watching the movie.
5 I enjoyed this book, the first of Patterson's Alex Cross stories. The book was very exciting and well written about a psychopath who kidnaps and kills people. The story begins with the character who is the crazy guy, Gary Soneji/Murphy who has multiple severe personality disorders along with being a complete nut-case due to his terrible childhood. Gary Soneji/Murphy plays a school teacher at a day-school for rich kids when his intent is really to kidnap and kill the Dunne/Goldberg children. And finally, one day he lured the children into his van and kidnaps them, drugging one and eventually killing the other child. This kidnapping has the whole DC area up in arms, and Alex Cross works day and night to capture Soneji/Murphy, but he doesn't do that until he kills a few more people in different places. His whole game throughout the book is that he "Wants to be Somebody." He is the master of killing, and he enjoys the game.Alex Cross trys to help all he can, and he gets inside Soneji/Murphy's head and gets him to tell him all of his horrible little secrets after Soneji gets captured the first time and put into prison. Later though, Soneji escapes from prison and causes more problems. More than just Soneji/Murphy though, is an accomplice. Alex fell in love with a female detective on his team, not realizing that she is actually the one behind more of these problems with the kidnappings and knows the answers to what happened with the children.Cross puts the puzzle all together, and the book is very fast moving and keeps you guessing what will happen next!
3 Writing this review so long after the release of the book is leading me to take the approach that I'm speaking now to those of you who aren't overly familiar with James Patterson and the Alex Cross series.  First of all, let me begin by saying that I'm a big advocate of reading series' from beginning to end, without skipping books along the way.  Because of that, and because I can unequivically tell you that the Cross books only get better, I'm giving Along Came a Spider 3 stars and recommending that it be read.With that in mind, this book was SLOW.  I understand that Patterson was working to set up the lives of characters who would be carried over for later novels in the series, but the overall action in this book was a drag.  Heck, even the timeline of the story spans more than two years!I greatly respect James Patterson.  He's one of my favorite authors and I will be the first to tell anyone that the novels in the Alex Cross series typically make for really great reads.  But, I've got to be honest with you regarding the first one - The engine definitely took a while to leave the station for this series starter.
3 I know my opinion does not seem to be shared by the masses, but I definitely do not feel that this book was one of James Patterson's best.  Even allowing for the extra description required to set up a character so that a series can be made out of him (i.e. Alex Cross), Patterson drags this story at best.I will admit that I read the first 250 or so pages VERY quickly, but all of a sudden the novel seemed to lose steam.  Combine this with the budding romance of Alex Cross that was focused on to the nth degree and did nothing to advance the plot and it made for a very difficult novel to complete.I made myself finish the novel because I was eager to get on to other Alex Cross novels that I knew received rave reviews.  I too do not like to read a series out of order so I forced myself through the remaining pages.  However, I found myself questioning whether or not ANY of the other Alex Cross books would be worth reading (they are, don't worry) during the course of this book.One last bit before I conclude, I was INCREDIBLY disturbed by the final chapters of this novel and I do not feel much of the description was necessary to get Patterson's view across.With all this being said, please do not use Spider as a judge for the other books in the Alex Cross series.  I have not come upon these issues again in any of the other Cross novels I have completed.  But, suffice it to say that it took a little while for Patterson to find a rhythm for his most famous leading man.
2 Alex Cross is an articulate, educated black man who is a homicide detective Washington D.C. police department. He just needs to be in a better novel.In this debut novel that features said character, Cross is put on a case to find two, white, wealthy kids abducted from a private school. This bothers him somewhat as he was on a case where two black children are missing, and yet no law officials seem interested.The villain of the piece is Gary Soneji, who masqueraded as an instructor of the private school; he is your typical psycho who is also brilliant and wants to be remembered throughout history. (These types of villains showed up a lot in the films of the 1990s).Cross meets a beautiful, blonde, white FBI agent named Jezzie whom he has a relationship with, and gets serious with...only that he finds out that she (in a confusing plot turn) had something to do with the two abducted white children. She was only faking a relationship with Cross to get police information from him; Jezzie and two other officers (also in a confusing plot turn) somehow took charge of the abducting operation of the private school children.Cross, in an unrealistic manner, catches Jezzie by going back to an island they traveled to early in the novel, having people placed strategically in places as if he had clairvoyance that Jezzie would 1. Come back with him to the island. 2. They would travel the exact way where his people would be waiting. 3. Jezzie would say exactly what he needed to know in order to have evidence to arrest her, and her cohorts.Interestingly, Jezzie is the one who is given the death penalty, and Soneji is not....(only hinting from his cell that he will be back). Moreover, it is said that Soneji had something to do with the missing black kids as well!Now, as aforementioned, I am familiar with the film adaptation of this novel; and, that wasn't an improvement. It was actually worse. Both the film and the novel it was based on is confusing, convoluted, and generic or cliched...not too mention unrealistic with how certain things automatically fall into place, or how the main character has - as aforementioned - plot clairvoyance.I do plan on reading the next entry, `Kiss the Girls,' and I hope there is an improvement.
2 When I read a book and I keep reading and I get nothing of the main story I say that the writer is green dyeing  the grass, since I already know that the grass is green with out dyeing it, I think that I don't have to read words that doesn't say anything, for example:The Jezzie-Alex's affair could be written in five lines at the beginning of the book and five more at the end so you can understand why she was a bad agent. The book has chapters and chapters of this affair.What happened with Alex's family is part of the book, but whatever they are going to have for breakfast every morning, who cares?The trial is boring and it repeats everything you already know.... And as the rabbit I can keep on and on...
3 ALONG CAME A SPIDER is another of those novels that leaves me equivocal - one thumb up, and one thumb down. I hate that.Dr./Detective Alex Cross, a Washington DC forensic psychologist/gumshoe and his partner, John Sampson, are assigned to investigate a double kidnapping with the FBI and Secret Service. The victims are Michael and Maggie, the former the young son of the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, and the latter the young daughter of a movie star. Very early on, the reader knows the identity of the perp, a brilliant serial killer named Gary Soneji, and Michael's fate. As Gary continues his murderous swathe across the landscape, all wonder. How do we catch this guy, and where's Maggie?The best thing about this thriller is Cross, a world-weary widower who loves his kids and his grandmother, and who's not afraid to be, in the honorable tradition of Eastwood's Dirty Harry, a thorn in the side of his boss and the mayor. You gotta love the guy. Also, the Maggie character was endearing, but author James Patterson gave her too little press time.The main problem with the book is that, at 502 pages in paperback, it's about 50 too long. By the novel's end, Gary's essential evilness and the de rigueur plot twist have been diluted out by an overabundance of other bad guys and the relationship between Cross and Secret Service agent Jezzie Flanagan, which Patterson develops ad nauseam. Moreover, for the apparent sake of maintaining the potential for a series, a major thread is left hanging. It's as if the author, or his editor, didn't know when to quit. Less would have been better.The movie version of ALONG CAME A SPIDER was recently released, starring Morgan Freeman. From the trailers I've seen, the film adaptation seems to be a different story entirely. (Gee, what a surprise!) Besides the opportunity to observe the great actor Freeman, I'll want to see if the output of some Tinseltown scriptwriter can force both my thumbs in the same direction. Up or down, I don't care. I just want closure.
5 Author James Patterson again at his best. Readers who are not familiar with Patterson's work may find his short-chapter style an unattractive read and be put off by the style. New readers to Patterson's style need to give his books a chance, knowing that the reader will find Patterson's stories a good read.This reader is used to Patterson's style of writing and finds that it adds to the attraction of the read. Riveting and enjoyable for this avid reader is the shifting from Alex Cross in one chapter, with another character in the next, back and forth. This JP fan had the pleasure of meeting Patterson more than once in Manhattan before 9/11.ALONG CAME A SPIDER is riveting and glues you to reading the book in as less sittings as possible. This bestseller is written simply, with a harrowing plot. Detective Alex Cross, family man and psychologist too, profoundly plays a key role in many of Patterson's novels. Cross' manner and delivery of detecting is above par with a concentrated number of detectives in novels, among which are Sara Paretsky's &quot;VI Warshawski&quot;, and Patricia Cornwell's &quot;Kay Scarpetta&quot;. Considering it is the first Alex Cross book, Cross is a character a reader can relate to with his mild manner but hard-driving methods of investigation.Cross' associate in the plot is Jezzie Flanagan, also a police detective with a PhD in psychology connected with the Secret Service. Two crime-stoppers who work symbiotically in their efforts to apprehend a chilling psychopath -Gary Soneji- who commits child kidnapping, murder of a school teacher, horrific acts and all this from a man (Soneji) who can easily be labelled &quot;a split-personality&quot;, while appearing as a mild-mannered, popular math teacher at an elite private school for children of the affluent society, and known to the students as &quot;Mr. Chips&quot;.ALONG CAME A SPIDER is engrossing &amp; thrilling, emitting emotions that deliver a true-to-life portrayal. Victimizer Gary Soneji resembles in some ways other perpetrators who get into your mind throughout the story, such as Hannibal Lector. Soneji with his terrifying crimes outsmarts the FBI, Secret Service, and Police Department. Detectives Cross and Flanagan face the ultimate as psychologists to outmaneuver a brilliant psychopath before his next victim... and the next... and the next...This self-professed biblioholic always looks forward to a James Patterson read. Thank you Mr. Patterson.
2 Maybe it's because I was just coming off reading &quot;Red Dragon,&quot; but I found this story to remind me too much of all the serial killer hype that I see so much of all over the place.It's not that this book was  bad, it just didn't really do it for me. I mainly read it because I enjoyed  the movie &quot;Kiss The Girls&quot; based on the Patterson novel of the  same name. I thought that story was intriguing. This one, just didn't move  me much.
5 This is my second Patterson-Cross book, after &quot;Kiss the girls&quot;, which I really liked. Both are part of a series featuring the psychologist-detective Alex Cross, a tough Washington DC cop.&quot;Along came a spider&quot; is an interesting book. It's the first one in the &quot;Cross series&quot;, where the readers are introduced to the main characters that will make part in the series, like Cross, his partner Sampson, Cross family, etc.Patterson has a very peculiar style of narrative. His chapters are usually short, wich makes the reading very fast-paced and thrilling. Also, Patterson has two kinds of narrative: one in the first-person where we see what Alex Cross is experiencing and believing, and it's a very personal and one-sided narrative; the other style is in third person, where the reader follows the steps of the main suspect of the crime the story is about. So, to be clear, we KNOW who the killer/murderer/kidnapper/whatever is from the very beggining. Does this spoil the plot or the reading? No! Patterson is master in delivering sub-plots, twists, nuances about characters along the book, all very interesting, and they make the pursuit/manhunt very enjoyable.In &quot;Along came a spider&quot;, Gary Soneji is the kidnapper fanatic about the Lindberg case, who intents to make history by taking away two very important children. Cross and his teammates in DC Police, FBI and Secret Service have to stop him before he strikes again. This is just the first plot of the story, and it keeps changing every ten or twenty chapters.One thing I found annoying, though, is that Patterson made Cross something like a super-human being. There were times when I thought Cross was virtually invincible. But that is something minor.What really matters is that Patterson created believable characters in one really good thriller. I will surely read the other books in the series, and I'm waiting for Patterson's incursion in medieval times &quot;The jester&quot;.Grade 8.8/10
5 Along Came a Spider is the first installment in the detective Alex Cross series by Patterson.  I did not read these books in order, but that has not detracted from the flow of any of the books.  Since I have read the other books first, and the first book last, Detective Alex Cross has changed somewhat into a mellower, more likeable character.  I did not see the movie, but had envisioned Denzel Washington to play the smooth and sophiscated Alex Cross and was disappointed in the choice of Morgan Freeman.  But after reading this book, Morgan Freeman fits Alex Cross in this book perfectly - for this book only!!!I love Patterson's books and have read just about all of them.  I find them to be engrossing, suspenseful and I just can't put them down.  He foils me with the ending each and every time!!In this book, Patterson has a serial killer at large, Gary Soneji, who has kidnapped two children, and who wants to be known as somebody. Jezzie Flannagan from the FBI, is also on the case, giving Cross support to capture the killer.  Three great strong main characters, exposed to the reader so as to get into their psyche, yet intertwined with each other to make for one incredible story.The ending is a blow out, which is what I love about Patterson - hanging on to the edge of your seat with each and every page, and giving you the shocker at the end.  I love it!  His books are definite thrillers and shockers!
5 James Patterson is well-known for his popular Alex Cross series, and Along Came A Spider is the first installment introducing Alex Cross, et. al.  The story opens with a prologue regarding the infamous kidnapping and murder of the Lindbergh baby in 1932, as explained through the thoughts of the 12-year old kidnapper.  It then jumps to 1992, and introduces Alex Cross, who is a brilliant Homicide detective and psychologist, his partner, John Sampson, and his delightful grandmother, Nana Mama.  As the story unfolds, Alex and his partner are called to a triple homicide scene where a mother, daughter, and 3-year old boy have been brutally murdered; a similar murder has just previously occurred, and Cross suspects this is just the beginning of a rash of serial murders in the poorest part of town targeting blacks.  Cross is determined to solve the murders, even though those in management at the police department regard these murders as unimportant because they involve the poor.  While at the murder scene, Cross is called to a private school where a famous actress' daughter and the son of the Secretary of the Treasury have been kidnapped by a man posing as a teacher at the school, Gary Soneji.  Cross is told that the kidnappings are high-priority, and he resents the fact that two rich kids take precedence over six murders of innocent, albeit poor, black victims.  Patterson does an excellent job of merging the two scenarios as Cross investigates and works to solve both of the crimes.For those unfamiliar with the Alex Cross series, this book is the one to read first; it explains the background of the characters while weaving them through a very suspenseful tale with many unexpected twists and turns.  Patterson makes the characters seem believable and real; readers will be kept on the edge of their seats, and will admit that the only drawback of the novel is that it ends.  Most suspense/thriller aficionados will waste no time picking up the next book in the series.This book was purchased with personal funds and no promotion of the book was solicited by the author or publisher.
5 Over the years I have acquired quite a collection of James Patterson books but always wanted to start reading him from the beginning of the Alex Cross series. I don't know what took me so long to discover why he's such a popular author but I'm glad I finally did. Although I must add that once I started reading him I was on a hunt for the rest of the books I was missing, it's impossible not to get engrossed and lost in a slick thriller such as "Along Came a Spider" and not crave more. The moment I was done with the 1st book I was all ready dreaming of snatching the 2nd, it was worth to wake up early on Sunday and make a quick run to the bookstore for the next chapter of Alex Cross's life. I usually don't read a series back to back but my mind and appetite were taken hostage and I had to succumb to the calling of another great book.Let me just say how easy it is to have this or his other books spoiled, I didn't read the editorial reviews till after I was done with the story and good thing too, I felt that some of the surprising moments were being dangerously close to being mentioned.This highly suspenseful story begins with a kidnapping from the past that inspires future psychopaths; the famous Lindenberg baby is snatched from his crib, to be buried alive. This becomes the inspiration for Gary Murphy and the evolution of his alter ego Gary Soneji - ruthless kidnapper and killer with over two hundred victims on his black soul. Gary wants to be somebody, he wants the streets to hum and buzz with terror at the very thought of his name, he's also an exceptional planner who's ideas take years to plan and without leaving any prints or traces of his true identity. He's the master of disguises and faux credentials that let him slip into many sectors unnoticed, and watch his future victims. Gary decides to act on his master plan and kidnap two prominent children from their highly guarded school. The ransom is in millions but sometimes Gary likes the mental and physical torture more than money, he lives and breathes on inflicting terror on men, women and anything that will cross his way, especially children. He's trilled at the thought that the famous Alex Cross is on his tail, and he does his best to taunt and stalk the man, leaving him more crimes to solve. Just when things start to come to light another devious plot exudes a foul stench, a warning that the case if far from being over, one that puts a real spin on the story. I cannot say any more, this book is best read with knowing the smallest bit of detail because so much happens and not all turns out well for Cross.For a five hundred page book this reads extremely fast, I was done with it in two days and if my eye balls weren't revolting I would have read something right after it but they needed a break. It's quite enjoyable to read a juicy book that doesn't let go and one that ends with a bang, now I see why so many people read and like Patterson, he's pretty awesome.- Kasia S.
4 This is a really good book, full of twists and turns and sub-plots. The characters are well-developed (not all are likable) and the premise of the story is realistic. The book is action-packed and does an excellent job if luring you in and leaves you wanting more. The gook can be read as a standalone book or you can continue on in the series. I'm looking forward to the series. What kept the book from being great is that the romance portion was rather predictable and somewhat unbelievable given the personality of the main character. I think developing romantic relationships in suspense books is very tricky and needs to be done lightly and not rushed - most authors don't do this aspect very well. I also anticipated how the book would end and who was involved and it would have been nice to be completely shocked by the ending.
4 this is the most complicated book I have ever read. just when you think the mystery is solved there is a twist. then there is another and another. It just keeps going until you get about 3/4 the way through. Then he begins his reveals of why's and where it all comes about. It will keep you in your seat and yet challenge your mind. So if you have never read one of his books and you like a challenge start here!
5 I just started reading this series and am excited to read the next book! Hope they are all this good.
4 This was an interesting book with no slow parts. The villain was written well and always kept me on my toes. I really didn't know what to believe until the very end. I also liked that I kept changing my guesses about what was going on--it wasn't one of those books where I have it all figured out after the second chapter and then just nod along while they explain things to me that I'd already discovered. I'm curious about seeing the movie now, but reading the plot summary at imdb.com I'm a little worried... it looks like a totally different story!
3 I guess I expected a better book after reading the Women's Murder club books. I'm going to read the second book though.
5 This book has many twists and turns, it kept me on the edge of my seat trying to figure out who did it. A must read!
3 I enjoy reading a Patterson book but I am not addicted to them. It is a good easy read with a mystery with a few twists and turns. This is one case where I liked the movie better even though I had all ready read the book several years before. If you like James Patterson you will like this book. If you haven't read him, you might use this a first read. You won't be disappointed.
5 This was the first in the series that my husband wanted to read right from the beginning and he did!
5 I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a good crime story. It is entertaining from beginning to end with just the right amount of suspense.
4 At first, watching the brutality and tragery happened in NY, and reading the crimes in this book, I wish those should disapper.1. Which is first, chicken or egg?The part descibing on possibility of multiple character in Gary  Murphy/Sonjei, reminded me of the movie, Primal fear in which Edward Norton deceived Richard Gear so amazingly.  So many books recenly are published aiming for Hollywood movie, or many mystery novels and movies look like relatives.  Where is the creativity?  Among books and movies, I just found only 'Sixth sense' to prove the author's creativty.2. The detailed and long desciption on the romance made me lost in following the kidnapping case.  I think this targeted for the reversal in relationship, but which is a little boring.Although, I gave this book 4 stars.Because the character of Alex Cross, which is now confused with that of Morgan Freeman (He's too COOL though old), is so realistic and appealing to attract and deserve many people's affection.  And one more, I cannot put aside the book and read the last 20-30 pages holding breath.James Patterson is one of the best mystery novelists in US.
5 I just started reading Along came a spider series. If you are looking for suspense, or thrillers this is the book for you. In order to enjoy this book you must know there are 11 in all. Alex Cross is a detective, and solves high crimes, but in the meantime he has a personnal life that is always shifted...I just hope in the series to come he will settle down.
5 One of James Patterson's best novels and I was moved into the story with a new understanding of James Patterson's work. Alex Cross is a master of science of the mind, even though he  sees the truth  he was lost in love.
5 This is the start of many books of James Patterson about Alex Cross.  I have read them all and could not put them down.  You may feel that if you have seen the movie you need not read the book but you are wrong.  You get so much more out of the book.  The movie did not do it justice.  Thankfully i watched the movie first and then read the book or the movie would have been a total letdown.  I have read this and the others in 2 to 3 days each tops.  Every chance i got i picked it up and read.  I hated to have to put it down.
5 I enjoyed rereading this book. The Alex Cross novels are always fantastic page turners, Thanks for the one day bargain price!
5 Action packed with a mystery to solve. I got through this book pretty quick and the ending was a complete shock. I just started the Alex Cross series and I am glad I did. Along Came a Spider was superb plot. Patterson gives great discriptions of each character. Especially when he wrote about the killer. Creepy. I highly recommend this book..
5 This is a re-read of one of my favorite books. I am marching through the Alex Cross series. Cross is a complex character. Not a brute, but not an intellectual wimp. He is sensitive, intelligent but not afraid to take action. He disdains politics and mindless authority, but respects the law. Patterson weaves great stories.
5 Ditto to all the other comments made by reviewers who gave this book five stars!This book kept me in suspense from beginning to end.  I became a James Patterson fan after reading this book.  Although the entire Alex Cross series is exceptional, this is, without a doubt, the stand out book.I was so disappointed when they cast Morgan Freeman as Alex Cross.  Alex in the book is MUCH younger.  There are so many aspects of Alex's life and character that were left out to accommodate the elderly movie Alex -- such as Alex's children, grandmother, relationship with a character in the book, etc... (don't want to give too much away - *wink*)That was a HUGE turn off to me when the movie came out.  Because this is my favorite book, I do not want to draw comparisons between the book and movie.For anyone who saw the movie and was disappointed, I encourage you to read the book; you will NOT be disappointed!!!!!!
5 This is the first & not the last of the Alex Cross books I'll read.  This story is exciting & keeps you wondering what goiong to happen next.  Have  recommmened it to friends & family.
4 The characters are colorful and interesting, the plot line is full of twists and intrigue, and I really enjoyed the book. James Patterson has a wonderful protagonist in Dr. Cross, and his villains are exceptional.The book, as is usually the case, is far better than the movie version, although the movie is good as well. You must read the book, but see the movie only if you want. If you've read the book first, you might be disappointed with the film.
5 This is the first book I read by Patterson and I have read everyone since. The characters are ones you will never forget. If you haven't read any of his read them all. His style is so easy to read. As a commuter to work it  is easy for me to stop and start reading because of his short chapters.  Robert_ticehurst@scudder.com Email with comments
5 All the Alex Cross pieces are so interesting and keep you on the edge of your chair!  Of course they would as they are James Patterson's!
5 Def kept me guessing. Just when I thought I knew what was next, Patterson threw a curve ball!  Great book
2 After imagining Alex Cross in my mind and then seeing him on the screen, WHAT A DISAPPOINTMENT! Alex Cross novels will never hold the same enjoyment or interest.Not the handsome, polished, gentle, bigger than life character that Patterson  wrote about.
5 The first book that I've read by James Patterson, I will surely read more. It was a very good book.
5 I am a sucker for crime shows like &#34;Castle&#34;, &#34;The Mentalist&#34;, &#34;Perception&#34;, &#34;Major Crimes&#34;, and &#34;Rizzoli and Isles&#34;.  After hearing Mr. Patterson mentioned on &#34;Castle&#34; I decided to look into his book series.  So happy I did!Thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I was a little disappointment with the movie version of this novel as the director took liberty to change much of the book's plot.  Still the book is a great read.  It is a well constructed thrill ride where Mr. Patterson has you going up, down and sideways.
4 Some of the writing quirks in Alex Cross novels can be distractingly silly.  I've never been an enormous fan of James Patterson's style and the way he chooses to flesh out the skeletons of his plotlines.But the plotlines themselves are the best and most intricate in the business.  This book in particular, along with Kiss the Girls, provides some of the most well-developed and complex storyline labyrinths in the murder / detective genre.Patterson always seems to have a way to detract from his own incredible plots with some cheesy writing, and continually brings his books from five stars to four in this manner...  But four stars is nothing to sneeze at.Another fast-paced and compelling read from the pen of James Patterson.
4 I enjoyed the story line and involvement of the characters.  I was surprised at the ending because I definitely thought it would end differently.
5 LOVE IT! COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN! THE MOVIE IS GOOD TOO, BUT NOT NEARLY AS GOOD AS THE BOOK.
5 Patterson maintained the suspense throughout and his literary images brought me into the scene.  Alex Cross and his buddy John are great characters.
4 This is my first James Patterson book I ever read & my first book I read in a long time. Its such a thiller, when I turned the page I got a shocking surprise. I enjoyed it so much I really couldn't put  it down. I am going to read all the Alex Cross series books. i will read more James Patterson books if they are as thilling as this one.
4 ALONG CAME A SPIDER is the second Alex Cross book to revolve around the villain, Gary Soneji, a teacher at a private school in Washington DC. Soneji is also known as Son of Lindbergh, a murdering serial kidnapper that has outsmarted most of Washington's law enforcement. I also must say that Soneji is one of Patterson's most diabolical villains to date - he doesn't torture his victims the way we saw the villain in KISS THE GIRLS do, but he is much smarter and that can be very scary all by itself!Because of Soneji's brainpower, he's kept ahead of the law in the past. Now Alex Cross is on his trail and the going gets much more difficult for Soneji. Alex Cross is a homicide detective with a doctorate in psychology. Most of the readers can relate to this main character because he's an average guy, who's down to earth. In this book he does have one obsession - he is attracted to a female supervisor of Washington's Secret Service. Cross is determined to stop Soneji before his madness can kill another person and must work around the conflicting emotions set in place by his affair with another in law enforcement.ALONG CAME A SPIDER is definitely a great. Patterson's first book, KISS THE GIRLS was awesome, but this one is even better than the last! The reader can easily relate to the easy going, down-to-earth character of Alex Cross, who plays the piano when he's troubled, or enjoys playing with his children. I think the normalcy of this character helps draw the reader into the story, until you can't put it down. Patterson's villains seem to be created from a nightmare too terrible to remember. With this combination, Patterson is sure to stay on top of the bestseller's list!
1 Seriously, i wonder how Patterson ever became a Bestseller writer. Though this was my first experience with him, i've decided it will be also my last.I love serial killers books. I've reed some good classics. Psycho is still one of my favourite, and i cherish Red Dragon. But this book is just awful. Everything is wrong. Everything.The serial killer is not beliveable. He doesn't act as a real serial killer shoudl act. There's nothing more horrible than a serial killer who makes jokes about cutting up someone's penis and shoving it up one's mouth. it's just too funny to come from a man who should be lonely, methodical, devoted to his work. Instead, he has a perfect family and a house with a garden. What happened to the real killers, those who hide human body parts in the basement or in the attic, who have sexual innibitions... who are just real? Then there's his intelligence. He's anything but, because the writer doesn't try to show us that by actions, but merely by telling us.As for the detective, Alex Cross, he's so transparent, without characterization. he spends his time complaining and beeing sorry for the victims. What about thrying to get the killer?Patterson's narrative are even worst. The prose is very simple, as if the readers were too dumb to understand. And then there's his subplots: all that stuff about racism, all seen by the eyes of Cross, who is black. I understand the message, but Patterson doesn't make it sound true. It's not like he ever suffered this problems in his own skin, is it?Thus, avoid this book. There are better thrillers in the market awiting.
5 This is one of his best! The characters were intriguing and real. The plot moved along with ease. I did see the ending, but still was a great read.
4 Alex Cross becomes unwittingly entangled in a serial killers all star crime spree cast.Thoroughly entertaining yet somewhat predictable in its conclusion, Along Came a Spider shows you why the Alex Cross series has been so successful. Alex is the type of man you hope to have in your corner to help figure out "who submit".
3 Not impressed. It's about a mediocre DC psychologist/cop. There's nothing impressive all that impressive about Alex Cross. Combine that with the author constantly writing from different perspectives and it's really hard to get attached/relate to Alex. I figured out the twist from the very beginning, so instead of being shocked I was thinking &#34;It's about friggin time Alex figures it out.&#34; For a psychologist he seemed to lack intuition and was a bit of a sucker. By the end of the book I was glad it was finally over.
5 Great condition for a book that is over 10 years old. I am very pleased. Even my husband was impressed and that is hard to do.
5 If there were 6 stars, I would have rated it 6.  This book has everything you could want in a detective thriller.  I will be reading every James Patterson book I can get my hands on.
5 This is the first James Patterson book I have read but it won't be the last. I thought it was very, very good. A little slow in the middle but the beginning and the ending made up for it. Starts with the murders of a family, then two kids are kidnapped. Can they be connected?????? Alex Cross is great as a detective. The mind games with him and Gary are breath taking. Jezzie Flanagan, with the Secret Service, gives you a big surprise. I don't know if Sandford's &quot;Prey&quot; series came first or Patterson's &quot;Cross&quot; series came first, but they remind me of each other. John Sampson is very good as Cross's partner. If you like a good mystery with lots of twist and turns and a good ending you will like this book.
5 My son was happy with this book.  I was pleased with the service I received.
5 Great murder mystery. James Patterson is a superb writer and he knows how to keep readers engaged. Thanks for sharing your gift.
5 His books start you running from the first chapter, and never lets you go. Each book attaches your heart closer to Alex Cross and his family. I look forward to each and every moment with Alex and his warm and lovely family.
5 I love this book. I can't put it down. Everybody who likes suspense, romance, intrigue will love this book so far.
5 An exceptional book which keeps you guessing far longer than many other thrillers.  Well written, with, and I paraphrase Mozart, just enough words as are needed.  Two children are kidnapped by an intelligent, patient psycopath.  Not a truly original plot to begin with, but Patterson turns what you think is boilerplate into a tale containing enough twists to keep you turning pages well into the night!  When the kidnapper is thwarted by an accidental death, and the $10,000,000 ransom is never recovered even when the perpetrator is caught, the story begins to turn into a wonderful thriller that keeps the reader clueless until far into the book, something not many authors can achieve.  Is our criminal suffering from multi-personality disorder or is he an actor worthy of an Oscar?  Where is the surviving kidnap victim?  Has love found Alex Cross?  Is the FBI baffled or merely inept?  Why are the authorities so nonchalent?  After they have the kidnapper in custody, why don't they ask &quot;where is the child&quot;?  Has Alex Cross been taken in by a cunning, conniving con artist?  I won't tell you, but you must find out for yourself.  Any true mystery fan owes it to himself to read this book.  Are you the sleuth you think you are?  Find out for yourself.  If you weren't hooked on Patterson prior to &quot;Along Came a Spider&quot; you will be after you've read it.  Oh! Do yourself a favor and save money at the same time.  Don't bother seeing the movie, spend the money on the book.  This is one you do not want to miss!
5 ALONG CAME A SPIDER is a mystery thriller that has everything a crime-mystery lover needs ... a plot so twisted and bizarre that it takes the most competent detective numerous attempts and unfailing commitment before he can unravel it.The mind of the kidnapper/murderer, Gary Soneji/Murphy, is so heinous that the reader's heart beats faster as he races along with him from one of his crimes to the next, with Detective Alex Cross a close step behind - but not close enough.  Always in the back of the reader's mind, he thinks about &quot;the guy next door&quot; and wonder if he's capable of having thoughts and plans like Soneji/Murphy.Patterson doesn't let us wonder what will happen next.  ALONG CAME A SPIDER is filled with action and suspense.At times, I found myself reading so fast just to see what would happen next, that I actually had to go back and read portions again just to make sure I'd gotten it right.  This is an excellent novel, and it sets the pace for the rest of the &quot;Alex Cross&quot; series.
5 Patterson at his best with one of his best characters.  Alex Cross and his supporting cast take you on a great psychological journey into the mind of criminals and the greedy.  One book will get you hooked.
5 Although I don't like serial killer stories, this one is so engrossing that it is hard to put down. It has so many turns  that it can not be predicted what will happen next. It will be liked by readers who like psychological thrillers.
5 One of the best books I read in years. Can't wait together the next one. Son of Lindbergh is creepy
5 I love James Patterson as an author. I've never read the Alex Cross series so now that I have read the first book of the series I'm really excited to read further into the series and eventually reading them all. I've already started on the second one and am enjoying it thoroughly.
5 Along Came a Spider (Alex Cross)This book was fantastic, kept you on the edge of your seat wondering what was coming next. I would recomend it to anyone who loves mysteries and suspence.
4 James Patterson is one of my favorite writers.  This one of his better books.
4 I decided to read the whole series after watching the recent Alex Cross movie with Tyler Perry because I was horrified at all the story changes. The choppy sentence style is a little hard to get used to, but otherwise a very fun book.
5 I really enjoyed this book, I have read others of the Alex Cross series and wanted to start at the begining so I bought this one.  It was exciting and had a lot of great twists.
3 I've read a few books by Patterson. This is probably one of my favorites. I just feel his work can be a bit cookie cutter, but overall it was a good read. Passed the time while traveling. 3.5 stars.
5 This book stars our favorite Detective-Psychologist Dr. AlexCross.In this book a serial kidnapper masquerading as a teacherat a private school kidnaps two children of prominent people.Gary Soneji kidnaps Maggie Rose Dunn whose mother is a movie star and Michael Goldberg whose father is Secretary of the Treasury.They are both students at Washington Day School.Our hero Alex Cross is jerked off of a murder case in his neighborhood to handle the kidnapping.Along with his partner John Sampson and Secret Service agent Jezzie Flanagan they beginthe hunt for Gary Soneji.Gary Soneji in turn kills an F.B.I. agent,the school teacher of his two kidnap victims, and anotherSecret Service agent.There are several close calls at capturing Soneji but they always miss.Even the attempt to pay a ransom is botched.Cross finally discovers that there is another kidnappingplot being conducted by individuals in another law enforcement body.Soneji is tried and put inn prison but pulls a spectacularescape.There is one action scene after the other.This is a real page turner that you will certainly enjoy.
4 I did read another of his books - 'Cross' - and hated it, but this one is actually quite good. The plot tends to jump-cut a little sometimes and things have a habit of coming to slightly forced and convenient conclusions, but you do want to keep turning the pages. I disagree that this plot could have been dealt with in 500 words.  There were some nice little touches to the plot and good characterisation.  I didn't buy the ending much and found it too much of an exercise in tying up every loose end ther author could find.Nevertheless, I enjoyed it and would recommend it on the basis that it's an interesting, undemanding read: perhaps one to go for if you've just spent days ploughing through something a little more 'literary', which this sure isn't!!
3 I'm probably going to be in the minority here (no pun intended) but I had had so many friends tell me about Alex Cross novels and this was my first one.  I thought it was okay but not great.  However, I will read more of Patterson's books and maybe they'll grow on me.
5 Alex Cross, along with Lincoln Rhyme and Myron Bolitar, is one of the finest literary creations in the thriller genre of our time!  Patterson has given us a hero with flaws, a wonderful family and personal relationship with his friends, a man with moral conviction and a fierce determination to bring criminals to justice.&quot;Along Came a Spider&quot; is the first in the series and it is a whopper of a tale.  We meet the extremely heinous Gary Soneji, a murderer, a kidnaper, who seemingly can't make any mistakes.  He kidnaps the children of a prominent politician and a movie star, and then proceeds to feign his crimes under the &quot;multiple personality&quot; umbrella.  What a sickie!What makes Patterson so great is that he weaves tales with brisk, short chapters; characters that have more than one dimension, and a wonderful sense of timing.  He pulls lots of plot twists, not quite as sinuously as Jeffrey Deaver, but still they are lulus!  I can't imagine anyone not enjoying these books.  They are the creme de la creme of the lot!Enjoy, but be prepared to get hooked.One aside:  I agree that the casting of Morgan Freeman as Cross in the two films is questionable.  Freeman is a marvelous actor, but I think casting a younger actor, such as Denzel Washington or even Cuba Gooding, Jr., would have allowed the movies to follow the books' characterization more fully.  But don't blame Freeman.  He does an outstanding job, as always.And as always, the book is ALWAYS better than the movie!
5 Do yourself a favor and read this book. To say Along Came A Spider is an  exciting book would be an understatement.  The suspense is amazing, the  characters are great(especially the villain) and the plot twists are  unexpected.  This first installment in the Alex Cross series still remains  the best.  James Patterson really knows how to grab a reader and not let  go.  Along Came a Spider will turn you into an instant Patterson fan.
2 I know that JP is one of the best selling authors in the US over the last quarter century. I just can't see why. This is supposed to be one of his best books, so I thought I'd give it a shot.This book, like the rest I would imagine, is formulaic, the characters are one-dimensional and overly clich&eacute;d, and the overall plot was plodding and quite predictable.JP, I gave you an honest try, but I won't be reading anymore of the Alex Cross books.But good luck to you and god bless.
5 These books keep my interest, and I keep reading them until the end, and can't wait to get there. Then I want another one to read.
5 From one of the greatest thriller writers of this generation, James Patterson, comes the explosive, eye-popping novel &quot;Along Came a Spider.&quot;I first read this book about five years ago, long before the movie came out (which is actually a horrific depiction of this great thriller). I got interested in Patterson after I read and saw &quot;Kiss the Girls.&quot; I read ACAS and was totally amazed. It was one of the best books from a new author that I'd read in a long time.The novel begins with a serial killer kidnapping two children from an exclusive private school where he teaches. Detective Alex Cross is hired to find the missing kids. This being the first Alex Cross novel, Patterson portrays him amazingly. Cross is the most intelligent, noble, and kind man that has ever existed in fiction. No matter what Alex Cross book you're reading, even if the plot is horrible, you'll enjoy the book just because Cross is in it. He brings so much to the novel, with his excellent detective and psychologist skills to the love he openly shows for his partner, his grandmother, and his two young children - the latter of the three being the most admirable. Reading scenes between Cross and his children is just so touching...or maybe I'm just being too much of a girl. :)Anyway, back to the novel. In the infinite world of psychos in novels, Patterson knows how to creep us out. Gary Soneji, the killer in ACAS, is a frightening and disturbing character that adds all the suspense needed for the novel. He is a smart killer obsessed with committing the crime of the century.&quot;Along Came a Spider&quot; will send chills through the reader's body and keep their eyes open, alert and glued to each page until all hours of the morning. It is solid, compelling psychological thriller.
5 This is the first book in the series that introduces alex cross.This is a great book especally if you like police stories and james patterson books.He writes this series on is own.
2 I still maintain this opinion: when I run out of new stories by the really great writers like Lawrence Block, Joe Lansdale, Robert Parker and Dean Koontz, I start looking for mediocre writers to fill my reading time.  Authors like Stephen King, John Saul, Jonathan Kellerman and James Patterson spring immediately to mind.I get no feeling from any of these characters!  They are not real to me, they hold no interest for me.  It's like James is practicing characterization with only one goal in mind -- profound mediocrity.The scenes are also dull and choppy.  I get no sense of where the story is going because the chapters are monotonously too short and go nowhere.I found these tedious qualities to be evident in the other four books that I have read from this author.  I am glad I borrowed them from the library!  I shall not read this man's works any more; there's only so much bad literature that one can tolerate before one is compelled to expel it all...
3 My first time reading James Patterson.  A pretty good read.  Well written, but not a lot of surprises for me.  Same old usual twists so saw them coming.  (slight spoiler alert) Never explained how Maggie went from escaping to being back with her &#34;family&#34; in the village.  And never explained the &#34;Watcher&#34; in the car.  Very vague on what happened to money.  Much of the story left &#34;incomplete&#34; in my opinion.  Also struggled with the bruises described as being sustained AFTER death.  As far as I know, that wouldn't have happened unless the &#34;beating&#34; happened at the time of death or very shortly thereafter.  Not after finding him already dead.  Still really enjoyed reading it though and look forward to Alex's next adventure.  I'm assuming that, as with most writers, the next book will be better.
4 I enjoyed the book. Alex is in his best form. Along Came a Spider exposes our prejudices and the evil side of humans.
3 After seeing the movie I wanted to learn more about the characters and looked specifically for the first Alex Cross mystery by James Patterson-this IS the first book in the series. The main character, Detective (and Phd. in Psychology) Alex Cross is a fascinating character. Two of the other major characters weren't as well developed as I would have liked and after finishing the book I felt I was left with a lack of enough information to fully understand (and in the case of one of them-barely understood) the &quot;why&quot; of crime committed. I don't want to give out too much information about the book and risk spoiling it for anyone but I definitely wouldn't have seen the end coming if I hadn't already seen the movie.Make sure to read Kiss the Girls next! Cross' character is much further developed and it's a more fascinating read.Somewhat intriguing but in comparison I felt Kiss the Girls was a better written book.
5 I love Patterson's style!  I could not put the book down during the last 20% of it. Alex Cross looks like it's going to be another series I have to finish!
5 I read almost all James Patterson books.  This one was really good and had a surprise ending. Can't put it down
4 This was different. In the beginning it was a little drab lacking the action I thought it was to have. But towards the middle it picked up speed. I truly enjoyed the mastermind of ""The son of Lindbergh". I loved how Patterson captured the truth in his disturbed character.The psychological perspective is what grabbed me into this book. It does a minor in depth diagnosis of the different criminals that are presented. It's almost like the show "Criminal Minds" but its Dr. Cross doing the digging.Also, the graphic detail of the kidnappings and murders. Oh that is the best part. Patterson wasn't afriad to take it to the level with children. I know that some people are very uptight about that but others, I like reading the thrills and chills. And this one sends the chill right up your spine. Its horrible, graphic, disgusting and all the other bad words.... But I loved it.
5 This book is like the web the spider  weaves. So many twists  and turns, such intricate little details, you think you have it figured out. NOT at all my friend. You will not be able to put this book down. Alex Cross is a mix. of what we would like all men to be. Now on to read more of Alex Cross, he has me in his web !
5 I am now hooked on Alex Cross!  Patterson had me from the first chapter thru the unpredictable ending.  An excellent read.
5 It's been a while since I've picked up a good suspense novel and man, I was NOT sorry I chose this one! It grabbed me from the very first page and then it was off to the races! I highly recommend this book. Now, I'm all about the Alex Cross character and the next one I've got on my shelf is "Kiss the Girls"! I hope it's just as fascinating!
5 I love the Alex Cross series. James Patterson always keeps you on the edge of your seat and unwilling to put the book down!
5 James Patterson has written another page-turner. Twists and turns will keep you in suspense. The brilliance of "the plan" will astonish you and keep you engrossed in the book. Enjoy.
5 This is the 2nd book Ive read about Alex Cross and I love the character.  I am looking forward to downloading more of James Patterson.
5 This was a great crime investigation book. Very suspenseful. I can't wait to read his other books in the series.
5 I love all of the Alex Cross novels. They hold your attention with every page. I am working on acquiring the entire series. Definitely books I can read over and over.
5 I have seen and heard many good things about the Alex Cross series.  I knew I would want to start with the first book.  I'm glad I did.  I believe I'm hooked.  True to his style James Patterson captures you right from the  beginning and guessing on what happens.  Now onto The second book in the series Kiss the Girls.
4 I can wholeheartedly say that I really enjoyed this book.  Interesting plot and characters with many a twist and turn to keep you guessing.  Just when you think you have it all figured out, you don't.  That's good writing. It is a detective novel, not meant to be rocket science.  Enjoy it for what it is.
3 our introduction to alex cross, a character that i love.  this book is well developed; good plot and i really like the writing style.
5 Alex Cross is a forensic psychologist as well as a Washington, D.C. police detective. He's also a black man whose wife was murdered several years ago, leaving him with two small children to rear - thankfully not alone. His grandmother, a formidable retired educator whom Alex calls Nana Mama because after his mother's early death he knew no other parent, lives with the family and takes care of the children. When two nasty murder cases involving black families come his way, Alex wants to catch the killer even more passionately than usual. But before he really gets the investigation underway, two white children are kidnapped from an exclusive private school when they were supposed to be under Secret Service protection. Thanks to the unwanted fame brought to him by a recent news article, the mayor orders Cross pulled off the murder cases and assigned to the kidnapping. Cross is his best, the public surely believes, and the mayor must be seen giving this case his best. For its victims are the young daughter of a film star, and the young son of the Secretary of the Treasury.Cross doesn't want to investigate a kidnapping for ransom whose victims need him a lot less, in his opinion, than the black families who will likely become the deranged killer's next targets. His resistance gets him nowhere with the mayor. But as he works on the kidnapping, however unwillingly, he comes to know the Secret Service supervisory agent on whose watch it happened; and before he knows it, widower Alex Cross is falling in love with a most unsuitable partner. A beautiful white woman in the same dangerous business.The cases he wants to investigate can't possibly be connected with the kidnapping that he thinks someone else can and should handle. Or can they? The more he learns, the less he feels that he really knows. Has the brilliant Alex Cross finally met his match, in a criminal even more intelligent and driven than he is?This is a scary book indeed, and not due to excessive gore. It's got some of that, yes; but the worst of its terrors are psychological, as Cross pursues a psychopath. I'm told this is the first book in a series, and after it kept me awake until the wee hours of this morning I find myself eager to get my hands on the next installment. I want more of this protagonist! And more of this author, too!--Reviewed by Nina M. Osier, author of 2005 science fiction EPPIE winner "Regs"
3 Mistake:  Not getting to read this book first.  Saw the latest Alex Cross movie first.  Confused by wife's death story referred to in this book versus the movie.  Did develop the connection to Alex Cross that I expected.  Again, my mistake was probably in not reading this book and others first and not the fault of the author.  Will, however, read more of his books just because of Alex Cross.
5 I'm an avid fan of James, and I think I'll always be. Thanks for keeping me up all night. I owe you one.
5 If you have to read anything the Alex Cross series should be it!  This book kept me on my toes from the start.  It has all the great things murder, pyhcos and more.  I found the one character Mr. Soneji quite humerous with his split personality.  And I hear he comes back in later books i cant wait to read more about him.  You have to be a real pyshco to hold up a McDonalds.  &quot;I TOLD YOU I WANT EXTRA FRIES AND NO TOMATO&quot;
4 1) Plot (5 stars) - After two celebrity children are kidnapped, hard-nosed but savvy detective Alex Cross is brought in to solve the case, only to run into an intelligent psychopath and the myriad twists and turns he has waiting for him.  Patterson got famous for his plotting skills, and his mastery of this element shows in this work.  The pacing is fast, the tension is constantly high, and the surprises keep on coming.2) Characters (4 stars) - Alex Cross is not just a Dirty Harry, he is also thoughtful and sensitive and perceptive.  Gary Soneji is not just a raving psychopath, he is also a calculating enigma.  Jezzie is not just a simple love interest, she also has a mystery of her own.  All these characters could have been one-dimensional and the story would still have worked.  But they weren't, and for me that really elevated this book above the ranks of the traditional thriller.3) Theme (2 stars) - This book is so much about the charging plot of trying to solve a kidnapping mystery that messages or morals really take a back seat.  There did seem to be one, though, about how the lust for fame will make people do crazy things, as personified by the villain, but this theme wasn't explored much deeper than the surface level.4) Voice (4 stars) - Yes, Patterson is an easy read.  But (at least in this work) I didn't find that skill of easiness to come with the usual trappings of 8th grade diction and clich&eacute;.  His sentences reflect the POV of the chapter lead, and they do a great job conveying the mood and characters' psyche while also telling a fast paced tale.5) Setting (4 stars) - Washington DC is the locus of events, but the action seeps out up and down the Eastern Seaboard.  Patterson does a good job describing each scene in just enough detail to transport you there, but not too much to slow the ride.6) Overall (4 stars) - The main reason you read a Patterson novel is the plot, and that element doesn't disappoint here.  But I was also pleasantly surprised by the depth of the characters and the prose.  I'd recommend it.
4 Patterson's first in the Alex Cross series is a good start but without a doubt the series gets better. I just wish the pace was a faster.
3 First off, let me say that those aiming to find great literature will not find it in the pages of this book. Comparing Along Came a Spider to A Farewell To Arms is like comparing a Mozart symphony to current pop music. That said, you will find a pretty good crime thriller that you can run through in a couple days. That's the reason the work is a massive bestseller. I thought the plot was compelling but, even at 500+ pages, I didn't really feel that much for the victims. Patterson devotes much more development time to the "bad guys". Also, superfluous writing crops up every now and then. For example, I remember one part where a criminal says something along the lines of: "Believe whatever the hell you want." Then after that quote, we get this profound commentary from the narrator: "He didn't care what I thought." Well, obviously! Not a major problem, but it comes across as a little amateur.Still, even after those criticisms, I did mostly enjoy the book. If you're looking for a quick, easy read with some interesting twists, I say go for it. Good plane/vacation reading. 3 to 3 1/2 stars.
4 Another great book. Although the start of the book was good the ending was great. So many twists. A must read if you like James Patterson.
4 In this first appearance of Alex Cross, a suspenseful story is well told.  I recommend reading this first if you are embarking on reading the Alex Cross series.  Mr. Patterson does a good job of making each book stand on it's own, but Alex is more raw and real in the first one than in some of the later books.  This is also one of the better books of the series.  If you haven't read Patterson before he has a style of short chapters, straightforward sentences and a fairly linear train of thought through the book.  This makes for quick reading and easy reading  which is helpful if you only get to read in short bursts between other activities.
5 Good book.  Well written.  My son loved it and read it cover to cover in a few days.  Well worth it.
5 this book really keeps me up at nite.lol i read when i go to bed for an hour or so. lately im reading too long. cant wait to find out whats next!  read and really enjoy this book.
5 Oh boy..!! it's a great page turner. You can't put it down until you get it over with. I completed this book in a day maybe. I'm a big fan of Psychological thrillers and this is my best book so far.Alex Cross is a common man and not some detective from any James Bond movie. He makes mistakes. He looks human. He is up against some genius psychopath. Somehow he managed to solve the case. It's a great roller coaster ride all through this book. This book will keep you thinking even after you are done with this.
5 Several friends swear by The Alex Cross series.  As an avid reader, I finally broke down and read book 1.  Let me just tell you, I too am now hooked.  I look forward to reading book 2....and all the other books in this series.
5 I love the Alex Cross series.  It's always a great read. I have read the whole series, and will continue to look for his next adventure.
4 after so many rave reviews this book got i finally got around this book.is very easy to read.....and also very suspenseful......you will finish the book in no time.........
5 This is the only Alex Cross book that gets 5 stars. I love Alex Cross, but most of the series only get 3 or 4, and everything after "Violets are Blue" gets only 1 star. Here is why:  Patterson had a very strong creation in Alex Cross. He was an interesting character with flaws and emotions. Also, he wasn't a "tough-guy" hero; he was a man who used his mind to solve crimes. He is a psychologist, not a rogue cop that makes up his own rules.  Also, in this book he is pitted against a very unique and clever villain - Gary Soneji - a madman who kidnaps a young girl from a private school who has a very powerful father.This book has a great plot and moves at a breakneck speed. There is little time for description or introspection on the part of the characters, and that is what makes this book great. There are countless twists and turns, and the reader is constantly guessing. Now, that being said, it is Patterson's style of writing that makes this book amazing, and the rest of them derivative pulp.  Patterson insists on having over 100 chapters in each of his books. This is not to say they are long books, rather each chapter is merely 2-3 pages long. This in itself is not the problem. The problem is that each chapter starts halfway down the page [leaving half a page of white space] and the chapter will end at the beginning of a new page, only a few lines down [leaving another half page of white space].  I have heard many readers say that they love Patterson, because they read his books so quickly. Well, the fact is that the buyer is paying for about 35 percent white space in any given Patterson book - which is only about 300 pages long in the first place! Now, again, I am not saying this is bad. It is a technique that gives the feeling of incredible suspense as one is literally turning the pages faster than can be imagined when reading a book of substance. However, after the first book in this series I was tired of this device, and I can finish an Alex Cross book in just over an hour.  I may as well have been watching television!  Anyhow, this first book is worth reading, however, please be skeptical of anyone who thinks they are literati because they can devour a whole Patterson book in one sitting.  Buy this book, but make sure that you buy the rest of this series from a used book store so Patterson is not rewarded for his 120 pages of white space per novel.Relic113
5 Amazing page turner. While I did have some of the mystery figured out, the end still leaves you guessing on other parts!
5 James has done it again he has you sitting on pins and needles wondering when Dr Cross is going to solve this case. .
5 Reading _-Along Came a Spider a second time is just as good as the first.  For newcomers to James Patterson's latest books, it's a great recap of Alex Cross's history. Who he is, why he is are being built upon this book and more of his early ones.  Am introducung Patterson to my husband and my son is great fun using this and his earlier book.  All  still pageturners
5 Here, Patterson shows us what really made him famous. His first several books were really stunning thrillers, up to and including Cat And Mouse. but since then all his Alex Cross books have just been re-hashings of the same old plots.This book is great. It's a chilling read, with an excellent and truly original plot. Alex Cross comes across as a great compassionate character, who has much life in him. But Unfortunately, patterson tired him out very quickly.With this book Patterson created one of his most chilling victims. He is chilling because Patterson spends time making him so. Developing his character. With his latest books, Patterson doesn't bother developing his villains )or ANY of his characters, for that matter) and just expects us to believe him when he says they are "a chilling and terrifying killer" and leaves it at that. With this book, he really shwos us what he can do. He is listening to his fans to much when they say "can't you write faster". He has chosen to do so, and in doing that has sacrificed good characters and original plots.This book was a great pageturner and a great thriller, with a really brilliant and unexpected twist right at the end. I cannot reccomend this highly enough. How i wish patterson had stayed with this kind of book, rather than started attending the Danielle Steel school of literature. (i.e. it doesn't matter about the quality, the more the write, the more you sell, so let's laugh all the way to the bank) A once great author. I hope he soon refinds his previous great form which he displayed here.
3 I prefer Dennis Lehane, but this book was alright. A nice, quick read if that's what yo are looking for.
4 Great suspense with good charecters. Extremelly fast paced which is classic patterson. This is one of the better alex cross novels.
4 The actions and inter-actions of the authorities were not realistic as the Secret Service is responsible for protecting not for investigations. I can't imagine that a Secret Service agent just goes riding along with other authorities from time to time with no reporting back to or receiving directions from her office.I skip-read the uninteresting romantic parts of the book except at the end. The great ending is what saved this book from being a three star or less.Many of the reviews have said that this is his best book. I hope not as I have eleven more of his books on my desk waiting to be read.
5 love anything written by James Patterson! I've read all of his books and look forward to reading more paperback or kindle version
5 I chose that rating because James Patterson is a great writer. I like it because Alex Cross is a very smart and decated detective. Yes i would recomend these books to friends and family
2 Little Miss Muffit sat on her tuffit eating her curds and whey. Along Came a Spider and sat down beside her and bored her to tears! This book was o.k., but nowhere near as good as the other Alex Cross novels. The only  reason why I do reccomend it is beacuse of the continuation in Cat and  Mouse. Otherwise, I would have said avoid it all together.
5 James Patterson did an outstanding job on this book.  I am looing forward  to reading Cat and Mouse.  I have a great deal of books that have good  storyline, and a good overall mystery element; but the ending is weak in  reference to the books make-up.  Along came a spider had the total package,  good storyline, good mystery element, an ending that was unsettling and  fantastic.
5 A friend recommended the Alex Cross series.  The wife and I like James Patterson, so we got this and may be hooked on the series.
5 One of my friends suggested I read the James Patterson novels featuring Alex Cross. I checked with several other friends and was told the same thing. I started the book and was amazed at how the plot evolved. When I thought I had it all figured out, much to my surprise, how wrong I was!  Great story, great plot, and so hard to put down. I can't wait to start his next book.
5 I truly enjoyed this book. The characters and the storyline kept me trying to figure out how it would end and who the true villains were. Alex Cross does an amazing job in writing these thrillers. I would definetely recommend this book.
3 The movie was much better, suprisingly.... It was much more concise and explained everything better. I could be biased because i like Morgan Freeman, but hey... the book was just too divergent from the main plot when it should have been spending more time explaining the how's and the why&quot;s.
5 I like all of the Alex Cross books.  It was exciting and had emough suspense to keep my interest.  I will continue to read Patterson.
4 'Along Came a Spider' is the first book I read by James Patterson, and I promise you, it will not be the last. The main hero of our book is Alex Cross, a Black detective and psychologist who lives and works in the Southeastern quadrant of Washington D.C. He is called in by the FBI to assist in solving the kidnapping of two children. At first Alex is angered that he is taken away from his usual job, but soon gets involved in the kidnapping at every level. Honestly, so will you.'Along came a Spider' is extremely powerful. The twist and turns of this book as well as the personality of the main characters, especially Alex and the perpetrator will keep you at the edge of your seats.
5 This is my first James Patterson book and I am very surprised in this psycholoical thriller. This novel has it all. It has the suspense at every turn. The short chapter writing style made the reading very fast and easy. The character Gary Soneji was unpredictable throughtout. As soon as you seem to have it all figured out, JP throws you a curve. It is drama at it best that will grab you and won't let you go until the end. The reader will need to fasten their seatbelts for this fast ride. I have considered reading Kiss the Girls by JP but I saw the movie instead. I understand that this book will be made into a movie coming out about March or April 2001. I suggest you read the book first. The reader can trust me on this one as a real winner.I plan to read Cat and Mouse by JP. This book is a continuation of the same villian... Gary Soneji/Murphy  Check it out on my next review as well as all my reveiws because they are all good. See YA.
4 To the reader whose first book in the Alex Cross series is a recent one, it is not crystal clear that the hero is an African-American, but in this early offering, race is central to the plot.  It is not clear why the emphasis on race was downplayed as the series progressed.Once again, we see the super-crafty criminal, a murderer and kidnapper.  Such figures dominate thrillers, whereas in real life, the criminals tend to be below normal in intelligence and make mistake after mistake.  Perhaps mediocre to stupid just isn't interesting enough.  If I have a fault with the plot, it is the villain's talent and the attempt to cram too much of this into too few pages.  Jeopardy, of course, is what fuels the story, but too much is still too much.The detailed, R-rated inter-racial love interest is distracting from the plot.  It does figure in the finale, but it might have been done better.  It just seemed manipulative, put into the book for the prurient reader.I liked the characters, particularly Nana Mama, a wise woman.  The atmosphere of Washington and environs is good. All in all, this is one of the better novels featuring Dr./Detective Cross.  The later ones are considerably less interesting.
4 This is the first of Alex Cross and you need to hold on to the bottom of your seat. It is fast moving and you need to read just one more chapter before you put it down. I did not read these books in order. However each of the series is a book that will stand-alone. Alex Cross just matures with each book. I prefer this series of Patterson's books. He has a real talent in keeping your interest.  By Ruth Thompson author of "Natchez Above the River"
5 This is the first and what I think is the best Alex Cross novel. It begins with the disapperances of two little kids from their school and takes off from there. This novel starts at that and doesn't quit until you read the very last few words. I'm not going to say much than that simply because it's been about 8 years since I've read it. It would probably be wise for me to read it again but there is just so much out there to be reading instead. This was also made into a movie a couple of months ago. I never did see it but I definitely will when it comes out on video. I just hope it stays true with the book.
5 If you're interested in crime mysteries, This would be the first book in the Alex Cross  Detective series that you'd want to start with. Gary Soneji, the psycho bad guy, is mentioned in at least one other Alex Cross book.Alex Cross is a detective in southeast DC trying to catch the psycho path who kidnapped two children from an elite private school. Alex finds himself obsessed with the case even though he gets taken off of it by his superiors.I highly recommend this book.
5 Of all the James Patterson novels, this one is definitely at the top of the list.  In this and subsequent novels, kidnapper, Gary Soneji is to Alex Cross as Hannibal is to FBI Agent Clarice Starling.Without going into the specifics of the book, all of which have been provided for you in the editorial reviews, this book is one of my all time favourites of James Patterson.  It is packed with suspense, drama, a super A-1 plot and great characters.  Be prepared for a long night ahead because it is a book you will not want to put down from start to finish.  Also, at the top of the list is &quot;Kiss the Girls&quot; and &quot;Cat and Mouse.&quot;If you have read Patterson's later novels,&quot;When the Wind Blows&quot; and &quot;Cradle and All,&quot; and are disappointed with what you have read, do not be discouraged.  This book has all the punch and power of a real super thriller!  You will not want to miss this book or the movie of the same name.
5 This book has it all.  Everything from suspense to thriller to on the edge of your seat action.  This book was hard to put down because the action never stops.  From page to page you never know what will happen next.  I recommend this book to anyone that is into mystery/thriller/non stop action and suspense!!!
4 This was my first Alex Cross book, and overall it was very good, and would read another.  The villian in the novel is intelligent, cunning, and very dangerous, and so the hero in return must also be intelligent, and insightful.  Patterson succeeded in keeping me on the edge of my seat through out much of the book, and I found most of his twists, and turns very entertaining.  Sadly what I did not find entertaining, intelligent, or even fresh was the routine use of the &quot;Black vs White&quot; mentality used by the star of the book Alex Cross.  I found the use of this really insulting, and it turned me off almost to the point of putting the book down. I could not understand why its inclusion made this a better book, or a better character.  I certainly hope that in the future Alex cross books, that Patterson was comfortable with himself as a writer that he no longer had to include such petty plot devices.
1 I read this expecting something enjoyable.  That was my mistake.  I'm all for books that have no purpose other than to entertain, but the Cross character seems arbitrarily black, like that, by definition, gives him a personality; I didn't buy any of the rest of it, either.  I think a book is cheating when the only reason you're reading it is because you want to know what happens not because you care, but because it would irritate you not to know.  This book cheats.  Bigtime.  I recommend Ridley Pearson or Richard North Patterson if you want something in the genre that's at least decent.  I would have given it no stars, but they wouldn't let me.
4 Well written...a true page-turner...I like this book very much...strongly recommended...
5 Another very good James Patterson novel in his Alex Cross series.  He always has such a good story line and great characters.
5 I recommend this book to anyone who loves mysteries. James Patterson is a talented writer. This book you would never want to put down.
4 Great book. Keep you hooked. Lots of unusual turns.Very suspenseful. Very believable.  I really enjoyed this book and can't wait to read the next one.
5 Though this is a story written years ago by James Patterson, I had not read it.  As usual the mystery drama is captivating, twists are always offered, and  begs you to read without ceasing to the very end.
4 I enjoyed the book just as I do most Patterson books.  I don't think this is one of his better books, but still a good read.
5 This book, even though long, kept my interest up until the very end. I loved it. A very good thriller, investigative, romantic and murder mystery. I definitely will read the other Alex Cross books! I have read several other Patterson novels and I always love them all!
5 I loved it!  I like mystery or crime stories and so now I want to read all of the Alex Cross series
4 An entertaining story for me now that I've become quite successful lately in suspending my disbelief. Otherwise, I'd be grumbling, "Oh, come  on!"
5 If you have never picked up a book from James Patterson, this is the one for you.  It is a very well written, suspenseful and an easy to read book.  The chapters are very short and keep you reading as you think &quot;OK...only one more chapter!&quot;.  This book was truly a page turner and I would highly recommend reading it.
5 Dan-X could not have said it any better. I too was looking for a great  thriller, as the last two (not the great JP's!) I have read have been quite  lacklastre and boring. Then I got &quot;Along Came A Spider&quot;..it is a  very quick, excellent read that has more twists and turns than you can  imagine plus they ALL MAKE SENSE!!! Because the chapters are very short you  want to keep reading more and the storyline is unbelievably good...I have  already put my request in for more James Patterson.Read this book!!
4 Alex Cross is a great series and all the books are good reads, each story is similiar but thats okay, because it is different enough to keep you reading and interested!
2 I picked up this novel with high expectations after the release of the movie and the adulation from writers such as Demille on the back of the edition proclaiming it &quot;masterful&quot;. Despite a good story and pacing, however, I didn't find much about this novel to live up to the hype it has received by come. Many of the major characters, notably the &quot;mysterious&quot; FBI agent Alex Cross falls for and the children kidnapped, seemed undeveloped and hollow and didn't add anything compelling except to serve as filler characters. The serial killer featured was the lone high acclaim I have...reminiscent to the portrayal by Edward Norton of a killer in the movie Primal Fear, the antagonist in Along Came a Spider is compelling and intriguing, forcing the reader to make decisions that set up the later resolution. The actually &quot;twist&quot; ending, however, was disappointing to me as well. Most endings  have elements that were at least SOMEWHAT foreshadowed earlier in the novel. Patterson's ending, however, seemed to come out of left field and was completely arbitrary, with no connections to earlier in the story; in effect it didn't do the madman of the story justice. It isn't a bad read...but after Baldacci's The Winner, Along Came a Spider paled in comparison
5 I started to read some of the newer Alex Cross books & wanted to start reading them from the beginning. Along Came A Spider was excellent w/lot's of twist's & turn's in the plot! I'm ready for the 2nd one in the series! S.L. Chessor author of My Tongue Fell Out & Poodlums Boogeymen and Booglers.My Tongue Fell OutPoodlums, Boogeymen and Booglers: A Poetry Collection
3 After reading all of the Alex Cross novels I must confess to being solidly ambivalent when it comes to recommending them to others. Patterson comes up with some unique and compelling villains that both pique the interest and turn the stomach. But he eventually makes them larger than life and omnipotent to the point of being like Jason in the Friday the 13th movies.Patterson also forgets his audience has most likely been exposed to a heavy dose of crime solving on TV and in the movies when he renders everyone except Cross so clueless when it comes to finding traces of the killers. Good thing for the rest of the country all serial killers find a way to involve Cross lest the rest of the nation's crime fighters spend all their time eating doughnuts while ignoring tools like DNA and fingerprints.Will I read the next installment? Yeah probably - but only to find out how Gary Sonje will come back to outlive Nanna-Momma.
4 If you haven't yet read the Alex Cross books, do what I did, go back to the beginning. With the new movie coming out, I thought I might check out the series from the beginning.  I had watched the other movies but had never read the books.  I couldn't put it down.
4 I finally got around to reading the debut of the Alex Cross character in Along Comes A Spider and I really enjoyed it. Patterson makes a truely creepy villain who at times makes your skin crawl. A good hero is worthless without a good villain. The book dragged slightly in the middle but the beginning and end more than make up for it.
5 Just completed "Along came a spider". This is my first James Patterson novel and boy what a novel this is. How many twists and turns you can keep in a novel. Every time, I felt that Alex Cross has cracked the case, the novel takes a new turn, Gary Soneji character was scar for sure but the FBI agents who went for the ransom money was still more scarier. Ego, Greed, sex, action everything is there in this novel.If you want to read an action packed novel that keeps you hooked to the book, this one it is and I am doubly sure about this.
4 For some reason, I stopped reading this series around book 9 or 10. I've continued to purchase them as they are released and my wife has read them all, so I decided that the best thing to do was to start over from the beginning.This was actually the second Alex Cross (and James Patterson) book that I read. For some reason, I read Kiss the Girls shortly after it's release. I distinctly remembered that Along Came a Spider had a very different feel from Kiss the Girls and most of Patterson's later works.Turns out, I remembered correctly. Along Came a Spider still has a lot of the Patterson feel to it, but it seems to move at a bit slower pace than his subsequent novels. Don't get me wrong there is still plenty of action and lots of plot twists, it just seems that Patterson let's things take a little more time to develop.Overall, I thought that it was a really good book. Patterson's works will never be mistaken for high-brow literature, but they are fun to read and you never quite know where he's going to take you. This novel does a great job of introducing Alex Cross & Co. and the villain is one of his best.
5 Gotta GET it! You have to get this book. It is the FIRST in the entire series. How can you not start at the start? It is great!
5 While reading the first alex cross book it is a page turner. Once over you are left with wanting more.
5 I found that James Patterson's #1 book &#34;Along Came a Spider&#34; is a very interesting read.  It it not too often that I can find a psychological mystery to be this exceptional.  The Gary Soneji/Murphy out smarting the police with being a psychopath, potential Multiple personality disorder/ personality fatigue, and being the actor with having homicidal &#34;1 year/5 year/lifetime plans&#34; to be famous like he feels he should be is very interesting.  From what I heard (without reading any other Alex cross books), this book will set up for some storylines in the next few books allowing for some interesting storylines for the book now.This book series is the Law and Order: Criminal Intent series of James Patterson.  While the story revolves around the crime and solving the crime, there is a huge element to the psychological, motives and the &#34;criminal intent&#34;.  It involves the &#34;ticking&#34; of the criminal to why they would do the things they would do.  It can range from money to famous to just being a pure psychological evil driven madman.  All in all an A+.In this book by itself, there is one drawback.  It can be really slow sometimes.  After Soneji's trial and conviction (about half way through) starting with part 4, it starts dragging while Alex Cross continues the case.  But it does lead up to a very interesting ending (the last few chapters), in which I will be willing to give it a pass.Like I said, an A+ and an A+ book!!!
5 being the 1st one of the Alex Cross series it sets the field for the following books, although reading each one on it's own and out of order will not be any problems because they each is a story unto itself.  I am just making my way through the 3rd round of reading them in order... over the last 7 or so years and it is still just as good as the last time.  Highly recommended if you like James Patterson books.
4 I have never really found a mystery series or novel that I've truly enjoyed every aspect of. That includes "Along Came a Spider." Regardless, this first book in the Alex Cross series was a perfect Sunday afternoon read, switching points of view between the hero Doctor-Detective Alex Cross and the villain. I would say the intricate plotline and psychological perspective more than made up for a somewhat boring (at least initially) romance, but still had to take off one star for the oh-so-cliche wounded hero meets attractive romantic interest.
4 I have been putting off reading a Patterson novel for quite some time now.  The movie version of this particular book had turned me off to it to be honest.  However, I made a grave mistake in assuming the story in the book would be as boring as the movie.  There were hardly any similarities between the two.  The writing of the book offered so much more than the movie (doesn't it always...).  There was wit, insight, action, and emotions behind the characters.  I think I will be continuing along down the Alex Cross trail.  My hand will now proudly be raised as a Patterson fan.
3 "Along Came A Spider" is an okay installment to the Alex Cross series in my eyes.  I think that it is overrated, but I do think that it is okay for being the first.The writing is good and the characters are interesting.  Patterson does a great job introducing the main character, Alex Cross himself, in a fitting way.  But the best parts are when we see him with his family.  And his kids are so adorable.  Janelle and Damon make me want to see them more.  Including Nana Mama, who I just love seeing getting into arguments with Alex.  Other characters like John, Jezzie, and Soneji I actually like.  The mystery is done well too.But this novel has its problems.  The romance between Alex and Jezzie feels a little forced (despite that there is some development).  The final twist at the end really makes me angry.  I won't give anything major away, but it deals with Jezzie and I really hate what Patterson did to her.  I love Jezzie as a character.  It didn't sit well with me.  Even the time jumps feel out of place.  They don't go back and forth or anything, they just skip a couple of weeks or months, which made the pacing of the novel itself feel a little to slow.  Soneji's character didn't get the attention that I was hoping for in the end.  In fact, the ending itself felt a little to depressing.In the end, despite its problems I might have with it, this novel works out fine and it makes me excited for Alex's next adventure.  I say it is worth reading and buying.
5 Patterson has such style. Suspense and on the edge of your seat tension with Alex Cross is guaranteed in this novel. A great read with surprises of "who is guilty"  at the end.
4 Pretty good book. I have heard much about James Patterson and wanted to try out a book. Excellent characters. The difference between Patterson and Deville is this - Pattersons villians are extremely rotten people and evil to the core. Whereas Deville is far superior writer. I think the book would make a better movie (I know there is one) which is usually not the case
5 Along Came a Spider is probably the epitome of what every crime-thriller novel should be. At 500 pages its easy to devour reading, the suspense is well balanced, but the real key to success is Alex Cross himself.Alex is a black, detective with a degree in psychology, who is passionate about his work, volunteers at a food bank and counsels on the side.And he isn't perfect, he loses his head and punches out racists, doesn't spend enough time at home with his kids and is a bit of a sucker for the ladies.The plot of the novel is pretty basic, but flows well, the first half reads like a standard serial killer case, the pace does slow a little in the second half as deeper intrigue is revealed.As a psychology major I like Alex's brief discussions about psyc, although I find his use of hypnotism dubious (but hey this was the early ninties not 2010)The love scenes are a little clumsy, particularly a steamy bath scene which kinda failed to interest.Most surprising was the ending (I'll try not to spoil anything) where one of the crooks gets their punishment. I found it oddly touching and poignant.Gushing about Alex Cross aside, highly recommended book
5 Read this book before but just as awesome re-reading!
5 This is a really great book! It has suspence, romance, action, and mystery. It is the perfect novel! I would reccomend the book rather than the movie. Gary Soneji is teh perfect criminal and Alex Cross is the perfect detective! If you get the chance to read this book - GET IT, NOW!
5 I'm a big Steven King fan.  I have to say that James Patterson's books have me hooked BIG time.  I can't wait to finish one and get to the next one.  Each of his books have managed to capture my interest from page one.  Would I recommend it .........OH YEAH
5 Better than the movie! More twists and turns and deeper plot! Can't wait to move on and read the next one!
5 This book is wonderful!  Suspenseful, twisting, and delicious, James Patterson has crafted quite the protagonist in Detective Alex Cross.  Fans of Jeffery Deaver and others like him with devour this one!When Detective Alex Cross is removed from the murder of a poor black family to head the investigation of the kidnapping of two prominent white children, he is less than thrilled.  He can see injustice all around, but is powerless to change the course of events to his liking.  Making the best of a bad situation, he throws himself into the investigation and quickly learns that things are not as they seem at all.Most of the book deals with the examination of the kidnapper/murderer and that is easily the best part of the book.  The villain is as twisted as they come, and the uncertainty of whether he really is crazy or just acting is possibly the most chilling part of all.  Even the romantic elements of the story are shadowy and twisted in this page turner.  Don't miss it!
5 I read this book a few years back, and recently saw the movie.  I'm such a fan of Patterson's, I wanted to include my review.In the first of the Alex Cross series, this story is a race against time to find a kidnapped girl of a famous actress.  Cross is called in to help, and in only the way he can, he finds his way to the end of this suspenseful ride.  Not only will you enjoy the writing which propells the suspense and mystery, but you'll also enjoy the character development.  It leaves you wanting more of Alex Cross, one of my most favorite detectives of all time!I definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading thrillers.  I'll warn you though, like me, after you read this book, you'll be off to the store or library to pick up many more books by James Patterson.
3 This was my first James Patterson book, let alone my first in the Alex Cross series.  I admit I was a little disappointed.- I think that Cross himself is a terrible parent.  He takes off and leaves his kids with his grandmother (their great-grandmother) constantly so that he can have a tryst with his girlfriend, seemingly without communication to the grandmother.- the main antagonist is supposed to be so smart and prepared, and we are to believe he got lazy and slipped up?- in a high-profile case that involves local P.D., the FBI, and the Secret Service, and every single one of them ignore a) vital clues / leads / evidence and b) an investigator close to the caseTruthfully, I also was pretty sure half-way through that I had figured out the entire mystery.  I didn't have it 100%, but it was close.  This wasn't a terrible book, but given the build-up for Patterson's Cross series, and the over-priced nature of this book, I certainly had higher expectations.
5 In Along Came a Spider, James Patterson keeps you hooked from the first page.There are a few things a book needs to do for me if I'm to call it great.  (1) Hook me on the story.  (2)  Interest me in the characters.  (3)  Avoid too much predictibility.  I believe Along Came a Spider is successful on all accounts.Most of the book is first person from the point of view of his main character, Alex Cross.  Interspersed throughout the book are chapters from a third person perspective.  This style also makes the book go at a fast pace and makes it much more enjoyable.
5 The recipient of the book had just started reading James Patterson and really enjoys his writing and this book was no different.  She finished it in short order and started on the next one.
2 I am very disappointed with this book. The story may have made a beautiful movie (which I have never seen), but it does not pass master as reading. The characters are cardboard cutouts from the standard psychopatic egomaniacal killer to the Alex Cross'es family. There is one (yes, I mean ONE) plot twist that is more or less interesting, the rest is so rote it is funny. The writer has no skills whatsoever in building tension. He also cannot put together an interesting description. I will not even touch the dialog with a ten foot pole. And why on Earth do viewpoints have to shift all the time? We don't learn anything interesting when they do.
3 I wasn't as thrilled with this book it drug out the story for so long I loved it at the start and then it went down hill till the end
5 I can't believe I waited so long to start reading this series. I've read all of the Women's Murder Club series and loved all of those books, and this was a great beginning to the Alex Cross series. I can't wait to read the next one. I just hope that James Patterson is really writing this whole series himself like he says he is.
4 I blazed through the last 180 pages of this novel. It was awesome. The action kept up even when the chapters changed. I thought that with the short chapters which depicted a scene change would make the book "herky-jerky" but that was far from the truth. What did end up happening is the action was swift and gigantic in its brashness. I am currently on "Kiss The Girls" which I won't speak of here but when I'm done I will give my take on it.
5 I love this book! It had me engaged from the beginning. I would definitely recommend this book to another reader.
3 This is a competent thriller: I stayed up to learn more even when I should have turned my lamp off and gone to sleep. I particularly commend Patterson for his ability to write believably from the point of view of someone from a different race.  It sounded realistic to me; however I'm not African-American & I'd like to know how it sounds to someone who is.Patterson succeeds in creating "life on the page." The writing quality is not consistent. Cliches, redundancies and irrelevant descriptions disappointed me at times.I'll try to avoid writing a Spoiler Review, but a *very* illogical event was that someone who didn't murder receives the death penalty.
5 My mom loves author and loved this book. This is a great selection for a book lover and especially a lover of James Patterson
5 Whenever I meet someone who says "I don't like to read" or "Books are boring" or my favorite "I'll just see the movie."  I tell them to read Along Came a Spider.  I have two copies and I can't tell you how many people I have loaned them to over the years and had them returned to me with a different attitude and questions like "Is this a series?" and "Can I borrow the next book?" The short chapters and fast-paced action make this book easy to read and impossible to put down.This is the first book in the long Alex Cross series.  It is the story of a book-smart and street-smart cop from Southeast DC named Alex Cross who finds himself investigating a series of high profile serial kidnapping/murder cases.  Along with his partner and best-friend John Sampson. Cross and Sampson will stop at nothing to bring wrong-doers to justice.If this is your first taste of James Paterson, do yourself a favor and order the next book Kiss the Girls when you order Along Came a Spider, one book won't be enough.
5 I enjoyed this book from the beginning to the end! He keeps you thinking!  You may &quot;THINK&quot; already have the murder/kidnapping solved when he adds another monkey wrench to the story!  It's like a never ending story you don't want to end!
5 I WATCHED THE MOVIE AND DECIDED TO GIVE THE BOOK A TRY. DEFINITELY LOVE IT WAS SO FAR. SUSPENSFUL. THE DELIVERY WAS QUICK AND THE ORDER PROCESS WAS EASY
4 James Patterson did it again. He  creates the sickest villian with many twist and turns. Is Gary Soneji/Murpy has a split personality or a psycopath?
5 This book was very exciting from beginning to end is a great read for anyone who loves Alex Cross.watch the movie several times but the book is nothing like the movie. So much better.
5 I bought every book in this series because after I read the first one, I just waned more! James Patterson does not disappoint. There is a reason he is such a best selling author!!! Each book is better than the last one and you not only fall in love with the main charachter but with his whole family and profession alike.  This series is a murder mystery/ cop drama kind of series and is definitly at the top of it's genre.  It is not for the younger audience or the very tender hearted as it has graphic literary imagery.  It puts you in the mind set of TV shows like Rizoli and Isles, Law and Order, CSI, and Major Crimes in the sense of type of series and graphic crimes but its focus on one detective, his cases, his life and his family makes it a more personal look at the crime and solving of it.  You won't be able to stop at one book and you won't want to put it down when you start!
5 The very best. And seeing the movie made it even better. A good start in a seriesVerna Mae Newman
5 I had never really had the chance to be a James Patterson &quot;fan&quot; because I have only read &quot; Kiss The Girls&quot; but now I am one of his biggest fans! I received my order for &quot;Along Came A Spider&quot;  yesterday and I have already finished the book!  It was unbelieveable! I  ahd a hard time putting it down! Alex Cross again has solved the perfect  crime and suffered in the process but it never compromises the ending and  we are never disappointed!! If you like suspense,plots,and whodunnit; then  this is the book for you. You won't be disappointed!!!
5 Patterson does it again, edge of your seat suspence. Has that twist that you never see coming, as usual. Wow!!!!!!
5 Unfortunately I saw off reading book seven I this series so I'm going back now. But in definitely hooked and plan to read all twenty-one. James Patterson is a genius.
5 Very captivating with a lot of surprising twists and turns. Loved it.  Could not put it down from beginning to end.
2 not for me.
5 It is hard to read Patterson without one of his most &#34;famous works&#34; thank you! Great book, speed and value!
5 Never a dull moment; it will keep you guessing. But because of the violent content and subject matter, this is a mature audience only read.
3 Once again a nice story starring Alex Cross. His marvelous style and heroics make this a good read. The villan or villans change as the story moves on. His remarkable relationship with his family and partner shine through as usual. Not many lulls in this story, made for an overall good book. I look forward to the others I haven't read yet.
5 I just finished reading Along Came A Spider by James Patterson. This book is targeted for the thriller/suspense genre. it takes place in Washington, D.C.This book is about two kids from two wealthy families who get kidnapped by a man who poses as their teacher. The whole novel is about a whole team of people who are working hard to find the kids. Patterson switches points of view every few chapters so that the reader can see the story unravel from other perspectives, not just the main character's.I personally loved the book. I feel that the author kept enough details hidden to the point that the reader would be mind blown when they were revealed. Many people don't really like the writing style that James Patterson uses in his books, but I personally do. I have to admit, I have read many other James Patterson books, and I have loved them all. The only problem I have with this particular book is where he talks about how one of the character's wives died. In other books in this series (I am ashamed to admit that I read this series out of order before discovering my mistake) he gives a different account on how she died.
5 Here is where this book changed things for me...it tells you who the "bad guy" is in the beginning...and you think (or atleast I did) "great now there is no guessing games...no fun" but believe me this book gets addicting from page one. Guessing Games, Thrills, Action, and everything else it takes to make a great book...I gave Patterson a chance to either make me say "yea it was alright...nothing special..." or "its amazing i have to read more of the series"...well obviously its the second one. I recommend to start here and keep going with the series...reading out of order would be way to confusing at times. Patterson really has a talent and shows it with this book.
3 I enjoyed the action and plot-driven pace of Patterson's &quot;Along Came a Spider,&quot; but was disappointed in the one glaring hole in the courtroom drama.  If the prosecutors could simply point out that Gary Murphy knowlingly disguised himself on a daily basis to be &quot;Mr. Chips,&quot; then they could have shown that Soneji was not a schizophrenic.  Being a &quot;nice&quot; schoolteacher took enormous effort on the part of either Murphy or Soneji - thus, pre-meditation for crime was apparent at this stage.  Teachers at Washington Day describe &quot;Murphy&quot; as likable - it couldn't have been &quot;Murphy,&quot; ever, teaching school.  Murphy would have wondered what the hell he was doing in a classroom, in DC, in a wig.  He never did.  Therefore, the whole ploy was impossible from the get-go.  Luckily, Patterson was able to distract us with burning crosses and other sub-themes so that we readers would gloss over the weakness of any schizophrenia defense.  At least we can take comfort in the wise decision of the jury; for they saw through the weak defense argument.
3 I have a brother who is really interestedin crime fiction and he has spoken highly of this series so I read the books not in order however. this is where you should start.the murderer is an intersting villain but it is the characterization of Cross his hrandmother and his best friend John Sampson that maid this book compelling and led me to read the rest of the series even though it shows the signs of a beginner in being overwritten at times despite the short chapters
4 This is an eerie book...the disconnect between "normal" facade and perverted hidden reality is a major theme in Patterson's Cross series.  Effective disguises and role-playing over long periods of time, plus the ability to wait for years to execute a crime plan, is what makes Gary Murphy/Soneji so frightening.I had read Kiss the Girls earlier, with no background on Alex Cross.  Reread it and found that what I remembered were the characters Kate and Scootchie.  I had totally forgotten who did the crimes...in Kiss the Girls this is revealed at the very end...we're surprised but also disappointed since we don't know this guy as a human being at all, only as Casanova.  Casanova and the Gentleman Caller are not portrayed with anything like the depth of Patterson's Gary character.Also Patterson handles the surprise ending much better in Spider.  Jezzie's name should tip us off (Jezebel?), as well as the fact that her relationship with Alex is just too too magazine-story perfect.  But the gradual revelation of what happened to Maggie Rose - as well as how and why - is well done and seeing her reunited with her mother is very satisfying.I enjoy Alex and his family, his midnight porch piano-playing, etc., as well as Man Mountain Sampson, Nana Mama and the kids.  At the end of Kiss the Girls, it is clear that Soneji will be coming around again (shades of The Poet, by Michael Connelly).  Yeah, it's different to know who the criminal is, early on...maddening to watch him dance away...but hey, that's what being hooked on this stuff is all about!
4 When he saw the previews for the movie Along Came a Spider, my brother encouraged me to read the book before the movie came out.  I was pleased with the results.The only reason I gave my review 4 stars and not 5 is because when you get to the end, the rest of the book seems rather drab.  I found Alex Cross to be a very intense and deep character.  Gary Soneji also was a very deep and at times, even confusing character.Like I said the ending ROCKS!  I seriously read the last 150 pages in a blur, I don't think I even took a bathroom break.  The begining was a typical forensic/psycopath book, but not nearly as good as books like Silence of the Lambs.  I was like, &quot;I thought James Patterson was suposed to be a brilliant author!&quot;.  Then I hit the end and it just blew me away!  Some people say they didn't like the ending, I loved it!  It caught me off guard and was as far from cliche as you can get.  Thats what I love in a book.I seriously reccomend this book.  It may start slow, but by the end, you'll be trying to catch your breath!
4 This is, simply, a very entertaining book. It has a great story line that is both suspensfull and surprising. Paterson gets into his character (Alex Cross) like no other. Writing, story line, and characters all develop well and come together smoothly. Cool Beans!
5 hard scifi with a great story as a framework. another good novel of the xeelee sequence.
4 Flux was my first foray into hard sci-fi, and it was not what I expected. I had tried to read a few others in the genre, but was turned off by the textbook-like narratives and lifeless characters, but Baxter does a great job of combining the science behind the lives he has created within a solar body with the humanity of a race of intelligent beings clinging to the layers of their world. I can honestly say that I was captivated by this story, and enjoyed it thoroughly.
3 This is the second Baxter book I've read (after VACUUM DIAGRAMS), and like the first it's a mix of brilliance and disappointment.Baxter unquestionably has the wildest hard-physics imagination in the business.  The world depicted in FLUX is a staggering conceptual achievement, taking the amazing concept of neutron-star life first suggested by Frank Drake and developed by Robert L. Forward in DRAGON'S EGG &amp; STARQUAKE and going one step further, creating an ecosystem within the neutron-superfluid mantle of the star and exploring its whole geography from crust to core.  The biology, locomotion and senses of the inhabitants are well worked out.But Baxter's imagination tends to outrace even him.  In both his books I've read, there have been major flaws in logic, points on which he failed to think his ideas through.  Here, for story convenience, he asserts that the nuclear-size humanoids' life and thought processes happen at normal human speed.  Readers of Forward will see the absurdity of this.  The nucleonic processes on which this life is based are a million times faster than chemistry, because the particles are so much closer together.  Even if it were possible to slow these people's life cycles so much in proportion to the underlying processes, they'd be agonizingly slower than the native organisms around them, living on a slower timescale than even the plants.  There are other moments of shortsightedness; sometimes he describes them in humanlike ways incompatible with the anatomy and physics he's defined.  (How could Dura have &quot;slick palms&quot; when they don't perspire?)When the reason for these micro-humans' creation is finally revealed, it doesn't make sense.  It would've been more logical to build mindless robots for the task, and ones better-designed to fit the environment.  The creators' choice to make them almost exactly human down to the same impractical anatomy and the same emotions and aspirations shows a sentimentalism fiercely incompatible with the project's goals.Baxter also gets confused about the scale of his trademark structure, Bolder's Ring.  In VACUUM DIAGRAMS he said it was millions of light-years across -- yet described an attack on its rim affecting its center instantaneously, and described a distant observer seeing the battle across its whole width in real time. And here, he describes it appearing tiny from a distance of mere thousands of light-years.  Baxter seems to have trouble realizing the physical and temporal scope of his own creations.  His imagination is bigger than his judgment.Baxter's a far better writer than Forward, but as in Forward's books, the plot is basically an excuse for illustrating the environment and physics.  His characters have a modicum of emotion and personality, unlike Forward's, but are sometimes superficially drawn and hard to get a handle on.  The one sexual interlude is painfully awkward and gratuitous from a character standpoint, serving only to illustrate the mechanics of the act for this species.  (And let's not go into Baxter's seeming obsession with bodily functions.  He could've chosen a more pleasant term for biological jet-propulsion.)Amid the superlatively exotic setting, the society is relentlessly ordinary and unimaginative.  The sociological storyline replays the mythology of countless British WWII films (and American films about Britain, such as MRS. MINIVER) -- a stratified society is torn apart by disaster and becomes united, promising to rebuild as an egalitarian utopia.  It's tacked on quite awkwardly here. Overall, Baxter pulls the reader in two different directions -- in the environment and physics he strives for unimagined wonders, but for the people and society he pulls against that and forces them to be as mundane and familiar as possible.FLUX portrays the most extraordinarily alien, yet credibly developed, physical environment I have ever seen in SF.  But this just throws the book's flaws and its ordinary storytelling into sharp relief.  And Baxter's failure to think through all the ramifications of his own ideas, and the huge logic gaffes that result, are a continual frustration.
3 The most striking thing about this novel is the setting. The events take place within a thin layer just below the surface of a neutron star.Somehow, life is possible within this environment and the main  characters are a tiny race of beings created by humans to be able to live  in the environment.Within this world, the author creates a preindustrial  society whose attitudes bear an odd resemblance to those on the planet  Norfolk in Peter Hamilton's &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; series. Yes, despite  the setting, the characters are really taken from pastoral England. Indeed,  Baxter's heroine Dura and several of the other characters might have walked  out of a novel by Thomas Hardy.The novel follows the adventures of Dura  as she starts out trying to save her small clan and ends trying to save the  world and perhaps even the universe itself.A good story, some  interesting characters and a great setting. So, what could go wrong with  that?Well, despite all of this promise, the novel finally failed to be  complete because of the way that the ending was handled. Suddenly, new  technologies, situations and relationnships were introduced to tie up all  of the dangling threads and bring things to a conclusion. I almost had the  feeling the the author suddenly decided that it was time to get it all  wrapped up and off to the publishers.
4 Stephen Baxter is practically the hardest of Hard SF writers around. `Flux' is another volume in his sprawling Xeelee Sequence of novels and short stories. The Xeelee Sequence doesn't have to be read in any particular order as the stories told span a timeline of tens of billions of years. Readers can dip in and out of the novels and collected short stories at any point.`Flux' tells the story of Dura, one of a microscopic species of human who live in the mantle of a star. Hers is a feudal society with strict stratification of the different classes. Verbal history tells of a once more technological society now lost after the Core Wars.  Sounds preposterous, I know, but Baxter's greatest strength is that, despite the heavy duty science in his works, he never loses sight of the human element. His story of Dura, an upfluxer and her adventures in Parz City and beyond, is so engaging that the reader can forget that the technicalities of the story and enjoy the adventure.Through a series of good, bad and dumb luck, Dura finds herself at the center of an expedition that is the only hope of saving the Human Beings in her particular star. Through her tribes legends of the Xeelee she is able to engineer a meeting with a Colonist - a denizen of the core of the star, a downloaded copy of the original humans to seed the star with Dura's people - and formulate a plan that will save all the species of humanity from destruction. And consequently re-engineer a fairer and more just way of life.It's hard to find Science Fiction these days that actually has some science in it. Baxter is at the forefront of the rebirth of Hard SF. Do yourself a favor and read one of his books. I guarantee you it won't be the last.
5 I greatly enjoy the novels of Michael Dobbs. I have read several and plan to read more. Tp play the King and The Final Cut were wonderful.
5 very interesting..Michael Dobbs is terrific. Ifyou have not tried his Churchill serirs I recommend them as well
5 Having been a huge fan of the PBS House of Cards trilogy on cable television, VHS, then DVD, since its first airing, I decided I had to own the DVD trilogy for myself.  Then I really got interested in author Michael Dobbs, and wanted to see for myself how the original written word translated into the screen versions I've enjoyed so much.  I was not disappointed.  Though the book and the screenplay different in detail (but what adaptation doesn't...) I truly enjoyed reading the Dobbs original.  This is brilliant writing!
4 The third and best installment of the trilogy. The writing is a little laboured, by the plot rattles along. The plot line and developmetn is a lot tighter than the previous two books. The despicable PM is finally seen as the creature of his own making - manipulative, irredeemable, and subject to his own success. Overall, a good, light read into fictional British politics, that doesn't tax the readers intellect or political knoweldge too heavily,
5 This is the final book in the Francis Urquhart trilogy. Urquhart is up to his usual evil doing ways and the finish is wonderfully appropriate. If you enjoy political intrigue, murder, and a truly loathsome character you will greatly enjoy this final instalment by Dobbs.I highly recommend the entire trilogy.
5 This book is next in Plaidy's Queen's of England series, if you were reading in historical order, behind Lady in the Tower.I first read of Catherine Howard in Phillipa Gregory's The Boleyn Inheritence, which was a good book also. But I prefer Plaidy's Catherine over Gregory's any day.First I'll say that Plaidy shows Catherine as a product of her environment, a girl who never really had a chance. She was sweet-natured, loving, forgiving and just happy. This may have caused her to act foolishly, but Plaidy made her foolishness more organic than Gregory ever did. Catherine in this book was more unlucky to me than just plain stupid. I don't think it's really fair to call her stupid when she was never really taught.In contrast to Gregory's Catherine, Plaidy shows her from her earliest childhood years to the very end. I felt that Plaidy made her a bit more fleshed out, more real, human; instead of an air-headed bimbo with nothing to care about but clothing and jewelry. Plaidy almost made Catherine Howard seem intelligent.Catherine here is seen to pay even some attention to her surroundings. Unfortunately when she tries to join in on a conversation she is told to remain silent and treated like she's nothing more than a chair in a room. I felt that she was treated like a child the entire way through the book until she became Queen of England.I also felt that Plaidy made Henry more likable here. He's shown to be a sweet older man, until he becomes angry, but with Catherine he's like a grandfather, with sweets. Because Catherine isn't so concerned with politics this book shows a softer side of Henry missing in other books I've read about him.Unfortuantely Catherine's past comes back to haunt her in a way no one thought it would. It ends with her death and the death of two of the men who truly loved her. I also felt that Plaidy showed Henry's huge disappointment with his choice rather well.I'd highly recommend this book if you want to know more about Catherine Howard and her affect on the aging King Henry.
5 Katherine Howard, the young and pretty fifth wife of Henry VIII (and cousin to Anne Boleyn) is the subject of one of Plaidy's last novels, written in the style of The Lady in the Tower.Katherine, through the aid of a scribe (she was not greatly educated), tells her life story. Born into an impoverished branch of the great Howard family, she is sent to live with her grandmother, the Dowager Duchess of Norfolk, and it is not long before her good looks and bad company begin to get her into trouble. When she is given a place as a lady to Anne of Cleves, her family attempts to use Henry VIII's infatuation with her to serve their own interests.The Rose Without a Thorn is a very moving and intelligent historical read. Readers see how the young, foolish Katherine goes from the Queen of England to a prisoner when her past comes back to haunt her and she is also charged with adultery. Most likely to add more validity to the love story with Culpepper, there is a small historical inaccuracy at the end...Katherine did not actually say that she would rather die the wife of Thomas Culpepper than as a queen.However, a wonderful page turner. I was actually moved to tears at the end.
5 This novel of Katherine Howard, the fifth of Henry VIII's six wives, was a very enjoyable and clarifying historical read. To begin with, let's agree that Katherine was never given a fair chance in comparison to the King's other wives. Katherine was not as extravagant, well-known, or amazingly beautiful as some of the more renowned ones were. She was extremely young to be a bride; a child in fact. So, this in itself puts her in a category of her own.The author brilliantly exposes this fact by writing in the first person, so that we are never to forget the fact that she was merely a child. Reading it from this point of view makes the history so much more understandable. It is difficult to be judgmental towards Katherine in any way when you read the story through her perspective.Katherine Howard's life is pretty simple up until she moves into the Royal Court; where, she is ultimately set-up for her demise. The events in her life unfold like a cruel domino effect, led by the deceptions and scheming of others leading Katherine to her tragic end. Her innocence, kindness, curiosity, and acts without malice, rendered her character simply endearing. Plaidy captures the essence of this Child-Belle enraptured in a world of delusion, schemes and intrigues. The game was too quick and too fierce for her to endure. Inevitably, this young girl's innocent and hopeful nature could never survive in the vulturous world of Henry VIII.The Rose Without a Thorn is a quick read that moves you from one scene to the next in smooth and inviting transition. The passages are moving and although I often felt exasperated by some of Katherine's decisions and motives, I felt I understood this character precisely because of her circumstances. The build up to the tragedy is difficult and ultimately heartbreaking. Excellent read.
5 I previously read the Boleyn Inheritance by Philippa Gregory and in comparing the two versions of Katherine, I have to say that I wish I had read this book first. I believe Jean Plaidy honored Katherine Howard whereas Phillipa Gregory made her out to be a spoiled brat.Jean Plaidy dove deep into Katherine's upbringing and now I understand why she was so naive and sweet. Katherine expected everyone to be like her; kind and sweet, sympathetic of others. But in Henry VIII's era, who really was?This book also describes Henry VIII as the miserable 'fat' man that he was, but Katherine felt so sweetly towards him because he made her feel loved and wanted, something she always needed. And she was not ashamed to give it back, something which Henry VIII yearned for utterly, like a little boy. In a way, I think Henry and Katherine Howard were a perfect match- both children deep inside.I loved this book. It was a fast and easy read that had me captivated from page one-but then again every Jean Plaidy book I have read has done the same. She does not disappoint!
3 I love Jean Plaidy, I've never made any secret of that fact, and I found that she does a fabulous job of articulating what I've always thought about Katherine Howard, Henri VIII's ill fated fifth wife.  The writing is as masterful as always, and even if you're familiar with the tale of Katherine Howard, I think you'll find yourself wrapped up in this book.  The story starts out with Katherine talking to her friend, the scribe, and it is all presented as the story she is telling to the scribe in the days leading up to her death.Katherine is portrayed as a mostly thoughtless girl who lives entirely for the present, which is totally how I've always thought of her.  Time and time again she says something along the lines of "why didn't I think about what this would mean for the future?"  And also mentions how she should have thought more about how her actions were so in line with what had sent her cousin, Anne Boleyn, to the scaffold.  At one point, Katherine even says that while she believed her cousin to be innocent, she knew she herself was not.Although this story is not a new one to me, it was presented in a new way in that Katherine knew her actions were dangerous and she gave in to them heedless of the consequences.  She was almost noble at times, wanting to protect Thomas Culpepper as much as she could and refraining from saying anything that would implicate him in any way.  With that in mind, it's very sad to me that she did what she could to protect him, but didn't seem to be trying to protect Francis Derehem in any way.  I mean, what if she had told them that there was a pre-contract?  Would it have saved all their lives?I loved that Plaidy shows Katherine's regrets, even though some of them may be misplaced, and in her way she even tries to make up for her past indiscretions.  What is extra interesting to me is that if Katherine lived in today's society, she would have been a pretty normal girl.  She just had the misfortune of being born in the wrong time, and catching the eye of the wrong man.
3 Interesting, but very shallow. Characters were very 2 dimensional and there was no real detail. Still it hit the high points and was a fairly pleasant way to spend a lazy afternoon.
4 I really enjoyed this work.  It was fun to read about one of Henry VIII's less known wives.  However, as this was my first Plaidy work, I was taken aback at how vain and shallow Katherine was portrayed.Throughout the book, I wondered if my dissatisfaction with the main character of Katherine was because of the writing or because of the character herself. When I reached the end and reviewed the Book Group notes, I was relieved to see that this was definitely the author's intention, as Katherine was referred to as a "bimbo."  This was further validated by a little Internet research too.  Plaidy deftly captures the period, with its scars and intrigues.Not one to start a Plaidy collection with, but a very good read.
5 Great author, great story.  Anyone who enjoys historical novels will enjoy this writer.  She keeps to the facts as much as possible.  Great way to learn about English aristocratic.
4 I read this book immediately following Philippa Gregory's The Boleyn Inheritance, which made sense seeing as they both cover the same characters. You can see my review of Gregory's book here. I liked reading them back to back in order to get a more well-rounded view of the character of Katherine Howard.Plaidy's Katherine is looking back on her life retelling all of the events that have led up to her present state of confinement. You even get some little side notes like "if I had only known" or "I would have done that differently". It's refreshing to see someone of that time period recognizing their faults, but I'm not sure that, in reality, Katherine actually realized what was happening. Plaidy makes Katherine likeable, naive, and comes of age very quickly at a time when one needed to fully understand the world around them. I actually enjoyed Katherine in this novel, where as in some other books, she is whiny, overly sexual, and just unlikable.This was my first Plaidy read and it definitely made me a Plaidy follower. Her characters feel very real and there are so many little details about the world around them that you don't get sometimes in other books. A wonderful read.
4 I'm just getting into the study of Katherine Howard. I am of the impression that this depiction is most accurate but I will read more books to see if I can get a better idea of who Katherine may have been.Anyway---I know that this is a fact/fiction mix, I have to say: Good GOD--what a dingbat she was(as portrayed in the book)!The Duchess slapped her at one point.The Duke slapped her (and appeared to want to throttle her a few more times)...hell--halfway through the book I wanted to slap her!Several times in the book she was likened to a child and here's where I fault the Duke and Duchess (to an extent):Why in the world would you place a young-minded woman at the HELM of such a devious plot? She would be her own (and everyone else's) undoing. I cannot imagine that they were all that shocked when the poop hit the fan. Her uncle (the Duke) probably just gave a deep sigh and shook his head...And it hardly matters if Katherine had no knowledge that she'd be a queen. Her 'betters' knew. Because Katherine was being prepared for 'something' (though that 'something' remained to be seen for a time). Or what else was the point in moving to the Duchess' home or establishing a position at Court? The Duchess at least should have been keeping an eye on the young lady.I suppose the lure of the Crown was too much though...I'm guessing.Still, to put Katherine in Henry's sights was a grave mistake. Because it was Katherine.She had other redeeming qualities. She was kindhearted & good-natured. She seems to have been sweet and loving--but she seems to have been something of a simple girl. Entirely unsuited to the environment she was thrust into, the unscrupulous and craftier personalities around her or the 'games' that she was forced to play.The Duke came to her in an attempt to warn her that supplying the King's enemies w/clothes could be taken badly. Rather than taking heed--she engaged him.Thomas Culpepper came to warn her about taking certain ppl (who were knowledgeable of past) into her household. That she was Queen and needed to understand the politics of the situation. That there were other political factions at work. Using her...and working against her.She responded with surprise and confusion---and ended up sleeping with Culpepper that same night!SMHShe had relations, affairs and flirtations with Derham, Manox and Culpepper. All 3 and especially Culpepper, shouldn't have EVER managed to get that close to her. Yet, she places them in her household...?...and Lady Rochford? Why have such a woman in your personal space? She has the blood of Anne & George Boleyn on her hands with her false testimonies.I read another account that implied that Katherine was somewhat blackmailed into appointing other witnesses to her Court. She was a woman--but goodness she was still a Queen. She still had influence...and only a few ppl knew the truth about her.These witnesses and participants could have either been persuaded or threatened into silence.The objective would be to nip it in the bud BEFORE the gossip has a chance to 'grow legs'.Also, the Katherine as depicted in this book could have made better use of the Duke.Now, he may not have had been the most decent person out there. He was self-serving and uncaring. A horrid man by some accounts. Certainly wasn't likeable.I doubt he would risk his head for her BUT---he was ambitious and everything he did was done for the sake of the 'Family'.So of course he would look out for Katherine's best interests. He had to. His and Katherine's (good)fortune were intertwined. Looking out for Katherine was looking out for himself.He had inside knowledge and was no novice when it comes to court affairs.A person like this is useful as an advisor.But you don't just cast someone like this aside.Katherine seems to have isolated HERSELF and chose to place vipers in her midst. I can't fathom someone in her position making these kinds of mistakes.But, ppl like her do exist. They are too wayyy 'gentle' for world. Too trusting and light-hearted. They don't have the sense to act in their own best interests.It's sad.Anne Boleyn may have been too smart for her own good---but at least she had a sense of self-preservation and common sense.
2 Jean Plaidy's dozens of novels written in the third person are among the very best historical fiction to be found, but these first-person novels in her Queens of England series that she wrote toward the end of her life really are pathetic.And, in this case, out of date. Plaidy's other novel about Katherine Howard,Murder Most Royal: The Story of Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard, was published in 1949, more than a decade before the publication of Lacey Baldwin Smith's ground-breaking study of Katherine,A Tudor tragedy;: The life and times of Catherine Howard. Murder Most Royal therefore re-hashed, through no fault on the author's part, subsequently discredited theories, e.g. that Katherine and Thomas Culpeper were first cousins (according to Smith's researches they were only sixth cousins), that they were childhood sweethearts and that Katherine, in her scaffold speech, said, "I die a queen, but I would rather die the wife of Thomas Culpeper". One might think that someone who wrote so many historical novels and whose bibliographies are littered with history books would have stumbled across A Tudor Tragedy by 1993, when The Rose Without a Thorn was published (incidentally, the same year that Plaidy died).Apparently not. Smith's study is not listed in the bibliography. Neither are the books about Henry VIII's six wives by Alison Weir and Antonia Fraser, published in 1991 and 1992. And so The Rose Without a Thorn re-hashes all those old stories about Katherine Howard that had been discredited thirty years earlier. Plaidy has Katherine giving the scaffold speech "I die a Queen, but I would rather die the wife of Thomas Culpeper". Katherine and Culpeper are portrayed as close cousins. Katherine is portrayed as being about eighteen years old when she went to Court, when according to modern research she may have been as young as fifteen, and as going to Court after Anne of Cleves was already queen, instead of arriving there in time to be a maid of honour when Anne arrived. Katherine is also portrayed as saying, at the time of her arrest and interrogation, "I knew little of the ways of the world. I believed myself betrothed to Francis Derham and that that meant we could behave as husband and wife" when, as Smith shows, Katherine vehemently denied that she had ever been betrothed to her former lover Francis Dereham, even though admitting to such a pre-contract could potentially have saved her life (by denying it the councillors dug deeper, and found out about her much more serious dealings with Thomas Culpeper after her marriage, leading to her being attainted for treason and executed). And, bizarrely, the Dowager Duchess of Norfolk is portrayed as being Katherine's actual grandmother rather than her step-grandmother - her late grandfather's second wife - even though Plaidy got this correct in Murder Most Royal.The Rose Without a Thorn is not a complete travesty of historical fiction - technically the writing are storytelling are competent. But they're both superficial and, of course, the content is out of date. If you've read a fair amount about Henry VIII's six wives and are looking for an accurate depiction of events then it's probably best not to bother with this book, since its mistakes and discredited theories will irritate you. If wonderful storytelling is all you're after then it would be better to read Murder Most Royal.
4 Katherine was a young girl, very lovely in the manner of Ann Boleyn (she is also her cousin) whose strength was also her downfall. She appealed to Henry VIII - who just has divorced Ann of Cleves - because she was everything that Ann was not. Fair, pleasing and not very clever. She is used as a pawn by her uncle - Duke of Suffolk to get back the power from the Seymours who have the King's favour. She goes along with it - with some misgivings because of her past which is chequered to say the least. I felt that she probably made Henry most happy of all his wives. When the dark clouds of Katherins's unsavoury past start clouding over, there is a place where you think that both Henry and Katherine are pawns of the men around them- for if they had met, he surely would have forgiven and taken her back. It leaves you wondering, about Henry VIII, about the follies of youth which some commit and grow beyond... A very absorbing tale, if a  little sad ...
4 In this, the final novel in her "Queens of England" series of books, the author weaves a tapestry of political intrigue, romance, and historical detail into the story of young Katherine Howard, the fifth wife of Henry VIII. A masterful storyteller, the author, who also writes under the name Victoria Holt and has a cavalcade of devoted readers, creates a work of historical fiction that will transport the reader to another time.The book details the rise and fall of Katherine Howard, a young, impoverished noblewoman of an illustrous family. As a young girl, she was sent to live with her grandmother, the Duchess of Norfolk, where she, unfortunately, fell in with a licentious group of retainers and became ensnared in two unsuitable affairs of the heart. Little did she know that they would serve to haunt her a way she could never have imagined.An opportunity, orchestrated by her Machiavellian and ambitious uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, arises for the beautiful, though foolish, Katherine to go to the Royal Court as Lady -In-Waiting to the fourth wife of Henry VIII, the kindly Anne of Cleves. Katherine obligingly goes. There, she falls in love with her cousin, Thomas Culpepper, a gentleman of the King's Bed Chamber. Her hopes of marriage to her handsome cousin are soon dashed, however, when she catches the wandering eye of the King, who loathes his current wife.Having charmed the King and having little say in the matter, Katherine becomes his fifth wife, once he divorces Anne of Cleves. Katherine's initial happiness as Queen is cut short, however, when her lurid past comes to light and is brought to the King's attention. This, coupled with her indiscretions with Thomas Culpepper, are enough to abruptly terminate her brief reign over England as its Queen and cause a number of heads, including hers, to roll.This is an intriguing blend of fact and fiction, which is laced with enough historical detail to satisfy those readers who enjoy historical fiction. It is with good reason that the author has a legion of devoted readers.
5 I just finished The Rose witout a thorn, the story of Catherine Howard. It's a great look at her life while in her grandmother the duchess's household until her end on the scaffold. She is presumed innocent but was not so innocent at times. She took advantage of King Henry seeing her as his rose without a thorn and made numerous mistakes in the process. She was young and immature about alot of things and that got her into trouble. Befriending Jane Boleyn was also a bad move. But for a lonely girl with no friends she had no other choice. She was used as a pawn by members of her family like her cousin Anne Boleyn before her. And she was always compared to her by the duchess. She never felt loved or good enough by any of her family until she won the love of a king. She then enjoyed the respect they had to show her as their queen. It's a must read. Everything Jean Plaidy writes is exellent.
4 I went through a phase where I just read the heck out of everything Tudor, historical fiction and biographies alike.  Jean Plaidy's books are easy to read interesting historical fiction accounts of these famous people.
3 I read quite a few of the books by Jean Plaidy in the Queen's of England series when I was younger.  They're hard to come by since they are out of print.  I decided to collect the rest (still missing one) and catch up on my royal reading.  I'm hoping my feelings for this book have more to do with the fact that I've read a better one about Katherine Howard than I may no longer like the writing style.  It started out fine, although I was a little disgusted by the way Katherine was allowed to behave when she moves to her grandmother's house.  I would think a Duchess of the court would have better sense of what was going on in her household.  But, history seems to have proven otherwise.  I also felt that the author made Katherine seem much more simple than she really was.  But, maybe her families ambitions were just way outside of her knowledge.  The book also lacked the terror that must have been going through the young queen's mind towards the end of her life.  What a tragic ending for a young women who had almost no hope from the start.  I would recommend reading The Queen's Mistake by Diane Haeger over this one.
5 Jean Plaidy is by far my favorite historical fiction author. She has a style that is both infomative and addicting. She is able to put a familiar face on a woman that lived so long ago and make you feel like you know her on a personal level. The Rose Without a Thorn is a 260 page novel that's written from the perspective of Katharine Howard, Henry VIII's fifth wife, and his second to lose her head.Katharine was raised in the household of her grandmother, the Dowager Duchess of Norfolk. She was taken into the households of Horsham and Lambeth at 10 years old because he parents were too poor to give her a proper upbringing. She was enchanted by her music tutor, Henry Manox and had a fairly innocent love affair with him. Katharine meets Francis Dereham soon after casting off Henry Manox. She starts her relationship with him at age 15, right after the death of Jane Seymour, who was Henry VIII's third wife. Francis Dereham and Katharine swear to marry each other. They are soon discovered by her grandmother and he is banished and leaves for Ireland. She receives a place at court with Anne of Cleves at age 18. Dereham returns not long after and she dismisses him and their relationship as "child's play." There is talk of betrothal between her and her cousin, Thomas Culpepper. When she enters court, she befriends Jane Rochford, who is still something of a paraiah after the execution of her husband and sister-in-law. She catches the eye of the king when she is forced to sing at a banquet. Henry has his marriage to Anne of Cleves annulled and makes Katharine his new wife. After becoming queen, Katharine is blackmailed by one of her grandmother's former ladies, Joan Bulmer. Joan threatens to tell of Katharine's indiscretions when she was at her grandmother's unless she gets a place as a lady in waiting. Soon after Joan joins Katharine's household, Henry Manox returns and is given a place with the court musicians. Dereham then returns and is appointed Katharine's secretary. The king leaves on a campaign to restore peace in the northern territories and while he is gone, Katharine starts up her affair with Thomas Culpepper, who is she totally in love with, with the help of Jane Rochford. Katharine is charged with treason for her early affairs and lying about them to the king. Three ladies from her grandmother's house all testified against her - Joan Bulmer, Kathryn Tylney, and Mary Lassels. Dereham and Culpepper are executed for their affairs with Katharine. Before her execution, she asked to have the block brought to her so she could practice and the next morning, lost her head for being a wanton woman. Too many lover, too much to hide.
5 I loved this book and immediately wanted to read more of the authors work. Wonderfully told story that makes you feel like you're there...
5 I have read much that has been written about King Henry's wives. This novel gave so much more personal in depth information. Seeing it all through Katherine's eyes was spellbinding.
5 I recently bought this book along with Lady in the Tower, the other new Plaidy re-release. This shorter volume tells of Katharine Howard, the cousin of Anne Boleyn who also became queen of England and who also shared a similiar fate. Katharine is born into an impoverished branch of the Howard family, a very noble English family that is also very stable at court. When her powerful Grandmother comes to visit their meager country estate, Katharine intrigues her Grandmother and is whisked off to live at her Grandmother's large and beautiful estate. While there, her Grandmother neglects her and Katharine gives into the daring acts of the girls who work in the estate who share her bechamber. Katharine befriends her music teacher, Mannox, and invites him into her bed at night. The affair ends fast and one Francis Weston comes into Katharine's life. However, this ends once Katharine's Grandmother comes upon Francis and Katharine frolicking upon a parlor floor. Around this time Anne Boleyn is crowned queen and so the entire entourage and family moves to the Lambeth estate on the Thames River in London. Now Katharine falls for her own cousin, Thomas Culpepper. However, Katharine's powerful uncle has plans for his neice and finds her a place in Anne of Cleves short-lived entourage (Anne Boleyn has hence forth been executed and Jane Seymour has died). Henry VIII begins to notice Katharine and after demissing his marriage to Anne of Cleves, he courts Katharine and soon she is thrust onto the same stage her older cousin came upon a decade or so before. Katharine is wedded to the king in a short ceremony and soon begins her short reign as Queen of England. However, when rumors of her past affairs come back Katharine finds herself in danger. Franics Weston comes to court, as does Mannox, bringing back haunting memories that could cost Katharine her head. But when Katharine commits adultery with Thomas Culpepper one night, her fate is sealed. Henry, in his first happy marriage in decades, is brought the horrible news by those insanely jealous of Katharine's new fame and the Howard's rising fortune (even though they were already very dominant and had more power than the Tudors). Katharine is guilty, as are her lovers, and all are brought to the block or the gallows. And even on the scafold Katharine declared &quot;I die a queen, but I would rather die the wife of Thomas Culpepper&quot;. I loved this book and found it highly enjoyable. I find it no wonder that Jean Plaidy is acclaimed a sone of the greatest historical fiction writers ever. A haunting and compelling story full of intrigue and unexpected twists and turns, Katharine's story was a short lived one that is often overshadowed by her cousin's story, but is just as interesting.
4 As I read this book in the wake of rereading The Mists of Avalon by Marion Zimmer Bradley, I was thoroughly in the mood for more Celtic tales of Druids, rituals and magic. This story does not conjur up half the magic of Bradley's masterpiece, but it does satisfactorily probe some of that primordial mystery that shrouds the ancient world and its people.  In this tale, unhappy adolescent Adam spends most of his time on the hillside where the Celtic stone from another century proudly stands. Little does he know, but the stone is a gateway to another time, a time where Druid Priestess-in-training, Brid, is able to pass from her time, the 6th century into the far future---Adam's time in the 20th century.  At first he views the vivacious Brid as a marvelous playmate, but when she initiates him into the pleasures of sexual love, he is smitten--at least for while.  As Adam matures, he leaves his home village and sad childhood to pursue his dream of becoming a doctor.  His life moves onto other women, marriage and children of his own.  However, Brid does not move on, she is still the young and beautiful Druidess who defies her family and her religious traditions to pursue Alan across the boundaries of time.  Her obsession is all-encompassing; she lets nothing stop her from getting back into Alan's life and to control him in the only way she can--in his bed. Brid's melancholy and frustration is uniquely portrayed by Erskine--indeed it permeates the tone of the entire story.Ms Erskine is surely the master of the obsessive tale; the reader while finding Brid somewhat annoying after plaguing Alain for over 50 years, can understand her bewilderment over aging Alan's puzzling behavior when defending his frazzled family from her, and commiserate with both their mutual attraction for one another and Alan's disgust with himself as he falls prey over and over again to Brid's charms.  After three generarions of daunting pursuit and umpteen pages, it is to the reader's great relief that with the help of a powerful present day druid and Alan's grandchild, Brid's claim on Alan can finally be loosened and Brid's own immortal soul released from her uncle's grasp.Although I enjoyed this book and found it hard to put down, I must say I enjoyed Erskine's earlier works much more.  In particular, &quot;House of Shadows&quot; certainly pricked those tiny hairs off the back of my neck!  Even so, &quot;On the Edge of Darkness&quot; succeeds in eliciting sometimes fright-fraught emotions for both protagonists---even if these emotions are a bit disturbing----which stay with the reader after the book has been closed and put down.
5 Like all her novels, this one is captivating. I like her style and what she writes about. Certainly recommendable for lovers of mystery and ancient times!
5 Fleeing his harsh Presbyterian father's home in the Scottish highlands, a young boy, Adam, has a passionate affair with a mysterious bypsy girl, Brid.  She's far from ordinary as Adam discovers when she draws him towards the sixth century and the magical Druidic word from which she really comes.  Years pass, Adam leaves Scotland and marries, never bargaining for the strength of Brid's determination as she returns to exact her violent revenge.I loved the aspect of period of the Druidic world and how the story takes places in different time periods.
4 Having found this book in Scotland last fall, I excitedly purchased it and set aside, only recently getting a chance to read it. This is classic Erskine and a welcome return after her last two books which seemed to be  written for the American market rather than from the heart. All the classic  Erskine elements are here: a Celtic theme, wonderful paranormal elements  and a mystery to be solved. Ms Erskine will not disappoint with this latest  offering. This one is sure to  join the ranks of KINGDOM OF SHADOWS and  LADY OF HAY in providing the reader with a full-bodied read of such depth  and mystery that even the most cynical historical reader won't be able to  put it down. Glad to see a return to what she does best; classic paranormal  fiction
4 In her list of books, Barbara Erskine has mastered the art of using an item, a place or a person as a catalyst for a journey between the present time and the past.  In this title, a Celtic stone cross in the Scottish  highlands is the portal through which fourteen year old Adam meets Brid, a  girl from sixth century who is training as a Druid priestess.  But just as  Adam can enter the sixth century, Brid can enter the 20th, and there a 50  year nightmare begins for Adam and his loved ones.This is quite  different from Barbara Erskine's other books, which basically follow the  theme of a fairly normal modern day person finding themselves transported  to another time. Here a dark entity comes into this time. 'On the Edge of  Darkness' explores some rather disturbing emotional problems.  Adam's  father is such a complete religious fanatic he drives away his wife, and  his son lives a sad, lonely and emotionally battered life. Brid forms such  an obsessive attachment to Adam that her jealousy knows no bounds. The  emotional void in which this leaves Adam's wife is dreadful.If you are  a fan of stories of the past and present colliding, which I certainly am,  you could do a lot worse than reading this book.  On the way, you will get  to explore some dark areas of the human pysche - areas I would rather read  about than live through.
4 This is a well written, compelling story of a love that intersects the past, as well as the present. An excellent piece of paranormal fiction, it keeps the reader riveted to the pages.The story begins in the nineteen thirties, when a fourteen year old boy named Adam, while traipsing in the isolated crags of the Scottish highlands near an ancient Celtic stone, meets a girl named Brid whom he mistakes for a gypsy, due to her wild, long hair, and her exotic style of dress. Unbeknownst to him, a portal in time has opened, allowing Adam and Brid, who is actually a Druid from the sixth century, to cross back and forth in time. Adam, however, does not realize that he is actually travelling back and forth in time, while Brid is not only fully aware of what is happening, but is doing so in contravention of what her uncle, a high priest to the Druids, and her training have taught her.Over time, she becomes obsessive about Adam, who is her first love, while Adam, as he grows up, moves on with his life. In  leaving the heartsick Brid behind and consigning her to his memories, he takes his life in a seemingly new direction.Brid, on the other hand, forsaking the teachings of her people and incurring the wrath of her powerful uncle and a sure sentence of death, is dead serious about Adam, and she goes through the time portal in search of him. Adam, who has by now left home to go to medical school, is unaware of her obsession and of the lifelong quest now set in motion.Over the years, Adam makes new friends, becomes a doctor, gets married, and has a family, but Brid, trapped in the wrong time, begins to haunt them all, as she searches for Adam. Her obsession with him finally turns deadly, and the body count begins, as she seeks to tear him asunder from all whom he holds dear.It is only fifty years into the nightmare that this obsessive love is finally put to rest. How this happens, and at what cost, will keep the reader turning the pages of this well written and imaginative novel.
2 It grieves me to say this book is nothing special. The plot sounded amazing to me when I first read it on the website, but once I started reading it I discovered that it was poorly explained and executed.Adam meets a young girl one day who he becomes friends with even though she lives in an odd gypsy village in the Scottish hills, while he is the son of a minister. They soon become lovers, but Adam moves on to be a doctor and when Brid, fearing for her life because her uncle the druid wants to kill her is rejected by Adam she swears to become the main focus in his life. Of course, it turns out Brid is really from the 6th century and has great powers that allow her to cross time.The way Brid became accommodated to life in the 20th century is just stupid. No person from the 6th century who saw a car would be able to hold it together, much less eat chocolate without a huge sense of wonder.Brid's situation as a person who can travel through time, change into a cat, leave her body at will, and do all sorts of other stuff is never portrayed as anything out of the ordinary, and as much as she does make Adam's life miserable, the actions people around Adam take to be safe from her are just plain silly. Also it's never clear if Brid really is in the 20th century, or just having an out of time out of body experience from the 6th century. Or both.  Not much in this book makes sense, and the very end of the book is so out of place in the book it renders the whole ending stupid.This is not one of Barbara Erskine's better books, and I recommend skipping this one. It has the feel of a draft written very early on that was never revised for anything except spelling. This book doesn't even seem to fit a category, be it historical fiction or thriller. If you want a real good historical book about time travel try the Outlander series by Diana Gabaldon, or Doomsday Book by Connie Willis.I hate to say it, but this only gets two stars from me.
2 It begins well and is intriguing, but then loses its depth. I did not care about  any of the characters because there was no depth to them either. Adam is completely unlikeable and Erskine never really goes into detail the relationship of all the characters enough in order for me to care about them. The ending of this book was also lousy.
5 The delivry was fast.  The book was fantastic like all of this author's work. I will buy more in future.
3 I'm somewhat dubious about the steady stream of gushing about this book from a few years ago. Suspicions of shilling aside, I think this is vintage Sheldon--enjoyable, middle-brow escapist trashy fun. Made-for-TV, of course. While it's certainly not deserving of "best book ever!" or whatnot, I think anyone looking for a realistic plot is also missing the point. It's sheer fantasy, with just enough humanization of the characters to make one suspend disbelief. Sheldon's protagonist seldom varies from book to book--beautiful hot woman who outsmarts/triumphs over/excels in the man's world around her -- but Tracey is one of the more likeable versions. Smart, with heart. Shrewd but not ruthless, only robs the guilty, etc. Actually had a mother she loved - a refreshing change from Sheldon's usual Electra-complex-ridden-where's-my-daddy heroine.Okay, in one instance the illogic of the plot did get to me. When the fake FBI agents leave her on the train and disappear, it's a bit preposterous that she could just head for the airport and find them. Even 20 years ago, I doubt that you could just randomly find two people at a busy airport. How could she have known what terminal or what flight gate they were at?For the most part, it's got clever fantasy capers and provides a mini-tour book description of various hotels and restaurants in  Europe.
4 Book is divided into two parts.In the first part, Tracy Whitney, protagonist, is a bank employee. Her mother is tricked by few gangsters and ripped of property. Tracy tries to avenge her mother, but she is also framed and send to jail by gangster. She faces several hardships in the jail and forms accomplices. On releasing from the jail, Tracy and her accomplices avenge the gangsters.In the second part, Tracy could not find a job because of her past, and with time, she turns into a art thief. She steals expensive paintings and diamonds under strong security. Thefts are challenging and detailed in the book. Tracy outsmarts her rivals and police around the globe.I like the second part of the book, because it is interesting and I was kept curious of what was coming ahead.Overall, this book is a good read and I recommend this book.
5 This is a very exciting book! Lots of twists and turns. I really love Sidney Sheldon. Great storyteller
5 Another bombshell by the master... Tracy Whitney is the woman we all wanna be, getting away with all the daring things we try to do.
5 This book had you from the start.  Just when you thought you had figured it out there was a new twist.
5 I think this is the 4th 'If Tomorrow Comes' that I've purchased in the past 15 years.  This is a timeless masterpiece and I cannot stop reading it.  I reread this book every 5 years or so.  Tracey Whitney is a heroine that you'll applaud long after the book is over.  Sidney Sheldon is a Master Storyteller and if I lose this one...I'll buy another in a few years.
5 THIS IS PROBABLY THE BEST BOOK THAT I EVER READ, I LOVE THE WAY HE KEEPS YOU WANTING TO KNOW MORE OF WHAT HAPPENS. READ IT ALL IN ONE DAY.
5 I read this book years ago and really loved it! I wanted a copy for myself so I could read it again and found it on Amazon. Sidney Sheldon always writes such big, powerful characters and sometimes his stories get too political for me but this one does not. In my opinion, it's definitely the best book that Sheldon has ever written!
5 But I have to say I like this author a lot as well. I have never read a bad Sidney Sheldon book.
5 IF TOMORROW COMES is one of the best books I have read in a long time... and I read a lot.Bravo to Sidney Sheldon. Sorry that he has passed on, but his tales are still with us.
3 I have always been a fan of Mr Sheldon and have read and re-read nearly all his books. This book started off extremely well and held me spellbound - and thrilled - a real page-turner. And then it sort of went.... well, just past being entirely credible. But, that being said, he does spin a good yarn and for sheer escapism it is well worth the read.
5 I read this book twenty years ago and still remember how great it was. I remember because it was one of only two books I had to sneak a peek ahead. I don't want to give any spoilers so I'll just say...what this means is that the characters were so real to me...I just had to know. I couldn't wait until the end.And although I can't say that my books are similar to any novels, Sidney Sheldon was my first love and the writer who made me want to write. I truly believe that he was the father of romantic-suspense novels, especially those portraying a female heroine.Carmen DeSousa author of romantic-suspense bestsellerShe Belongs To Me
5 Her world falls apart and she loses everything.  But this is one smart woman, and she plans a perfect revenge.
5 Another book of Mr. Sheldon's that I read years ago and again it is good.This one moves fast and you root for the main character throughout the whole book. Her revenge is sweet.Pick it up.You won't regret it!Have fun...
5 I had read this book approximately 20 years ago and hadn't realized it until I got into it.  Regardless, I love Sidney Sheldon's books, and I enjoyed it as much this time as I did the first time.
5 This is the first book that I read by Sidney Sheldon and I was completely in awe of the scope of this story. Every twist in the plot had me turning pages late into the night simply because I was unable to put the book down. I was quite simply, riveted to the spot. The main character, Tracy, is someone that you come to care about and respect as she leads you a series of wild and unexpected adventures. Sheldon has created an intelligent, witty and captivating tale that will keep your jaw on the floor for days to come.
4 This the first book by Sidney Sheldon that I have read and I will certainly be reading more. If Tomorrow Comes tells the tale of a woman scorned. Wrongfully sent to jail and left by her fiance.. Tracy decides to get even on her release. One by one she goes after the people who have wronged her. No longer the victim she comes to enjoy the thrill of the scam and goes off on an amazing life of crime. This story is an adventure so go along for the ride.
5 This is one of my favorite books of all time.  I love the plot, the protagonist, the way it captures me from the beginning and takes me on the ride of my life.  It is worth a full 5 star rating!I like to go back and read it because the writing is that fantastic.Sidney Sheldon is a master storyteller.
3 "AMUSING...FAST-PACED...AN ENERGETIC ESCAPIST ROMP."--New York Times Book Review3.5 stars.  After finishing this book I glanced at the cover and re-read the mini-review posted there (see above) and I couldn't agree more.  In many ways this is typical Sidney Sheldon: the main character is a beautiful heroine caught up in amazing situations filled with adventure and exotic locales; love and lust, power and privilege, fame and riches waiting to be experienced.  But as this book stands, it was a little too typical.  The writing is standard mass-market mediocrity loaded with tons of dialogue to keep the pace flowing like quicksilver, and the scenarios are often so predictable as to be anti-climactic.  The structure of the story is a bit odd, however, as the very beginning feels like a novella that ends abruptly midway through the book.  What follows are a series of capers that could have been sectioned off as short-stories if not for the recurring main characters.  If you are new to Sidney Sheldon I most heartily recommend "Master of the Game" over any of his other works.  "The Sands of Time" is also worth checking out.  "If Tomorrow Comes" is enjoyable for what it is: a quick, entertaining read.
5 Love this book. Have for many years. I couldn't find it used anywhere and I prefer to buy mine used for budget and Eco friendly reasons.
5 I gave this book five stars.... it was one of Sidney Sheldon Best books.I wish he was still with us to write more of his super good books.
4 I had as much fun reading this novel as any I have ever read.  All I have to say is I think a lot more Sidney Sheldon is in my immediate future.
2 The first part of the book acts as the set-up for the second. The first is slow and the description of how the protagonist takes revenge from her enemies is frankly naive. The second part is better but still if it's  supposed to be a thriller it would have to be addressed for early-teeners  not for adults.
5 Sidney Sheldon is an excellent author.  I have read all of his books.  A fantastic author was lost went he died.If you like romance and suspense you will love his books
5 Very good suspence and well written.  Couldn't put it down and almost hated to get to the end - very good.
5 I have read just about every book Sheldon has written.  I love his style of writing.  Sheldon always makes the female character excel.  He has such exciting plots and adventures.  This particular story really made my day.  You can't put it down.  He makes the impossible seem possible.  If you love this one than try to read his other books you will be equally entertained.
4 If Tomorrow Comes was my first encounter with Sidney Sheldon and I would have to say it was good. I didn't know what to expect from the book, after only reading it on a recommendation but was glad that I took the advice.The book moves quickly and at fast pace. I found myself expecting the story to go one way and then surprised along the way.I also thoroughly enjoyed the various 'cons' and 'schemes' that were told in the story. Makes me wish I was as creative.I give it 4 stars.
5 Great book.  Was listed as used but appeared brand new.  Would consider buying from this seller again.
4 I have never read anything quite like it. Breath-taking, captivating.At the beginning of this book, the heroine, Tracy Whitney, is a naive girl who does something stupid and pays a heavy price for it. By the end of the book, she is a master criminal and con artist, able to outsmart any mark, police officer, or investigator, no matter how dedicated to stopping her they are.The first few chapters of this book were a little hard to get through with rough language and vulgarity but once I got through those few chapters, I could not put this book down. I just couldn't get enough of Miss Tracy Whitney and her adventures.
5 Another of Sidney Sheldon's fast paced books with a beautiful heroine that exacts revenge on her enemies, travels the world, becomes a jewel thiefs, gets in/out of tight spots and falls in love!  He's a master at this the type of writing and undoubtedly the best the 80's had to offer in the genre of the ever tough Romance/Heroine/Racy/Revenge Formula Novel.  A great read!
5 Great book, couple of scams I didn't know about. Must reed.
5 Sidney's most intriguing Heroine and an imaginative plot - If Tomorrow Comes is all about Tracy Whitney 'My Love' who bubbles around merrily while you devour the book happily! Yeah, Sheldon is my top fav and I read all his books which are just great but this one is a page turner that never makes you stop reading again n again! Smashing, lovely Whitney faces hardship and revenge. Sid has efficiently portrayed the character of Tracy Whitney, the beautiful romantic woman, an idealistic who passed through trials in life. When her mom Dorris Whitney  commited suicide, Sid express the emotions of Tracy deeply live all through the pages when Leiutenant Miller informs her and she reaches to find a note left by her mom! If Tomorrow comes is Sidney Sheldon's Best ever pick you can choose and enjoy the scoop of romance, money game, adventure, thrill and emotion.
5 I enjoyed this book with its twists and turns. I plan on continuing to read more of Sidney Sheldon's books.
5 I have been reading Sidney Sheldon's books since high school and they are all very captivating. However, &quot;If Tomorrow Comes&quot; is a definite standout. Tracy Whitney is a very clever and smart character. I really wish that I had all of that cleverness that she had! I loved the way that she outsmarted everyone (even Daniel Cooper).
5 I absolutely love Sidney Sheldon. His books are always richly drawn, with strong characters, and intriguing plots. And this is no exception. I fell in love with this book when I was 16 (I'm now 32) and have read it over and over again. It's that good.Tracy is a seemingly ordinary woman working an ordinary bank job and about to marry a somewhat ordinary man. But her comfortable life is turned upside down when her mother commits suicide after being financially ruined by a smooth talking New Orleans Mafia man. Tracy embarks on a half cocked plan to get revenge and ends up taking the fall in an insurance swindle and sentenced to an exorbitant amount of time in a Lousiana prison. Tracy will walk into prison an innocent woman and come out an ingenious cat burglar headed for a life she never even imagined. But first she must deal with the men who conspired to murder her mother and send her to prison...This is a fantastically fun story. Sweeping from the grounds of the Lousiana penitentiary to the luxury of the Orient Express, it takes the reader on a world wide trip of a lifetime, as Tracy becomes the world's most wanted cat burglar. Along the way she meets several colorful characters. Imagining herself a modern day Robin Hood, she is careful to only swindle those who would swindle themselves. The reader will find herself surprised to be rooting on the bad guys, enjoying a vicarious thrill or two, and smiling at the crazy plots Tracy manages to pull off.This book is a quick, easy beach read and one that will stay with you long after you turn the final page. It's the kind of book you can put on your bookshelf and come back to years later, eager to live and relive Tracy's exciting adventures. Sidney Sheldon is an incomparable author and this book is no exception.
5 This was the first Sidney Sheldon book that I  ever read.  Years later, after reading them all,  it remains my favorite.  I loved this book so  much that I've read it about 10 times.  The  characters are terrific, and it's fun,  suspenseful and powerful all at once.  This is a  great read and I recommend it highly.  Everyone  I've recommended it to so far has loved it!
4 This is an excellent story, the first part of the book when tracy goes to jail and when she get out and takes revenge for her mother, the second part is a little bit repetitive with her robs because one and another, and another were almost the same, except the last one, that was an amazing one.
5 I know I must have read this book years past, but had forgotten the story.  I downloaded a sample when I was reviewing Sidney Sheldon's books.  It is absoultely one of the best mysteries in the history of time.  Sidney Sheldon completely keeps you guessing as to where he is going with his plots and who the characters of the stories really are.  I recommend that you read this book, but also let me recommend that you read every book he has written as they just continuously get better and better.  This man was a genuius in his own rights when it came to writing.  I read mysteries all the time, but his are by far at the top and exceed any and all expectations for a wonderful, and entertaining book!  Just read it!!!!
5 I love Sidney Sheldon and this book did not disappointment me.  It is do nice reading on the kindle at work.
3 The beginning book was what I expected after reading the description...but then the middle and the end went on a whole new angle (granted I liked it...but it was sort of odd).  Was an 'ok' read.  I reread books all the time, but I wouldn't reread this.
5 Tracy Whitney, the heroine of this novel, is like all of Sidney Sheldon's leading ladies:  She's young, beautiful, bright, and driven.  Oh, she's also a professional criminal.  The story opens as Tracy is wrongly convicted of attempted murder (well, OK; she DID shoot him!) and begins serving a harrowing prison term.  After her surprising release, she plots revenge on all the people who have hurt her.  This was my favorite part of the book.  Tracy then becomes involved with a con-man and ends up as a world-famous thief, stealing treasures in the capitals of Europe.  She also finds love with another thief, but can she trust him?If you can overlook Tracy's criminal life and the joy she takes in it, you'll love this book.  It describes in minute detail how she manages to steal from the most securely-guarded museums, stores, and homes in Europe.  There is humor, too, as Tracy and her pal Jeff merrily bounce from caper to caper, outsmarting the authorities and narrowly escaping capture.  Another great Sidney Sheldon page-turner!Kona
5 I have read this book several years ago. The brilliance is the flow of the plot. It is a page turner.
5 I enjoyed this book so much. There was so much going on.Tracy s revenge was brilliant. LOved this book start to finish!
2 Sheldon tried to create a plot consisting of a string of unrelated scams pulled by his heroine Tracy White, succeeding in all of them, certainly, this is very difficult to believe by a serious reader. The main character and heroine, Tracy White working for a man named Gunther, becomes a modern Robin Hood ripping off cardboard characters of unsavory reputations with no logical reason at all, just for the sake of doing. The so called story goes superbly fast and the scores of situations popping up get solved in a couple of pages one after another with an abuse of twist and turns but there is no plot after all. I have rated it two stars one goes for the poor quality and another goes for the fun the story sometimes carries on, particularly in the beginning. If this is your first time with Sidney Sheldon, try other Sheldon novels, i.e "Master of the Game".
5 Wonderful book, but I was absolutely stunned at the ending.  Where is the ending?There surely is a sequel , I hope......
5 From the beginning to end, you will be find yourself wrapped up in the world of the main character, Tracey Whitney.  It is full of surprises, adventures, and definitely some mind-blowing experiences.  You will be fascinated by her, jealous of her, sympathetic to her, and you will love her!  You can learn alot from this book.  It is a must-read!
5 A woman is framed for a crime she didn't commit and left to rot in prison with no hope for release.  She is abused and forced to act &quot;tough&quot; and learn the ways of the criminal to survive.  She is able to engineer her escape and get back at those who wronged her.  Having been &quot;soiled&quot; of character, revenge on those who wronged her is not enough.  She then proceeds to become a super high-class con artist.  The book goes on to tell one sting after another.  An interesting one involves conning to chess masters into thinking she if playing each, where in fact they are playing against each other.The woman decides to do one last score and then retire.  This will turn out to be a real tough thing to accomplish.I have read about 10 Sheldon books and this is by far my favorite.  It raises the question, does a person's environment determine whether they will become a criminal or does the genes?Sheldon goes for the former in this book.
1 I didn't read Sydney Sheldon in my teens in the nineties when all around me were devouring them. I just stuck my nose up at that popular culture. It was only last year 2013 that I decided to see what all the fuss had been about. Master of the Game was alright in the way you'd expect a popular paperback to be. But this one If Tomorrow Comes was utter nonsense and ridiculous-in fact down right irritating. I do not recommend this book to anyone with an IQ rating of above 1.5
5 It's been more than 20 years since I read this book by Sidney Sheldon and it is still the best book I've ever read. In fact Sidney Sheldon in my humble opinion is the best author that I've come across. He truly was a master storyteller. I've read this book several times over the years and it still leaves me breathless. I must say part of the appeal to the story is the main character Tracy Whitney. She is a heroine that defies the odds and comes out on top in the end. It is a book that you simply can't put down.
5 I read this book in 1985, I bought it Hardcover To this day I still remenber the title and the plot. Started readind at app.7:30 pm and read all night .I keep saying to my self I will finish this chapter and then go to bed.well the first thing I new it was 6:30 am and i had read the whole book COULD!T put it down.To this day 12 years later I still recommend this book to friends.
5 In "If Tomorrow Comes" Sidney Sheldon keeps you turning the pages from the first to the last.  When the book ended, I wanted to read more.  A great journey of a read with awesome characters and many wonderful story lines.  This is the 2nd Sidney Sheldon book I have read (along with Rage Of Angels), and it certainly won't be my last.  I plan to read all of his books.  You will not be disappointed.  Happy Reading!
5 this story begins as Sheldon's usual suspense books but later turns into wuiet a unique book in comparision to his others...........the heroin in the book is loveable........and every page is filled with fun and unpredictabelity.........u will probably be APPLAUDING by the end of this book.....YEAH its THAT GOOD!!!!!!!!JOYYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!
5 This was one of the most exciting books I have ever read.  It is the story of a woman named Tracy Whitney.  She gets framed for a crime, and is harshly punished.  Afterword, she gets released from prison for doing a good deed for a warden, and after getting even with those who turned against her, she begins to become highly wealthy from pulling off one con after another.While the cons may seem to get tedious, they put you on the edge of your seat.  Just when you think Tracy is going to get her due, she amazingly escapes again.  This novel is nearly flawless.  The only think I didn't like was that she was going to get revenge on her ex-fiance, but she seems to just forget about it.  But, it's okay.  Don't miss this novel.
5 This was really good book and the ending wasn't as predictable.I highly encourage you to read it. I will definitely be purchasing more Sidney Sheldon books.
5 ALL OF THE SIDNEY'S BEST WORKS WERE READ BY US FRIENDS WHEN WE WERE IN COLLEGE, THAT IS ABOUT 10/12 YEARS AGO... HIS LATER BOOKS LACKED THE AURA WHICH HIS EARLIER BOOKS HELD.AGAIN THIS IS A MAGNIFICIENRT BOOK....WHAT IS THE BEST PART ABOUT SIDNEY'S BOOKS IS THAT HE LITERALLY TRANSPORTS YOU IN THE BOOK, YOU FEEL AS IF YOU ARE THE MAIN CHARACTER AND THINGS ARE MOVING AROUND YOU.... A FEAT NOT MANY CAN ACCOMPLISH......
4 A thrill ride of bad luck, stupidity, good luck and more serendipity.  Great fun (especially the part with the painter, it's near the end), but a little on the un side of believable.
4 Another winner for Sidney Sheldon.  His books always keep you engaged and wanting for more.  This storyline is what movies are made of.
5 As usual, spell binding  page turner.  He never fails to deliver.  Hard to put thisbook down as with all of his books.
4 I am in the middle of this book right now, and I have to say that it is a very good book, very suspenseful and keeps you on your toes.  A really genuine Sidney Sheldon book.  I am enjoying it and recommend it.
5 You just want to find out what happens next. The description leaps off the page and suddenly you find yourself propelled into the world of Tracey Whitney, a world of near escapes, perfect timing, intrigue, passion, and last but not least, the hope for tomorrow. A brilliant creation and work of fiction. A plot that really stands out amongst the rest.
5 What a fantastic book!  One of Sydney Sheldon's best without a doubt.  This was a real page turner and is one of those terrific books that really lets you escape from the real world.  His characters come alive and you are completely drawn into their world.  You won't be disappointed!!
5 If you want to read a book with non stop adventure and excitement with a uplifting story this is the book for you.
3 This good was good - yet it lacked...the &quot;who done it&quot; part - I  love all of Sidney Sheldon's books so far - I've read 10 so far - and this  one was just...I just didn't get excited about it.  And I read what other  people think about this book and I just think to myself WHY - HOW can  someone say something that good about this book?  My favourite Sheldon book  is &quot;The Doomsday Conspiracy&quot; which was my first and it made me  want to read them all - If I read this one first I wouldn't read any of his  others.  Giving this 3 stars is pushing it - I only gave it that much  because it's Sidney Sheldon... Maybe it's because I'm 15 that made it not  appeal to me a great deal.  I don't particularly care for reading books  with lesbian activity in them... But the beginning was interesting - the  end was...alright - the middle had nothing....
5 I haven't read anything from Sidney Sheldon that I didn't like and this story definitely goes to the top of my "outstanding reads" list.  Tracy Whitney is a young, trusting, honest and very smart young lady.  Seems her life couldn't get much better - she has a great job in the bank working as their computer expert, and a wonderful fianc&eacute;, Charles, from a good, solid, and well-to-do family in addition to a baby on the way.  Through a series of unfortunate circumstances, her life is forced into a tailspin and changes literally overnight.  Tracy uncovers the truth behind her mother's suicide which begins a series of disastrous events in her life.  The one person she thought she could count on abandons her and she is on her own to avenge the evil powers that led to her mother's death.  Tracy attempts to take the high road to bring about justice, however, sometimes the high road has too many bumps and other methods must be sought.  Tracy discovers a workable skill to avenge the people that have crippled her life for their own profit.  At the same time, this same skill lends a hand in "persuading" the rich and affluent to share their wealth with others less fortunate, even though the methods are not necessarily voluntary! You can't help but want to applaud our heroine for her enduring efforts.  Does Tracy beat the odds and come out on top?  What becomes of our heroine is Sheldon's story to tell and mine to recommend you read.
5 I loved this book!! On the edge of my seat from page one , very descriptive I could feel every place she went and I couldnt put it down.  I didnt think the Title was all that fitting for the entire book, it made sense for the first 1/3 of the book then from there it needed another title, lol.  Anyway it was so good that I went all the way back to re read the Other side of midnight.  And all I can say is that Sidney Sheldon is one hellofa writer, keeps you guessing and takes you to some nice places as you journey through his story.
5 If you've not read Sidney Sheldon, this is a great place to start ~ This is my favorite of all his work!I love the heroine, she starts off one way, living a lovely, wonderful life ~ about to marry the man of her dreams when her whole world is quite literally shattered.Every horrific thing that happens to her, changes her, tempers her but never breaks her.Sidney Sheldon was the first writer I ever read where the heroine didn't wait for the hero to come and rescue her and this is my type of girl.  I don't want one who lays on the railroad track screaming for help, give me the girl who's rolling her way to the sharp rocks, saws her ropes free and outsmarts the villain.I can't recommend this book high enough!!!Just an FYI ~ This book was written in 1985 and is dated ~ there is no way, with today's technologies, that the situations would be plausible.  So, keep that in mind when you decide to purchase and/or read ~ It's still a fabulous, fun read.
3 I enjoyed this book but felt it a little long winded. Plot and story line could have been told withmore flair and less drag.
5 As an avid reader of more than 3,000 books I can say without reservation this is the best book I've read bar none!!!! The story line is simply brilliant!!! A woman, beset by misfortune and poor choices lands herself in not only serious trouble but in jail and manages to claw, climb and scrape her way out of it all and rise to the top of her game. And how she stays at the top kept me spell bound. This is a must read.
5 Read this book years ago when it was first published and loved it. Decided to experience it again and it is still just as riveting. Great writers can always stand the test of time.
5 This was my 1st Sheldon read..i was impressed..many good twists to the story in a book that was not easy to put down..id refer it to anyone who likes a thriller
2 Abridged Version is WAY too short.  Leaves so much out you really can not follow the series.  Better to read the book (The book is excellent)  but stay away from any abridged version.
2 Summary:'Executive Orders' opens with Jack Ryan, the hero of numerous Clancy novels, having suddenly found himself President of the United States as the result of a terrorist attack that killed most of Congress and the President that appointed Ryan as his vice-president.He is immediately launched into several crises as a terrorist organization, sponsored by the Iranian government, brings the e-bola virus to the U.S., introducing an outbreak.  At the same time, the Iranian government, who is in cahoots with India, China, and Japan, is also taking over Iraq after having assassinated the leader.  The world is on the cusp of major problems and the leader of the most powerful nation, arriving there without having been elected, has to answer the call.  But, what's more, the former vice-president, who resigned because of a sex scandal, now claims that he should technically be the vice-president.Jack Ryan holds up under the pressure, but in order to bring the U.S. under control he has to enact martial law, closing down numerous major cities to prevent the spread of e-bola.  He also sends John Clark and some other members of Rainbow Six into Iran to assassinate the person running the show.  When everything comes to a close, e-bola is contained, the quasi-hostile takeover of Iraq is stopped, and everything returns to normal.My Comments:The book wasn't too bad, but I really didn't see why the takeover of Iraq by Iran was such a big deal.  Sure, international politics are sensitive and tricky, but considering the stability of the Iranian government, as opposed to the Iraqi government, I can't see how it's so bad that the government fell (maybe I'm naive, I don't claim expertise on international politics).There is also a lack of focus on Jack Ryan, as most of these later books have done.  Ryan disappears from the foreground into the mix of characters and doesn't really appear to be the primary focus of the novel.  The novel also jumps around from character to character, introducing one for just a scene or a chapter, then never really returning to them.Most of these problems may be addressed in the actual novel, which is quite lengthy.  But the abridged, CD version, which is the one I listened to, just doesn't give this story the depth that it really needs.  As is the case with most of these later novels (which I happened to listen to one right after another, but in the reverse order), the CD versions were just not as well-developed as a good novel should be.  You'll have to look for a different review on the actual novel, but I definitely wouldn't recommend the CD version - it just doesn't give a very good version of the story.
5 Jack Ryan becomes President of the United States in this Clancy novel, and must face the daunting tasks of restoring the nation's government, managing a health crisis, and win a war. I thought this book was excellent, even on a level with The Cardinal of the Kremlin. Although long, this book has many very interesting stories that all come together for a very nice ending. Worth reading if you are a fan of Clancy, or if you are not, read it anyway.
5 This is Clancy's greatest novel yet.  No spoilers here.In my reviews I highlight the best and the worst of a novel, short and sweet.2 Best parts of the book1.  The way he explores Jack Ryan as a flawed man who could only be thrust into the Presidency and would never have become president in a &#34;typical way.&#34;2. The obstacles present in being president with little or no support system.  Clancy shows the flaws in the career politician mentality that has become Washington.  It is easy to forget how the founding fathers came to be President as working men and after they were President they returned to their jobs or did other government jobs.2 Worst parts of the book1. Unlike some of Clancy's novels this could have been longer! He could have expanded some parts of the story line, instead they just fizzled out.2. I am not really sure, I could not put this book down.The action of this book, the detail and the conflicting situation makes this book hard to put down.  The story is BEST read in order (book order not published order).  There are a lot of subtle story-lines that are connected to previous books and make this book more enjoyable!
2 Oy!  I started my Clancy reading with October and can't remember all the ones I've read at this point.  The last one I read was Cardinal and it was really spectacular.  THIS ONE?  Not so much.  Pretty much what others have said.  It's REALLY long.  There's lots of plot elements that just don't belong.  And the right wing political preaching just doesn't fit with the genre.  Sure.....lots of Clancy's plot scenarios are just so far fetched that the sheer impossibility is fun to contemplate and I think that for me that's what keeps me turning the pages.  I would disagree with some of the negative reviews about the battle scenes at the end of the book.  Sure....there's lots of jingoism in here but the general battle strategery that he goes through was interesting to me.You can watch Clancy interviews with people like Charlie Rose on the internet and it doesn't take long to see that this is one weird fella.  He is a smug know-it-all (and I think he really doesn't know what he claims) and this particular book seems to be the culmination of his personality bleeding over into the story to it's (the story, that is) detriment.  At least I didn't pay for it.....I traded a couple of other paperbacks in.
2 Clancy's quality shot downhill, man. This is where his books moved from entertaining, engaging reads throughout to techno-porn and drivel. Red October, Clear and Present Danger, Patriot Games, and Without Remorse are his best ones, and the reasons are simple. They also provide a clear contrast with this book.1) The best, particularly Patriot Games and Without Remorse, are character and plot-driven. When characters develop, you can see it happen and understand the reasoning. They also don't solely fulfill stereotypes/archetypes, like the godless, moral-less mercenary terrorist. This loses that completely aside from Ryan and Ryan alone, and he's been developed plenty in the preceding books. I don't care about archetypal Indian Prime Ministers who are solely politicians and offer nothing interesting. I don't care about the aforementioned terrorist who is never even named. If a character arises that I do find interesting (IE Badrayn), I expect them to stay in the plot or at least have some resolution, not disappear halfway through when they should be central to the plot.2) They're not techno-porn. Part of Clancy's appeal has always been his realism, of course. The battle towards the end of this book is about a full 100 pages too long. Running through the minutiae of a large-scale tank battle without providing background on most of the commanders? Boring. Sum of All Fears is the worst about this but only in an isolated section - the techno-porn pervades this entire book and makes it quite hard to read, even for an engineering grad student.3) They're not preachy. The morality of the characters, fine, help explain their motivations. Discuss the problems associated with treating drug lords as criminals vs terrorists vs enemies of the state. This is where Clancy decided that he knows the solution to every political problem and his views are the only ones that make sense. Ok, rebuilding the government from scratch essentially is an interesting topic - doesn't mean I care at all that Clancy wants a flat tax. Red Rabbit is easily the worst in terms of this, but this book is where it started. Political drivel spouted from the characters fits - political drivel spouted from the narrator doesn't. You pick no-nonsense types to head your agencies and they push for new ideas - that doesn't mean theirs are the only ideas that make sense, unlike what is put forth here.4) The subplots are meaningful and tied together. The books aren't padded out (at least the good ones) with ridiculous plots that do absolutely nothing for the story. The subplot in this book about the Mountain Men serves no purpose whatsoever besides lengthening the story. They never meet up with any other characters, there's no evidence that any other pivotal characters ever learn they exist, and their plan amounts to nothing in the middle of nowhere. I can't believe the editor let this garbage stay in the story. Solely padding the story out.You can see the problems I have with this book. There are some interesting ideas, though - the reaction of world leaders to an untested new president who has never been scrutinized is intriguing. The political aspects are, also. There are way, way too many flaws here to overcome them, though. Clancy used to be able to spin a good yarn - Without Remorse is an excellent story and an excellent book. This is neither. Avoid this book if you haven't yet read it, and I can't say I recommend any of his later works. Stop before Debt of Honor, even.
5 While I harbour suspicons that the villain of former Vice President Edward J. Kealty maybe a slanderous representation of the late and great Senator Ted Kennedy, this is still a great novel. Clancy's works are very realistic and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
5 In the horrific climax of Debt of Honor, former intelligence official and National Security Advisor (and briefly, Vice-President) Jack Ryan finds himself elevated to the Presidency...and in the sights of foreign and domestic adversaries. Even as the Capitol building smolders and the late President Roger Durling is laid to rest, unfriendly eyes are watching the new and untried President Ryan for signs of weakness...and begin plotting his -- and America's -- downfall.In Iran, Ayatollah Mahmoud Haji Daryaei (one of the opponents of the Fowler Peace Plan in &quot;The Sum of All Fears&quot;) broods in his office and begins to set in motion a series of crises that will tie up America's already over-extended military and intelligence services. Daryaei enlists not only his own operatives in Iran and abroad, but also the leaders of two other nations with global ambitions of their own.  By creating a series of seemingly unrelated crises all at once, including an Iranian &quot;merger&quot; with Iraq and renewed tensions between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, Daryaei hopes to distract American attention and pave the way for a savage attack on both President Ryan and millions of American citizens.But Ryan has made many enemies at home, too, including the former Vice-President, Edward Kealty, who had been forced to resign in the wake of a personal scandal.  With the skills and connections he has made during his many years in Washington, Kealty begins a campaign to remove the still-untried Ryan from the Presidency.Clancy's huge novel is both compelling and complex, taking the reader from the ruins of the Capitol to the jungles of Africa and into the crowded streets of Tehran as President Ryan begins the awesome task of rebuilding a government decimated by a terrible act of revenge...and facing a loose confederacy of enemies bent on destroying his country, his family, and his life.
4 Just the thought of starting with a whole new congress is a nice thought.  But by resignations,not the way it happened in the book.  Haven't finished it...interesting to see the conclusion
5 Probably one of Clancy's best.He builds - the numerous - plot strands nicely, all leading to an explosive ending.My only complaints - and they are is the same complaints I have with every single one of his books.....1 - he stereotypes his character's conversations... ie, if the character is an unlisted man, he abbreviates everything, and uses slang, if he is a senior officer, he doesn't - that type of thing.2 - there are too many unnecessary passages about what the characters are thinking - yes, we need to know what their thoghts are, but not ad nauseum.But, all in all, an excellent book.
4 This is a good edition of the Ryan Series.  It covers personal and professional issues for the characters and it keeps you busy keeping up with the plot.
4 This is a great book. I wish jack Ryan was a real person running for president so I could vote for him. Too bad there is no politician like himI have this book on kindle and there is A Lot of typos.
4 Have you ever fantasized about the possibility ofbecoming president of the United States? Have you felt youcould do the job at least as well as the folks who have heldit in the past few decades, if not better? Perhaps you havewondered what day-to-day life must be like in the WhiteHouse. It looks pretty plush, but what would it be like toactually live there? Or perhaps you wander what the secretservice folks are really like?If the answer to any of these questions is yes, you aregoing to love Executive Orders. The novel begins where Debtof Honor left off, and Jack Ryan (through a series of eventsI won't reveal, since some of you may not have read theprevious book yet) is now President. And as always, he facesa bowl full of crises, enough to destroy most men.Let's see. He has to deal with a new Arab country, theUnited Islam Republic, created when Iran's latest leaderarranges for the assassination of Sudam Hussein and takesover that country. China's leaders also start things goingwhen they provoke a dogfight with some of Taiwan's fighterplanes and shoot down a civilian airliner in the process.Then Ed Kealty, the model of a corrupt politician, tries toquestion Ryan's authority as president, and begins to leaksome of the secret missions in which  Ryan had participatedwhile in the CIA (and which Clancy wrote about in earlierbooks). Appealing to our fears about biological warfare, afew new cases of Ebola, the most deadly modern virus,suddenly spread to our own country. And to keep hisattention sharp, there are assassination attempts on bothhimself and his family.As always, Clancy jumps from scene to scene, perhapsmore than ever. It is well done, however, and helps to buildsuspense. Thus the events which make up one sub-plot mayextend for several hundred pages.Interestingly enough, this book has not gotten goodreviews from many of Clancy's readers. They argue that itcontains a lot of irrelevant material, particularly in hispolitical exposition. Admittedly he does push his particularphilosophy; there is no hidden agenda, however, for hededicates the book to Ronald Reagan, (the man who won thewar) and many of his ideas are similar to Reagan's and hisfollowers. I felt, however, that this was an important partof the book, for Ryan is not a professional politician, anda main thrust of the novel is his attempt to bring commonsense to the problems that face our nation. I might notalways agree with his solutions, but they were quiteconsistent with his character.It is also fun to wonder What if . . . He wants tosimplify the tax code, for example, by doing away with alltax exemptions and using a flat percentage tax that wouldapply to all income levels. This, President Ryan argues,would bring in just as much income from the rich folks whonow use the complexity of the current code to exempt much oftheir income. It would also have the side affect of doingaway with many of the accountants and attorneys whospecialize in tax law (a benefit that I suspect some of ouraccountants and attorneys might not see).I recommend this book, though I also suggest you readDebt of Honor first to get the background. It's one of thosethrillers that will keep you from getting any work done!
1 Yes, that's not a typo.  Clancy has written a book with over 1,300 pages.  And so it should come as no surprise that I found the story slow. I mean, how many fast paced 1,300-paged books do you know of? And I do mean SLOW.  For those new to the Ryan story to date:  ex-CIA action hero turned cabinet  member turned VP is now president after the prior president is killed in a  suicide bombing run at the end of  Debt of Honor.  Not just the president,  but also just about every other high ranking politico in DC. (Is Clancy  hinting something here?).  Ryan becomes president and must show the  doubters (and those evil media types) that he is a big man and can do the  job.  Of course, Clancy tries not to stray from his reputation as a  techo-guru and so he includes discussions on the investigation into the  terrorist attack as well as a superficially indepth look at militia life (a  group of militia folk decide to go after the President).Since his early  stories, Ryan has become increasingly unlikeable as a character.  He will  occassionally spout off on rhetoric and make long-winded proclamations on  everything from the Russians, so-called &quot;liberals,&quot; femanists, to  the role of women and the media.  This books seems to read like Clancy's  own manifesto, a book where the author injects his own beliefs into the  main character without bothering to be objective.  People who disagree with  these views or Ryan are depicted as the bad guys.  Ryan, it seems, never  makes a mistake: he just has tough choices to make the results of which can  cause the loss of lives.Clancy creates too many subplots and does  surprisingly short shrift with each of them.  This is strange after he has  spent hundreds of pages developing each subplot.  A story about a rival  politician is taken care of in quick order near the end of the book in a  nice, neat package.  Other subplots (a militia group and terrorist group  try to take advantage of the new president) also reach anticlimatic, and  unbelievable, conclusions. (i don't want to give a spoiler, but Ryan  actually orders a military operation to occur at the same time he is live  with a U.S. nation: kinda like a &quot;look, don't mess with us, we are  serious, see what we are doing right this very  second?&quot;Unfortunately, the long journey to the end of the book is  not worth it.  What Clancy needs is an editor, someone who will tell the  guy to cut down his writing.  To get on with it.  And to remember that what  made his earlier books popular was his plot and storylines.  And, of  course, someone should ask Clancy to get off his soapbox.
3 Clancy's great gift as a writer has always been his ability to tell a good  story, and he does a fair job with this one.  However, this isn't a great  story, and it's not very well written.  Although the concept is quite  interesting, Clancy's writing fails in two critical areas: characters and  continuity.  His characters are generally simple and one-sided: the  villains are easy to hate, and the heros are easy to love.  Nobody wears a  hat, but you get the idea nonetheless.  Other than the characters that  Clancy has developed over multiple books, there isn't anyone here who  really feels quite real.  Clancy fans will still root for Jack Ryan and  John Clark, but they don't really have much competition here.  As for  continuity, Clancy loves to pack his novels with subplots, which can be a  good thing, but here he apparently bit off more than he could chew, as one  subplot is rather arbitrarily cut off.  Losing it does not hurt the book,  but if he wasn't going to use, Clancy could have improved the book by  simply omitting it entirely.  Overall, the novel offers an interesting look  inside a fictional presidency and is a fun read, but little more.
4 If clancy had put this book on diet it could have been a five star book. The plot is there but it is covered up with needless chatter. You have to be good skimmer to find just the good stuff. This book is a thiller. It is not &quot;War and Peace&quot;. Maybe Reader's Digest can turn it into a five star book.
4 Make sure to step carefully in this swamp of a Clancy novel. He gives you so much that it takes a guide to wade through the hundreds of plot lines. It is a thoroughly intriguing book but the sheer weight of the novel discourages you. I skipped whole pages which is something of a sacrelige when reading Clancy. However, doing this didn't impair the book. It is an excellent book just extremely tiring to read.
1 This review is solely for the Kindle version of Executive Orders.This is one of my favorite Clancy novels.  I re-read it every few years.  I re-purchased it for the Kindle and must say that this is the most horrible conversion to Kindle I have seen to date.  It's like they just opened up the source file, did a SAVE-AS and picked Kindle format and went to market with it.  It is so full of typos and errors that it looks like it was OCRed.  I will be re-reading my hardback rather than the Kindle version.
3 This book is dedicated to Ronald Wilson Reagan, 40th President of the United States, the one who is on the U.S. Postal Service with the White House stamps.The second U. S. Pres. John Adams wrote: I pray Heaven (God) to bestow the best of blessings on this house and on all that shall hereafter inhabit it.  May none but honest and wise men ever rule (or sleep) under this roof.Colleen Hitchcock wrote: "And if I go, while you're still here, know that I live on, vibrating to a different measure behind a thin veil you cannot see through.  You will not see me, so you must have faith.  I wait for the first time when we can soar together again, both aware of each other.  Until then, live your life to the fullest, and when you need me, just whisper my name in your heart and I will be there."Today I bought this novel and the song, "The Long Black Veil."  They seem to go together.
5 You just can't go wrong with Clancy.  He is easily the best espionage/war writer on the market currently.  No one can create a complex, interwoven storyline like his.  His research is outstanding, his fact checking impeccable, and his characters fascinating.I still think that Red Storm Rising is the best WWIII book ever written, and this book is right up there with it.
5 Following the dramatic ending of &quot;Debt Of Honor&quot;, the United States' new President is none other than Jack Ryan. Finally...a President who just doesn't take any crap from anyone. With the Ebola virus unleashed and a former Vice President back in the picture raising cain for his own political and personal gain, President Ryan has no time to get accustomed to the job. Americans haven't truly had a no nonsense Commander In Chief since the early 80s with Ronald Reagan, but Jack Ryan certainly provides that in Executive Orders. If you loved it when Reagan shot a missile into Gadhafi's tent 20 years ago, you will LOVE the final sequence of this one!At over 1000 pages (paperback) it's a long read, but a FAST read. Simply a Clancy masterpiece, and his best work of the last 8 or 9 years.
3 Bought it for my husband. He didn't seem to like it. Said he found him taking a long time, and wuite a few words to get some where.
5 As with other Clancy novels, Executive Orders is full of intrigue and excitement. Before reading it I was unsure I'd find it interesting thinking that it was more a political story than a military-type action story found in other Clancy novels, but I went ahead and read it and I think it's one of the best ones I've read by Clancy. It contains multiple plots concerning reestablishing the government, an attack on Jack Ryan and his daughter, a biological attack on America and a question of whether or not Ryan is really the president. All of these different happenings help to make this book very exciting and compeling. It's a book you don't want to put down. Although this book is rather long and many people have often complained of the length of this book and others by Clancy, I appreciate Clancy's attention to detail even if perhaps sometimes unnecessary. That attention to detail helps the stories to be better written and gives the reader the feeling that Clancy really knows what he's talking about. Also, I've read Debt of Honor which came before Executive Orders and I think Executive Orders is considerably better. For any true Clancy/Jack Ryan fan this is worth the read.
2 Tom Clancy is a great author, I will not take that away from the man.  From his first story to his masterpiece Without Remorse, he is without a doubt a phenomenal entertainer.  His current novels stemming from Debt of Honor, yet exclusively within this tale, his viewpoints are too prevalent within the tale to truly appreciate.  This would not be so bad, except for his characters internal soliloquy which are completely out of touch with cultural personalities (ie: when the Saudi prince "wishes" his country were more like America... not so much).  If he were to stay away from detailing his perifial characters whimsical thoughts, the novels would be shorter and that much better.  I feel he is trying to put too much of his perfect world into the books which ultimately take away from the great entertainment he provides.
3 Executive Orders follows in the series of what was easily the worst Jack Ryan novel written, so my expectations were a bit tempered prior to reading this novel.  After a suicide plane bomber (from Japan no less) kills off two thirds of the US government, Jack Ryan is the president by default.  Now he has to deal with an Iranian terrorist group trying to manufacture and spread the ebola virus while trying to get the country's government back in order.  Since most of congress and the senate were killed off in the previous novel, a whole new group of legislatures must be elected, and Ryan urges for citizen politicians, just like in the good old days of this country.  Sometimes it's hard to get past some of the silliness in Clancy's novel, but the plot in this case is pretty solid, much improved from the last novel.  Jack Ryan is often complaining about the politics of being the president, and is better cast as a CIA agent, but it was still fun to see him in this new role.  Clancy's novels are never great, but they usually are pretty good, as is the case in Executive Orders.  If you have read other novels in the series, you will want to read this one as well.Carl Alves - author of Blood Street
5 Executive Orders  is one of the BEST of the Jack Ryan  series of well written,finely detailed, Tom Clancy books. His writing style and attention to detail keep the reader in the story and well informed.I am a big fan of Tom Clancy. You will like him also.You can't find a more entertaining book than most anything from Tom Clancy , I have read most of them and still am 'Captured' by his writing style.
3 This book gets only three stars because of all the horrible editing errors. I can only guess that the print edition is better. Every page has multiple errors of  interchangeably using "e" and "c". This makes for a frustrating read. The story is typical Clancy.
2 For the most part this book follows the traditional Clancy model of an exciting beginning, a really long boring middle, and an exciting finish.  The difference with this one is that the beginning isn't that exciting and the middle is even longer than normal.  And again, this book would be so much better if it was shorter.There is a really interesting story buried inside, but there is so much extraneous material that it's hard to enjoy.  There are sub-plots that amount to nothing, extraneous details that aren't that interesting, and a pace that is excruciatingly slow.  Cutting out the unnecessary material would probably cut out about 250 pages, and that would have made this book enjoyable and better paced.  As it is, the book is a chore to finish and unsatisfying in the end.I was making an attempt to read through the Tom Clancy books I own, but this one was simply too much work.  At this point I'm no longer enjoying Clancy's writing, and I'm not sure I'll ever bother to read the rest of his books.
5 Wow, these plots a n d subplots are so real and plausible it is hard to remember it is fiction.  It is fiction, right?
4 While having to drive about an hour a day for work, I decided to give Clancy a try to help pass the time (NPR can only do so much after about a month &lt;30 hrs of radio time&gt;). The audio CD was wonderful and really helped pass the time. The story is interesting - lots of twists, turns, Clancy techno-battles, and interesting characters - without the volume issue that makes the reader decide what sections to skim.As well, I really enjoyed the reader for the book (even though I panned Mr. Hermann in 'A Beautiful Mind', he did a wonderful job here). He paced the desert war, the gun battles, and the moments of intrigue (the lead-in and standoff with the rogue secret service agent comes to mind) well, keeping interest and at times causing me to sit in the car for an extra 5-10 mins waiting for a scene to play out. All in all, a solid 4 stars.
5 'Executive Orders' makes a strong case for being Clancy's greatest novel.  Dealing with the beginnning of Jack Ryan's Presidency, 'Orders' has Ryan coming to grips with his new situation as chief executive while battling  foreign and domestic enemies who seek to undermine the USA.  One of the  greatest aspects of Clancy's novels is the optimism in America that they  inspire.  'Orders' in no exception.  Thrilling in it's action, daring in  it's philosiphy, and just a lot of fun, this is truly a great modern  American novel.  No-it's not high art, but it is what it is- A wonderful  novel by Tom Clancy.
3 This Tom Clancy novel takes quite a while to slug through.  And not just because of the number of pages.  The author takes his sweet time developping the numerous plotlines in this book.  A little too much time in this reader's opinion. But the plots themselves seem so interesting that you do keep reading on, skipping perhaps a few useless paragraphs along the way.Clancy starts off with the destruction of the greater part of the American government body, and adds to that political turmoil involving Iran and Irak, biological warfare on the USA with the Ebola virus, and much more.  The only plot that starts and then goes nowhere is the one regarding the former vice-president who tries to discredit Jack Ryan's appointment as president. It's as if Clancy just lost interest in this matter or just didn't know what to do with it and just decided to let it die out, hoping readers wouldn't notice.In these times of possible war, reading such a novel makes you wonder if terrorists won't take some of the ideas presented by the author and actually decide to apply them.  A little scary.If you have a lot of time on your hands and enjoy reading political/military novels, then by all means read this book. If not, you might get annoyed by the use of every possible military acronym out there (and not all of them explained to the reader)and the very slow developping plot.  There are many more interesting books out there, some of them even written by Tom Clancy.
5 Tome Clancy is a great author and I look forward to any new books in the Jack Ryan series.  Fast paced and a good read.
5 I have enjoyed Tom Clancy's novels over the years and have followed Jack Ryan's fictional career with interest. For a while, my life events got in the way of continuing my reading of the series, and I only just now read Executive Orders, well after the real events of 9/11. How eerily prescient in many ways is Mr. Clancy's world of the real one.Jack Ryan is catapulted into the Presidency of the United States by the events at the close of Debt of Honor in which a Japanese airline pilot crashes his plane into the Capitol during an expanded joint session of Congress, wiping out most of the higher Congressional and Executive parts of government along with the Supreme Court. President Ryan is truly a citizen-statesman, not a politician, and has to gain the support of regular Americans while rebuilding the government. Add to his difficulties an attempted takeover by the ousted former vice-president, a kidnapping attempt on his younger daughter, an assassination attempt on himself, a large-scale bioterrorism attack on the US, a domestic terrorist bombing attempt, saber-rattling by China and India, and an actual war with the United Islamic Republic (the union of Iran and Iraq after the successful assassination of the Iraqi leader), and you have the usual multi-faceted Clancy plotting which keeps you glued to the book. And given the usual Clancy book length (approaching 900 pages of small font print in the hardcover edition), reading it takes a while and can lead to spousal irritation. Especially compelling are insights into the Presidency with Ryan's attempts to cope with the office and the climactic battle scenes played out over the final 100 pages or so. As usual, the good guys win, although the cost is high.I'm a registered Democrat, but I'd vote for Jack Ryan with his honest, straightforward, decisive governing style. Whither next, Mr. Ryan? Onto The Bear and the Dragon.
4 For those of us who aren't savvy on the type of equipment, Military jargon and political goings on, this really digs deep and makes you feel like your in the meetings, and the battles!
5 Aside from Clancy's obvious conservative viewpoints in this book, I really enjoyed it.  I've wondered about what would happen if there was a mass destruction at the top of the U. S. government.  This book helps answer that question.  Of course, with Ryan at the helm, things are going to get dicey, but that's OK, after all, any President has dicey situations to deal with.  It was a realistic look at a government in crisis.  We could do a lot worse than have a "Jack Ryan" at the helm in a situation like this.
4 A very good read but somewhat long, it also seemed to finish with all sub-plots then go into real heavy techno-war, then come back with a interesting ending. Who am I to buck success.  All in all another good book and would we all like to have a President that could talk as President Ryan did in the final pages?.  God Bless America.
4 A nice followup to Debt of Honor.  If you like Clancy, you'll enjoy this one.My only complaint is that, once the action gets going, it's hard to put down - I found myself unable to stop reading at 2:30 in the morning.
5 This book builds on Clancy's previous Jack Ryannovels. It may not be as action-packed as hisprevious novels, but it builds more on thecharacters. As loyal readers who have followedRyan's journey from the periphery to the center ofUS government policy, we have seen him develop andstrengthen his views and politics. He seems to bea man for the nineties as he has leanings bothliberal and conservative. This presents a view of what Americans may need in government - someonewho isn't bound to just one ideology.The undeveloped plotlines show a work in progress.I am eagerly anticipating the next installment to see what intrigue and villians develop next. As well, having followed Jack Ryan's career from a lowly history professor to the most powerfull man in the world, I can't wait to see how he handles his next challenges.Clancy has another winner!
5 Jack Ryan is President of the United States, and finds his nation at war with terrorists who have released a plague on the country.  Iran is on the march to take over the Middle East, supported by India.  And the United States must use its now limited resources to support its Arab allies.  I had heard that Clancy was questioned by the CIA on where he got his information for this book, and I can believe it.  It rings as real as the headlines of the war that followed in truth.  Jack Ryan may not know much about politics, but he sure knows a lot about being a strong leader and a man.  Clancy was once again the master.  Won't give much more away, except to say "Go Wolfpack".
4 Tom Clancy has been the master of the spy novel for the better part of two decades. Now, in Executive Orders Clancy tackles the headaches of the power found within the Washington beltway. At the end of the last book, Clancy's hero, Jack Ryan, found himself a sort of unwilling vice president who became the most unlikely of presidents. Now, with the president, Congress and the Supreme Court all decimated, Ryan must face rebuilding the government while fending off challenges from international and domestic conspirators.As always, Clancy tends to get caught up in the details and inner-workings of virtually everything -- from the ebola virus to a crack military unit. The result is a novel that is close to 1,400 pages long, and the reader feels the weight of every turning page for the first half of the book. However, once the plot finally begins to thicken -- around page 650 or so -- it becomes very hard to put this book down. President Ryan becomes more of a collateral character in the book as others like John Clark circle around their leader to solve various crises. As the action builds to a crescendo the book begins to steamroll, with new twists and revelations on each page.Executive Orders is a very good book, but it is far from the best that Clancy has turned out. The previous two books -- Sum of All Fears and Debt of Honor -- set up the plot of Executive Orders and are much more tightly written. But if you are a Clancy fan, this is still a must and it won't disappoint.
5 This novel is the culmination of the Jack Ryan saga.  Gripping, intense and thoroughly believable.  Jack Ryan has been one of my favorite characters since his debut.  Every new saga was eagerly anticipated.  This  final novel is the perfect ending to the years of pleasure.  It picks up  where the previous novel left off with Jack Ryan being sworn in as  President.  As usual he capably handles adversity while maintaining his  humanity.  This is Tom Clancy's best work ever!  This series is one you can  enjoy many times.  It's worth re-reading the entire set more than once.  I  have.
5 I can't improve upon the other reviews on this page.  I just wanted to say that it was awesome that finally Ryan is in a position of power.  I love Clark and his presence within the storyline is minimal, but strong.  Great  Job Mr. Clancy.
5 As life follows fiction you have to wonder if this is a novel or a script for these terrorists.Read it while listening tothe news and you'll hardly will be able to tell them apart.
4 A new president, a commercial airliner crashing into a landmark Washington DC building, a fight against bio-terrorism on US soil, and a madman in the Middle East hiding behind Islam as justification for his actions.  Sound familiar?  Published over five years ago, Tom Clancy's &quot;Executive Orders&quot; has eerily become in many ways an unfortunate reality.  Simply put, one may never be able to consider a Clancy novel a pure form of escapism again.But despite the unsettling nature of the novel in light of recent events, &quot;Executive Orders&quot; is an engaging and informative read.  Readers may feel like they are getting an inside glimpse of the White House as Clancy super-protagonist, Jack Ryan, reluctantly ascends to the Presidency of the United States.  Clancy's knowledge on a wide variety of topics and his ability to keep dozens of narratives afloat in this 1,300+ page novel is truly amazing.  The sheer thickness and complexity of &quot;Executive Orders&quot; definitely calls for some perseverance - but for the most part it is worth effort.
2 This was the longest book I've read in my entire life, literally...... and it felt like it.I had not read any of Tom Clancy's book, though I have seen and enjoyed the Jack Ryan movies. Executive Orders finds Ryan as a reluctant president, after a terrorist act destroyed much of the government. There are many plot threads which Clancy cuts back and forth between throughout the book. Unfortunately, some (like the China sub-plot) are boring, and others (such as the story involving a right-wing militia group) end up being irrelevant to the rest of the book.Many of the early pages are spent on Ryan's words and thoughts about how the government should be run, aka putting forth Clancy's political ideas. The pace does pick up considerably at around page 900, but 899 is a lot of pages to slog through to get to that point! Those like myself who do not have an encyclopedic knowledge of military terms and weaponry will likely find the big climax of the book confusing.With a lot of editing, this book could have been suspenseful. However, it is about 900 pages longer than it needs to be. I am just glad its over!
3 The continuing story of Jack Ryan, now President of the USA, and the  trials thrown upon him by the leaders of the world.  Again, Clancy can  write a compelling novel, keeping track of his immense complexities with  ease, requiring his reader to follow to the bitter end to see the outcome.  The problem, again, arises in the very complexities he weaves:  Like life,  Clancy's novels have more people than can conveniently be kept track of,  and i am not one to set up a Rolodex file for the purpse of reading a book;  nor do i enjoy flipping back the pages i've read to rediscover who i'm  reading about; thus i find that all too often i have to read a sentence or  two of the new paragraph to be reminded just who the particular character  is, what their complaint about Ryan is, and what they are in the process of  doing about it.  All of which is not to say i dislike Clancy, just that  reading him takes a greater effort to keep track of characters than reading  anything less than the geneological lists in the book of Numbers.
5 By the most amazing of coincidences, I was in the middle of this book on September 11, 2001.  After so far reading that a plane had crashed into the Pentagon, and that there was a Middle Eastern conspiracy to spread disease througout America, was I reading the most timely book in the world, or what?I liked this book very much.  I just gave Stephen King's "Black House" a negative review because it was a long novel that didn't go very far very fast.  This is a very long novel, and it held me the whole way.Primarily, there's the basic story of the plot to attack America.  As we all know, crashing a plane into a public building is not as far-fetched as one would have thought.  And neither is the idea of spreading disease as a terrorist act.  Yes, the good guys eventually win, at a price, and how our country goes about it is riveting.Then there's the issue of handling the Muslim religion.  Yes, the rules of the religion are in total contrast to how many of their followers interpret it.  Yes, many of the faith "officially" decree that these tactics are terrible.  But is there any other religion in the world that has so many leaders sanction the violence that is happening in the world?  A recent poll indicates that a large part of the Muslim world approves of the way things are being done.  This book explores this world very well.Finally, there is a more human part of the story that's interesting.  What would you do if you were suddenly, and totally unexpectedly made President of the United States?  This is the role laid on Jack Ryan, and the everyday life changes he has to undergo while handling the crisis really flesh out the book.  It's very revealing that the most powerful man in the world has many of his freedoms taken away, and is very possibly spied upon twenty-four hours a day by the people in charge of keeping our country secure.I've yet to read a bad Tom Clancy novel.
3 Tom Clancy's longtime hero, former CIA analyst Jack Ryan, has managed to assume the Presidency, Gerald Ford-style, without ever having been elected on a presidential ticket.Unlike Ford, however, Ryan had never been elected to any public office at all. Asked by President Durling to serve as Vice President, after the previous Vice President is forced to resign in the wake of a sex scandal, Ryan reluctantly agrees to take on a largely ceremonial office. The catch for the non-politician Ryan, however, is that the Vice-Presidency is only a heartbeat away from the most burdensome job in the world, and one which Ryan shivers at the thought of undertaking.Then the incredible happens, when a grief-striken Japanese pilot who lost family in a brief Japanese-American shooting war, mans a jumbo jet during Ryan's swearing-in ceremony and crash lands into the Capitol, thereby all but obliterating government. The President, First Lady, the entire Supreme Court, nearly all the Cabinet and most Senators and members of Congress are killed in a few calamitous moments.This leaves Ryan, who survived by a sheer fluke, to assume an office which he frankly dreads approaching. A complete political outsider, Ryan has an excellent working knowledge of the government, but close to zero political instincts. A populist and technophile of the sort both idolized and unelected by America, Ryan must bumble through his grief and shock at the horror which has befallen his nation and attempt to lead it. His hostility toward any form of ideology that appears other than starkly pragmatic, however, is ultimately disappointing. In the guise of non-partisan vigor, Clancy has Ryan deliver a series of startlingly conservative speeches praising a flat tax and denouncing abortion rights.If Ryan's syrupy claims to integrity are occassionally enough to set one's teeth on edge, Clancy establishes a magnificent character in &quot;India&quot;, the Prime Minister of the world's largest democracy. Referring to her only by the name of the country she represents, Clancy cleverly harkens back to the medieval language of kings, who refer to one another by the name of their countries. India is a nearly Picassoan study in minimalism. Only a few lines here and there richly summon up the mental image of the face of Benazir Bhutto masking the mind of Indira Gandhi. India's supernaturally beautiful English conveys all at once the history of her nation, her class origins and educational background, her exquisite mendacity and diplomatic sophistication.One masterpiece is a conversation between India and Ryan in which he attempt to secure her promise of safe passage of American vessels through the Indian ocean. India effortlessly evades Ryan's direct request a number of ways, each time protesting offense and hurt feelings on behalf of her nation. While India is written as a villain in Clancy's novel, conspiring against America, her delicious sophistication elevates her far above the supposedly well-intentioned lummox that is America. India's protests on behalf of her &quot;sovereign nation&quot;, as Ryan attempts to shove her military around, will resonate deeply amongst Clancy's international audience, as he is surely aware.In the meantime, America's vulnerability is a huge source of inspiration to any number of enemies, both foreign and domestic. Ryan's forte, and Clancy's as well, is in the field of international relations, and an array of hostile nations (India, China, Iran and Iraq) plan intricate attacks on the American homeland and its new President.Clancy has a speechwriter inform Jack Ryan that his use of language, while correct and to the point, is far from poetic. Clearly, the same can be said of Tom Clancy. But what Clancy lacks in artful turns of phrase, he makes up for in scholarship. None of the attacks dreamed up by foreign powers against America are, in themselves, totally unbelieveable: it is only their sheer number and simulteneity that gives &quot;Executive Orders&quot; a far-fetched quality.Tom Clancy's immense learning about weapons systems, military manoeuvers, Pentagon and CIA operations, is put to superb use. Even an outbreak of the Ebola virus in Zaire, which is quickly capitalized upon by the new United Islamic Republic (composed of former enemies Iran and Iraq), is described with striking and quite remarkable clinical accuracy. The governmental institutions he describes are entirely real. Clancy's gift is for taking the world of politics as he expertly knows it to be, and rearranging a few pieces on the chessboard to suggest fictional events evolving from familiar institutions.A large amount of the pleasure derived from a Clancy novel comes from simply being able to follow it. The acronyms are endless, yet largely accurate and non-fictional. Clancy is the ultimate man's man, sharing his war stories in warmly confidential tones, allowing the reader the great vicarious pleasure of merely comprehending: testing each piece of data and finding most to be accurate and real.While many readers will note a kind of &quot;jump the shark&quot; quality to Ryan's extraordinary assumption of the Presidency---for where else had he to go in Clancy's imaginary career trajectory?---the book has an indisputably educational quality for students of geopolitics. World leaders use subjective impressions gleaned at diplomatic receptions to decide upon military gambits. Everyone in politics and in the military has an agenda, noble or not, and all leaders use a range of discursive strategies to communicate with the public, the international community, their cabinets, and with other leaders. None of these 'voices' is entirely sincere or truthful, and some are not a bit of either.Clancy will establish in his readers the important instinct toward looking for the ever-present subtext behind every public speech and pronoucement, and for this reason alone, at least one or two of his novels should be attempted by any serious student of politics.
4 As my college psychology professor urged us, &quot;You can't believe everything you read.&quot;  So maybe mom said it too.  Anyway, as for this book, the action is just fabulous for those of us who really don't mind all  the nitty-gritty details of our county's operation.  I've read several  Clancy novels, and I enjoyed the realistic possibilities in the books, but  this one stretched the fine line.  If Clancy is trying to make any point at  all (besides how lousy most politicians really are), it's to say that  perhaps this COULD happen some day, and do we have the right man in office  to handle such a crisis?
5 An electric and fascinating insight on the US Presidency. This was superb, the only flaws being the India-China angle which seemed to go nowhere and the Grade Z Mountain Men which are right out of a junior school essay. Ignoring those, the way Jack Ryan becomes President, forms a government out of the people that are left after Sato`s kamikaze attack on the Capitol, and the way he slips up when dealing with issues such as criminal justice and abortion are highly realistic. The Ebola Zaire plot and the United Islamic Republic angle are both extremely well crafted, even if the idea does seem as though it was copied from the movie Outbreak at times. Mind you, the monkey culling scenes and the description of the effects of the disease made that movie seem like pure Disney. Overall though, this book is one you`ll need plenty of time to read because despite the odd flaw, it has the Tom Clancy trademark of being extremely hard to put down! Jack Ryan should return for another term of Presidency, but what crisis can Clancy cook up this time?!
2 There is a story to me buying this book. I had never read clancy before November of 2002 (right now I am reading Bear and the Dragon and I have read them all to this point). When I first saw Executive Orders on a shelf in Albertson's, I figured: long book, a lot of points for a book report. So I bought it. I go home, open it up, and read the description. And it was there that I saw I needed to read Debt of Honor first. Later I realized that this book was part of a series. Okay, now for the review.The book was long. The beginning is okay, as it concludes Debt of Honor, but most of the rest of the book is boring and extremely long winded. The majority of it is spent with Ryan whining about how he hates being president. Another problem is the Ed Keality story line. In goes hot and heavy for awhile, then it disappears and ends in a simple manner that makes one wonder in Clancy just got bored. The same is true of the sub-plot about the Mountain men - it goes nowhere. You have at leat two-hundred pages devoted tot hem, then they disappear, only to have no effect on the main story (and I mean this in the most literal sense). It truly goes absolutely nowhere, yet he writes the leads for as if it will be the big conclusion, and maybe cause this novel to end like Debt of Honor.One thing I enjoyed was that Clark and Chavez got a decent amount of time in the book. They have become my favorite characters in the Ryan universe, and so I always looked forward to their coming.Now, this book has too many subplots to count, most of which are pointless. The disease helps set up Rainbow Six, as does the key climax help show who Clark is again. Aside from that, is is obvious that clancy wrote this to set a personal record for page length.To end, as this is one of my most poorly written reviews, a lot of this book is a set up for the Bear and the Dragon (where you learn further that despite saying other wise, Ryan does not have respect for others nor does he take into account -- this is noticed in this paper weight as well -- that some of his actions are truly unconstitutional). I'm sorry Clancy, but I was disappointed. Stick to things that are good. You prefer to make us know you have a greater intelligence than us when dealing with governemnt policies and military strategies. We knew this since Red October.I recomend finding cliffnotes on this novel, or skipping this novel entirely. It is better to go back to the Cardinal of the kremlin and The Sum of All Fears, or skip ahead to Rainbow Six.What else can I say except that I am looking forward to when Jack Ryan dies. Too much has been written about this man whose luck would get him thrown out of Las Vegas, and after becoming president, he'll never be able to go on any adventures (Red October, Cardinal, Clear and present) again.
5 I bought it when it was first published in 1996.  An incredibly gripping novel.  So many plots, so many twists.  Filled with bad guys, worse guys, and down right evil characters.  Like many Clancy novels, EO pulls back the curtain behind everything from infectious diseases to the TO&E; of an Armored Cavalry Regiment.  After several years, I bought a used copy and it consumed my entire weekend -- from Friday night to Monday night.  I actually got weepy eyed during some parts -- Cathy Ryan as she was treating Ebola victims in Baltimore, the tactics of the North Carolina brigade as they clobbered the UIR forces.Just an amazing book.  Worth reading...again.  It is a long book though.  The paperback weighed in at 1358 pages.  I still can't believe I read the entire thing.  lol.
5 This book is book two of a trilogy, with Debt of Honor being book one and The Bear And The Dragon being book three, so a lot of background events will be missed and the reader will be a bit confused if this book is read without reading Debt of Honor. That said, I am a big fan of Tom Clancy and own all of his books in paperback and have read all of them but four. He tells a good story and gives you an opportunity to learn a thing or two about politics, the military, and technology, even going so far as to give the historic info about discovery and development of such  things as our touch tone telephone system, for one example. He makes it fairly clear that there  are certain kinds of people he doesn't care for: dishonest politicians, liberal politicians and their mostly anti-military philosophy, political subversives, and environmentalists.  That said, what is scary about this book and the trilogy as a whole, is that all the events, from the start of Debt Of Honor to the end of The Bear And The Dragon could conceivably happen. What I noticed about this book is that, intentionally or not, Mr. Clancy has actually written up a roadmap for recovery from the most unimaginably bad disaster and turn of events before and after that are chillingly real and possible. A very good read, hard to put down.
5 I got the audio CDs to listen to while I went on vacation in Mexico since it was easier to carry five CDs and a CD player than it was to lug around  the book. The story was great and the reader was excellent with his ability  to add accents to the characters. There were parts of the story where I  cheered the reader did such a fine job... though this got a few curious  stares from the other people who I was also around the pool.
5 This has been a great series and it is one I love to take with me when I travel...  Okay I always pretend Mister Clark is on my flight and I try to figure out where he is!
3 A Jappanese pilot slams a passenger jet into the capital building killing the president along with much of congress and the supreme court.  Two low lifes plot to assasinate the president by default (Jack Ryan).  Another man who believes he should be president tries to dig up dirt on Jack Ryan and bring him down.  A powerful alliance called the UIR (United Islamic Republic) is formed.  The UIR then attacks the US by introducing a deadly strain of the ebola virus into the population and plot's to assasinate the president and to kidnap his daughter.  Meanwhile, India and China's navy and Air Force is actingsuspiciously.  These are exciting plots and I'll add that the one involving the ebola virus was down right disturbing.  Unfortuantely, not all of these plots and issues were fully resolved, at least not to my satisfaction.  Since this is  largely a political thriller, I think the author could have gone into some of the economic ramifications of what happens.Tom Clancy writes well and seems to have a heavy interest in military weaponry and tactics but is not very culturally literate and hence makes mistakes and appears awkward when writing about non-americans and non-Christians.  A Muslim(regardless of sect) can never pray for a dead or dying person of another faith to go to heaven.  Most people who read the part of the book where a Muslim doctor is praying for a Catholic nun would not think anything of it.  This appears not only stupid to us Muslims, but contrary to our belief.  Another thing which occurs throughout the book is the use of anglicized foreign names (particularly with Muslim names).  It seems as thoughthe names are simply phony (as if anything which looks good was just slapped on the page) and therefore takes away from some of the realism and drama of the story.  The people in the story who are supposed to be foreigners (Indian, Iranian, Chinese, etc.) just don't seem convincing to me.  It always seemed like he waswriting from an American's frame of reference.  Iranians may not like Arabs but they would never call the Saudis "goatherds".  I don't know where the term "goatherd" came from, but Iranians and Arabs equally find it offensive.  Also, using the pejorative term "raghead" doesn't add anything to the entertainment value of the story.One other thing about the book which annoyed me were the hackneyed references to going to the bathroom.  A few were ok but after a while, I saw them coming.  One would think that he would be more creative than that.If you wish to read a thriller writer who can cut across different nationalities with ease and sound convincing and balanced; read some of Frederick Forsyth's books.
3 Let rate each of the major plotlines in the book in true U.S. Navy fashion, of Outstanding, Excellent, Good, Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory. SPOILER ALERT -- spoilers abound.The Asia Minor war with the United Islamic Republic.  First off, I must note that Jack Ryan is not a good president.  His unpresidential conduct (e.g., maudlin funeral service) made him, and by extension his country, look weak.  Something to think about when we elect the next president.  Second, we now know that Iran taking over Iraq in a matter of days is not something that could happen.  Iran can barely control itself, let alone another country.  The land, air and sea battles were fairly well done, however.  Rating: good.Ebola terrorism.  Well done with the exception that Ding and Chavez pop up, Zelig-like, to provide crucial information about who has been experimenting with monkeys.  The retribution at the end was fantastic (JDAMs on the mullah-in-chief's house especially), and my only question is, Why not use a high-level nuclear bomb to destroy the lab, instead of a low-level one?  Rating: excellent.The assassination attempt on Jack.  The idea of a Mohammedan sleeper agent is certainly plausible, post- 9-11, post-Lackawanna Sleeper Cell.  I didn't like the fact that catching the rogue Secret Service agent depended in part on luck, but it was certainly presented in a plausible way.  Rating: excellent.The assassination attempt on SANDBOX.  I'm getting tired of "kids in jep."  Clancy skillfully played that card in "Patriot Games" but I'm a little annoyed to see it come up again here.  The only thing that saves this plotline from Unsatisfactory rating is the vivid description of the assault and the takedown of the bad guys.  Rating: satisfactory.The Mountain Men.  Didn't go anywhere and was unnecessary.  Unsatisfactory.Edward Kealty tries to muscle back into the presidency.  A little absurd but does present interesting legal issues.  Rating: good.Running the government.  Clancy obviously took the chance to tell us everything he would change if he were president, but it wound up being just a series of political speeches that any competent editor could have stopped.  Two hundred or more pages could have been taken out of the book in this part alone and it would have been far better.  Clancy needs an editor with some backbone, for his sake as well as ours.  Rating: unsatisfactory.
4 Picks up where Debt of Honor left off and finds Ryan fighting to keep America from imploding.  A covert group bent on the destruction of America has attack the stock market in order to cripple the world economies, save a few minor players who stand to gain heavily from the demise of the West.  Just goes to show the saying `If you didn't write it down, it never happened' is more than a clich&eacute;.  As if that were not enough, a new strand of Ebola has been manufactured and released intentionally on America.
5 This is the follow up book to Debt of Honor and is Tom Clancys' best. Fast, exciting, complicated. Has to be read in a quiet room with no distractions. If you are a fan of Jack Ryan this is the ultimate book for you.
5 Executive Orders is a very in-depth (following its writer's style) political war book written by the masterful author Tom Clancy. It takes over where Dept of Honor left off: a terrorist has just crashed an airliner into the capital building as the hero of Clancy's novels Jack Ryan is being sworn in as the vice president. Everyone except for Ryan and five or so congressmen (and a judge or two) is dead, including the president. With Ryan the vice president with nobody above him, he naturally (but unwillingly) ascends to the role of President of the United States. He has to find out who's behind the attack. Unfortunately, as the president he's taking the nastiness of politics in Washington dead-on. And to make matters worst, there's turmoil in the Middle East. Iran is making its move, and India and China are stirring up trouble too. Even worse, there's a massive outbreak of Ebola in the U.S., and the reason isn't looking very natural. Jack has to piece together a whole government from scratch (almost) under the pressure of the entire world and his government, and the pressure of terrorists trying to take advantage of the chaos in the U.S. It's one of the most satisfying Tom Clancy reads, and one of his more human ones too. I highly recommend it to anyone who has the time to do so.
4 I bought this book awhile back and with my summer vacation I finally had the chance to tackle this long book. It's 800 plus pages in the hardcover version. Anyway like some reviewers have said here you need to read the other books if you want to be clear on everything that is going on in this book. The story was good typical Clancy stuff and I consider myself a fan. The negatives for this novel is that this could have been cut down at least 200 pages. Takes too long to get going but once everything is in place then the story takes off. The only other negative is that there is a story of some Mountain Men and for me it was a waste could have been cut altogether and the novel would have been fine. One final thing, the politics that President Ryan has is a little simliar to Bush, for some people that might be great and while for others it might be a little spooky. :)
5 Through a twist of events, Jack Ryan is thrust into the presidency.  Not at all sure he wants this tremendous responsibility, or the politics that goes with it, he doesn't even get the luxury of a &quot;honeymoon  period&quot; before he must face a horrible breakout of Ebola.  As always,  life is one catastrophe after another, and Jack performs admirably.  This  is a great book, rivaling his earlier Red Storm Rising for excitement.  Of  course it screams for a sequel, which has been a l-o-n-g time coming.  The  Bear and the Dragon will be released in August 2000...I've already  pre-ordered it!
5 The Jack Ryan series and the spin offs never fail to supply great content ans ewasy reading.  Another top notch job
5 Executive Orders is an excellent continuation of Debt of Honor. Although it may not be accurate, it leads to a fictional view of how pressure filled being the President of the United States is. I like the Jack Ryan stories from Clancy a little bit more then the John CLark ones since they seem to be more encompassing with Politics, War and other details for NSA of the US.All in all, a great book, a great plot and you never feel slow when reading this book. Great pacing.
5 The whole series of Jack Ryan books are a must read if you are interested at all in the political politics and follow current trends in Government.  These Executive Orders are a little different from President Bush and President Obama but that is the idea where this story line came from.  Jack Ryan's Executive Orders are much more exciting and he is an independent with no party affiliation so Democrat's and Republicans can both be interested in this series.  Jim H.
2 Right up front I certainly don't share Clancy's political leanings (slightly to the right of Rush Limbaugh). But that's not what occasions my rating (at least I hope not). I have thoroughly enjoyed every single Ryan book to this point, but in this novel Ryan ceases to be a mere mortal and takes on characteristics that remind me of a Christ figure who also happens to be a Republican. In the midst of Ryan's CONSTANT lament that he is "not a politician" we are treated to his/Clancy's views on VERY political issues from the top ten on the Clancy 'hit list' (lawyers, professional politicians, feminists, members of the press, gun control advocates, the Chinese, the Indians,) We are treated to Ryan's constant suffering via his soliquies on his his unworthiness. Sometimes Ryan's lines, "take this cup from me", "I am not worthy". "why me, oh Lord", sound like a new chapter from the New Testament. At one point Ryan bemoans the fate of 11 American passengers on an airline shot down by the Chinese; "He was the president, he was supposed to PROTECT his people. He had failed them". Finally (and way too late) his own press secretary tells him "Jack, you're not God". Of course, all the GOOD and TRUE people love Jack...real Americans (military, doctors, business men, and those who come to know him)...who recognize his integrity and his sincerity and his all around heroic character.When you can get away from Ryan's constant agony (he begins to remind me of Patricia Cornwall's tortured protagonist, Kay Scarpatta) the novel is very intertesting. As usual Clancy does his homework and emerges as very knowledgeable on so many subjects the mind boggles. And the other regulars are reassuringly normal (John Clark, Ding,Pat and Ed Foley). Lots of suspense, lots of good stuff. But I got so I wanted to skip over the testiment according to Jack Ryan to get to the real meat of the novel.
5 I've read a lot of the criticism about Executive Orders and I agree with some of it.  So what?  It's not perfect.  Then again what book is?  If you're looking for high-tech action, political intrigue, and lots of page-flipping fun, you'll enjoy this book.  The terrorist attack at the end of Debt of Honor leaves Jack Ryan in the oval office and he has very little time to get his feet on the ground before the next national emergency strikes.  Flawless realism?  No.  Pulse-pounding fun?  You bet.
5 Jack Ryan gets a small promotion -to president- and gathers his friends to save the world.  DOH is my favorite non-star wars book and EO starts immediately following the events of DOH.  I have to Paperback and Abridged Audio CD's of both.Don't want to give away spoilers, by Ryan and his country and in real bad shape and vulnerable.  Clancey does an amazing job creating the threats and an even more imaginative job of defeating the threats.
5 Thrust into the White House by a terrorist attack that kills the President and most of Congress, Jack Ryan may finally be out of his depth.  He's not going to get a free ride either, as an unscrupulous Middle Eastern leader takes advantage of America's temporary weakness to launch a major military offensive against his neighboring nations.  Before Jack has a chance to get his bearings, he's faced with a war in the gulf region, a kidnap/murder attempt on his own children, and a biological warfare attack on the United States.  That should be enough to keep anyone busy, but Jack Ryan also finds himself battling the deposed former Vice President for control of the nation, not to mention an assasination plot within the Secret Service.It takes Tom Clancy a little while to get all the wheels spinning, but - once he does - this book turns into a juggernaut.  The military action is fierce and thoroughly exciting.  Faced with nearly overwhelming odds, the U.S. military must depend on high-tech weaponry and superior training and tactics to win the day.  Will it be enough?  Buy the book and find out.Jeff Edwards, Author of "Torpedo: A Surface Warfare Thriller"
4 I am a HUGE Clancy fan, and I have been since reading his first novel back in 1985...I believe 'Executive Orders' to be the last honestly good novel Clancy has written (The Bear & The Dragon, Red Rabbit and The Teeth of the Tiger have all fallen flat).  Events in this book are swift and immediate from the opening page.  Upon the ending to Debt of Honor, in which a mini war with Japan is waged, the Vice President is forced from office and the current Executive Chief requests Jack Ryan to sit in the remaining term as VP.  He reluctantly agrees, and just as he finishes being sworn into the position, a lone Japanese Airline pilot crashes a 747 into the Capitol Building in DC.  Yes, this is all pre-911.  Within seconds of becoming a VERY reluctant VP, Ryan finds himself the Leader of the Free World -- literally upon the death of the President.A rather large number of politicians are also killed in the crash and the country is immediately thrown into chaos.  Clancy does a remarkable job of helping us understand why Ryan believes the way he does and gives us some startling examples of why Government ought to change and examples of how to do it.  I gotta tell you, I agreed with the vast majority of it.  Yes Ryan's slant is decidedly Conservative...so this may rub our friends to the Left the wrong way, but I don't believe Clancy intended it to.  He sets the stage in great detail (many would say too MUCH detail) as to exactly WHY Ryan says what he says and is who he is, and if taken in that light, I don't find it offensive regardless of which way you lean politically.  I may be wrong, but that is my opinion on the matter.Jack Ryan quickly becomes embroiled in several messes all at once.  From a plot to kidnap his children to a very drawn-out and over-detailed plot to bring a man-made strain of ebola to our shores and unleash it on as many as possible.  There are several additional sub-plots all traveling along, and whether you are into that sort of thing or not, for the most part I felt Clancy handled them all pretty well.  I only have two small gripes: #1. Too much detail...WAY too much.  I believe a strong-willed editor could have chopped a good 300+ pages without sacrificing anything to the plot at all (Actually I think it more like 400+ but who cares?).  #2. The ebola plot reminded me a bit too much of a similar plot in Rainbow Six.  I don't see too many other people mentioning this, so maybe I happen to be the only one, but I thought it was worth bringing up all the same.All that aside, Executive Orders is another worthy addition to the Jack Ryan series.  Unfortunately since taking the Oval Office, the character will be difficult to perpetuate as in novels past -- which may be why Clancy wrote Red Rabbit which takes place in between Patriot Games & Hunt For Red October, and why he has introduced Jack Jr. in his most recent and MUCH thinner Teeth of the Tiger.  Regardless, my belief is that this is Clancy's last really decent novel.  The others have been above-average for the Techno-Thriller genre that Clancy himself helped originate, but they were sub-par when compared with his earlier works.  Again, this is only my opinion, but lagging book sales seem to prove my point.  I just wish we could start all over again and go back to when Jack could go at it in the thick of the action and not have to worry about Secret Service Agents watching his every move.
5 Jack Ryan is doing his best.  He took the opportunity to become Vice-President as his way out of government service - he'd serve, then retire to teaching.  But then things went wrong, and the President, most of Congress, the Supreme Court, and the cabinet were killed in a terrorist action.  Jack Ryan finds himself the head of the country - a job he never wanted.Faced with being the most important President since George Washingon, he faces a press who thinks he is playing by political rules, an enemy in the middle East who is out to cripple the country, and an ex-Vice President who claims he never really resigned.The middle-east thinks he's weak because he won't crush political enemies.  The press pounces on him because he is being honest in a political world of dishonesty.  His enemies think it's the right time to cripple the country - with an attack on the country, and an attack on his daughter.The question Clancy asks is clear - could another man, faced with a devestation of the American political system, rise to the occassion and reject tyrnany and kingdom over democratic law.  Plus, could he, if faced with terrible domestic and foreign policy issues, make the right choices to combat threats, both foreign and domestic.Executive Orders put Jack Ryan, an honest man who served his country the best he could, in the position of being President.  He wanted strict constituational law, but was willing to take a step beyond it (in preventing free travel in the wake of germ warfare crisis) - and very willing to be impeached and removed from office as a cost of his decision.Jack Ryan is the hero of the everyday man - somebody who understands the world and the threats, and is willing to admit his weakness in domestic affairs.  When facing rebuilding the government, he wants people who really know what the real world is like.  In the end, he neither wants or craves power - he just wants to do what he thinks is the right thing.
5 CLANCY'S BEST BY FAR. THIS WAS GREAT. EXECUTIVE ORDERS PICKS UP WHERE DEBT OF HONOR LEAVES OFF. THE STROY LINE IS EXCELLENT, THE PLOTS DETAILED, MY ONLY CRITICISM WAS THAT THE BOOK SHOULD HAVE BEEN A LITTLE SHORTER. YOU GET THE FEELING THAT RYAN'S DECISIONS AND FRUSTRATIONS WITH GOVERNMENT ARE NOT JUST TOM CLANCY'S, BUT MINE, YOURS AND MOST EVERYONE'S. READ IT, BUT READ DEBT OF HONOR FIRST.
5 CLANCY'S BEST BY FAR.  THIS WAS GREAT.  EXECUTIVE ORDERS PICKS UP WHERE DEBT OF HONOR LEAVES OFF.  THE STROY LINE IS EXCELLENT, THE PLOTS DETAILED, MY ONLY CRITICISM WAS THAT THE BOOK SHOULD HAVE BEEN A LITTLE SHORTER.  YOU GET THE FEELING THAT RYAN'S DECISIONS AND FRUSTRATIONS WITH GOVERNMENT ARE NOT JUST TOM CLANCY'S, BUT MINE, YOURS AND MOST EVERYONE'S.  READ IT, BUT READ DEBT OF HONOR FIRST.
4 I am normally not a fiction reader.  However, as my kids grow up and I spend more time in the car shuttling them around, I began listening to audio books.  I came across a copy of Executive Orders for cheap and decided to give it a listen.The basic premise of the story is that Jack Ryan unwittingly becomes President of the United States after a Japanese airliner crashes and kills most of the high ranking members of the US government, leaving Ryan as the next successor to the Presidency.  Ryan has the gargantuan feat of rebuilding the entire US government.  Of course, there is no mercy for the new comer.  A skirmish between China and Taiwan breaks out resulting in the deaths of a handful of Americans with both countries pointing the finger at the other.  However, the story gets interesting as Iran becomes a puppeteer, manipulating countries and orchestrating events in a covert attempt to take over part of the Middle East.  During all this, President Ryan has to deal with a legal attack claiming he is not the President and try to unravel the bureaucracy that had become business as usual in Washington, DC and try to rebuild America.I found the storyline to be a bit too political, but overall it had a good combination of mental mind games, covert operations, and good old violence.  I thought the scene with the attempted kidnapping of "Sandbox" was one of the pinnacles of the story.  This was a beautifully orchestrated, suspenseful scene.I thought Edward Herrmann's performance in the audiobook version was extraordinary.  While sometimes his accents were terribly unrealistic, he gave a great performance that made me feel like I was listening to a live news report with the events unfolding right before me.Overall, I was pleased with the story.  The overall story line seemed reminiscent of the Rocky movies, the underdog man who no one thinks will win takes a beating, but comes off of the ropes swinging their way to victory.  If you are looking for a great underdog story, this may be worth a read.  However, if political discussions turn you off, you might want to pick a different book.
5 The events that happen in this book are extremely important to the Jack Ryan story, I'm not spoiling anything but the first few pages will have you not only at your heels but also unable to put the book down! Its quite long though so don't expect to read it in a few days,
4 Very good book but way too long!  I AM A big Tom Clancy fan but the book was so long that I WOULD have to go back to keep up with all the players...I would still recommend . the book but warn the reader to plan on having to take more than a few days to read
5 Typical Tom Clancy. Excellent story. This should be required reading for all civic classes. Excellent approach to building a new government.
5 Executive Orders is Tom Clancy's follow up to his best selling novel Debt of Honor and begins moments after the ending of the previous novel. Debt of Honor left the Capitol building destroyed, the President killed, most of Congress killed, and all 9 members of the Supreme Court killed. Most other top officials of the government were also killed in a horrible attack reminiscent of September 11, 2001 (even though the novel was written years before that event). While not intending to be, Tom Clancy was very prophetic in writing about the events that led up to Executive Orders . Because the Vice President had resigned, Jack Ryan was asked to take his place until the next election. As Vice President, Jack Ryan was not in the building when the attacks took place. Being Vice President was only supposed to be a one-year post and then he would retire from public service. Now with the President dead, Jack Ryan is the new President of the United States. Most Presidents have a Cabinet and Congress and other Senior Officials to help make the transition to power run smoothly. Jack Ryan has to rebuild his government almost from the ground up.Tom Clancy writes large, sprawling novels. This one is actually a bit longer than most other Clancy novels, coming in at nearly 900 pages. There is a lot of storyline to cover. Clancy likes to have the main plotline with several sub-plots that eventually tie in to the main story and also augment what is going on. Only one of these sub-plots felt truly superfluous (that being the Mountain Men sub-plot) as it did not actually add anything to the main plotline nor did it even touch the main story. It was set up early as something large and fizzled out near the end, as if Clancy forgot that he had that sub-plot going and then realized that he didn't have anywhere for it to go. Otherwise, all the storylines fit into the larger story and with all the detail that Clancy provides, the novel doesn't feel as weighty as it would appear to be.The detail that Tom Clancy provides gives the novel a sense of realism, that perhaps these events are not so implausible as we might have once thought. After September 11 and with threats of bio-terrorism, this novel has gone from being military/political fiction to a grim vision of what may very well occur in our near future. We see the potential for evil in the world and dishonest men in the United States (and abroad). We see the potential for good men and women to step up in government service and to attempt to do the right thing. Clancy shows both sides of the coin, and if Jack Ryan is an overly honest and morally upright character....we must remember that he is the "hero" of the series. He is exactly the kind of man we want this series of books to revolve around.The bottom line for this novel is that it is well written, and while it may be long winded at times, it was a quick reading novel despite being around 900 pages. The story is compelling and while we know that our hero and our country will come out alright, we don't know what horrific events Clancy will subject Jack Ryan and America to....and that's why we keep reading.
5 I read this book when it came out and it is everything you expect from Clancy, a very well thought out story line with lots of details, great character development, rich in sub plots and story.  Ok, he is increasingly leaning to the right of Rush Limbaugh, but that is kind of the charm.  Well, now comes the new global reality we have with the 9/11 attacks and wow, this book almost reads as a historical fiction book.  Ok, it still needs a little bit of faith on the readers part, but look at what is in the book, a presidential sex scandal, A passenger plane used as a weapon, biological terrorist attacks, and a President with a CIA background (ok wrong Bush but close).  All Clancy fans have either read this book or will regardless of the reviews here.  For those of you that have not read one of his I think given the times we are in this is a great start and will open you up to a catalogue of great fiction by Mr Clancy, his non-fiction is even not bad.
1 I am an Army veteran and I can tell you, Mr. Clancy got it all wrong.  I shall now tell you how and why.Mr. Clancy has no first hand knowledge of the military but he has powerful contacts (politicians and generals).  He  makes some calls and gets to look at all the latest gadgetry.  Unfortunately, the high ranking officers briefing him only show him the  best parts.  They gloss over the not so good stuff.  Clancy apparently  falls for it hook line and sinker!Here are some examples.  The laser  stuff at the National Training Center doesnt work near as well as Clancy  describes.  In all of my rotations, I never had laser equipment that  worked.  Also, the idea of two training regiments and a national guard  brigade making a cohesive fighting division is ludicrous.  Finally, such a  cobbled together unit could never steamroller an Iraqi/Iranian Army ten  times its size as Clancy describes.This is probably the end of the road  for me.  Unless Mr. Clancy gets back the magic he used to have.  This will  be the last of his books I will read.
5 This is truly an epic, an account of the struggle between the democracy of the United States and terrorism. After the initial, almost complete destruction of our government, we are left wondering how we will ever be able to put it back together again. At this point, the suspense is unbearable, and you must read on, you simply must. Of course, with the survival of the one person among hundreds of key politicians, who is the hero, Jack Ryan, we know that everything will be allright. But we don't know how, and we're anxious to find out. On the road to "happily ever after" we encounter one serious incident after another, any one of which could put us down for the count. Clancy weaves these plots with great precision, using the strokes of a master painter. Jack Ryan starts out slowly, cautiously, and seemingly unsure of himself, but builds confidence in himself to make the right decisions, and begins to issue his EXECUTIVE ORDERS to counterbalance and overcome the potential disasters facing him (and us).The sub-plots are intricately woven and very well connected, and in a book this long, many times the suspense is unbearable.Of course the good guys win, but this does not make the story trite, nor is this unusual in any way. It is the classic expression of the triumph of good over evil. And what's wrong with that ?My two favorite passages are Ryan's confrontation with the Prime Minister of India, a woman, when she orders the Indian Navy to interfere with the passage of the US Navy in the Indian Ocean as they are on their way to the Persian Gulf, and he (Ryan), in a telephone conversation with her, gets her to back down, after her initial coy belligerence; and Ryan's confrontation in the oval office with the one who betrayed him.The story is very long and sometimes tedious because of all the details, but overall it is terrific reading-one of the best books I've read in a long time. I always thought Ludlum's spy thrillers were good, but I think Clancy has pushed it up a notch to the next level.
2 Clancy's best work seems to be behind him. This book is nowhere near in the same league as _Red Storm Rising_ or _Clear and Present Danger_. I stopped reading about halfway through and then skimmed through the rest a  couple months later. The plot was decent enough, but the excessive  technical details and Clancy's endless preaching of his political views  ruin it. This book would have been much better if cut down to just over  half its size. Maybe two stars seems unfair but that's all this book  deserves compared to earlier work. Let's hope that the next book, about a  Sino-Russian conflict, will give us back the Clancy of the '80s.
5 I'm new to writing reviews here, so I decided to check out some of my favorites to see what other's had said.  I'm a huge Clancy fan, and Executive Orders just happens to be my favorite of his tales.  When I read what the other's said about this book, I had to do something.. had to stand up for this great novel!If you are not a Clancy fan, or if you read at a child's reading level, then yes, this book is probably too complicated for you.. but, if you have half a brain and an active imagination, this one if for you.  The book is well worth the money, as it provides many, many hours of entertainment.  The book is long, so it takes some time to complete, but it's not wasted time.  This book is classic Tom Clancy, and any person who's read any of his others will agree.I would not recommend this as a person's first Clancy read.  You should read most, if not all, of the previous books in order to have a better understanding of the plot and the characters.  Executive Orders starts up immediately after the previous book, Debt of Honor (another Clancy great!), left off.  A 747, driven by an angered pilot from Japan, has just plowed right into the Capitol in D.C. during a joint session of Congress.  This effectively destroys the American government, and leaves our hero, Jack Ryan, as the new President.  The first 100 pages are gripping, especially now, post 9/11 (this book was released over 4 years before that day), and will keep you hooked for the rest of the book.  The tale highlights what it would take to totally reconstruct a government after a massive terrorist attack, and then goes on to show how many people in our country and around the world might seek to benefit from America's new found vulnerability.This is a great book, and should not be tarnished by people with short attention spans.  Yes, it is long.  Yes, there is much detail and there's plenty of sub-plots.  These things are what make Clancy's tales GREAT!  This is why he's the number 1 author in our country... without these things, Clancy would be just another thriller author.  Read this book, and prepare for much enjoyment!!
2 I had read all of Tom Clancy's books up to and including this one.  But this one made me realize that now that the Cold War was over, so was my fascination with Clancy.  This book is part &quot;Tom Clancy's Public Policy Opinions&quot; and part virus outbreak, with a homegrown terrorist plot that, without giving too much away, ends up a major disappointment.  The virus plot is interesting, but the political plot wasn't to me.  Perhaps this is because I don't share Clancy's views, and he portrayed them as such basic common sense, with the opposing side so hapless in offering a rebuttle, that I was a little offended.  This also made me reflect on his previous books and realize even more that his characters all seem to be either really really good guys or really really bad guys with horrible character flaws.  There's never any shades of gray to his characters, and even the &quot;scandal&quot; that dogs Ryan is due to him being too noble for his own good.  Finally, I realized that with Jack Ryan as president, his days of dodging torpedos in a submarine were at an end, and thus, my favorite literary action character was being retired to a desk job.
5 Wish I had the option for more than 5 stars.  As usual Tom Clancy's stories open many doors into the 'goings on' in Washington, and other countries around the world.  Mr. Clancy will be greatly missed.  When a presidential election is forthcoming - I reread Clancy's [Jack Ryan's] description of A Presidents Responsibilities.  Sadly we are never offered a candidate coming even close to the capabilities of this honorable position. Though his later co-authored books are still pretty good, and I do enjoy them - that special 'magic' isn't quite right - BUT still they are GREAT reads.
2 Completely confusing and too longType much too small making it difficult to readVery confusing and disturbing ideas switching back and forth on nearly every page
5 I'm not done with it yet.  About 2/3 done and the book is a great read and keeps you guessing.
1 The best part of this book is probably unintentional on Clancy's part.  Jack Ryan succumbs to the seduction of power and turns into a sleazy  politician.Throughout the seven Jack Ryan books, Jack has developed into  a one dimensional superhero.  By this book, his character is as thin and  flat as a piece of cardboard.  Throughout this book, he is the perfect,  honest polictical outsider, single handedly cleaning up the American  political system.  The whole time he insists he doesn't want the job.  But,  at the end of the book, once Ryan feels the power of kicking the butts of  the liberal opposition and of the Iraqis, he changes his mind and says he  will stay in office.  Ryan turns into the lying, two-faced politician he  said he hated.Besides the ending, this is mostly a miserable book. The  first 400 pages are boring and repetitive.  There some really good parts in  the middle where all these intricate subplots get going.  But most of these  subplots go nowhere or are left dangling.  There's an exciting little war  at the end, but it not enough to make up for the 1100 other pages that go  nowhere.There are some minor problems with most of Clancy's other books,  but for the most part they are very good, exciting and entertaining.  This  book is a complete shock.  It will be interesting to see if he can recover  with the next book in the series, which was just released.
2 I've been a long time fan of Tom Clancy although Executive Orders was one of the first Clancy books that I've read recently.  I was disappointed with this book partially due to  its overall length.  It seemed that the first 500 pages could easily have been dropped. I literally skimmed 100-150 pages just to get through it. I didn't feel that I was developing a relationship with any character in the book.  Sure, President Jack Ryan was the main guy, but he was still way too distant to really feel that you cared that much for him.  Only in the last 200 pages did the pace and action pick-up.  Save your time for something else.
2 but fractured delivery. I liked reading this book, but the audio version was unsatisfactory, continually jumping forward and backward in time. Also the quality was disappointing, skipping sections of the narrative and increasing the difficulty with following the plot,
3 Other reviewers have given the plot, so I won't bother.  My only problem with this book is that it really needed some good editing.  Clancy spends far too many pages setting up every little detail of each subplot.Overall, it is a good story, and the last 300 pages or so are really good.  I'm glad I read it, but I would have liked it better if this behemouth were maybe 100 pages shorter.
5 At the end of &quot;Debt of Honor&quot; a jet airplane slams into a Joint Session of Congress, pretty much wiping out the American government and suddenly putting Jack Ryan into the Presidency.  While Clancy's book was at the top of the Best Seller list someone crashed a small plane into the White House, yet I heard nothing on the news about how life was imitating art.  Now, of course, this is headline news and Clancy's books are suddenly being hailed as dire prophecies that are suddenly coming true.  In &quot;Executive Action&quot; as Islamic leader assassinates the President of Iraq, forges Iran and Iraq into the United Islamic Republic, attacks the United States with biological weapons, and invades Saudi Arabia to grab the oil fields.  Suddenly Tom Clancy has become the prophet of the moment as his fiction became fact with the terrorist attacks of September 11th.  Of course, Clancy has not been alone telling such tales, but the focus is certainly on his writings at this pivotal moment in history.A few have suggested that Clancy was actually providing a blueprint for the terrorists and I seem to remember that there had never been a skyjacking until Robert Serling wrote about it in a novel.  But writers just look at the world around them and find creative opportunities, which is certainly no different from what terrorists do in planning operations.  However, the reason I feel compelled to reread and review &quot;Executive Orders&quot; is because I think that there are some important things that Clancy has to say about the moment that goes beyond terrorist attacks.  First, as Jack Ryan repeatedly points out in the novel, the actions of terrorists for are fundamentalist Muslims do not reflect on the vast majority of the followers of Islam around the world.  A war on terrorism is not a war on Islam, no matter what the terrorists claim, and no matter what ignorant and bigoted jerks in this country might want to believe.  Second, another Jack Ryan mantra, that human agents are invaluable in trying to gather intelligence on terrorist organizations.  Finding terrorists leaders is going to require human agents on the ground and not spy satellites or unmanned drones.  Third, secrets are important for the government/military to respond effectively to terrorist attacks.  We have the right to know, but the first thing enshrined in the Jefferson's trilogy is &quot;life&quot; and not freedom of the press.  Besides, Congress provides oversight in such matters so the intrusive snooping of the press is unwarranted.  A corollary of this, as Jack Ryan finds out repeatedly in the novel, is that you cannot trust the press to do the right thing.  This particular point was made more strongly in &quot;Debt of Honor,&quot; where news networks had to be convinced that reporting certain facts the government was trying to keep secret would result in the deaths of American military personnel (and that this was a bad thing).&quot;Executive Orders&quot; is a story well told, and what is important about it today is not just what it says about what might happen in the days to come, but what it says about us as Americans.  Clancy's books touch on all aspects other the current situation and not just the acts of terrorists.  Reading the Jack Ryan novels should do more than engender the fear that there will be a biological attack as in &quot;Executive Orders&quot; or &quot;Rainbow Six&quot; or a nuclear device as in &quot;The Sum Of All Fears&quot; and &quot;The Bear and the Dragon.&quot;  The bottom line here is that when you read any of Tom Clancy's novels, do not throw out his emphasis on what is good with your fascination with what is bad.
2 I am a Clancy Fan from the start. have read all of his books, have his computer game etc. I got bogged down on page 308 of 875 and never went back. A good editor could have knocked off 200+ pages easily. It did not have the snap of &quot;Sum of All Fears&quot; or his first two novels. Instead it had  way too many subplots, a fairly ( for Clancy, boring main plot, and too much stuffing in between. If you doubt me, read one of his first two novels, and then big up this behemoth and see if you can finish it! If you have not read his non-fiction books on &quot;Submarine&quot;, &quot;Marine&quot; , &quot;Armored Cav&quot;, and the non-fiction account of Desert Storm, and you are a military junkie, don't miss them! The best book of all is &quot;The Tom Clancy Companion&quot;, trust me...
4 A story that is well written and uses realistic characters.  Tom Clancy has done his research and has composed it in a highly digestible and enjoyable format.  Great fiction and lots of suspense.  One of the better fictional military story writers.  Lots of intelligence and military details.  Clancy has polished the techno-thriller genre and taken it to a new higher standard.  I've read all of the Jack Ryan-related stories: Hunt for Red October, Cardinal of the Kremlin, Rainbow Six, Clear and Present Danger, Red Storm Rising.  They are all great.
5 Great. Left me wanting to read next in series immediately. Currently trying to read complete series in order. New Clancy fan.
3 Tom Clancy's Executive Orders is a lengthy, entertaining read.  The crash of a JAL 747 airliner into the Capitol building unexpectedly pushes former CIA agent Jack Ryan into a challenging job he doesn't really want--the American Presidency.  Honorably placing duty and public service ahead of politics, Mr. Ryan steers America through a multi-faceted crisis, defeating terrorism (kidnapping and assassination attempts, and the malicious planting of a deadly Ebola virus in U.S. cities), halting the aggression of a religious leader and his Iran-Iraq army, and skillfully managing foreign diplomacy with Japan, China, India and Russia.Published in 1996, the book's engrossing plot notably contains certain prescient links to more recent events:  The fictional crash of the airliner into the Capitol may be viewed as foretelling the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the Pentagon and World Trade Center.  Also, the events surrounding the Ayatollah Daryaei with his expansionist United Islamic Republic in the book bear a resemblance to the real-world 2003 war with Iraq and ensuing capture of Saddam Hussein.I find the book's primary weakness to be its overly predictable plot line:  Good guy meets bad guy, suspense builds, and the expected outcome follows, i.e., good guy wins.  In this case, the good guy is not just President Ryan but, in a more philosophical sense, an idealistic vision of the merits of democracy, opportunity, and political and religious freedom--all with a U.S.-centric flair.Being an action-packed novel of interlocking sub-plots carefully woven together by the author, the book could easily be made into an enthralling Hollywood movie, complete with impressive techno-war battle scenes showing enemy tanks being blown up and burnt to a crisp.  The grand finale would be the CIA-assisted pinpoint bombing of the reprehensible enemy leader inside of his residence in Tehran, suffering in astonishment through the real-time international broadcast of the final seconds of his own life!However engaging the thrilling plot and commendable detail of Executive Orders may be, my personal preference is for more literary works that probe significantly deeper into human relationships, emotions and the psyche.
5 Book arrived on time and in good shape. Like the prices of books from this vendor. Will buy more in the future. Thanks
1 este libro es excelente para atajar una puerta o para hacer ejercisios, junto con otros libros malos para levantamiento de pesas. la trama parece la de una pelicula de esas que se ven para esperar que a uno le de sueno.  un presidente que tiene que tomar el mando despues de que el gobernante  actual es asesinado con todo y gabinete, una trama de unos arabes, es  aburridisimo y mas porque el autor se lo toma todo tan en serio y termina  creyendose su historia. ademas el libro es excesivamente largo, no lo  termine, con cada pagina me iba a burriendo mas y finalmente despues de  usarlo como banquito, termine regalandoselo a una profesora amiga que es  fanatica de tom clancy, asi que creo que lo deje en buenas manos.LUIS  MENDEZ luismendez@codetel.net.do
4 Executive Orders is the beginning of Tom Clancy's downward spiral. It is a book that suffers from lack of an editor and clumsily written plotlines that go nowhere. That said, the patented Clancy formula is still well executed here, plenty of edge-of -your- seat action, a complicated plot, and the trademark military detail will keep you reading until the end. This is the last of his books which hard-core Clancy fans will enjoy. Take it from me, the rest are almost unreadable.
5 Continuing adventures of Jack Ryan, a well-beloved character in a fast paced story surrounded by a cast of familiar friends; Adm. Jackson, Bart Mancuso, etc. Keeps me up too late at night just trying to get to the next chapter. Just started Command Authority and already hooked.  These are great reading and if you don't want a book to end, Executive Orders fills the bill as it is over 1300 pages. Recommended for all-ENJOY!
5 This is my second favorite book.  First is Rainbow Six.  If you like a great plot, read this book.  The plot is so deep.  The only thing about this book that I didn't like that much is the detail.  It was still a GREAT  book.  I encourage you to read it, even though it might take you a while.
1 Though I had enjoyed Clancy's previous techno-thrillers, this one was a  major disappointment.  By making Ryan president, he has painted himself  into a corner that only reliance on Ryan's flimsy alter-ego, John Clark (a  man who will soon be fighting evildoers from a walker if Clancy  acknowledges the passage of time) will allow him to escape from.  Otherwise, how plausible is it for the President of the United States to be  personally getting involved with gun battles with terrorists and drug  runners?  This may not have weakened the novel itself had it not been for  Clancy's interjection of his simplictic politics into his fictional world.  His attempt to define how the world should be run through his characters'  action sapped what remaining enjoyment this novel contained.  Traditional  Clancy fans would be best served by stoppping at "Debt Of Honor"  to let their imaginations work from there rather than the ideological box  Clancy seems bent on constructing.
3 Fair a bit of a easy book to read and one knows the plot easily but regret also the ending thereof. The military bit however is as always precise and interesting.
3 In EXECUTIVE ORDERS, Tom Clancy continues the saga of Jack Ryan in a novel that is so long (1,358 pages) that its length becomes a subtext. Historically, when any novel exceeds 1,000 pages, the author can use this length either to present a multiple point of view that aids the reader is getting involved (a good thing) or uses that length to present any and all nuances that can impede reader interest (a bad thing). In EXECUTIVE ORDERS, Clancy takes a middle course, but one that leans overly close to the latter.The plot is surprisingly simple for its length. A kamikaze Japanese pilot crashes his 747 jumbo jet into the nation's capitol building, killing the president, all of the Supreme Court, and very many senators and other lawmakers. Ryan, as the recently selected vice-president assumes the presidency, only to face the immediate problem of reconstructing the foundation of the government of the United States. He soon learns that he has other concerns--the Ebola virus has broken out and may be the start of a co-ordinated bio-weapon attack.I had no problem with this basic plot.  It, after all, resonates quite prophetically in the post 9-11 world. Nor did I even have much of a problem with the annoying and going nowhere subplot of the Mountain Men, a plot which easily got lost somewhere in the first 1,000 pages. No, my concern was with placing EXECUTIVE ORDERS in the Clancy canon of Ryania. Clancy does tend to write at length so those who have come to this novel after having read a few of his other epics will feel quite at home. But here, Clancy has gone overboard--even for him.  He uses omniscient narrator to peek into too many minds and not enough into the one mind that counts--Ryan's. Clancy comes perilously close to a stream-of-consciousness style as each narrator breaks in with his own perspective based mostly on a whim that pops into his brain. What Clancy is best at is the technical mumbo-jumbo verbal wizardry that deals with guns, tanks, planes, and bombs, but even here, an excessive amount of that quickly palls.  When I began to approach the last one hundred pages or so, I got the feeling that Clancy realized that after more than 1,000 pages of introductory pre-climax writing, he was still nowhere close to wrapping things up.  Those last one hundred pages seemed fast and forced.  Unfortunately, that is all too common with the genre, but with Clancy, you usually do not mind being taken for a ride that seemed more than a tad too long.
5 The author crafts a superb tale here of events following the abrupt accession of Jack Ryan to his country's highest office.The USA is attacked both overtly and covertly and Clancy weaves a gripping story of how an inexperienced President somehow manages with the help of a few good men,and  women to solve one crisis after another.Despite his republican politics I  do find Clancy's books entertaining and full of detail.He even gives a  descriptive account of the inner workings of the secret service and seems  to have inside knowledge of the layout of the White House family  quarters.Understandable as the man has only slept there several times  during the Bush administration. One of Mr Clancys better efforts.
4 After finishing the previous book I had to get my hands on this one.  Went through it in a day and a half.  Loved every minute of this read.
1 I am a natural speed reader & just received a Kindle for Christmas. I have been downloading favorites to the Kindle & just spent a few hours re-reading Clancy's "Executive Orders". The experience was totally spoiled by the HUNDREDS of typos, most typically "c" for "e" and vice versa. It really ruined the experience of reading a 2041KB (896 pg) book. Didn't anyone ever hear of SPELLCHECK? The book was FIVE STARS but the printing was awful.
5 A very entertaining book. Jack Ryan's assuming the Presidency and facing the tasks at hand is very well detailed. After averting an attempt by the former Vice-President to cause problems Ryan next has to face an Ebola  virus unleashed by the Iranians. The gun battle with the terrorists who  attempt to kidnap Ryan's baby pick this book up to another notch. The  discovery of an Iranian mole on the White house Secret Service detail is a  unique approach in writing. The ending where the Ayatollah is punished is  outstanding. All in all a very good book.
1 When I began reading Tom Clancy's books I was enthralled with the author's exciting plots- my summers were usually devoted to reading and re-reading his books as I'd imagine myself in the thick of the action. Since Clancy  wrote 1991's &quot;The Sum Of All Fears&quot;, his books have become  longer, duller and less interesting. I found &quot;Executive Orders&quot;  to be his worst work to date.  The slow meandering plot is pretty hard  to follow- not because it's so complicated. It's not. The problem is that  the plot takes so much time getting going that you lose interest as Clancy  positions the pieces one-by-one. The actual plot is pretty derivative of  all of Clancy's other books, so the ending isn't much of a surprise. The  most basic problem with Clancy's work is in his characters. Clancy  obviously envisions Ryan to be a blue-collar everyman, just one that  slipped into the White House through extraordinary circumstances. Much is  made by the author of his hero's status as an &quot;independent&quot;. It's  too bad that Ryan comes across, consistently, as a doctrinaire,  by-the-numbers, straight out of the pages of The National Review,  conservative. Clancy, who has always been injecting his right-of-center  politics into his books (though more obviously and stridently of late),  puts his politics out in front here. &quot;Executive Orders&quot; is more  politics than policy. Clancy is on his soapbox and the plot too often gets  shuffled to the back for President Ryan to give some loopy tirade about  liberal &quot;special interests&quot; (and there aren't conservative  ones?). First clue that non-conservatives won't be given equal time: the  book is dedicated to Ronald Reagan, who &quot;won the Cold War&quot;  according to Clancy. Give me a break. Too bad Clancy couldn't have made his  case without his hero's preachy speeches. After hearing Ryan's 1,314th  speech informing another character he &quot;is not a politician!&quot; the  reader will want to yell back: &quot;Then shut up already!&quot; The  character of Jack Ryan has always been a difficult one to judge- heroic by  far in Clancy's other novels, Ryan makes the transition from preachy,  sanctimonious hero to preachy, sanctimonious jerk in this novel. A Tom  Clancy novel hits you hard and fast and the action takes your breath away,  but when the plot slows down and we try to get character moments they  sometimes seem painfully forced. Clancy characters are written like post-it  notes: this is the Good Guy who is a conservative/soldier/CIA analyst, etc.  This is the Bad Guy/Girl who is a liberal/Russian spy/terrorist/feminist,  etc. Can you really tell me how much different the characters of Jack Ryan  and John Clark are from one another, aside from their names and character  histories? Not a whole heck of a lot. I'm sure Clancy thinks he's giving  America the kind of leader (read: conservative) they want in this book, but  Ryan comes across as a breezy, &quot;I'm-doing-the-right-thing and people  will see that&quot; conservative whose politics and style bear a striking  resemblance to Newt Gingrich. The old Goldwater-for-President slogan  &quot;In your heart you know he's right&quot;, is a favorite dream of  conservatives and Clancy relies on it here. Why does the subplot with the  &quot;mountain men&quot; militia group fizzle out so spectacularly?  Probably because Clancy can't bring himself to make people whose political  viewpoint he sympathizes with the bad guys.  In the end the reader  will sigh with relief when he or she finishes this monstrosity. I did. My  advice to you, don't even pick this one up.
5 |TITLE| Executive Orders|AUTHOR| Tom Clancy|REVIEWER| Josh Grossman, Colonel {r}, U.S. Army Medical Corps, M.D., F.A.C.P drjosh@embarqmail.com Physician/author/educator Note availability of reviewer to Mentor/Tutor U.S.M.L.E. III|BOOK TYPE| Hard cover|BOOK PAGES| 874|PUBLISHER| G.P. Putnam's Sons|COPYRIGHT| 1996|ISBN| 0-399-14218-S"It is now the moment when by common consentWe pause to become conscious of our national lifeAnd to rejoice in it,To recall what our country has done for each of us,And to ask ourselves what we can do for our country in return" {1}As I am a Retired United States Army Medical Corps Officer I recommend outstanding this text to my entire fellow United States Army Reserve Officers.I learned much from reading this informative text when it was published in 1996 and I learned more by re-reading now at the beginning of 2011.A copy of this valued text should be in all of our City and County Public Libraries and in all of our University libraries as well.I plan to keep my copy handy in my own personal library both for re-reading and for teaching English as a Second LanguageThanks Tom Clancy!|REFERENCES|1. U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Junior {1841 - 1935}
3 Although I'm a fan of the Jack Ryan series, Executive Orders plods along too much. However, you need to read this book so you can follow Jack Ryans life.
5 Executive Orders is -without a doubt- one of the best, most exciting books I have ever read.  Fans of previous Clancy works will love this latest installment, which provides action, suspense, and vivid human drama using the story of a non-politician in one of the worlds most political jobs.  I bought this book as soon as it came out- I had just finished gobbling down Clancy's other works in less than two months- and read it day and night (the whole time with my science teacher heckling me to loan it to him.  With good detail and good information and direction, Clancy's works have reached their highest point with Executive Orders
4 In the typical writing of Tom Clancy, this book follows right along with the tense situations and sucsess that Jack Ryan follows in all previous stories. A well crafted scenerio to follow in the many previous novels. Well worth the read.
3 Clancy is always good, and this book is not much different.  However, it had too many subplots which detracted from the overall story.  It became slightly confusing, but I had to push through to get to the main theme, so it detracted my enjoyment of the book.  Had the style been slightly more focused, I would have rated it five stars.
5 In a former life I was a public librarian. On the morning of 9/ll I was walking back into the library after helping the local Red Cross arrange to ship units of blood to New York. A retired Air-Force officer was walking out carrying Tom Clancy's EXECUTIVE ORDERS. He looked at me and said "We told them how to do it."Recently a favorite author tweetered about a study conducted to pin point identifing characteristics of Musiem terrorists. I read the study and gagged. Mr. Clancy did a much more outstanding job in 1996 with EXECUTIVE ORDERS.Read it and match it against today's newspapers and media reports.Nash Black, author of SINS OF THE FATHERS.
5 U.S. Congress almost totally wiped out, terrorist attempt to abduct member of presidential family, biological warfare (Ebola Virus) against U.S., and an ex-CIA black ops spook is the new U. S. President. Part way through realized I had already read it, but just long enough ago that I had to finish.  The character developments are tight but thorough, writing is excellent (don't know if Clancy can do bad), and suspense abounds.  This book does not contain the EXCESSIVE "blood, gore and guts" that some books of the same genre do.  This is a definite ++ for me.  Naturally, there are some shoot outs but not terribly graphic. However, I will admit to skimming through descriptions of inhumane treatment of animals.Yes, there are a lot of story lines (and subplots) afoot in this 1272-page tome, but if you really read it, and don't just flip the pages, everything falls into place.You, too, will probably begin to wonder why the U. S. is run by "politicians" rather than by people who have the appropriate knowledge and experience to do the job.  I thoroughly enjoyed (loved) this book and it is on my list of what I need to read (yet) again.
4 The Cold war may be over but the combination of people who posses true fear and real hatred along with newer, deadlier technologies that create horrifying weapons of mass destruction have made the world a more dangerous planet.  In this novel Clancy brings alive two very major challenges to America's current role in the world.First, Clancy outlines a believable coalition of anti-American nations united only by a desire to profit from our difficulties.  Second, he chillingly describes the horrors of a biological epidemic deliberately unleashed by someone who is driven by hatred.It is worth enduring the too long and too frequent Jack Ryan speeches and maudlin introspection to get to the 80% of the book which outlines a world that could be and dangers that are all too real.  This is one of Clancy's more thought provoking novels.
5 CLANCY IS ONE OF MY FAVORITES.  DID NOT DISAPPOINT ME.  LOTS OF ACTION AND INTRIGUE.  COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN
3 At what point exactly did Clancy dispense with the editorial process?  This and surrounding novels contain several points where the same phrase is rehashed over and over, not to mention the overt political commentary mentioned by so many others here.  It's getting to seem like it's not worth the effort to wade through his books anymore.
3 I'm not a big Tom Clancy fan; especially novels with his name written by other writers.  But I had occasion to receive "Debt of Honor" and do like his writing.  So much, I am now reading "Executive Orders."I only have a couple of observations, which have nothing to do with how good or bad the plot and writing are.First, it shouldn't take 1,000 pages to tell a story which probably justifies 400 pages at the most.  But the writing is good, so excessive "filler" isn't annoying enough to stop following the real plot.My other observation concerns Tom Clancy's fixation regarding smoking.  People smoke in restricted areas which has no effect on the plot.  Jack Ryan quit smoking (blames his wife) and keeps sneaking a smoke in restricted areas.  Is this Clancy's rebellion against government restriction of personal choices?  I agree, but my choice is not to be subject to tobacco smoke.  These incidents add nothing to the plot, but they annoy the hell out of me.Again, not enough to stop reading, but you'd think he'd announce his problem via the media and spare his readers.Aside from that, I was pleased to see Mark Greaney writing books with Clancy's name.  Like a breath of fresh air!Norm
3 Monster of a book.  Solid where Clancy sticks to what he does best (writing about espionage, warfare, foreign affairs, and so forth), but weak and tedious when Clancy tries to bring in his politics (over a full page  devoted to a &quot;flat income tax&quot; doesn't advance the story at all,  for example).  Weaker than his other books (the next book, Rainbow Six, is  much better).
2 I have read all Tom Clancy's  books with the exception of his ops book.  It took me four years to find the energy to finish reading this book that  had a rather convoluted plot at the outset.  In uncharacteristic style,  this book seemed to ramble and peter out in spots.  The battle rhetoric was  over the top and unnecessarily long winded.  I only finished it in order to  read the newest Jack Ryan epic, The Bear and The Dragon, because regardless  of the rambling, I still really like Ryan, Clark and Chavez.
5 "Executive Orders" is 1358 pages long.  Yes, you read that correctly 1358 pages long!  No one has ever praised Tom Clancy for the brevity of his prose, but 1358 pages is one audaciously long book.  The only thing that could keep reading a novel of this length from being an overwhelmingly tiresome exercise is for it to contain an audaciously good story.  Fortunately for Tom Clancy and Jack Ryan fans, this book resoundingly succeeds on this count.Now, please be forewarned [IF YOU HAVE NOT READ "DEBT OF HONOR" YET, THEN GO NO FURTHER WITH THIS REVIEW]:Now, if you have read "Debt of Honor", you will remember the absolutely shocking way it ended, with a rogue Japanese commercial airline pilot crashing his 747 into the Capitol Dome during the President's speech to a joint session of Congress, killing all of Congress, the President, the Cabinet, and the Supreme Court justices (among others).  This all happened after the sitting Vice President has resigned in disgrace and Jack Ryan was just approved to be the new VP by acclimation vote of Congress before the plane struck.So, now Jack is President and he has rebuild a devastated government while facing a political threat from the former VP who thinks he should be president; a foreign crisis brought about by Middle East upheavals (one of which is proving to be quite prophetic); and a domestic crisis brought about by a biological terrorist attack.  It's just another day in the life of Jack Ryan.The real appeal of this book is that every different plot thread is extraordinarily well thought out and set up.  In most books this ambitious, you will find certain plot lines boring, making you anxious to get to more exciting portions of the story.  In "Executive Orders", Clancy never falls into that trap.  You can feel each different thread building upon the others, instead of running in opposition to them.  The payoff is a tremendous climax (or rather a series of them) which rewards the reader for their efforts throughout this magnum opus."Executive Orders" is a crowning achievement in the Jack Ryan Universe.  There are so many fabulous books in the Ryan series, but this one is its apex.
5 Jack Ryan and Tom Clancy may have reached their pinnacle of achievement with this book. However, this book is definitely not the place to start the series; as a minimum, The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Debt of Honor should definitely be read before this book.Jack, due to the events detailed in Debt of Honor, suddenly finds himself President of the U.S., a position which he never aspired to and in which he feels decidedly uncomfortable. But, good former Marine that he is, he quickly buckles down to the demands of the job - a job that rapidly spawns seemingly endless problems and complications. In detailing these, Clancy weaves an incredible number of sub-plots together: an assassination of the Iraqi President and the amalgamation of that country with Iran, an attempt to kidnap his youngest daughter, a biological attack on the U.S., a heat up of the continuing dispute between the two Chinas, an attempt by the former Vice President to remove Jack from office, and multiple attacks on his integrity by the news media. This is where Clancy shines, as each of these sub-plots is probably strong enough to be a novel in its own right. They all have strong dramatic elements and are not only plausible, but frightening in just how close they are to events in the real world that have occurred since this book was written - so much so that the notion has been put forth that certain terrorist elements got the ideas for their deeds from this book and Debt of Honor.Jack is well drawn. His reactions to situations and problems make sense for the type of man he is, and Clancy does a good job of making the reader empathize with him. Most of the other main characters are shown with enough depth to make them real, though it definitely helps if you have read the prior novels in this series, as some of the background for these characters was presented earlier, and is not re-hashed in this book. However, most of the characters are not excessively deep, and it is very clear who are the `good guys' and who are the `bad', which perhaps is a good thing in a thriller.The battle scenes are typical Clancy, filled with a great number (quite accurate) technical details - perhaps too much so, as at times the picture of just what war is really like gets lost in all these details. Also somewhat of a detraction is the fact that the `good guys' have too easy a time of it; it seems like all their plans are precisely accomplished, with few of the screw-ups and surprises that always happen in real conflicts. Which leads to the other fault with this book - it really is too long, and a fair amount of it could have been cut without losing the impressive tapestry effect.Some may object to the political viewpoints expressed in this novel, as they are decidedly on the right of the spectrum. But Clancy does a good job of detailing why these viewpoints should at least be given some careful thought by all Americans. Here we find good rationales behind limiting the power of the press under certain circumstances; the necessity for maintaining both a strong military and a strong intelligence network; cases where the power of the President may need to exceed the powers granted by the Constitution; when diplomacy is appropriate versus military action (and just how much diplomacy is dependent on having the military power to back up stated positions). It is just these viewpoints that elevate this book from a blockbuster adventure novel to one with substance. A quick perusal of any newspaper today will show exactly the points Clancy makes here, from the obvious `slanting' of the reporting to the need for a military that is second to none.A vivid tale of great breadth, exciting and informational, well worth the time it takes to read.--- Reviewed by Patrick Shepherd (hyperpat)
5 This is also one of Tom Clancy's better books, it follows on the heals of Debt of Honor. I think that Debt of Honor and Executive Order should be read back to back. As the ending of Debt of Honor is continued into Executive Order.The plot is a very plausible one, since the invasion of Iraq and the execution of Saddam. The fear that Iran could enter into Iraq and unite it with their own country, due to the large Shia population within Iraq. Tom Clancy shows once again his foresight into a possible scenario.The other interesting co-incidence is the lawsuit against Ryan as President of the United States, which to a degree reflected the 2000 election, this book was published in 1998, and the execution of Saddam and war in the middle east. In some ways Jack Ryan was a foreshadow of GWB and the events that would surround his presidency.
4 Clancy has a talent for spinning tales with mutiple interwoven plots -- and this book will not disappoint those who have come to enjoy this style.Our hero, Jack Ryan, now finds himself promoted to the very top position in the United States government -- the presidency. A job he didn't want, circumstances have placed him in the excutive office with a full two thirds of the government apparatis demolished via a terrorist act.To add to his woe, middle eastern agents have introduced biological warfare into the country -- and one of the secret service men guarding him is a sleeper agent waiting for the proper moment to execute him.In true Clancy style all these things develop simultaneously and provide an interesting (if rather longish) story. I find it particularly interesting to note that much of the action seems to mirror the real world September 11th terrorist acts (the book was released a couple of years prior to this event). Could it be that the novel was used as a blueprint by real world terrorists or at least provided them the idea? It's an interesting theory. Read the story and make your own determination.Bottom line is this is an important installment in the ongoing adventures of the (now) legendary Jack Ryan -- one you will want to read and add to the collection. The tale will keep you up late waiting to see how Jack copes with the developing situations though the outcome is never really in doubt.** Recommended **~P~
1 Like reviewers before me on other books, I would've rated this book at less than one star but Amazon doesn't allow that sooooo, here it is.  I  was tooling along through this book's immediate predecessor (Debt of Honor)  and really enjoying the book, wondering how it would end.  Then, in the  last 75 pages I saw where Clancy was leading all of us, his loyal readers.  I groaned to myself and said, oh nooooo, not thattttt!  And guess what?  He  did it.  He took Jack Ryan from National Security Advisor to Vice President  to President in less than 5 pages.  Isn't popular fiction wonderful?  You  can put sh*t between two covers, put Tom Clancy's name on it and the  general reading public will think it's wonderful. Well, I'm here to tell  you it wasn't and isn't and Tom Clancy should be ashamed off himself for  putting such truly bad prose on paper.  Debt of Honor ended badly and  that's when I knew Clancy was well past his prime.  I should've guessed  that Executive Orders would not be any better.Executive Orders picks  up where DoH left off with our stalwart White Knight, Jack Ryan taking up  residence at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.  I couldn't believe the story line  but I plugged along. Ryan started out admirably and in some ways stayed  that way in EO but, the entire premise of his ascension to power was just  so preposterous as to make the novel laughable.For someone who writes  detail so well, Clancy lost sight of the fact that there would have been so  many factors that would have had to fall into place (exactly) to permit  this type of event to take place.  A 747 jumbojet into the capital would  just not happen, especially on the night the President is addressing a  joint session of Congress.  Air traffic is vectored away from downtown DC  to make just such an event implausible.I really had a difficult time  swallowing what TC was peddling in this overly long tome.  Readers may have  noticed that Tom has also developed a devoted following with his  non-fiction books such as &quot;Marine,&quot; &quot;Submarine,&quot;  &quot;Armored Cav,&quot; &quot;Airborne,&quot; &quot;Into the Storm&quot;  and &quot;Every Man a Tiger.&quot;  He does a great job with those books  because he can get into all the techno-detail that he puts in his novels  and he doesn't have to make it all seem believeable.  The stuff he writes  about in those books is here today and he doesn't have to make it  plausible.  He can write those books like the thoughtful student of the  military that he has proven he once was.  He should stay with the  non-fiction, special interest books he does so well.With Debt of  Honor, Executive Orders and Rainbow Six, Tom Clancy has proven to be a  caricature of the author he once was.  He's really stinking rich now and  apparently given up on giving his readers a good read.  Now he just wants  to peddle Sh*t and get paid for it.Tell you what, Tom.  Why don't you  take your wealth, dabble in whatever it is rich folks like you dabble in  and forget writing fiction.  You had a few good books in you and you wrote  them.  Now you have nothing left.  It's time for a new hobby.
1 I shouldn't complain - I was stupid enough to buy the book. The &gt;1400 pages went fast though because I skipped huge sections of text - any time he got int one of his diatribes. These are worse than anything Ayn Rand ever wrote and much stupider. And while we're at it, someone should make a top ten list of his worst dialogue. I would but I cannot bear to go back through the book.
5 I just re-read all 1335 pages of this complex, multi-layered story. Its character portrayals are spot on and the battle sequences are thrilling. If you've enjoyed any of Clancy's books, you'll love this one.
4 Whatever one might think of Clancy's writing, this book's political and sociological significance has grown considerably since September 11, and one cannot help but wonder if the attacks somehow found inspiration in these pages.  A quote from the fictional terrorist Ali Badrayn on page 406 is sadly ironic, "It's not difficult, gathering information in the modern age.  The American media publishes so much, and it can all be easily accessed now."  Clancy's book itself could be considered part of that easily accessed media which the fictional Badrayn exploited.  Published in 1997, it explores the theme of simultaneous terrorist attacks on the United States, not unlike what the country witnessed in 2001.  Although the parallels may not be exact, it does not require a great leap of faith to conclude that real-life architects of synchronized terror may have found some inspiration here.A jumbo jet is purposely crashed into the United States Capitol building. Shortly thereafter, terrorists release a potent strain of the Ebola virus in several major cities.  Having identified the culprits, America declares war on the attackers.  The United States' military attention is diverted overseas while additional threats plague the country and its leadership.  Other similarities, many dealing with the aftermath, are more predictable but all too familiar.  Foreign dignitaries arrive to express condolences, and services are held at the National Cathedral.  "Banks and financial markets were closed, as were schools and many businesses" (96). Many Americans let the new president know he is in their prayers despite the fact that his mandate to rule has been brought into question by a bizarre detour of the electoral process.  Echoing George W. Bush after the attacks, President Jack Ryan speaks these words to television reporters:  "America is still America" (70) and "We have buried our dead. We will mourn their losses for a long time to come.  But our country lives, and the friends we lost on that horrible night would have it no other way  Our economy has taken a nasty shock, but survived, and is still the strongest in the world.  This is still America.  We are still Americans, and our future starts with every new day" (255).  On the Muslim question he comments, "We must understand that religion has nothing at all to do with these inhuman acts  Islam is not the enemy of our country or any other  I know that Islam, like Christianity and Judaism, teaches us about a God of love and mercy -- and justice" (1248).  Washington National airport remains closed for an extended period of time.  Other flights into DC airports are instructed to avoid a 20-mile radius centered on the White House.  Flights ignoring these instructions and warnings would be challenged by fighter jets (145).  The fictional ground zero is almost too realistic: "The real trick was coordinating the actions of the cranes, which dipped into the crater--that's how it looked--like a quartet of giraffes drinking from the same water hole, never quite banging together due to the skill of the operators" (78).While I am not normally a Clancy fan, this book earns an extra star for its remarkable foresight -- so much foresight that it raises new questions about responsible freedom of press and speech.  To be fair, few could have predicted that a book published in 1997 would so closely foreshadow events four years later.  As usual, the majority of Clancy's characters are endowed with high levels of testosterone and cowboy mentalities.  His effort to include women in responsible roles, while admirable, is also obvious.  One can also reasonably assume that Clancy is occupying the bully pulpit through President Ryan, speaking his own political views with common-man grit and gumption (994).  Nonetheless, the book remains a worthwhile read.  It is engrossing, thoughtfully constructed, and eye-opening.  Clancy continues to entertain while educating the public on issues of national security which may otherwise go unnoticed.  Good on him.
2 Many reviewers have commented on the fact that Clancy is using Jack Ryan as his voice to put forth his own view of America.  The evil press, the ugly politions, trying to do good only gets you screwed, ...  You get the picture.  What I'm suprised at is that his misogynic tendencies don't get more press.In this book, the Indian Prime Minister is a manipulative schemer.  The women secret service agents guarding the president's children turn out to be little more than clay pigeons and even the woman head of the president's protection detail does little more than marry one of the male heros of this book.  This carries on a trend he established in his earlier books (was it in "Sum of All Fears" that Ryan's female White House antagonist totally crumbled under pressure?) and does little to flatter Mr. Clancy.Recently, we've been seeing too much Clancy and not enough entertaining fiction in his books.  Perhaps he's got writer's block or maybe it's just that he's on autopilot but his last 3 or 4 novels have been major disappointments.  If you've never read Clancy, read "Hunt for Red October" and see what he's really capable of.  If you read this clunker, you may never be persuaded to read his good books.
4 I do Like Tom Clancy, but I felt that this book was very long winded.  I hope that the ideas that Clancy expresses in this book remain mostly fiction.  The story is frightening.
4 Okay, first of all, I want to mention that I have nothing against Tom Clancy. He is a great author, and write's amazing books....but, this book was a little different. It starts off great! The capitol building is  demolished by a plane crash, and the president dies, and tons more. But  then the technical part of Tom Clancy emerged. For nearly 1000 pages, I was  bored to death and often fell asleep with this book in my lap. When I woke  up I was on page 1190, and another boring part of the book emerged-Tom  Clancy's descriptive and technical war descriptions. So, I fell back to  sleep and woke up during the final good part-the bombing of the UIR  president. All in all, if you can read 1000 pages an hour, this book won't  seem so bad, but otherwise...make sure you bring some caffeine pills and  drink some coffee cause this one can put you to sleep, but it can also  improve your physical look, seeing how it weighs about 10-15 pounds. Thanks  anyways Tom...
5 Poor Jack Ryan. He's a reluctant President, trying to do the most complex job in the civilized world with sincerity and integrity, and Tom Clancy assaults him from every direction! President Ryan faces a barbaric and devious attack by a ruthless foreign power, internal terrorist threats emanating from both inside and outside the United States, a sleazy political conspiracy and an assassination plot. And all he has to do, while he's dealing with all this adversity, is reconstruct a destroyed Congress and Supreme Court! This is Tom Clancy at his best - pages fly by as all these plot points play out. Clancy does indulge in some political fantasies (like using &quot;humilation&quot; on drug offenders... sorry, Tom, I'm not with you on this one), but you do not have to agree with the minimal political musings to love the book. Like most of his work, this is a plot-driven, fast-paced story where the bad guys are capable of dabbling in state-of-the-art technology, but the good guys are always just enough ahead to emerge victorious in a rousing, emotionally satisfying conclusion.
5 Having read all the Jack Ryan books over the years this is a jewel in the crown. A &#34;Must Read!&#34;
5 You will perhaps never find a more brilliantly executed political/military/international relations thriller that matches the power, drama and vision as "Executive Orders."  This book is an unparalled feat of emotional, psychological, and moral exposition. This amazing novel should be required reading in all our army, airforce and naval colleges. Any student of international relations could not help but be rewarded by reading this outstanding piece of literature. In a world where fiction becomes reality, where the tail wags the dog, and instant media dictates the thin line between what is real and unreal, one has only to read this book to gain a more inclusive picture of what are the true issues facing our world today.
4 The scope of this book amazed me.  Clancy writes about the beginning of a new nation, a rebirth of an old one, the successful use of weapons of mass destruction, tensions between 'the two Chinas'(I loved that one), and ethics within the media...and he did it all in less than 1500 pages.  Kudos, Tom Clancy.My one complaint is the 'John Wayne' style of characters.  The good guys should all be wearing white hats while the evil villians need to be dressed in black.  And just once, I wish a Clancy female character would be a liitle over weight and not quite brilliant.  A little humanity wouldn't be too bad.It's a good book.  It's not too heavy, and very entertaining. It was perfect for the long commutes I've been enduring lately.  I find it kind of unsettling that he published it in 1996.  Coincidence, I guess; just like the conclusion to his last 'Ryan' novel where a suicide airliner changed our world.  But hey...at least a superbowl hasn't been nuked...yet.
1 i don't know why this section is needed,,,, i think that just hitting the stars would be good enough for a review... who has time to write all this
4 Good book, as all Tom Clancy's books are. But it dragged a bit in spots, and sometimes hard to tell who the characters are. But always worth a read.
3 But the end is totally immature writing. It's like me making sense of battlefield news. Not Clancy's best. Just meh.
5 Held my interest from the very beginning.  Couldn't put the book down. I have read most of Clancys books and find them very intense
5 This is probably the best Jack Ryan book. Ever. I have read and reread this story at least five times. Each pass finds something new to focus on. Clancy 's knowledge of the Intelligence community, coupled with his insights of our military make this novel come to life. If you enjoy the what-ifs of the political world, you will love the concept of building our government from nothing.This story can be enjoyed by Jack Ryan fans or by anyone who loves a good thriller.Buy it for your Kindle and save your wrist from carpal tunnel. I own the paperback as well and needed a splint after holding it for hours!
3 The book had some exciting parts, but it was way too long and had too many boring political ramblings.  Clancy could have easily trimmed one-third of its length.  He could have left out the Mountain Men entirely.Clancy does much better writing about the military than he does about politics.  The whole thing with Kealty did not make sense.  And I sure got tired of Ryan's/Clancy's conservative agenda.As always when the battles start, Clancy's superb storytelling finally comes through.
4 Before Sept. 11th the events in "Executive Orders" and its prequel "Debt of Honor" seemed extremely implausible. In "Debt of Honor" a plane used as a missile to destroy the Capitol just as the terrorists did to the World Trade Center and Pentagon. Later in "Executive Orders" the United States was attacked by a biological weapon, reminiscent of the anthrax scares the country suffered through the Fall of 2001. One has to wonder is Tom Clancy clairvoyant.Throughout the novel Clancy's hero Jack Ryan, meets the challenges of putting the government back together and defending America against both domestic and international enemies. Admittedly, Ryan makes political mistakes, relying on other technocrats and bureaucrats he has worked with through all of the novels in which he has appeared. Clancy uses Ryan to express his own conservative political ideology, which I personally do not totally agree with.Despite my aversion to Clancy's politics the book is well plotted though overlong. Two novels could been gotten from this plot. It will be interesting to see how the non-politician President Jack Ryan copes in the next book when its time to work a reconstituted Congress, pick a Vice President and name nine judges to the Supreme Court.
4 This book, plainly evident, was inspired by the movie Outbreak starring Dustin Hoffman. It is the sequal to Debt of Honor, and in light of recent events, is spooky. It parallels our current Anthrax crisis, but in this book it is the Ebola virus, following a terrorist attack in which a plane crashes into the White House. This book was hard to put down at times. I would definately recommend this one.
5 IT WAS THE BEST READING. The stories and interwoven plot was so interesting it was a hard book to put aside.
5 Usual Tom Clancy brilliance. A fitting end to the Jack Ryan life story and once again brilliantly told. I continue to hope that Tom Clancy will one day write a book where the bad guys were just not so dumb :)
5 Great price and handy way to purchase and not have to drive all over looking for what I want and the best price.
2 Good novel, but extremely poorly published......at least in the Kindle edition.  The text appears to have been optically scanned.....as "1" (numeral one) is extremely often used in place of "I" (capital i). Spelling errors of the same character name appear often. Didn't anyone proofread this thing???
3 In Executive Order, Jack Ryan comes back again, but with a rather different plot. Or should I say, plots. Although it is a good book, Clancy seems to interweave so many different plots that the reader doesn't know what he's reading after a while.If you expect another Jack Ryan book, this is a good read, but this book can't be read in two or three sits, it needs much more time.
3 What can you about Tom Clancy's `Jack Ryan' books: They are massive, ponderous volumes filled with seemingly countless sub-characters and side-plots. The every disaster imaginable has been inflicted on the United States. In previous books the US has fought a conventional World War III (Red Storm Rising), had a nuclear device set-off (The Sum of All Fears) and had the Capital destroyed (Debt Of Honor). Now it is a biological attack and like a bad Star Trek episode Clancy spends 95 percent of the book building the plot and sub-plots before wrapping them all up in last 25 pages.Is this book for you? If you are a Clancy fan you've already ordered it. If you really like `The West Wing' start with `The Hunt For Red October', it's shorter, more focused.
5 Fast paced, 100% Pure Clancy!  Great characters and Jack Ryan is pure gold!  Best character in modern fiction.  Love it!
2 Having been a Clancy fan from his beginning, when I picked up Executive Orders, I hoped to find the same class of writing and pleasant presentation as had been the mark of (most) of his prior work..Unfortunately, it seems he had either reached that pinnacle where he could demand he get paid on a "per word" basis, thus the incredible and completely unnecessary length of this work - or he had offended all possible editors of skill, and been left with a very inferior pool to choose from.  I'd find it hard to explain this ineffective work otherwise, clearly published on the hope of the merit of the Clancy name and not on any intrinsic merits of its own..This is one ponderous book...one that I had a very hard time working through.  It could have been fully and effectively covered with half the size, resulting in a much more readable and productive Clancy gripper...easier to follow, more demonstrative of the points he wanted to make, and more conducive to continuing his future unblemished..Though I must say I thought I saw it coming in a couple of his works leading up to this one, at least they were still effecive and noteworthy, though beginning to be somewhat needlessly long..It is my hope that we don't have a repeat of this exercise in literary back-sliding, and that Mr. Clancy continues to use other writers to assist him in putting his works together as he's been doing since, to keep him from the mistakes he made here.
5 My husband listens to these while truck driving.  Tom Clancy is one of his favorites, I had to order more of his cd's to keep my husband busy while driving.  He really likes them
5 i always love tom clancy books. they are great and always have awesome stories surrounded around them. they are well worth the time reading every single book he makes just because they are so interesting and the just pull you in. i love all his books .
5 Edward Herrmann does a first rate job in narrating Executive Orders.  His voice characterizations are easy to understand and keep straight.  The audio is crisp and clear and easily heard in the environment of a car.  This is typical Tom Clancy fare.  You will find yourself on the edge of  your (car) seat for the whole duration!  Well worth the purchase price as  you will listen to it again and again.  6 hours.
5 This is the direct sequel to Debt of Honor, and while not as not as good as the previous novel, is still a goo read, following the actions of Clancy's hero, Jack Ryan's, and his early actions as President of the United States, picking up about 30 minutes after Ryan is sworn in as president at the end of Debt of Honor. This story is continued in the next novel, The Bear and the Dragon, which takes place about one year later.
2 I've never read Tom Clancy before.  I've seen the movies, and enjoyed them  (THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER in particular).  But Clancy as a novelist was a  new experience.I suppose I should have seen my overall reaction coming.  When Clancy dedicated his book to Ronald Reagan, I had a sneaking suspicion  as to where the story would lead.The story has plenty of pulp promise.  What appears to be the entire American government is wiped out in one fell  swoop, and it's up to Jack Ryan to become the new president.  But Clancy  doesn't know when to quit.  He adds on layers and layers of subplots, most  of which would work by themselves, but only serve here to bloat an already  large novel.Part of the problem is that there is no sympathy created for  any character.  Every person in Ryan's entourage is decent, hard-working,  and completely uninteresting.  Any person who doesn't fit in with Clancy's  idea of a hero is treated with suspicion and contempt.  It might make a  difference if ANY character was remotely memorable, but evidently,  characterization is not Clancy's strong suit.I had higher hopes for the  action portions of the novel, but alas, I was also disappointed.  Pages and  pages of technical jargon only prove that Clancy has done his homework.  What it doesn't do is advance the plot.  Tank warfare may make for  entertaining viewing, but they make for deadly dull reading.  Particularly  if, once again, there is absolutely no empathy created for anyone involved  in the actual battles.And as for the actual backstage look at how the  presidency is run?  I am reminded of a recent newspaper critique of  television's THE WEST WING.  It stated (quite accurately, to my mind) that  when it comes to drama, the democratic viewpoint is the most dramatically  satisfying.  It leads to shows such as THE WEST WING, I'LL FLY AWAY, PICKET  FENCES, and HOMICIDE.  When the republican viewpoint is emphasized in a  drama, you get THE A-TEAM and TOUCHED BY AN ANGEL.
5 I'm  1/3  of  the  way  into  this  long  (1358 pages)  novel, it  is  a  continuation  of  the  Jack Ryan  series  as  is  classic  Clancy.  If  you  like  his  work,  you'll  love  this  one!
5 Marvellous writing,I felt like part of the Ryan family and am still devastated by Tom Clancy's untimely death. At least we have one more Ryan family book to go in December!
5 You must read Debt of Honor before you pick up this book. It is the best 1 - 2 punch in any book series .. EVER!Don't read any reviews that give you the story... it will ruin quite a bit of surpise.In 2002 this book is more timely now then when it was written. Events that you never thought would happen, have happened in real life in 2001.The only complaints I have seen about this book are the conservative ideology that Clancy has imparted to Jack Ryan. Most liberals I know are rather intelligent and should be able to take the fact that this is FICTION in stride.
4 Too much unrelated detail makes the book hard to follow and adds 20% to the length of a 1000 page book.
5 He delivers again and it just makes me want more. Reading these books was the one thing I mossed out as a youngster.
3 Executive Orders was a book with many subplots that weaved together almost perfectly at the end of the story. If any book is filled with suspense, it was this book; 90% of the subplots start without you having any idea of  what's going on. But then toward the end, you can see just how these  subplots relate to the story. This was the first Tom Clancy book I read,  and at the time, I thought it was FABULOUS, but then I read The Hunt For  Red October and realized that I just wasn't expecting much of Tom Clancy  when I read Executive Orders. When I finished The Hunt For Red October, I  also realized how much better Tom Clancy could have been when writing  Executive Orders. This is one of the reasons that I gave this book only 3  stars. The book also could easily have been shortened.If you don't  mind, I'd like to tell you my thoughts on why the book is so long:Have  you ever noticed that long books seem to be very popular or classic? War  and Peace:1455 pages, Don Quixote:1050 pages, Les Miserables:1466 pages,  etc. Are you getting my drift? I think that maybe he made it overlong  because &quot;long&quot; nowadays can be translated into &quot;Obviously  good because if it's long, it must have a big complex plot and have lots of  character development&quot;. There is a phrase that I think means a lot,  but people seem to ignore it: &quot;Brevity is the soul of wit.&quot;
3 I enjoyed the story (although it's one of the last good ones that Clancy wrote, in my personal opinion), but the Kindle edition is rife with typos.  They make for very jarring reading, unless you read at the pace of an ELDERLY turtle.  Amazon really should demand better.  So I say no to the electronic version.That said, I still strongly suggest getting a hard copy and reading it "the old-fashioned way" because this really IS an excellent novel.  I first read it several years prior to 9/11, and when I heard what had happened on that day, this book was absolutely the first (coherent) thought that came to mind amid the anger and horror of the moment.  It's a LONG book - effectively a contuation of "Debt of Honor" from the first words of the book - but it's well worth your time to read.So - thumbs down for the Kindle version, but thumbs UP for the novel - and the novel is ultimately what matters.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed this Tom Clancy novel involving Jack Ryan!  Well paced and well written.  Good detail.  The only problem is that it is hard to put down!
5 What might have seemed an improbable setup before the events of September 11 now seems eerily realistic in the light of those terrible events.Suddenly made President by massive terrorist attack upon virtually every elected and appointed official at the very end of DEBT OF HONOR, Jack Ryan must rebuild the entire US government.  His task is made even more complicated by a renewed military attack by forces who see Jack Ryan as an accidental President without the resolve to defend his country while he is rebuilding it.In Jack Ryan, though, Clancy has created a sometimes uncertain but always morally-centered character that makes for compelling reading.  He is an underdog with his heart in exactly the right place.  He knows what to do, but not always how to do it.  That makes him virtually impossible to ignore as mythic hero.But EXECUTIVE ORDERS isn't just a page-turner because of its hero.  No, Clancy's own mastery of syncopation--indeed, his ability to craft detailed stories which happen all around the world at once--makes one reluctant to stop reading.  It's a big book, but one can easily read hundreds of pages at a sitting.This is made all the more true now.  Real life has made this a bedtime story for adults.  Ultimately, it is a read that will make you feel good about America's ability to defeat terrorism.
2 As I read this book, I had the feeling that Clancy has fallen prey to his own legend. The book seemed to be two separate stories pressed into one volume--as though Clancy had the material for two distinct 500-page books, and then said to himself, &quot;But I'm Tom Clancy! I can't write a book this short!&quot; and shoehorned them into a single plotline. The effect is disjointed, and results in a book that doesn't quite hang together.More troubling is the character of Jack Ryan. In this book, he expresses so much idealism and naivite as to sound unintelligent. It is absurd that a CIA analyst would be shocked at political machinations within the government. Indeed, I had the impression that Jack was a little surprised that his country _had_ a government. I can't imagine that Clancy meant to make his hero sound so ignorant, but that's the effect.Between the rambling and the bumbling, I'm put off of future Jack Ryan novels. It's too bad, because most of them were great. But for my money, stick a fork in Clancy; he's done.
2 I loved Debt of Honor and wanted to read this as it was the sequel.  Too bad.  It never lived up to Debt of Honor.  I tried 3-4 times (over about 2 years) to get past the first 100 pages, which were painfully slow.  I kept reading mostly based on the good Amazon reviews.  The book ultimately picked up the pace and became more interesting, but it was just too predictable and lacked much novelty.  At times it was dreadful slow and detailed.  Overall, I can think of numerous other books that are far better than this one.
4 I am always impressed how much Tom Clancy knows.  He seems to be knowledgable  on every subject. I enjoy reading all of his books.
3 This book is decidedly inferior toThe Hunt for Red October (Jack Ryan Novels)andThe Cardinal of the Kremlin, but still, for the most part, it is highly enjoyable, with lots of the action and intrigue Clancy is famous for.But Clancy is not an economist, and the book really drags when he spends pages at a stretch arguing in favor of a flat income tax and a reduced capital gains tax.  He apparently doesn't notice the  inconsistency, that a lower tax rate for capital gains creates, ipso facto, a non-flat tax.  The claimed justification for special favorable tax treatment of capital gains, "to promote capital investment," is a totally meretricious argument, the sole purpose of which is to provide a windfall for the rich by shifting the tax burden to the poor and middle classes.  Making Jack Ryan promote such sleaze is out of character with the decent, intelligent man Clancy has previously portrayed Jack Ryan to be.Clancy should stick with the themes of espionage, intrigue, and  military action that he does so well.watziznaym@gmail.com
5 This very long book, held my attention and interest for a long time since my schedule does not allow long novel reading times.  It was very topical and includes many of our current problems, I would love Jack Ryan as our president!  Loved it and bought the Kindle book since I lost my paper copy on vacation.  I have also bought the next one and hope to read it soon!
4 It is action-packed. It is almost scary because it seems to mirror exactly what's going on in today's political arena. It just took a little bit too much time to actually develop the storyline. I recommend it highly, however.
5 Great book.If you want a story you can't put down this is the one for you. Jack Ryan at his very best.
5 If you've read &quot;Debt of Honor&quot;, you know the incredible trials facing the new, unexperienced president.  But that is only the begining.The new president must rebuild the shattered United States government, as many congressman and staff members perished in a disaster during a joint session of Congress.Forces from within and from without our borders take advantage of the presumed weak preseident, and weakened America.  A legal battle challenges the legitimacy of the presidency...a WMD attack on American soil is plotted...Jack Ryan, the new president, and his family must survive attempts on their lives...and world stability is threatened as other countries are emboldened by America's inability to act.The events that occur in &quot;Debt of Honor&quot;, this novel, and &quot;Rainbox Six&quot; are eerily reminiscent of recent and current events, all the more so because all three books pre-date September 11th.
5 After reading Debt of Honor, I was convinced that Clancy was a great writer. After reading Executive Orders I can only say it's even better than the previous one. All loose strings are solved, you can feel the tension as  you read the pages. It can really inmerse you in everyone of the  characters, and then it just turn into a great novel. With a very good plot  that forces you to keep reading.
4 Continuing G.R.R. Martins story in Westeros and Essos. A fantastic fantasy epic that is very interesting and captivating. Be sure to read A Game of thrones and A Clash of Kings first!
5 Sex, alcohol, murder, deception, fantasy, betrayal, lust, love and dragons!I was engrossed by the Game of Thrones series and only have *words of praise* for it. I lived and breathed the characters, often reading until 3 in the morning, on a "school night". Read it, now.
3 This is the impression I got when reading this tome. To a large extent, it is because there are fewer major events happening. With the exception of Daenerys, which, at last stop travelling pointlessly and taking baths (I've lost count of the number of times we have seen her taking baths since Game of Thrones!), there are no great battles. However, there is plenty of other things happening.One of Martin's habits, or at least it is getting into a habit, is to introduce into each of his volume some new features of his fiction world. In this one, we get at least two. The first is linked to Daenerys and to Slavers' Bay, where we get introduced to the brick slaver cities, with their square pyramids and their slave merchants. I couldn't help trying to guess what inspired him here. Perhaps it was the Phoenicians and Carthaginians. Anyway, the slave soldiers seem to be a bit inspired by the Turkish Mamluks and the Ottoman janissaries, except that they also seem to be eunuchs. Another nice piece that most "fans" have probably loved (me included) is that we see the dragons in action, fire and all.The second piece that interested me is what is happening in the war-torn central part of Westeros in the absence of major battles: the "day-to-day life" in a war-torn zone infested with marauders from all sides. This is heavily inspired by the Hundred Years War and the Wars of the Roses, with war bands from both sides digging themselves into the various castles and fortresses that they might have taken, living of the country, and raiding whatever territory is controlled by the other factions. This is very much the situation that prevails between the Twins and Kings Landing and we get a glimpse at some of the various bands of warriors and mercenaries serving on each side, and sometimes changing sides.Regarding the characters, there are a few comebacks, such as Beric Dondarion and Thoros of Myr, the Red Priest, both of which are much changed. We also see quite a bit of the Hound, Sandor Clegane, who, after escaping from King's Landing and the Lannisters, travels with Arya and runs into the two characters mentioned above. The main comeback, however, is that of Jaime Lannister, the Kingslayer, who manages to get back to his side but is no longer the dashing, rash and near-invincible swordsman that he used to be. Finally, we have the continuing adventure of Jon with the wildlings which he manages the get rid of at some cost.Anyway, volume 1 of Steel and Snow is still rather good, if perhaps slightly less so than the previous instalments.I definitely agree with another reviewer on Amazon.co.uk - this is bordering 4 stars, but not quite that - although we happen to be coming at it from two opposite directions.
4 A Storm of Swords by George R. R. Martin, a Kindle book I began reading on October 3rd. I couldn't help but notice that it takes me 5-7 days to finish a Song of Fire & Ice book. It really puts into perspective the personalized time management and patience I have for this style of writing (i.e. reading while I knit, choosing some weeknights for reading before bedtime but not others, scanning past certain characters' chapters because they tend to be chronically dull).Where Clash of Kings had the riveting ending of Blackwater, Storm of Swords has the (anontated for spoilers) double White Wedding, Auntie Goes Batty, and Mumsy Returns moments; each of which elicited many mouth-covered-in-shock reactions. I cannot WAIT to learn what happens next and, for the second time, for all the living Starks to FINALLY meet up.
5 The first book is by far the best.  I just finished the fourth.I don't want to give any spoilers, so I won't, other than this really continues the serious emotional drain this series has.  And where the magic really begins to be revealed.I recommend taking a couple weeks off between books, because they are depressing & heavy and don't let up as you go along.  The imagery is great, the battles exciting, the twists unexpected (yet a few are obvious).Also the subsequent books twist away from the original book, so if you have strong opinions about how things should turn out or think you know how it will turn out, don't.  It'll just disappoint you.  If you don't expect certain things to happen, they're more enjoyable to read - though with all the tragedy in these books, enjoyable isn't the best adjective. :)I like following the existing characters & meeting new ones and reading how the story unfolds - if you like adventure & not the standard happily ever after type fairy tale, then I highly recommend this series.Some compare Martin to the US version of Tolkien, but he seems more Shakespearean or Poesque to me with the tragedies each character faces and the emotional heaviness.  It makes you appreciate the lighter, good things in life a little more...
5 I was hooked from the very first page.  I am amazed that I am not only reading this type of novel but have ordered book two and book three.
5 I am addicted to this series of books by George R. R. Martin.  It is the best series that I have read in a long, long time.
5 As always, the author seems to enjoy leaving his readers hanging at the end of each installment in this series.  Luckily my copy came in the trade paperback format so that it may be re-read while awaiting the next installments without fear of breaking the spine and ruining the book.I won't bother to attempt a summary as there are several web based sites, Wikipedia comes to mind, that do a much better job of summarizing each book and giving in-depth background and links.Suffice it to say that when I read the last sentence, I wished that I had Volume 4 immediately at hand to continue the saga which is hopelessly addicting, despite the shabby television version.I understand that a "graphic novel"(comic book)is now available for those who prefer that format.
3 Over a thousand pages paperback I would expect more to happen. Like others say, this is the best of the lot so far, but it's a lot of words for very little. Take Arya: after going on the run, she wanders around. She grows harder and more mature but not much happens to her. She just wanders around. Is there a reason so much of the story is devoted to Jaime? He doesn't accomplish much. Bran is boring.  Martin is known for killing off his characters when you don't expect it but it doesn't seem to carry the story forward much, their story just dies with them. It would be a fair question to ask why I read this much of it in the first place. Tyrion and Daenerys I guess. They are interesting. I am trying to slog through Feast of Crows now but its rough going. It seems dominated by the boring characters. Hopefully something new will appear at the bookstores and free me from this drudgery.
5 Can't stop reading!  Am burning the midnight oil furiously!  Am totally enchanted by this series.  Now for book no. 4.
5 WOW!!!this book was absolutely amazin, outstanding, if I could give this book 10 stars I would, I truly enjoyed how history, just fell into place so hard to put down, story is about 5 generations, about the Cane's family and cane founding out about his family history, I just love aunt Mill and Aberdeen (my favorites) great job Lawrence Hill also recommend Someone knows my name also great book to read
5 This is one of the best books I've read recently.  It spans the life of a woman kidnapped from Africa as a child and follows her journey from the ship that brought her into slavery through her old age,as she becomes a much sought after and respected woman of letters.  The author has sprinkled the book with historical facts throughout and woven a tapestry of such compelling characters that I got lost in the book and couldn't put down.  I recommend this book highly.
5 "Any Known Blood" is the story of Langston Cane V and his journey of discovery through five generations of an African American Canadian family living since the 1850s in either the US and Canada. Lawrence Hill's own background provided the inspiration and depth for this multilayered family saga that he weaves like a rich tapestry of characters, places and events. The language is personal and direct, the protagonist's account of his quest interlaced with excerpts from his forebears' diaries or letters and enriched with lively and witty dialog.Hill's narrator, Langston, recently divorced and having just lost his job, is unsure who he is. He can no longer pretend that his black-white racial heritage is of little importance to him.  He begins hoping that reconnecting with his past might provide some answers his search for identity. The story moves fluidly between Langston's present life that includes some minor dramas and discoveries about the previous four Langstons. His father, who had defied the Cane family tradition by marrying a white Canadian woman, is a major public figure and anti-racist activist, as well as a medical doctor in his hometown, Oakville, Ontario. Oakville was once the end of the Underground Railroad  that enabled many, such as Langston I, to escape slavery in the USA. Langston the Fourth is a great story teller who has been imparting family legends of each generation of Canes, one story at the time.Seeking out the missing elements in the father's accounts of the past, Langston moves temporarily to Baltimore, where his aunt, Millicent, estranged from her family for many years, has much to contribute to his search - if she is willing to talk to him at all.  "Mill" is quite a character and wonderfully contradictory.  She is torn between her love for family and growing affection for the nephew and her rejection of inter-racial marriages and their offspring. Langston is introduced to much of daily life by his new friend, Yoyo, a refugee from Cameroon.  The description of Baltimore locales and its people is vibrant and entertaining, Langston's encounters with Mill are quite hilarious.  Recording the findings of his family research, Langston embarks on writing the novel.Historical events, such as the attempted take-over of Harpers Ferry by John Brown, are integrated with ease into the story, as are historical figures like Brown himself and Frederick Douglass, known for their different approaches to abolition. His description of the actual Ku-Klux-Klan attack in Ontario at the time of Langston's grandfather is hauntingly realistic. Details are as factual as possible with Hill clarifying any fictional adaptations he made for the benefit of his novel."Any Known Blood" is a beautifully crafted and engaging novel that brings many voices to life, fictionalized and real, set against the backdrop of factual events that shaped African American as well as Canadian history.  [Friederike Knabe]
5 I confess that the only reason I first picked up this book was that it was a required text for an English course I was taking. Once I started it, however, I found I couldn't put it down!Langston Cane V, a man of mixed race, is lost and adrift in both the multicultural centres of Toronto, and Oakville, one of the WASPiest communities in Ontario.  His marriage has failed, he's lost his job, and he doesn't really know who he is.  Langston decides to study his family history, and through the lives of four other Langston Canes, a variety of perspectives on black history and culture in Canada and the United States come to light.  In the meantime, Langston himself learns what it means to be of mixed race, at once neither black or white, and both.  An intelligent look at racial and historical issues, this book is also a well-written, wonderfully entertaining set of stories-within-a-story.I enjoyed this book so much, I headed out to the library to find Hill's first novel, Some Great Thing, another fabulous, yet underpublicized book.  If possible, I liked it even better.
5 This review can also be found on my blog, The Baking Bookworm [...].My Thoughts: I have to preface this review by letting you all know that I'm a big fan of Lawrence Hill after reading (and loving) his "Book of Negroes" (known in the USA as "Someone Knows My Name"). It was a fantastic book so I knew that Mr Hill had some mighty big shoes to fill in order to impress me.  My verdict? Lawrence Hill continues to amaze me with another outstanding book. While I still feel that "The Book of Negroes" was a better read this comes in as a very close second.As I was reading the book I kept trying to put my finger on what exactly makes Hill's books stand out. The only thing that I can come up with is that there seems to be such as ease in his storytelling. His story flows so smoothly, even with the jumping back and forth between generations. I am able to immerse myself into his stories and get totally and utterly captivated. That's what makes a great book for me.His characters aren't perfect but they are believable. Each of the Langston Canes has his own struggles and strengths but Aunt Mill is, hands down, my favourite character. While she is a quirky old gal, she has a deep love for her family. Reading how her personal values and attitude are at odds with the growing feelings she has for her nephew is what made her stand out for me.One of Lawrence Hill's strengths as a writer is that he has the ability to teach his readers about serious topics with such ease and compassion. The reader witnesses the struggles that the Langston Canes had from slavery, to freedom, to struggling with their new freedom (being free but not necessarily treated as equals) and finally to education and success. We also get a look into how an interracial marriage was perceived by some as well as the issue within the black community in regards to the darkness of a person's skin tone. That's a lot of different issues within one book but Hill makes it work.Now, I will admit, and warn, that there is quite a lot of jumping back and forth between the various Langston Canes. This could make the story muddled and confusing but Hill makes it easy for the reader to keep track of which Langston Cane the story is following by providing a family tree at the beginning of the book which I used often. One would think that giving five main characters all with the same name it would make for a very confusing read but Hill gives each of these men such a individual personality and voice that soon after meeting the new Langston Cane it quickly became apparent that we were dealing with a new character all his ownLastly, I love the fact that this book is partially based in southern Ontario (Oakville and Toronto). It made me proud as a Canadian to learn how Oakville was one of the final stops on the Underground Railroad and how so many Canadians and Americans helped runaway slaves to reach freedom here in the Great White North.This is a wonderfully descriptive story that sheds light on factual events in American and Canadian history as well as merging those with a truly memorable fictional tale that details the interesting lives of five generations of Langston Canes. This hard to put down book showcases the enduring spirit of people and the love of family. Recommended.My Rating: 4.5/5 stars
5 The historic novel is based on facts relating to the slave trade in North America, and the movement after the American Revolution of formers slaves, who had supported the British, to Nova Scotia.  It covers the life story of a fictitious African woman, Aminatta Dialo, telling her story in the first person in flash backs.  She grows up happily in a small African village, where she learns her mother's occupation of midwifery, or "baby catching".  She is taken forcibly from her parents at age eleven.  She is marched to the coast and loaded on a slave ship for the horrid voyage to the Carolinas.  She grows to young womanhood as a slave on an indigo plantation.  Despite the horrible difficulties she educates herself as she is clearly very intelligent.  She manages to "free" herself during the turmoil of the American Revolution.  She is hired as a scribe for the Book of Negroes (an actual historical document), which is a listing of all the freed slaves who helped the British during the Revolution.  She is taken to Nova Scotia, and although living as a free person, her life and the lives of her fellow freed slaves is not much better than her time in slavery.  I will not spoil the story, just read it, and you will not be disappointed.This is an extremely absorbing story, often filled with great sadness, but leaves you with tremendous admiration for the people who were so brutalized during this horrific period.  The author adds a section where he explains the historical facts of the time, and notes the incidents in his novel that differed from reality.
1 I have read all the X-Files books and this was my least favorite. It was boring and confusing.
3 First tie-in seen.When a tv show gets really popular, particularly of this sort, there are bound to be books to follow.In this case, it wasn't a particularly good one, unfortunately.Mulder and Scully and some hangers around have to investigate what appear to be attacks by an invisible man.  So, bit of a strange title to start with.  Just an ordinary, story, really.2.5 out of 5
4 As is the case with most prolific writers, segments of Charles Grant's second (and to date final) X-File novel Whirlwind seems to share a great deal of sequences/ideas from other novels he has written, most notably his very first novel The Curse, one of his Oxrun Station books entitled The Bloodwind, and his unique Carrie riff The Pet. Despite those weaknesses the book had enough eerie moments to keep me flipping pages as fast as I could to Grant novel's trademarked ambiguous ending.  Series fans will no doubt want to check it out, but Goblins was a lot more fun.
3 I was pleasantly surprised by this book.  While it's not entirely terrific, it is in fact a mildly amusing read if solely due to its creativity and stealthy plot twists.  I was also surprised by Grant's writing style, which is marginally better than what I expected, given the  harsh reviews I've read in the past.  GOBLINS is extremely easy to read,  but at the same time does not insult the reader's intelligence by  assaulting him with a barrage of simplistic discourse.  I read the book in  its entirety through the course of a day, off and on at a leisurely pace.  Charles Grant holds the reader's attention, while not chaining him to the  plot.  In short, I rather enjoyed GOBLINS and I would definitely read  more.The ambience of GOBLINS is rather refreshing, painting a haunting  backdrop for the story.  Grant effectively uses rainstorms, dimly lit  rooms, hidden government bunkers and quaint, small town charm to achieve  the perfect setting.  The environment of GOBLINS exudes "X-Files" and works  wonderfully with the characters and their interplay.Now, for what is  wrong with the book.  The characterization is a bit off, but not as off as  Kevin Anderson's &quot;GROUND ZERO&quot;(Please, don't get me started on  that one).  I have to concur with other reviewers on the issue of Scully's  compliance to Mulder's ideas.  While it is a welcome change, it just isn't  quite believable.  Equally unbelievable are the new characters Grant  introduces as "compliments" to Mulder and Scully's case.  They seem to be  nothing more than outlets for creative expression, a chance for Grant to  showcase his descriptive talents.  These two background characters create  weak points in the story, especially when Grant tries to write them into  the action.As deft and entertaining as the plot twists and &quot;dual  action story line&quot; are, cohesion becomes a problem.  I believe Grant  errs by keeping the reader in the dark for so long.  Had I known what was  going on in the adjacent story line, I might have been a bit more  interested, rather than becoming distracted by too many unresolved  situations.  While the overall freedom of the plot is a virtue, it also  serves as a curse, tethering the reader too loosely to the story.There  are a few more things that don't float my boat, but I won't nit-pick  because I actually enjoyed this book.  Grant does a nice job of pulling it  all together, despite some shortcomings in fluency.  While Goblins is no  night on the town, it's infinitely better than a TV dinner and Nick at  Nite.
3 Perhaps the greatest obstacle Charles Grant faced in writing this book was how to take Mulder and Scully and transport them from screen to print. On TV the director can show us Mulder cogitating for a couple seconds and then present his latest "out there" theory. Grant has the opportunity to let us inside Mulder's brain, but he also has the responsibility to keep us hooked once we get in there - what if Mulder doesn't think like we think he thinks? What if the story starts dragging? What if there's nothing there? Fortunately, Grant did a pretty good job of it, although Scully occasionally seemed a little flighty.The story, I thought, got off to a bit of a shaky start. With the first two victims being drunks, I was afraid the story was going to be a one-note moral symphony like X-Files: Ground Zero. The good news is that it doesn't. Unfortunately, the story lacks any clear Alien/Supernatural X-File connection. Human chameleons are an interesting story element, but there should at least be a suggestion of the use of "Area 42 Alien Technology (TM)". If we're to accept that it's just military research gone amok, there should be a wide range of chameleon mice, rats, dogs and monkeys. It may be the vogue thing to paint the military as pure evil, but beginning research with human test subjects is more poor science than it is sheer evilness.The book tries to be as sexy as the TV show, but never really generates any heat. Sure we get a shower scene with Scully (let your minds ponder that for a moment, lads), and Dr. Elkhorn has some kissy moments, but although rookie agent Licia Andrews is described sexily, her character never really goes anywhere with it. Not that the novel needs to get smutty, but it seems a conscious decision was made in describing her and nothing (either flirtyness or frigidity) comes of it. And, ladies, you just got a raw deal when Mulder slept in his suit; I feel for you. Maybe it's just that there are just some things you can do on Fox TV that publisher HarperPrism can't.Like any episode of The X-Files we're left with questions at the end of the book. Unfortunately, it doesn't appear we'll ever get answers to them. Pretty much everything that took place at the Jefferson Memorial remained unclear to me throughout the book. The Louisiana connection offered late in the book seemed sketchy to me, especially since it was never backed up from the military side.As this is the first novelization for the series, I can cut the author some slack (hence three stars instead of two). If it seems I expected a bit much of the first outing, it's only because I like(d) the series so much. Grant, in my opinion, certainly did a better job of this than did the author of Ground Zero. When you wear out your Season 9 DVDs and are looking for another adventure before the next theatrical release, this isn't a bad choice. It's not perfect, but it's definitely not worse than any of the more muddled TV episodes.
3 Whirlwind is the second TV tie-in novel based on The X-Files.  One can't help but compare this to the first novel, Goblins, as both books were written by Charles Grant.  While Whirlwind seems more readable than Goblins, in the end Grant once again comes up a little short.  His characterizations of Mulder and Scully saw improvement in this novel, but there were still bits of dialogue here and there that just didn't sound like something the agents would say.  A bigger problem is found in the characterization of all the other characters, some of whose actions really aren't adequately explained in the context of the novel.  The explanation behind the crimes presented here also falls short of believability.The heart of this particular X-File involves a most unusual serial killer (indeed, I would not use the term serial killer in this context - but the back cover of the book uses it).  It all started with a string of cattle mutilations, a subject even Mulder isn't very interested in.  Then a local sheriff of a small New Mexico town asks for FBI help when a honeymooning man and wife are killed in the same horrible fashion, and Mulder and Scully are initially assisted on the case by an agent from the regional FBI office.  The manner of death in these cases is enough to make Scully uneasy looking at the remains, as basically the victim's skin is shredded and removed from the body - possibly before death, as it happens so quickly.  I should mention the fact that it is very hot in the New Mexico desert - the author certainly mentions that fact a lot.  Anyway, Mulder and Scully begin the investigation, ask questions that most folks don't seem to want to answer completely, and find themselves wondering what if anything the local and extremely private Konochine Indians might have to do with the unexplained murders.Whirlwind just didn't manage to satisfy me.  The reality behind the mystery is rather fanciful, yet it also manages to come across as too pat of an answer.  A more penetrating examination of the important characters - those on both sides of the law - would have helped in this regard, I feel.  One character is seemingly dropped like a hot potato midway through the book, and another essential character's erratic behavior is explained away a little too easily for me.  I love the X-Files, but, in my opinion, Whirlwind is really just an average novel.
2 This is the first X-Files novel I have read.  I didn't expect deathless prose, but neither did I expect the writing to be quite so poor nor the plot to be so mediocre.  This would make for a very average episode were it to be filmed for television.  When I read a novel based on a television series, I want to see a story that puts the characters in situations that we can't see on the tube, be it for budget considerations, mature story content, or whatever.  I haven't read anything alse by Charles Grant, but I understand that he has a reputation as a horror writer of some quality.  If so, he must have cranked this one out in a hurry for the paycheck.
2 If I weren't an X-Files fan and didn't know how excellent the show was and how wonderful Mulder and Scully were I certaintly wouldn't run to watch an episode after this book. It was slow and very confusing at times, I found  myself wanting to skip whole pages. I missed Mulder and Scully's quick  paced banter they have on the show and found this not at all as good as any  of the episodes. I hope others are better.
5 As I said always a fan. This book was not quite as good a  story line, but still good reading
3 This book is a slight improvement (in some areas) over Goblins. The dialogue was good, but the plot was not quite up to par. Parts were confusing, but the characters were well developed. Not bad, but not five stars.
4 I read this book in just a couple of hours one eveeything. It's not a challenging read. It is also a series tie-in. That being said, don't expect great things from it. It's a book written as an episode. The characters are the characters you've grown to love. There's no deep mystery or non expectation of weirdness here. If you're looking for exceptiinal writing, well thought out plots that keep you up at night wondering if it's possible....forget it. This is XFiles. Just go into it as a nice way to pass a few hours with some people you enjoy.
3 Hey, if you remember the episode where the prisoner is caught in a tornado and then is able to wreck revenge on those he felt wronged him by scouring their bodies with the tornado, you probably don't need to read the book.  There are too many similarities in plot to ignore.  To be fair, Grant wrote  the book long before the episode aired but the X-file clearly overlaps.  There are a couple of very good Mulder and Scully descriptions that are  right on target though.  However in the end, the &quot;monster&quot; in  this book is a bit too similar to the one seen on the show.
4 Just like Goblins this was fairly interesting but the writing style kept me at a distance.  I have a couple more of Kevin J. Anderson's X-Files books, & now I really look forward to reading them.
1 I'm an X-Files fan and I saw this in Indigo, so I bought it. And what a waste of money!!! Not only is this poorly written, but characters are poorly developed. Mulder spends his time checking girls out, and you can see Charles Grant must be obsessed with Scully, because 75% of the book is about Scully. Most of the chapters start with "Scully", and Mulder is in mostly the non-important parts. Yeah, I think Scully is hot too! Can we move on please? Plus what was with all the swearing? The only time they'd cuss in the show was in the episode "Bad Blood" (where they use the S-word right at the very beginning), and even the ending doesn't make any sense.I'm not going to say another word, this is just trash.
3 I've had this book for years, having purchased it back during the series run. Now that I've finally read it some 10 years later, I am certain I would have enjoyed it more back in 1995.Others have pointed out that the writing is ho-hum at best, with awkward turns of phrase and more than a few typos (not the author's fault). There are a few moments of solid Mulder/Scully interaction, and the idea of the whirlwind itself is interesting.Here is my dilemma - if this weren't an "X Files novel" then it would be a very ordinary book. The story line is okay, the execution of said storyline a bit off, some of the plot points a bit too pat, some of the characters a bit too stereotypical. However, if this weren't an X Files book it wouldn't have been written the way it was. The real issue here is that I feel the author rested too much on his laurels as part of the X Files genre, knowing that it wouldn't have made the grade as a stand alone book.I wouldn't bother with this book - most episodes of the series do it better.
4 Typical X-Files book that is true to the series. I enjoyed it and will try some of Grant's other works. Decent X-Files books are hard to come by unless you want a graphic novel (comic book) and I appreciated this one.
1 This was not what I expect when I read an X-Files novel.I never once felt any sense of urgency or concern for the characters in the book.  Scully and Mulder felt like they were actors being played by people trying to mimic what they saw on the show.  The supporting cast of characters was so bland and undeveloped that when one of them would die I would scratch my head and try to remember just who they were.The "Goblins" were pretty boring too, not much to them other than they could change the color of the skin and they kept stabbing and killing random people.Also, is it just me or did the author spend waaaay too much time talking about what the characters were wearing and what they were eating?
5 Though I've been reading science fiction for fifty plus years, so much of it was written from the 1950s to the 1970s that I've never been able to read it all. When I'm asked why I don't read many contemporary writers, I reply that I have finished the earlier ones.Philip K. Dick is a perfect example. He wrote 45 novels. How could you read them all? This is one I missed and it might be his best.Early SF wasn't known for its attention to character, but as the 70s arrived, SF publishers decided that human psychology was the important science now and characterization was essential. Dick obviously said to himself, "Well, if they want character and psychology, they'll get character and psychology".This 1972 novel has mesmerizing characters. In particular, there's Pris, a young autistic woman (Dick says schizophrenic, but autism was often diagnosed as schizophrenia in his day). She's an early version of  Lisbeth Salander (The Girl With the Dragon Tatoo, etc), vulnerable, smart, tough, and a loner. She has a perverse, quirky, sense of humor too. Whenever she's on the page you can't focus on anyone else.The narrator of the story, Louis Rosen, a partner with his father in a modest electronic organ manufacturing company that unexpectedly becomes a manufacturer of robots, falls in love with Pris, the robot designer. He's pretty good too, if frighteningly unstable. His scenes with Pris are dynamite.Then there are the robots. Humanoid robots called simulacrum, they're among the best robots in SF - first is the Edwin M. Stanton, a robot copy of  the stern tough-minded former secretary of Abraham Lincoln. Recognizing that he has fallen into a very weird situation, Stanton escapes from the lab and sets out into the "real world" to see if he can set things straight.Then comes Lincoln himself. The paragraph in which Lincoln "wakes up" is one of the best paragraphs I've read in a long time. So is the argument between Lincoln and Sam Burrows, a rich businessman proposing to buy the new robot technology. Barrows explains to Lincoln that he is nothing but a machine, soon to become Barrow property. Lincoln, in return, demonstrates that Barrows doesn't know the difference between a human and a machine.There's a John Wilkes Booth robot too, but I won't say any more.What follows is inventive, unpredictable, and entertaining. It's a wild ride. It has some looseness here and there, and an ending that is a bit like a separate short story with the robots missing, but overall it's so good that Asimov must have envied it. Don't wait forty years like I did to read this book.
4 Movie fans who read this novel will recognize some aspects in common with the cult film "Bladerunner," which as everyone knows is the film version of Philip K. Dick's "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"  I hope that by the end of this review, you will consider "We Can Build You" to be worth reading in its own right.In some ways, this is among PKD's most science fictional work; in its first half, anyway, it concerns the impact of a technological advancement on humans of the future.  Two business partners, Louis Rosen and Maury Rock, find their electronic organs less and less saleable; it seems that their major competitor has designed an organ that impacts the audience's mood, not just its sense of hearing.  To survive, the partners develop an artificial human, hoping to use it in Civil War reenactments.Things begin to go south when they attempt to interest the time's leading entrepreneur in their project.  They get more complicated when one of the partners, Lou Rosen, falls in love with the other partner's schizophrenic daughter, Pris Frauenzimmer, who suddenly up and takes a job with the aforementioned leading entrepreneur and takes her father's chief engineer with her.  Meantime, the artificial humans, in the shape of Edwin Stanton and Abraham Lincoln, grow more human and more interested in the business that designed them, while Rosen himself begins to wonder just how human he and Pris really are.Before we judge the success of "We Can Build You" in itself, please note the notion of a mood organ, the lead character who finds himself in love with a woman utterly lacking in empathy, the character named Pris, the presence of artificial humans, and the question of what distinguishes an artificial human from a natural one.  There's also plenty of material on the colonization of the other planets and a large, threatening commercial enterprise to contend with.  Lest there was any doubt, we are indeed in "Blade Runner" territory, folks - you find each and every one of those things in the novel the movie came from, and most of them in the movie itself.  However, whereas the movie "Blade Runner" concerns what makes someone human, and the novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" concerns empathy and its limits, "We Can Build You" is about relationships, the constructive and the destructive.Let's face it - if you were reading a science fiction novel by any other author, and in its first half you read about a set of vaguely threatening androids, you'd know what to expect.  Surely said androids would rebel or go mad or take away our TV privileges or something, wouldn't they?  Not in PKD.  This time, the androids (or in the author's preferred term, the simulacra) exist primarily to help the human characters heal their psychic wounds, and to demonstrate by their comparatively humane behavior that not all humans are worth loving.  In itself, that's kind of depressing, but it's not even the truly mind-boggling idea.  About halfway through "We Can Build You", the simulacra and their story disappear without a trace, and Louis Rosen comes to understand that as destructive as his love for the schizophrenic Pris can be, his life is banal and totally inauthentic without her.  Oy.Claiming a close relationship between creativity and madness is nothing new, of course.  You might even say that PKD's own life and career is a demonstration of that very notion, to some extent.  In real life, though, things don't work out that way, as the author and his main character come to realize.  This may explain why PKD set "We Can Build You" in the first person for the first of only two times in his career.  Louis Rosen narrates the whole thing himself, and however much he insists that Pris is the source of warmth and light in his life, we can see quite plainly because of the first-person narration that her effect on him is destructive of his work, his mind and his soul.The first-person narration also allows PKD to get away with including long philosophical explanations in the middle of his narration.  This actually makes a kind of sense in "We Can Build You" - there's something about a depressed and troubled man explaining himself to the reader that's very touching, as it is not when a third-person narrator explains the same character's inner state from some remove.  Maybe PKD should have tried first person more often for the power it gave his writing.  Then again, maybe it was too painful for him to engage in.  "We Can Build You" is one of only two or three PKD novels that ends with little or no hope.  It's tempting to suppose that PKD - poor, struggling, hooked on amphetamines and often alone - could not face both his own life and that of his characters without putting some distance between them.Which brings us to the place of "We Can Build You" in Philip K. Dick's body of work.  Although this novel came out in 1972, PKD actually wrote it ten years earlier, between the Hugo-winning "The Man in the High Castle" and the classic "Martian Time-Slip".  He couldn't sell it at the time, maybe because of its more depressing aspects, but it made a good stopgap between the tired "Our Friends from Frolix 8" and the rejuvenated "Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said".  Anyone who bothers to read PKD's books in the order they were published might find "We Can Build You" a hopeful sign, just as a reminder of how powerful the author could be and would be again.Benshlomo says, Madness doesn't really lead to transcendence, but pain might.
4 While it's not "The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch," this is still a good book. Lawrence Sutin, in his book "Divine Invasions," gave "We Can Build You" only six stars. I would give it seven. I've read at least one PKD book that I considered "unreadable." This is not one of those. The first-person narrator is intriguing and his actions just fly in the face of his intentions. The secondary characters are either immediately identifiable or bizzarely remote. When deciding which PKD books to read, one must place a line somewhere. This book falls on the side of the line worth your time.
4 We Can Build You is not one of Philip K. Dick's most famous or popular works, and even many hard-cores disparage it, but this long-time fan thinks it a near-masterpiece. I certainly understand why many dislike it, and it is easy to see why he could not get it published originally; it is at once typical of the most controversial and often frustrating aspects of Dick's writing and atypical in missing much of what makes him loved. This seems destined to satisfy no one, but certain fans will take to it enthusiastically. No one should read this first, but anyone who has been through a dozen or so Dick novels and several dozen short stories should try it; some will be very pleasantly surprised.We is in many ways transitional; written just after The Man in the High Castle, Dick's first real success, it is a somewhat uneasy mix of his mainstream 1950s novels, which were not published, and the 1960s science fiction ones that made his name. Most SF trappings are gone; there are few futuristic gadgets, and space travel is mentioned only very tangentially. The basic setting is essentially early 1960s America, which leads to some interesting - and somewhat distracting - anachronisms considering the then future setting. The major exceptions are what Dick calls simulacra - robots all but indistinguishable from humans. This of course recalls his masterpiece Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, and the works have several other similarities. The difference is that this was written just after the Civil War centennial, and without giving anything away, suffice it to say that this whet Dick's muse. As in Do, he uses simulacra to explore one of his perennial themes - What does it mean to be human? He does so variously and quite deeply, provoking extensive thought. Perhaps surprisingly, the touchy situation also leads to much humor, particularly in dialogue. This may be Dick's funniest book, which truly says much; I lost count of how many times I could not read for laughing, and it took great control not to wake my sleeping wife.The book could have easily been a masterpiece in this regard, but Dick drops the thread about two thirds of the way in, never resuming it. Here we come to readers' ambivalent evaluations. Such things are not uncommon even in Dick's best work, but this is particularly jarring and clearly causes much frustration. We cannot know the reason, but it is important to remember that, for all his genius, Dick was essentially a pulp writer; paid by the word, he wrote quickly and almost never revised. He may have simply lost the thread or - struggling with mental illness, various drugs, money woes, relationship problems, etc. - even forgotten it. Whatever the case, I believe it can be justified artistically.Which leads to the other main thread - mental illness. "What is sanity?" is one of Dick's other classic queries, and this is one of his fullest expressions. It explores many mental illness aspects, from onset to the worst episodes to treatment; all are thoroughly questioned and somewhat critiqued, provoking significant thought. Dick clearly had great insight into the issue, portraying it with great sensitivity and nuance; at least as importantly, he writes with the understanding and authentic air only experience can give. That this is almost Dick's only first-person novel is very significant here; the protagonist's apparent downward spiral into insanity is one of the most believable and affecting ever written. His self-documented fall is terribly moving; immersing us in it directly is far more absorbing and realistic than outside narration could have ever been. This is where abandoning the other thread is justified; as so often, Dick pulls the proverbial rug out from under us when we expect it least, making us feel the narrator's disorientation, confusion, and doubt as we could not have otherwise. Many will of course think this does not atone, but surely it at least goes a long way.It is worth noting that this is one of Dick's darkest works even with all the hilarity. The depiction of human relations is bleak; little hope is held out for meaningful communication, while alienation, ennui, and general existential despair are rampant. Dick's love depiction is particularly barren; this focuses more intensely than perhaps any of his other works on a single male/female relationship, and the book as a whole can even be legitimately seen as a sort of very off-kilter love story. But what a depressing one! The book shows love to be an all-encompassing, utterly undeniable force but not in the usual fairy tale way. We instead see just how painful it can be when is not reciprocated - or, rather, when it is frustratingly impossible to tell if it is. This love is cruel, near-mocking - even sadistic. The object of the narrator's love is the mentally disturbed Pris, one of Dick's most fascinating characters; seemingly knowing she was too intriguing to languish, he essentially recycled her in the Do Androids character of the same name. She provides yet another mental illness angle and makes the love portrayal even subtler. It is a tribute to Dick's talent that we truly feel for her and the narrator despite their almost total lack of traditional virtues - or even of sanity.The book's darkness largely emanates from the love depiction, but there are few bright spots. The ending is so ambiguous that the serial editor apparently felt the need to extend it, which is very understandable from a conventional standpoint but undercuts Dick's vision. Uncertainty is the book's essence; the ending is surely intentional, even if abandoning the first thread was not exactly so. Dick returned to these themes many times, often with more resolution, but this is more than compelling in its own right and arguably at least as legitimate.In the end, We is essential for fans because it is in many ways unique in Dick's vast canon, though it also has many classic strengths. All will enjoy the latter, and the former just may be an even bigger treat.
5 Lots of people seem not to care for this book, which (along with Flow My Tears... Dr. Bloodmoney and Deus Irae) is one of my favorites, hands down.First of all- In this man's honest opinion, Phillip K. Dick is the ONE bona fide (as in Oh Brother- 'he's bona fide!') GENIUS of American letters, post-WWII. No one can match his breadth of vision, his uncanny ability to make his perceptions and dreams work while undermining one's sense of reality and existence as objective. He makes the lit-theory sci-fi jargonmeisters (Pynchon and Delillo, for example) look like the drivel-laden frauds they so clearly are; they write solely to ensure that lit-theory academics can continue their pointless little lives in their ivory towers and not have to work for a living- a relationship that works quite well for all involved, save those few elect that cherish honest literature... I see that damn blurb on many reviews of Dick's works- "The poor man's Pynchon,' what absolute tripe. In fact, Pynchon is the dickless man's Dick.At any rate, ranting aside, this little novel, published around the time of the first centennial passing of our Civil War, concerns a man (Louis Rosen) who is drawn into a relationship with his business partner's daughter (Pris Frauenzimmer): a cold, spiteful, driven, vicious woman (Dick's prototypical 'dark-haired girl,' a theme that reoccurs throughout his fiction) who creates simulacra of historical personages. These people she creates- one Abe Lincoln, and one Edwyn M. Stanton (Lincoln's Secretary of War) represent two potential poles of human experience- Stanton quickly adapts to the new world and becomes a shrewd advisor to Rosen's company while Lincoln can't really adapt to the world or the fact that he's a robot version of himself. Lincoln eventually becomes an idiot savant/mentor to Louis, who gradually succumbs to insanity and loss...It's an odd novel, not of the typical sci-fi adventure mode, and not your standard Dickian, hard-working everyman tries to figure out the nature of reality-type scenario. Still, it's an inimitably poignant little novel, one that ends abruptly and without much resolution. I really dig it. It also anticipates that buffoon Baudrilliard by about a quarter century.Here, I love this quote; "It was as if Pris, to me, were both life itself - and anti-life, the dead, the cruel, the cutting and rending and yet also the spirit of existence itself. Movement: she was motion itself. Life in its growing, planning, calculating, harsh, thoughtless actuality. I could not stand having her around me; I could not stand being without her. Without Pris I dwindled away until I became nothing and eventually died like a bug in the back yard, unnoticed and unimportant; around her I was slashed, goaded, cut to pieces, stepped on - yet somehow I lived; in that, I was real. Did I enjoy suffering? No. It was that it seemed as if suffering was part of life, part of being with Pris. Without Pris there was no suffering, nothing erratic, unfair, unbalanced. But also, there was nothing alive, only small-time schlock schemes, a dusty little office with two or three men scrabbling in the sand..."It's a novel about a man loosing himself and clinging to the one real thing he knows- being tormented by a beautiful enigma. I can relate if you can't...
4 This is a transitional work between Dick's mainstream novels of the 1950s and the science fiction of the 1960s, as the science-fictional element is de-emphasized in favor of psychological themes. Written in 1962, its first book publication was not until 1972. Critics usually unfairly regard We Can Build You as an artistic failure because what seems to be the main plot of the book - the story of a company that produces simulacra, or lifelike androids of historical Civil War figures - bit by bit dissolves into exclusive focus on the narrator Louis Rosen's obsessive love for his partner's eighteen-year-old daughter, Pris Frauenzimmer. Certainly Dick will confound those expecting conventional narrative unity, for this is an experimental novel masquerading as straight science fiction. It's really kind of a Trojan horse, an sf cover on a book about desire, obsession, and madness. As Louis descends into schizophrenia, the center of interest shifts from the projection of human life on the inanimate through building simulacra, to the search for authentic human feeling within oneself.
5 Not one of PKD's famous novels, but one of the very best of the rest (see my review of NOW WAIT FOR LAST YEAR for more on this phenomenon).  Dick actually wrote this in 1962, immediately after THE MAN IN THE HIGH CASTLE  and at the same time as MARTIAN TIME-SLIP, when he was at the height of his  powers.  It was conceived, written, and shopped to publishers as a  mainstream novel with an sf setting -- and, like Dick's brilliant 50's  mainstream novels, it failed to sell (a setback which had a huge influence  on his subsequent career).  When Dick wrote DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC  SHEEP in 1966, he recycled the unforgettable dark-haired girl character,  Pris Frauenzimmer, as Pris Stratton.  And when his life fell apart in the  early 70's, he finally sold the ms. as a magazine serial.This is, I  believe, the only PKD novel written in the first-person.  Our hero, Louis  Rosen, falls in love with a young schizoid girl.  There's the usual amount  of brilliant PKD sf speculation (in this case, about what it means to be  human), wedded seamlessly to the very best portrayal of a male-female  relationship in all his fiction.  The dialogue is priceless; there's a  scene in a hotel room that has more quotable lines than most writers can  muster in a career.There are two aspects to the novel that may bother  people who read only sf -- but they are central to the conception and true  nature of the book (as both an sf novel and a highly experimental  postmodern novel, without compromise to either).  First, it changes horses  midway, leaving a lot of plot strands dangling (what Kim Stanley Robinson  calls Dick's &quot;broken-backed&quot; novel structure), as our narrator  becomes more and more obsessed with his femme fatale.  In the same way,  there's not a lot of *plot* closure in the ending, but there's total  emotional closure (a lot like real life).This one will break your  heart, as it undoubtedly broke PKD's, in more ways than one.
2 Man...what a disappointment.  I've always loved PKD very much, so, as always, when I picked up this book and started reading, I had no doubt that it would be yet another mind-altering masterpiece.  What I got was no such thing.It's obvious that Dick wasn't quite sure what he wanted it to do with this book; whether he wanted it to be about simalacra, or about Louis's relationship with Pris.  Either of these would have been worthy of further pursuit, or indeed, the two could have been intertwined, each shedding light on the other.  Dick utterly failed to do this, however, in spite of the back cover copy's feeble attempt to connect them.  Instead, he simply drops the simulacra thread midstream, without ever having done anything meaningful with it.  I very much get the impression that he just sort of got bored with it (which I can understand; it's certainly not his most inspired idea, even if it could have worked), and so he decided to focus the last part of the novel on Louis and Pris--which in turn fails to make any point, perhaps in consequence of the fact that most of it has been concentrating his energies on the simulacra.  Furthermore, the first-person narrative seems pretty weak, to be honest, and half-hearted.  I never *really* believed the narrator, the way I do with most of Dick's protagonists.We Can Build You really shouldn't have been published in its current form; there ARE some good things here, but it desperately needs a rewrite or two to filter out the bad.  I don't think anything Dick writes is entirely without merit, but this is about as close as it comes.  It's a mystery to me why Vintage chose to republish this, specifically, when there are so many better Dick novels long out-of-print.
4 We Can Build You (or The First in our Family as PKD delivered it to his publisher) is Dick's first sci-fi themed book after a string of straight ones that were all rejected publication. In it he's still very much in his "straight" element but this time setting the events in imaginary 1982, adding androids/simulacra and writing in first person. It's a book about love and insanity that shares the mood of A Scanner Darkly and the theme of Martian Time-Slip. You'll definitely like it if you recognize the relationship as one of your own.
4 The same things some hate about Dick's writing I tend to enjoy, and they're all in this book.For one thing, it changes focus halfway through. I can see a publisher rejecting the book because it does not follow the three-act structure - we open with questions about whether the character will save his business by marketing androids; we end by finding out whether he can save his own sanity and resolve a love-hate obsession with the androids' co-creator, the troubled, dark-haired jail bait, Pris. But to me this feels like the form reflecting the subject. Both love and madness tend to overwhelm everything; you forget all the work with which you've been distracting yourself up to that point. If you are a man, your work life, even if it's futuristic work, is only ever meaningful insofar as it can get you closer to the girl or give you an identity, so falling in love and losing your mind are really the same struggles one experiences at work, only played out more dramatically.It's a conscious tactic in many of this writer's novels to start with a relatively straightforward SF premise only to disintegrate it and rearrange the pieces into a picture of strangeness and introspection that Dick's matter-of-fact prose always seems to be trying to describe as objectively as possible. This feeling of not being in the same novel you opened simulates the experience of either a psychotic break or an epiphany. In a famous essay Dick says as much: "I like to build universes which do fall apart. I like to see them come unglued, and I like to see how the characters in the novels cope with this problem." Even so, I think there may have been another, pragmatic reason. While he was alive Dick couldn't get his non-SF novels published, yet no matter how strange his SF novels became, his publishers seemed more confident in finding an audience for those as long as they could put a robot on the cover. Dick's workaround for this problem seems to have been creating novels that contain a few SF props superimposed on a largely contemporary setting.Nevertheless there's a subtler SF element than the androids in this story - the perception of mental illness in the world of the novel is the same as ours to swine flu - scary, yet common and generally treatable. Schizophrenia comes up so often in conversation that characters sometimes refer to it as "'phrenia". It's an interesting projection based on the decreasing stigma about seeking therapy, and people becoming more open about discussing their psychological difficulties.Even so if you read science fiction primarily for interesting visions of the future I don't think you'll finish this book. For me what saves it is that for all the unresolved questions at the end, Louis Rosen's emotional plot line does have a beginning, middle and end. He may break down and hallucinate but even in his fantasies about Pris he makes her aloof and emotionally unavailable, because that is part of what draws him to her. I wrote about Geoff Ryman'sThe Child Gardenthat its unpredictability made me lose interest - sometimes the more anything can happen, the more it feels like the story is about nothing. Dick takes this risk, too, especially in his obsession with unreliable narrators and the fact that almost anything described may not be real, but what keeps it grounded is that the characters are still limited by their personalities - as Dick put it in an interview, no matter how "fantastical" his fiction gets, "in the final analysis the people must be people".
4 This novel was first published as a serial in "Amazing Stories" magazine, in issues dated November 1969 and January 1970, under the title "A. Lincoln, Simulacrum." The only difference between the 1972 DAW Books edition (reprinted by Vintage) and the serial is that the magazine's editor, Ted White, was dissatisfied with the ending and (with Dick's permission) wrote an addition to the last chapter. When the DAW edition came out in 1972, Dick cut White's ending, but the rest of the book is the same. I read the "Amazing" version when it was first out (at the tender age of fourteen), and have loved this author's work ever since. It's a shame Dick didn't live to profit from books like this, which he sold for a few thousand dollars. (I've always preferred the title "A. Lincoln, Simulacrum" -- it's more accurate.) But Dick's heirs are now getting his royalties, so it's staying in the family.This novel is not one of Dick's best, but it's one of his good ones. Abraham Lincoln is a major figure in it, although it's a mechanically recreated version of the real man. (It considers itself to be Lincoln, though.) The main character, as usual in Dick's work, is caught in a bizarre situation beyond his control, and the book ends without resolution (as White sensed). Since it adds to Dick's treatment of the paradoxical nature of reality, I do recommend it.
5 &#34;...refight the Civil War with robots; yes...&#34;But multi-millionarie Barrows, of BARROWS ENTERPRISES, has a different outcome in mind. WE CAN BUILD YOU revolves around employees of MASA ASSOCIATES seeking financial backing from Barrows for their simulacra manufacturing. Once a faultless replica of Abraham Lincoln is produced, all bets are off as to what the 'machine' will ultimately be used for in terms of profit. All the while, a man is falling in love with a girl showing early symptoms of schizophrenia, leaving him to question his own sanity, given the incremental surge in robots, and a heart tied to someone losing touch with reality...The real joy of such a story is the scrutiny of language; terms like 'man' and 'animal' are dissected. PKD continued his daring embarkment of 'what does it mean to be a human?' Although a reshaped lens observes the machines of WE CAN BUILD YOU than the one of Deckard from DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP? While the prose is very straightforward and unpolished, it's always PDK's ideas that excite the imagination.Philip K Dick novels are always economical storytelling; never afraid to scratch away at the superficial status quo, while always asking the boldest and deepest of questions, and confronting the strangest and darkest of personalities.Can double-dealing be found behind the rich and motivated?Can love be found inside the mentally unbalanced?Might there be emotions beyond the wires and tubes of a machine?Tell us Phil...
3 We Can Build You, by Philip K. DickHaving read several works by Mr. Dick, I tend to consider myself a fan, though a hesitant one. His writing at the best of times is only perhaps slightly better than the norm, but what saves his works and turns them to masterpieces is that under the story is a foundation of solid granite; they are always based on magnificent though experiments, and it's difficult to read one without spending an exorbitant  amount of time afterwards just ruminating on what he's suggested.Unfortunately, this work is not one of his better. It's about a man named Louis Rosen who owns a company selling organs (the musical kind) across the country. Unfortunately, organ sales aren't what they used to be, and so his partner comes up with a new idea: create a bunch of simulacra and recreate the Civil War (though why one would want to recreate the Civil War is never really explained).So they create a couple of simulacra, one of which is Abraham Lincoln, and try to sell the idea to an investor. Rightly, he tells them that their idea is stupid. However, he does come up with another use for the simulacrum. And then the main character goes bat-shit crazy (sorry for the language, but I think it best conveys the confusion I felt while reading), both literally and figuratively; I had no idea what was going on and eventually he gets diagnosed with schizophrenia. And somehow gets "cured", though I have no idea how.I feel like the author was just trying to do way too much for this novel. He's got ruminations on the difference between man and animal, between machine and animal, between machine and man, between reality and fantasy, between medicine and music, and I'm probably forgetting some. He's just all over the place in this book. And while the first half of the book was pretty good, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone except perhaps the most hardcore Philip K. Dick fan. Go read one of his better known works instead.Memorable Quote:'I wonder how a spider feels when someone breaks its web to pieces.''It probably says "drat",' I said.'No,' Pris said solemnly. 'It gets furious and then it abandons hope. First it's sore -- it would sting you to death if it could get hold of you. And then this slow, awful blind despair creeps over it. It knows that even if it rebuilds, the same thing is going to happen again.''But spiders get right out there and rebuild.''They have to. It's inherited in them. That's why their lives are worse than ours; they can't give up and die -- they have to go on.'For more reviews like this, please visit[...]
4 Throughout his adult life Philip K. Dick struggled both in his fiction and in his life with the questions of what it meant to be human and what it meant to be sane/insane.  WE CAN BUILD YOU puts both of these on display, though the latter more than the former.  This is somewhat surprising, because once the simulacra of Edwin M. Stanton is revealed, the reader would anticipate that the novel would deal, much like DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP? (with which this novel shares "mood organs," robots, artificial people, and a major character named Pris) with what it is that makes a person a person.  Instead, even after the introduction of the Lincoln model of simulacra, the novel veers sharply to the question of sanity/insanity.  This is by no means the only Dick novel to apparently start off with one theme and end up with another.  As any student of Dick knows, he was not a careful writer, despite his unquestioned brilliance.  He was paid by the word, providing not only no incentive for careful rewriting, but a disincentive to spend much time on any particular novel.  Even the best Dick novels are rough and a bit unfinished.  Some of them are just a mess.  In this particular case, we apparently are being given a novel about artificial life and what it signifies, but it quickly is taken over by the notion of what it means sane, as Dick's protagonist quickly descends into an inability to hold onto reality.I personally think Dick should have stuck with the simulacra in his novel instead of shifting over to questions of insanity.  The two most interesting characters in the novel, by far, are the Stanton and Lincoln simulacra.  There were moments where it appeared that the self-consciousness of the Lincoln would become the dominant aspect of the novel, but despite being teased in that direction, Dick refocuses on the deteriorating mental state of his main protagonist.A few themes dominant most of Dick's work:  what is reality?  What does it mean to be insane?  What is the status of a drug altered consciousness?  What does it mean to be human and what challenge does artificial life represent to that?  Dick also returns again and again to corporations, which is largely sees as evil.  His villains are apt to be business tycoons and that certainly holds true here.  Interestingly, while one might imagine that his critiques of consumerism and the corporation would make him open to Marxist (though not Communist) critiques, he personally was intensely paranoid about the Soviet Union.  For instance, the great Polish Sci-fi writer Stanislaw Lem (who many literary critics believe should have been considered for a Nobel Prize in literature) considered Dick (as do I) the greatest Sci-fi writer who ever lived.  Dick reciprocated by imagining Lem at the heart of a conspiracy to destroy his life, orchestrating an investigation into his (Dick's) life from his home in Poland, which Dick saw as ominously behind the Iron Curtain.  Nevermind that Lem was not a dedicated Communist.  Dick's mind was so messed up by his intense drug use and insanity that was either natural or drug-induced that he did not perceive Lem as an ardent admirer, but a passionate, dedicated enemy.WE CAN BUILD YOU, therefore, comes very much from Dick's ongoing struggle with his own tenuous grip on reality.  What makes Dick amazing as someone writing about insanity is that he could stand back from his own experience with it and view it almost objectively.  It isn't unlike the protagonist of A SCANNER DARKLY, in which a police officer -- who is investigating a seller of a drug whose main side effect is to make the user intensely schizophrenic -- doesn't realize the he is himself the person he is investigating.I don't believe that WE CAN BUILD YOU is one of Philip K. Dick's finest novels, but it is a typical one.  And although not one of his finest books -- it is not one of the books that has been collected in the three Library of America volumes dedicated to his major novels -- neither is it a bad one.  And trust me, Dick has some very bad books.  I think it is a good if not great book, but one that shows how interesting Dick could be even when he was not at his best.  There are several such books, like TIME OUT OF JOINT or CLANS OF THE ALPHANSE MOON or even the very early THE COSMIC PUPPETS that cannot be counted one of his best novels, but that nonetheless are books that repay reading.
5 There are two stories here, that intertwine but not deeply.  The first is classic "spinning ideas out wildly with no tidy plot thread at center" PKD, imaginative stuff about human-built simulacra of Abraham Lincoln and Edwin Stanton.  The book posits their construction and then goes off into unpredictable intrigue revolving around their existence.The second thread in the book may be less palatable to casual readers, but I find it quite interesting as well.  It's about the central character's love for a young schizophrenic girl/woman, or perhaps his love for the terrifying image of womanhood that he projects on her.  It's like "Lolita" with a few more layers of psychological refraction placed on top of it.  There are some remarkable portions in this thread, unhealthy characters allowed to narrate their own story, and I find it to be amazing if not pleasant reading.
4 Although Philip K. Dick's 28th sci-fi novel, "We Can Build You," was first published in book form as a 95-cent DAW paperback in July 1972, it had actually been written a good decade before, and first saw the light of day under the title "A. Lincoln, Simulacrum" in the November '69 and January '70 issues of "Amazing Stories." As revealed by Dick biographer Lawrence Sutin, the book was in part inspired by the centennial of the Civil War and by a simulation of Abraham Lincoln that Phil had recently seen in Disneyland. In the novel, we meet a pair of businessmen in Ontario, Oregon--Maury Frauenzimmer and (our narrator) Louis Rosen--who sell pianos and electric organs and who are about to branch out into a new line of endeavor: mechanical "simulacra" (think: robots) of various Civil War figures. When their Lincoln and Edwin M. Stanton creations come to the attention of Trump-like real estate developer Sam K. Barrows, a plot is hatched to start sending simulacra to the newly developed moon, as a lure for future settlers. But things get a tad complicated, when Louis falls for the dubious charms of Maury's mentally unstable daughter, Pris, and the mechanical creations start evincing more sanity and compassion than their creators....To my great surprise, "We Can Build You" turns out to be a very sweet, sad, insightful and amusing Dick book; quite lovely, really. It is a comparative rarity in the Dick canon in that it is told in the first person, although Louis becomes an increasingly problematic source of information as the novel proceeds. The book FEELS different from many of Dick's others, perhaps for that reason, although many of the author's pet tropes--cigars, German words, classical music, drugs, the slippery nature of "reality," Cheyenne, Wyoming (of all places!), insanity, divorce and suicide--are again trotted out. The book has loads of excellent, naturalistic dialogue, and the relationship between the two Jewish partners is a touching one. The story, in truth, almost feels as if it could have been written by, oh, Robert Heinlein, with its near future (1982) setting and simply written style; almost, but not quite. The book grows increasingly strange and unsettling toward its conclusion (Phil Dickian, I believe the expression is), as the thrust of the plot veers away from the sci-fi elements and decidedly toward the realm of the mentally disturbed; "I, Robot" meets "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." Phil's novel has some typically wonderful imaginative touches, such as Louis' mutant brother with his upside-down face, the U.S. president having been married 41 times (36 more than Phil would attain to!), and the intravenous birth-control injections. Pris, grating and obnoxious as she is, yet remains a marvelously complex character; Sutin calls her Dick's "most intense exploration of his 'dark-haired girl' obsession." An 18-year-old ex-schizophrenic, she is certainly an unusual object of adoration for the 33-year-old Rosen; still, they do make for a dynamic, feisty couple. And the discussion that the mechanical Lincoln has with Barrows, regarding what makes a man a man and a machine a machine...well, one might have to wait another 15 years, till the second-season "Star Trek: The Next Generation" episode "The Measure of a Man," to hear a more compelling argument regarding the rights of a mechanical construct."We Can Build You," likable as it is, is hardly a perfect Dick novel. Several plot threads just peter out, and even the central story line involving the simulacra is left hanging in midair. Phil makes a few slips in his book, too (Lincoln was 31 in 1840, not 29; Attis was a Phrygian god, not a goddess), although he seems to have taken especial care with his general prose here; it is more mature and well crafted than in many earlier books. In all, kind of a special addition to the Dick canon, and one that I actually found pretty moving. Way to go, Phil!
4 In the body of PKD's works this is not a masterpiece, but neither is it insignificant.  My review is based on rereading the Ace book edition of 1970, a paperback plagued by misprints.  Mostly these don't matter but I struggle to make any sense of the third paragraph of page 140 - perhaps someone else can resolve it for me.  I was also a bit confused about New Men - sometimes they seemed to be marked by huge heads, but at other times their identity as New Men was obscure as in the case of Thors Provoni, the returning astronaut bringing, well, was it God - our friend from Frolix 8.  But then another character (it had to be Nick) was involved in this dialogue:'God is dead,' Nick said. 'They found his carcass in 2019.  Floating out in space near Alpha.''They found the remains of an organism advanced several thousand times over what we are,' Charley said. 'And it evidently could create habitable worlds and populate them with living organisms, derived from itself.  But that doesn't prove it was God.''I think it was God.'Of course Thors is the name of a god, albeit a Norse one and he is supposed to be bringing salvation for Old Men (and Under Men, the underground resistance) against New Men and Unusuals.  But nothing is simple in the worlds of PKD.  The ending is magical as characters entwine in unexpected interactions, the last few pages seem to go on forever - there is so much potential and I kept wondering how can I be so close to the end of the novel - so much could still happen, and what does happen is so unexpected - like Beethoven introducing a new theme to the last movement of the fifth just before the symphony ends - opening further possibilities.  Of course, just like life, things are rarely resolved and even if one thread of life does resolve, it can only do so in the presence of an infinite variety of other ongoing threads.
2 Boy, this thing is a mess.  Philip K. Dick never had much discipline in his writing; he churned out text at warp speed so he could keep himself in food and lodging, so some of his books are kind of junky, but really, now.It's not going to be easy to summarize this plot, just because it's so all over the place, but let's see how we do.  In Frolix 8, the world has fallen into a sort of two-party tyranny, alternately under the control of the New Men - mutant geniuses - and the Unusuals - telepaths, precogs and the like.  No one lacking one talent or the other has any access to power whatsoever.All this suppression has, of course, given rise to a rebellion calling itself the Under Men.  One of the rebel leaders, Thors Provoni, has been traveling in space for some years looking for extraterrestrial help.Into this circumstance comes Nick Appleton, one of PKD's plebian main characters.  He begins his adventure as a law-abiding if unsatisfied citizen.  He shortly finds himself involved with the Under Men, caught with forbidden rebel literature and on the run with a teenage girl named Charley.Pretty soon you, the reader, have to keep in mind Nick Appleton's battle with the planet's telepathic ruler for Charley's attention; the disintegration of his marriage and his flight from Charley's alcoholic boyfriend; Provoni's philosophical dialogues with the mammoth alien enveloping his ship as he heads back to Earth; and a partridge in a pear tree, presumably.  PKD could barely juggle that much material when his Ace Books editors only permitted him 180 pages.  Stretched over at least a third again that much space, it can't help but disintegrate.  And his conclusion makes it all too plain that the man simply didn't know what to do next - it's the worst kind of last-minute twitch.  He really should have set this one aside for a few months and let it settle, but he probably couldn't afford it.Indeed, the whole book seems tired.  It's got a lot of PKD's great themes, plot points and characters, but in a worn out state.Nick Appleton, for instance, is a solid PKD working class hero, like the television salesmen and electricians and grocers and such who people his earlier books.  Appleton, however, is a tire regroover.  He likes to think of this task as a form of art, but in truth it's a cheat and possibly deadly, as he himself comes to realize.PKD had also dealt before with world dictators, some cruel, some ill, some alien.  Willis Gram is maybe the worst of the bunch, a man who uses his enormous power for his own petty ends. This might even add some spice to the story, but Gram emerges as a flabby arrested adolescent who conducts pretty nearly all the planet's affairs from his bed.In his middle period, PKD loved to set several plot strands going at once and bounce around amongst them.  Most of the strands in Frolix 8 simply fizzle out - we never learn what happens to Appleton's wife and son, the gigantic alien leaves off philosophy the minute it lands on Earth and starts behaving like a mindless weapon, and all the threats disappear without another thought.PKD's gift for sympathetic characters seemed to almost desert him in this piece.  There's a lot of talk among these characters about saving the world from the purest of motives, but the actual desires on view seem uniformly petty - sexual gratification, alcohol dependence, the will to power. These people are unattractive even in a physical way, let alone in any other.He missed a couple of his most fertile themes this time round, too, especially the unsteady nature of reality and the effect of drugs on one's perception of that reality.  What little there is in Frolix 8 on those topics feels like an afterthought.  Could have been removed without any impact, and maybe should have been.And finally, he evidently couldn't even bring himself to remember his details from page to page.  Provoni has been traveling anywhere from ten to fifteen years, for instance - the number changes periodically.  There's anywhere from 10,000 to several million New Men and Unusuals on Earth - that changes, too.  And other examples abound.Now, this is PKD, and even his failures provide more food for thought than many another author's successes, but taken as a whole Our Friends from Frolix 8 is for PKD completists only.  If it wasn't for one thing I'd be tempted to dismiss it as an utter waste of time, but wait until you see what ultimately happens to the New Men and Unusuals.  Not only does it redeem the exhausted, washed-out feel of the rest of the book, it looks ahead to what PKD was about to become.PKD wrote Our Friends from Frolix 8 in 1970, at the tail end of a time when he could complete up to five or six novels per year.  No wonder he was burned out.  Clearly, he realized that something needed to change, and it sure did.  Tired and messy  as this book is, the compassion at its close leads directly to the conclusion of his next novel Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said, maybe the most touching evocation of human despair since the novel was invented.  Out of this transformation of his creative process, he produced A Scanner Darkly and the VALIS trilogy.  Now, that's the way to conclude a career.In 1970, PKD had only a few years to live, but he used them well.  If he needed to plow through Our Friends from Frolix 8 in order to do that, I say it was worth it.  Suppose we look on this novel as his way of clearing the decks and let it go at that.Benshlomo says, Every so often you have to throw the past overboard.
4 One of Dick's less ambitious novels, this story is a bit thin compared to the density and dazzling complexity of his books of the early 1960s, and perhaps a bit of weariness with the standard conventions of science fiction is showing. The author seems very casual about controlling the plot and characters; both seem pretty random much of the time. We may not prize this novel as a masterpiece of structure, but it is typical Dick, involving and entertaining. The story is set in a world controlled by superintelligent "New Men" and telepathic "Unusuals," who reign despotically together over the "Old Men," or ordinary unevolved humans. In due course Thors Provini returns to Earth with a "friend" for the Old Men in the form of a telepathic, protoplasmic alien with extraordinary powers. This semi-divine intervention overturns the predictable order of the world and replaces it with a vision of the evolution of consciousness of every living thing on the planet toward some unimaginable fulfillment. In this preoccupation, it is congruent with Dick's other interesting novels of the late 60s such as A Maze of Death and Galactic Pot-Healer.
5 Another fine work from my favorite guy that's got great action, pacing and, above all, characterizations.  The people in this story were very real to me and the society in which they live seemed very plausible.  The meandering and intersection of the characters' fates is set against an impending climax that we know is coming from the beginning of the story and when it arrives, it's thrilling and very moving.  I loved this one.
3 Ok, so Frolix 8 isn't PKD's best book, but it has been criminally ignored nonetheless. The frequent references to the Yeats poem are good, and the plot itself is reasonable. I realise that this was a 'need money, must  produce' book but that doesn't mean it isn't a good read.
2 So you know those books or movies that are so interesting at the beginning and introduce so many complex factors, the whole time you are excited thinking "how are they going to resolve all these different strands?! This is going to be a great ending!"Well, unfortunately PKD bobbled it this time. An utterly unsatisfying end. I would have regretted reading the book, if not for one delightful paragraph. Let me save you 240 pages:"God is dead,' Nick said. 'They found his carcass in 2019. Floating in space near Alpha.''They found the remains of an organism advanced several thousand times over what we are,' Charley said. 'And evidently could create habitable worlds and populate them with living organisms, derived from itself. But that doesn't prove it was God."Do not read the book if you are intrigued by this, there is nothing else about it.
3 This novel had some potential, but ultimately left me unsatisfied. The elements for a decent story are here: there are essentially three interwoven subplots, but even while reading it the connection between two of them felt especially forced, contrived, and unrealistic. I was able to suspend disbelief, but just barely.On the bright side, there are a few amusing parodies peppered throughout, such as a satire of drug culture (substituting subversive literature for drugs) and an interesting characture of messianic expectations. I liked his dystopian setting, too.On the down-beat, PKD's attempt to create "new" slang was very annoying, and since most of them were variations of '60s counterculture lingo, it ironically ended up coming across as dated. That can probably be overlooked/forgiven by most readers, but the ambiguity of the ending was much harder (for me) to swallow. Although I suspect PKD figured this ended on a "happy note" I'm not convinced that's actually the case... some sense of closure that "everything works out for the best" (or not!) would have helped. [explaining/justifying that, though, is a major spoiler, so sorry for the vagueness.]Overall, if you're new to PKD, don't start with this one. If you're a PKD completionist (like I am) then give it a go, but keep your expectations reasonable. This isn't on the par of UBIK, High Castle, etc. but at least it's not as bad as Zap Gun or Cosmic Puppets. In all honesty, if anyone other than PKD had written this, I'd score it much lower.
5 this book is excellent and definetily underrated. i felt it is so much better than many PKD &quot;classics&quot; like UBIK or even Martian Time-SLip. To understand the art of PKD is to understand that all his best works deal with the quest for identity of Human and understanding of Absolute. The message of this book is most strongly felt in last pages, when two evil characters are transformed by the mysterious power of &quot;friend from frolix8&quot; and proceed to explain to the reader first the meaning of human life and then the idea of God. The beauty and subtelty of the way in which PKD expresses his complex views on life can be somewhat surrealistic &amp; challenging for general reader (&quot;incomprehensible weirdness&quot; etc), but some people (like me) will just be unable to forget these wonderful passages that emerge from and illuminate PKD's strange stories of Everyman in the evil technocratic world, searching for salvation. Must-read!Also essential: &quot;Do androids dream of electric sheeps?&quot;, &quot;Divine invasion&quot;, &quot;Three stigmata of Palmer Eldrich&quot; and of course his self-confessed masterpiece &quot;Scanner Darkly&quot;.
5 22 century ,Man evolved into the &quot;unusuals&quot; ,which posses psi powers ,and &quot;new man&quot; with I.Q's that go off the scale. Regular people are called &quot;old man&quot; ,and although 90% of the populance ,they are being ruled by two political factions of the &quot;new man&quot; and the &quot;unusuals&quot;. A fine work from the master. the book has a sense of tension to it ,like you know something's going to explode.  The human society is pictured in the clear ,grim ,even psychodelic colors of P.K.D.Although not one of his hit masterworks ,&quot;Our friends from frolix 8&quot; has one of the most vivid and interesting future societies ,that P.K.D wrote. Very recommended.
2 In my continuing effort to read all of Dick's work, I picked up the finally-reprinted Our Friends from Frolix 8 this week.  What a disappointment!I really like Dick's writing, and I have even enjoyed some of his less than stellar novels, like The Zap Gun or Clans of the Alphane Moon.  This one, though, just doesn't do much for me.  It's got a decent premise and some decent (but predictably Dickian) characters, but it just doesn't pull it all together and produce.The climax was too long in coming and, once it came, was a let down.  For the most part, I'm just glad to have finished it.
3 This book reads like a combination of story elements and themes that he had used before, strung together well enough to keep you turning the pages, but not well enough to be great literature.  Probably the biggest thing wrong with this book is that it's not really likable.
4 Unlike Philip K. Dick's previous two novels, 1969's "Ubik" and 1970's "A Maze of Death," his 27th full-length sci-fi book, "Our Friends From Frolix 8," was not released in a hardcover first edition. Rather, it first saw the light of day, later in 1970, as a 60-cent Ace paperback (no. 64400, for all you collectors out there). And whereas those two previous novels had showcased the author giving his favorite theme--the chimeralike nature of reality--a pretty thorough workout, "Our Friends" impresses the reader as a more "normal" piece of science fiction...although glints of Dickian strangeness do, of course, crop up.Of all the Dick novels that I have read, "Our Friends" seems most reminiscent of 1964's "The Simulacra." Both books feature the downfall of entrenched, duplicitous governments and sport an extremely large cast of characters (56 named characters in the earlier book, 48 in the latter). In "Our Friends," the Earth of the 22nd century is ruled by an oligarchy of two ruling groups: the New Men, bubble-headed mutants with tremendous IQs, and the Unusuals, who command various telepathic, telekinetic and precognitive abilities. The overwhelming ruck of Earth's billions, the Old Men, are precluded from any sort of government/civil service employment and must make do with their menial-labor positions. In the book, we meet Nick Appleton ("the name a character in a book would have," he is told), a "tire regroover," who is shaken out of his mundane existence when his young son "fails" a rigged civil service exam. Swiftly becoming politicized, he drinks illegal alcohol, buys anti-government tracts from a feisty 16-year-old tomboy, and is soon embroiled in the thick of things in this Big Brotherish, dystopian world. A good thing, then, that Thors Provoni, a space wanderer who had left Earth a decade earlier to seek help for mankind's lot, is about to return...with a "90-ton, gelatinous mass of protoplasmic slime"; the telepathic, titular friend from Frolix 8.Swiftly moving and filled with humorous touches, simply written yet complexly plotted, alternating furious action sequences with thought-provoking discourse, "Our Friends" is yet another delightful Dick confection. It finds the author dealing with some of his pet topics, such as divorce (Appleton leaves his wife during the course of the book; Council Chairman Willis Gram plots to kill his), Carl Jung ("A Maze of Death" was replete with Jungian subtext; he is referred to by Provoni as "the greatest of the human thinkers"), drug use (drugbars are ubiquitous in the novel, and every citizen seems to possess the knowledge of a Walgreens pharmacist) and 20th century fighter planes (this pet subject of Dick's had received especial attention in previous works such as 1967's "The Ganymede Takeover" and "Ubik"). Nick is an especially well-drawn everyman-type character, and the reader's sympathy for him never wavers, not even when he strikes his wife, Kleo (named after Dick's second wife out of five). No dummy, he recognizes the music of Victor Herbert and has a Yeats poem, "The Song of the Happy Shepherd," committed to memory. Charley, the young tomboy "gutter rat" with whom Nick has a rather icky love affair, is also memorable; in one sweet scene, the two make love in the one acre left of Central Park, and she spins around in circles, arms out, when Nick tells her that he loves her.The book, however, good as it is, has its share of problems. As in "The Simulacra," several plot threads and characters simply peter out, never to be mentioned again. Worse, the author seems to be guilty here of a good deal of inconsistencies over the course of his story. For example, there is the matter of dates. We are told that the New Men have been in power for 50 years, since 2085. So the book takes place in 2135, right? But wait...Provoni later tells us that he was 18 years old in 2103, and now he's 105. So it's 2190, right? But hold on...his 10-year-old spaceship is a model from 2198. So it's 2208, right? See what I mean? Elsewhere, Dick mentions that there are 10,000 New Men and Unusuals on Earth; later, that figure changes to 10 million! He mentions that the army commands 64 different types of missiles; that figure is later said to be 70! He says that the government maintains detention camps in southwest Utah; later, they are said to be in southeast Utah! Provoni lands on Earth 1 1/2 hours earlier than expected; later, he is said to have landed eight hours earlier than expected! And perhaps most surprising, history buff Dick mentions that the name "Ashurbanipal" was Egyptian, whereas it is fairly common knowledge that the dude was Assyrian! (Granted, that last COULD be a bit of ignorance on Provoni's part.) Anyway, you get my point. Dick and his editors surely would have benefited from another rereading of their manuscript before publication. But despite all these many gaffs (very uncommon for this author, to my experience), the book is still as fun as can be. And really, how can you dislike any book with a 90-ton mass of telepathic slime?
3 I got 80% of the way thru this book and put it down because I really didn't care to find out what happened in the end.  It wasn't bad per se but I wasn't really into it I guess.  Had promise I guess.  Just not for me.
4 I've always been fairly indifferent to atmosphere in books. Sure I enjoy when a book has a good atmosphere but I'm not `hurt' if a book doesn't have one. Dust's atmosphere was great. It was very spooky and unsettling. It wasn't outright scary because that's pretty easy to do. Instead, it's just a little something off. You can never quite put your finger on what it is but it's definitely there. It kind of reminded me of Stephen King (or at least what I remember his books are like. It's been years since I've read one.)I really liked the blending of reality with just a hint of magic. You go for most of the story assuming it's a realistic fiction book. Most of the events could have easily happened. There's nothing fantastical about a man capturing a town's attention or the craziness that comes with a drought. Once the magic or fantastical elements make an appearance, it still feels normal. Don't get me wrong, it still feels magical but it also feels very real. Like those events could happen. That was very cool.The bottom line? I really enjoyed it.
5 It's hard to complain about a book I got for free. This one is a great read and very interesting. I recommend it.
5 This was a deeply different style of story writing for me. Very visual and intense. I felt drawn into another realm and could not put the story down.
4 Told from the perspective of a boy during the Dust Bowl, and the hopes of the townspeople when a charlatan comes to town - except he's stealing the souls of the children apparently to sell to aliens. Still, it demonstrates how deeply our hope goes and what we'll do and believe when so teased.
3 A relatively slow paced book. Not bad, but it felt too subtle and understated for its own good. There were times when I expected things would get tense, but it never felt like it did. I imagine if this were to be made into a movie, there would be lots of scenes of the charcters looking very meaningfully into the camera, or off into the distance. Without that though, what's here doesn't really bring that out.I also felt that while the villian was doing appropriately horrible things, I never got the sense that he was doing more than a nine to five job. Not sure how else to explain it; maybe if the boy had seen or sensed more of the evil in Abram, things would have been more interesting.
2 I kept reading because I rarely leave books unread. The concept was interesting but the writing just didn't grab me. Towards the end, I couldn't suspend my disbelief. I was left unsatisfied. I didn't really feel for the characters in the book. The setting was very well-developed. I do admit that curiosity did keep me going to a point despite the writing style and lack of connection with the characters but toward the end, I was just reading to get done.
5 This book has everything the characters the plot the suspense the writing was quick to read a perfect ending to boot highly recommended it
5 As other reviewers have stated, Arthur Slade's writing flows effortlessly.  His characterizations are believable, the premise compelling, and the descriptions satisfying.  I was spellbound by this page-turner as his characters were by the protagonist.  This novel for a young adult audience would make a great screenplay.  All the elements are there.  I do believe it would be difficult to improve the story in any way by translating to the screen, but I would definitely go to see that movie.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed Dust. The storyline was original; a creepy spin on events taking place in a small town during the drought of the 30s told through a boy's eyes. The storyTELLING was amazing - Slade can craft a sentence that slides right into your soul - and sticks there. I'm still thinking on lines like "I feel sorry for you. One morning you will get up and your dreams will stay in your pillow." A hypnotizing read.
4 Dust digs its hooks into you right from the beginning...This fantastical story with its twists and turns kept me captured, but did make me feel like I'd missed something. It was easy to read, and well written. It reminded me of Stephen King stories (great company), but without the horror and complexity. Very much worth a read, but not more than once.
4 This was a pretty good book, kind of different.  The characters were good, the story OK.  More of a fantasy.
5 There is something in the human psyche that makes us want to avoid bad news, to turn away from what is really happening and pretend that something better has come along to solve all of our problems.  When an exotic rain-maker promises this little dust-ridden mid-western town of the Dust Bowl era a solution, they do not question, they do not hesitate, they do what people do everywhere- they believe what they want to believe.  Except for a few who can see through the Dust to the reality behind it.  This novel, Dust, by Arthur Slade, takes his characters on a journey into a magical world.  Turn one way and you enter a dreamy, dusty town where your senses gradually become dulled, your thoughts diminished and you forget your starting place in reality.  Take the other road, the harder road less traveled and you enter upon a true quest to pursue the truth and free the dreamers.  Slade's young hero represents the less hardened mind, the mind more determined and able to see into the magic and spy out the realism behind it, the mind willing to fight off deception, to NOT believe, and to risk all to anchor its world to reality.This is a beautifully written book, with a dreamy pace that carries you along but is sprinkled with the urgency of the hero and his quest.  It is a masterful complexity of subtexts- magical realism, parable, the psychology of the inner landscape, the classic hero's journey not down the classic river, but through the Dust Bowl.
3 If Ray Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes met Phillip Pullman's The Golden Compass in the world of Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath, you might end up with something like Arthur Slade's YA novel Dust.  Or at least, you might end up with the basic premise, setting, and tone/style. Falling short of these classics is no great fault, but unfortunately I'd say Dust falls a bit short even in less rarified company.  It isn't a bad book by any stretch; it is in fact quite solid and has some lovely moments, but overall it fell a bit flat for me.Set in the Canadian prairie during the Dust Bowl 30's,  the book opens up with a chilling introduction to a small child about to go missing. Later we meet the young boy's older brother Robert, who will be the protagonist of the novel. At first  his parents and the townspeople are traumatized by the disappearance as one might expect, but when a stranger (Abram) arrives in town promising to build a machine that will bring the rains, Robert's brother is seemingly forgotten even by his parents.  Even when more children start disappearing, the townspeople--adults and children--don't seem to notice. The one exception is Robert, who seems at least partially immune to Abram's mesmerism. Determined, suspicious, and growing into maturity and independence, Robert learns Abram's dark secret, as well as the horrifying reality of what is happening to the town's children.  Though Robert prevails in the end, the victory is far from wholly happy.Robert's characterization throughout is one of the book's strengths. From the very beginning, when he's introduced to us as a boy sneaking unapproved reading (John Carter of Mars, Treasure Island) given him by his more-lenient uncle to the way he walks "the cusp" as one characters says between "dreaming and reality," between childhood and adulthood, to his stubborn determination to find out what happened to his brother, he is a character that feels wholly real and worth following. His Uncle Alden, who not only reads but writes science fiction and weird tales, is another well-drawn, if relatively minor character.  Abrams, meanwhile, has at times some of that delicious Bradbury-like sinister magic surrounding him. Unfortunately, at other times he comes across as flat or overly-explained or worse, overly-expository.  Other characters, such as Robert's parents or school friends, are comparatively flat, even before they are "mesmerized" and are supposed to act that way.The plot itself is equally mixed. At times there are wonderfully tense moments and the very end of the book is both tense and moving. On the other hand, the story moves a bit slowly in places and the culminating conflict between Robert and Abrams is strangely plotted so as to rob it of a lot of excitement. At times, the book is a little slowed by over-exposition, and sometimes Robert's point-of-view slips the constraints of a child's mindset.  The prose is mostly solid if not eye-opening for the most part. But when Slade is describing the physical and mental details of the setting itself--the plains and the drought--the prose snaps into sharp, searing precision, as when he describes the grasshoppers that seem smaller than last year due to the lack of rain or the way a truck appears out of the road's heat haze.Dust has a likable main character, a very intriguing setting, and if the style and plot is a bit mixed, it leans over more on the positive side than the negative.  It is, however, one of those YA books that is really best read and enjoyed by that YA audience, as opposed to one of those with more crossover adult appeal.
4 I am NOT a fan of paranormal fiction, preferring my thrillers to be well-grounded in flesh-and-blood villains, but this book was a welcome exception. Robert's brother disappears, a stranger appears promising rain, and all the people around him begin acting strange. His parents seem to have forgotten his brother ever existed, farmers abandon their own fields to work on a magical "rain tower," and the children begin having dreams of a magical butterfly. Set in Canada, it actually evoked visions of Oklahoma and the dust bowl (maybe because that was the only references I had.) Robert is a compelling narrator as we see the events unfolding through his eyes, and it is a story as much about his coming-of-age as it is about the stranger in their midst.  Because I don't care for supernatural explanations, I was less interested in the actual climax of the book, finding it a little too pat and unbelievable, but I was willing to overlook that for the compelling characterization of Robert and the beauty of the small town life. This will not be a book for everyone, but I found it to be a quick read and it held my interest throughout. I get the comparison to Ray Bradbury, and it also could easily have been a "Twilight Zone" episode, with the same gentle feel to it. I would try another book by this author!
4 Until I read the nominations and awards particularly "An American Library Association Best Books for Young Adults" I did not realise that this was a book aimed at young adults and being far from young I thoroughly enjoyed it.The book gets off to a slow start and slowly develops drawing the reader into the story. I liked the way it was written from a child's point of view with his fascination for words and the way their meanings were interpreted by him. The description of the characters and the locations was very good. Fairly early in the story Robert's (the central characters) brother goes missing and until I read further I thought it strange that no one seemed particularly interested however all becomes clear as the story developed. It is a fairly short story but I would have liked it to be slightly longer so the ending although satisfactory could have had a bit more detail.In summary a great book suitable for all ages, don't be put off because it is a young adult book.
5 I loved this book.  I felt the same as many other readers, why haven't I heard of it.  The imagery was very graphic, I felt as if I was in a film at times.  The closest parallel I can make is Stephen King's Needful Things.  The evil characters in each story are very similar.  This is easy to follow and great preparation to adult fiction.
4 Set in Horshoe, Canada during the Depression, this novel is as spare and practical as the dustbowl farms it describes.  Robert is an 11-year-old, who loves reading and enjoys words to the extent that you can practically see him rolling a tasty word around in his mouth like a fine wine.  One day his little brother Matthew disappears on the way to town, and Robert seems to be the only one who remembers Matthew or cares that he's gone.  His parents, after their initial panicked search for Matthew seem to forget he ever existed.  A new man, Abram Harsich, comes to town around the same time and promises the townspeople that his new machine will make it rain and save their farms, save their entire lives.  The whole town pitches in to work on the rain machine, almost like they are under a hypnotic spell.  Only Robert is able to resist, but can he make the town and his parents remember their missing children?  Where are the children and what is Harsich up to?A quick read, the sparse language manages to describe so much, with so few words.  It's hauntingly beautiful and not overly explained.  The reader is left to sketch in some of his or her own explanations.  For some kids, that's great, it's a jumping off point, some kids really want things completely explained and may want to talk about this afterwards.  The whole question of "could my parents really totally forget me" could be upsetting for younger children.A good, quick, quality read.
3 I had high expectations concerning Dust, and was quite disappointed.It was certainly well written, and at the beginning I was hooked and wanted to find out what was happening. But it degenerated into something unrealistic, weird and silly. The ending was a complete let down.
3 I'm not sure what I expected when I started reading this book but it was one creepy story.  And, it stayed creepy all the way through.One summer day, seven-year Matthew disappears while walking to town.  His brother Robert feels a terrible sense of guilt.  After all, Robert was too busy reading to go with Matthew when his brother asked.  At first, it seems as if it might be an accident but when authorities discover other children from town missing, there is clearly something sinister at work.  At first, Robert's parents and the entire town are paralyzed with grief by the loss, but they slowly seem to recover and then forget all about their missing children.  But, Robert doesn't forget.Newcomer Abram H. has something to do with Robert's parents' forgetting and something to do with the missing children.  Robert just knows it.  But, how is all this connected to Abram's promise of a rain-making machine?It had a very Stephen King/Neil Gaiman feel to it for me, although the horror was toned down a bit for the adolescent target.  The story was creepy most of the way through but descended into out-right horror at the end.  It's kind of like a psychological thriller, but....weird.  It was a very interesting setting--takes place during a 'dust bowl' depression in Saskatchewan, Canada.  I always pictured the dust bowl as an American phenomenon so that part was enlightening.  I liked the book but I don't know how well adolescents would like it.  It seems a long wait for the eventual pay-off.
5 Dust was a great look at the life of a child who is on the cusp of manhood when strange things start happening in his life. Set in Canada in the dust bowl of the 1930s, Robert is visited by tragedy and then his whole life seems to be turned around when a stranger comes to town and asks all of the adults to join in a too-good-to-be-true venture. Robert seems to be the only one who sees the stranger as dangerous, but no one is listening to the 11-year-old, and is it really worth the effort?
3 I enjoyed the book, but it called for too much suspension of disbelief on my part.  It would probably be more interesting if I could have believed more in the characters presented, but they were all a little hollow.  In the end, nothing much really happens and nothing is ever explained.
5 This wasn't a long read. I finished this up in a day, but really liked it.  It was just spooky enough to hold my attention without being super creepy.  I liked the way things were described and Robert's confusion at everyone's irrational behavior.  This reminded me of the feeling I get from episodes of the Twilight Zone or Outer Limits.  Nicely Done.
5 I really enjoyed this book. I liked the story and it was very well written. Good job Mr. Slade, keep up the good work.
5 Yes, I am a grown up. And a published author. And this book was incredibly good for its type. Well worth the read, interesting and engaging.
5 I'm still not sure whether this is written for chidren and I got it by mistake or what. A fantastic story, so easy to read yet the descriptions are so vivid. The story comes alive and the scenes are so real. An amazing book.
5 When I started reading this book, I was thinking that it wasn't really "my kind of book," but, I kept reading it because it was so beautifully written.  The view point from a child that actually seemed very child-like. The captivating story unfolded into a wonderful fantasy climax that had a good yet chilling ending.  I loved this book and will seek out more by the author, Arthur Slade.
5 This is an extremely well written 'Coming of Age' story.  I have owned this book and had it on my list of books to read for well over a year and now find myself wishing I had moved it UP much sooner. Author Arthur Slade has made a believer out of me.Mr. Slade's use of descriptions is extremely well done. I am not at all familiar with Canada, but he made me FEEL as if I either knew it, had grown up there, or truly SHOULD go there to see it. While the book's time line is during a time that we here in America would call a "Dust Bowl", the imagery Mr. Slade is able to project gives one knowledge that the land he describes won't ALWAYS be barren... nor has it always been as it is in the story.The story, itself, is a mixture of Horror, Fantasy, Sci-Fi and Growing Up and as I am past a half century young, I can attest to the fact that it would appeal to peoples of ALL ages. In spite of the spooky, scary parts of the book, it left me with a smile on my face and a good feeling in my heart. It is a book worth reading again... and again. It is a book that, if I had read it while young(er), I would have taken it with me EVERYWHERE, had my nose in it every moment I could, and would have borrowed my father's flash light to read this book under the covers, forgoing sleep to enjoy the tale instead.  If others wanted to borrow my copy I would have had a very hard time giving it up, as I would have wanted to re-read it many times before I could let it out of my sight. It TRULY IS THAT GOOD.To explain further of this book's worth... I am the type of reader who PURPOSELY reads a book slowly, wanting to savor it, not hurry it, let it simmer inside of me as I read it. I also read several books at once. I found myself hard put to read this book slowly, and even HARDER PUT to open the other books I was also reading during the same time period. I found myself staying up way too late and getting up extra early to read a few pages... I found myself having to FORCE myself to put the book on hold to let me think awhile about what I had read least I finish the book too fast... I Thoroughly enjoyed this. I'll be reading it again, soon. (If I were a Librarian I would purchase SEVERAL copies of this book for others to enjoy!)
4 I wish there had been more books like this when I was younger. Thankfully, Arthur Slade has provided me with a slice of childhood wonder and adventure with this creepy little. Filled with acts of pure terror and immense bravery, it will entertain you--without a doubt.
5 Magical Realisim at its best.  Robert's younger brother vanishes on the way to town.  A rainmaker soon appears.  Things aren't what they seem and people are forgetting what they ought to remember.  All but Robert.  Arthur Slade imbue's DUST with magic to spare.  A  wonderful read and not easily forgotten.
1 Unless the author wanted it to be so deadpan from the beginning that I could not get to anything interesting I see no reason to make myself suffer anymore of the book.DELETE
4 I read some books with my husband, and he picked this one because the author is Canadian. It was a quiet little book, but that is okay. The prose were wonderful. Even my husband who wouldn't read anything at all if I didn't have him read books with me commented on how much he enjoyed the writing. The story is simple and seemingly exists in the normal world with a touch of the fantastical. The target audience are children which is evident by the &#34;PG&#34; quality of the story, but it was still very engaging.
3 I'm not really sure how I feel after reading this book. It started off great, with a hint of mystery. The author's writing style flowed by easily and it was packed with great descriptions and similies. However, after 65% (kindle version) of nothing but beautiful language, I got bored and wanted to finish the book just to see what would happen. And then I found out what happened and was unsatisfied. Is that all? Maybe I missed something, but to me a novel is more than great writing.
5 the beginning of this book gives a teeny tiny hint of what's coming, but you will be very surprised at the delicious wickedness and surprises of this plot.  Not a wasted line here.  Everything contributes so pay attention.  I would love to see this as a movie.  It's mysterious, scary, thought provoking, and I couldn't stop thinking about it long after I put it down.
5 and creepy at the same time. A young hero, but how? A strange story that is hard to put down and gives you chills at the same time.
4 If you like &#34;science fiction&#34; this is a book for you. It was just realistic enough. The characters were likable.
4 Here's my deal... I met Arthur over on the KB boards and after a conversation about advterising, I decided to buy Dust.I was sucked in from the first chapter and couldn't put my Kindle down.  Each chapter builder in a perfect pace - no crazy cliffhangers or anything misleading.  The characters were real and story was just awesome.The length is perfect for this type of story and for $2.99, it's a steal!Buy it... NOW! :)
5 It's been a while since I've read a novel that most will classify as literary, though it does have some sci-fi/ paranormal elements, so reading Dust was like gentle spring rain to my reader's mind. Cleansing even. Slade has a winner here, and I wouldn't be surprised if this novel continues to find a broader fan base and further attention.It's got some elements that remind me of Steven King. Not for style of writing or Carrie-like gore. No, the similarities are more subtle than that. Slade has a unique ability to craft something new and not already written in a thousand different ways, like early King works. The creativity in this novel proves that. And choosing a child to tell the story through- genius! The story is that much better for it I'm sure.This took me a little longer to read than normal, but only because I forced myself to slow down, to savor the unique story, the interesting point of view, the perfect turn-of-phrases. I even highlighted a few of them in my Kindle app and usually I'm too lazy for that. So, great book... I certainly recommend it to just about any one.
5 I couldn't put this book down.  It caught me early and held on tight.  I really enjoyed the fantasy.  The way the author was able to create a being who could control others.
5 Descriptive and carefully written so you feel involved and aware while not predicting or knowing everything. Nicely developed and realistic. I very much enjoyed this story.
4 This is a very original and creative story, but it did get a little confusing at points. A fun read.
5 Didn't expect much from this download -- it was free -- but I really enjoyed this book. The tone and the setting rang true. The story was intense -- hard to describe, but the writing is almost hypnotic in the way it drew me into the story. I don't know if that was deliberate by Slade (given the methods used in the book) or just that I was in the right frame of mind to get so drawn in.
5 I was very impressed with the voice of the character and the perfect balance of description and action in this book. The dusty setting is so realistically portrayed that I got thirsty while reading and even sneezed! The story satisfies on many levels as a paranormal mystery, an immersion experience in the life of a farm boy, and also as an exploration of the power of dreams as motivation and inspiration. Though this book is targeted to young people, I recommend it to anyone who wants to escape the real world for a while, and then rejoin it with a new perspective and appreciation.
5 Dust won the Governor General award for children's literature in 2001, and rightly so. This novel is refreshingly different, with strong character development, and unexpected plot development. I couldn't put it down.
4 It was a good book to read!  Very different plot (made me think along the line of Stephen King )I only wish a little more time and detail had been given to the ending.  For the great build up of the story the ending was disappointing.  Just too rushed.I would recommend it to science fiction lovers.
5 It's a prairie town, some people have cars, most drive horses.  It hasn't rained for a long time.  Young Matthew is going into town to spend his nickle on candy.  He is dreaming of candy when a pickup appears down the dusty road.  Abram Harsich convinces Matthew he should hop in and get a ride to town.  Matthew vanishes off the face of the earth.Eleven-year-old Robert dreams of science fiction novels and longs to read "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea", but he's Matthews older brother, and he hears the pickup coming down the road.  He can't tell how he knows but he sees the pickup in his mind.  He thinks he should have gone into town with seven-year-old Matthew.  "Seven years old is too young to walk to town.."Abram Harsich begins a campaign to convice the whole town that he can build a rain mill and end the draught.  His fancy mirror show begins to cast a spell over the the people of Horseshoe.  More children go missing.  But the spell is one of forgetting.  Somehow, only Robert remembers.This book is simply marvelous.  YOU will be spellbound, too.
5 Although I liked this book very much I am struggling to explain why.I guess it was sort of weird and imaginative in a good way.
4 This story was a quick read, had a science fiction aspect to it (which I usually don't like) but it was so well written it kept me reading to the end.  I would recommend it to anyone who likes a story that is believable even though you know it isn't really true.  I would read more by this author, think he did a great job on this one.
4 Review from the wife:She said it was decently written and edited, though she wished there was more of a personality to the writing. She felt like the bland writing and dreamy concept just didn't carry the story along enough, after the first chapter, and the middle part dragged more than it should have. She enjoyed it, but didn't really connect with it. It just didn't have that &#34;can't put it down&#34; grip. Not bad, and an enjoyable read, just, it didn't draw her in.
5 The author has a strong voice resonating the wide open plains of farmland. The story is intriguing enough to carry the reader to its resounding end.
4 Dust definitly doesn't bore you, this book was a very eerie and interesting read. The characters the "Traders" should have brought up a little more before thier arrival to make the story more climactic (maybe Robert could have been alone with Abrahm one more time prior to thier reveal); and also the climax seemed a little rushed. Besides that I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to all ages.
5 This book is a little creepy and if you are afraid of the other worlds, than you may want to say away from it, but it the spiritual world and good and evil does not fase you than I recommend you read this book.  It s all in what you believe in.
5 Arthur Slade uses his young hero's imagination to good effect in Dust.  Robert, 12-years-old, is a voracious reader, and his imagination and his suspension of disbelief are the keys to the story's success.  If John Carter can go to Mars just by reaching out his hand and thinking about it, then Robert can unravel the mystery of the disappearing children.Dust is a nice mix of SF, fantasy, horror, mystery. I like the way Slade uses Robert's fanciful thoughts to build atmosphere, like the smoky pool hall, which might be just above hell.  :)Well-written, reminescent (sp?) of Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes.
4 This was a very creepy novel!  I had some problems with it at first, thinking it was disjointed and cloudy.  Then I realized that it was perfect for being written from the POV of a child and the cloudiness made of the people in the novel who were under the spell of evil.Very strange but good!
5 Mixing historical fiction with sci-fi and mystery is no easy task to pull off successfully, but Arthur Slade hits a home run with "Dust".  It's the story of a small town in Saskatchewan during the Dust Bowl era of the 1930s.  A strange man comes to town with promises of being able to create rain, and almost everyone falls under his spell, despite the fact that several children in the area disappeared at the same time the strange man arrived.  Only Robert, the bookish brother of one of the missing children, and his Uncle Alden are able to resist the strange man's persuasion and do something to stop him.The pacing and atmosphere of this novel are excellent.  I found myself dropped right in the middle of the dusty Depression-era farming community every time I opened the book.  Robert is an entirely believable protagonist, struggling with conflicts that are both internal and external.  Though geared toward young adults, I'd strongly recommend "Dust" to anyone of any age who enjoys mysteries, historical fiction, coming-of-age tales, or sci-fi.
5 I give this book a 5 star rating as it is well written and has good character development coupled with great descriptive text.  The author takes you on a journey into a "town gone bad" and weaves a story which has you believing from start to finish. Whether you are a fan of the fantasy genre or not, you will not be disappointed in this book. King, Koontz... move over, you have competition.
5 The professional editorial reviews and blurbs for this book make it sound like it's just a spooky and atmospheric sci-fi outing. That doesn't really do the book justice. Just as Canadian author Charles deLint pioneered urban fantasy and Canadian Guy Gavriel Kay perfected vaguely medieval alt-world fantasy, this Canadian has elevated something you might call prairie/rural fantasy. Heat, dust, parched empty prairie - that is the background for this tale. It is in many ways reminiscent of Ray Bradbury's innocent mid-West settings, and it is no accident that this novel has been compared favorably to Bradbury's "Something Wicked This Way Comes".This book would be a great intro for a middle grade reader to magical realism. It has a grounded young hero. It addresses, indirectly, the transition from childhood to adulthood, and what is gained and what is lost along the way. It has some passages of writing that are just beautifully crafted. The plot is helped along with bits of exposition that aid the reader in following what's happening and it has a resolution that makes sense and doesn't leave the young reader at loose ends about what just happened. The book is brief enough that it is not a demanding slog, and there isn't a lot of complicated world building. It seems like it might be a bit of a chancey choice, because some readers will probably get the book and some won't, but this is certainly the kind of book that marks a real step up in quality and sophistication for the right young reader.Plus, I'm a real sucker for wandering Jack tales, (the soulless wanderer), and this book fits nicely into that tradition. A real find.
4 "Do you like being young?" the man asked.Matthew didn't understand the question. He examined the stranger's smiling face. After a moment's thought he answered, "Yes.""I was never young," the man said. He tipped his hat back, showing glistening white hair. "Do you believe me? I was never young."Seven-year-old Matthew is pleased to be walking to town alone. He's busy envisioning how he will be waiting on the corner when his family finally pulls up with their horse and wagon. "See, Mom, I made it. My legs aren't too short," he'll proudly yell.He's surprised as can be to hear a strange truck pulling up behind him.Matthew never makes it to town that day. Only his hat is found.His eleven-year-old brother, Robert, is stunned. Could Matthew have been swallowed by the wind or adopted by a coyote? Sometimes he's even forced to admit, "He's not coming back. Not ever. He's probably dead, okay? Dead. Like a little sparrow that falls out of the nest."Then, a mysterious stranger arrives in town to reopen the decrepit old movie theater. He offers visions and promises that tease and tempt the townsfolk. Only Robert and his Uncle Alden seem resistant to the man's charms. "What a snake-oil trick, all smoke and mirrors," scoffs Alden.Soon, people are forgetting things...things like Matthew's disappearance. Only Robert remembers, and he is determined to find out the truth.Robert is a great character...a boy in love with books and reading (particularly forbidden titles by Robert E. Howard) and a fondness for new vocabulary words, like 'dessicated' and 'cacophony.'The sinister stranger, Abram, is another memorable creature, and his scenes with the doubting Robert are electric."You are on the cusp," Abram explained, "between boy and man, the dreaming and the reality. You must have had a million great dreams in your lifetime. Of armies and swords, candies and milkwhips, wizards and unicorns. The cusp." His lips curled into a soft, sad, smile. "I have never had a dream. Not once.I feel sorry for you. One morning you will get up and your dreams will stay in your pillow."While not exactly a horror novel, there is a terrific,creepy 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' vibe about this book. It was suspenseful, well-written, and I really enjoyed the unusual setting of Depression-era Saskatchewan for a fantasy novel.
4 I have not read anything by Arthur Slade, and this was a pleasant surprise.  It was maybe a tad juvenile for me, but I still read it with interest.  It was a unique story but could have been fleshed out a little more.  We could have used a little more information about the mysterious character, Abram, i.e., what he was, where he came from, etc.  Otherwise, I don't have any criticism, and I feel you get your money's worth.  I intend to read more of Mr. Slade's books, so I hope others with join me, as Mr. Slade is a new author (to me), and new, good authors are always much appreciated.
5 Dust is an intriguing and well written book. I won't bother with a synopsis as others have given a basic plot summary--and yes, the storyline may drag a bit in the middle and go a bit wicky-wacky at the end. That said, however, it's important to point out that despite the issues with plotting, Arthur Slade's language, imagery, and characterization are interesting enough that they compensate for plotting weaknesses. Rarely does a book create such vivid images in the readers' minds--I was absolutely taken away!I should say too that as a mother, I find it very disturbing to read about lost children, and generally I would put a book aside as soon as I realized its subject matter dealt with abduction. I couldn't stop reading Dust, though. The oddness of the situation compelled me to continue.The one question I have is about the ending. (SPOILER ALERT) It seemed too easy for the children to be returned to their original form. I understand the writer's impulse to make the children fine and whole, but I distrust it.Overall, I found Dust engaging and well worth reading. I will be looking for more from this author.
4 What initially drew me to this book was the cover.  I happen to be a fan of both horror and butterflies, so the second I saw this book show up on my "recommended" list I had no choice but to get it.  Arthur Slade is excellent at both the young adult aspects and the horror aspects of the book.  The very first page gets you with a hook and from that point on it's hard to put this book down.  The story follows the disappearance of Matthew and several other children from a small town and the appearance of a pale stranger with interesting powers as well as some interesting pets.  The story is narrated by Robert, who is struggling to find his place between boyhood and manhood, when his brother disappears and things start to get...odd.  He quickly turns into the hero as the town's adults are sucked in to the newcomer, Abram's, spell.  The promise of rain from this hypnotic villain is enough to make parents forget their children.  Robert is an excellent narrator and he keeps the story moving quickly.  There is never a dull moment in Slade's book and even though it is written for young adults he manages to keep an intelligent and intriguing writing style.The ending did seem a bit rushed for me and there were a few details I would have liked a little more closure on, but overall I was extremely satisfied.  I am thrilled to have found a young adult horror book that's managed to have a truly original and creative plot.  This is the perfect book to introduce younger readers to the genre, Slade has done a marvelous job.
5 Great read that reminded me of a mash up between something written by Stephen King and Dean R Koontz.  It is a horror book but it has the flavor of a John Steinbeck novel.  Great characters and plot.  Highly recommend.
5 My husband liked the book.  The kindle was his birthday gift so he downloaded anything free to read.  This was one of his choices.  So far, he has enjoyed most of his books.
4 I almost didn't finish this book after a little boy was taken away by a stranger.  Those types of things upset me, but for some reason I wanted to find out what happened.  I'm glad that I kept on reading.  Because of the faith of an eleven year old boy things were made right.  The author has a great imagination and was able to share it beautifully with the reader. It wasn't what I expected, it evoked a lot of emotion and left me wanting more.  It's one of those stories where good triumphs over evil.  I'd recommend the book to others, hopefully you will be as pleasantly surprised as I was.
3 I wanted to give this book a 5 plus star, but I couldn't. I loved the feel of the book, the pace , the people , most everything. The one thing I didn't like, is what keeps me from giving it more stars. Aliens. I was so disappionted to find out it was aliens. If you are cool with aliends or even if you aren't read the book. You'll not be sorry.
4 I really hate reading books that pretend to be scary or horrifying by using shock factors and sensationalism.  This book, though obviously fiction, is very logical in its incredibility, which makes it easier to suspend disbelief.Though the style is different, the process reminds me of Stephen King's books: they start out with ordinary people, people you would know, who happen into extraordinary events or situations, and the next thing you know, their world has gone terribly wrong. Could an 11-yr-old boy do what Robert has done? Probably not, when you think about it, yet in the book, it makes perfect sense.Good storytelling!
5 This book won the Governor General's Literary Award back in 2001 for Children's Literature. I loved it. Set in a small town in rural Saskatchewan of Horshoe something strange is going on. Robert's younger brother has gone missing and soon no one seems to even remember him. The story set in a depression era dust bowl farm community, has many unique twists and turns.The strange things started happening when Abram Harisch arrived in town; he appears to be taking control of the townspeople through his magic, mirrors and bewitching nature. Harisch has promised the town a rain-making machine, and in following this dream they are slowing losing all they care about and don't even notice. But Robert does and he knows he needs to avoid Harisch and figure out what is really going on or the whole town could be lost.There are two different cover jackets for this book. I prefer the original to the newer one but either way it is a great adventure read.
4 Although published in 2004, I just became aware of this title, and I really don't know how I missed it when it was released.Somewhat reminiscent of a Dean Koontz or Stephen King work, Dust begins with the disappearance of seven-year-old Matthew Steelgate from a small, farming town. There are no witnesses, no clues, no answers. Shortly thereafter, a stranger appears in the town, and the people in the town begin to change. Children are still disappearing and no one but Matthew's 11-year-old brother, Robert, seems to care...or even remember the disappearance.A well-written book that I thoroughly enjoyed and read in a day. My only major complaint is that it was too short.Recommended for lovers of books with a supernatural flavor.
4 I thought this book was quite interesting. What was really good about it, was the writing style.  The author really did a good job of describing and tell the story.
5 Fast moving. I didn't want to put it down once I started reading it. I will watch for more from this author and plan on buying them A good read
5 I can see how &#34;Dust&#34; won an American Library Association Best Books for Young Adults. It fairly hums with the electricity of youth. But don't let that trip you up as an adult reader from what is a wonderfully evocative fantasy that manages to stay fully grounded in the here and now.Well, technically that's the &#34;there and before&#34; because the story is set after WWI as drought ravages North America, which includes  the small farming town of Horseshoe in Canada.  Right off the bat we meet seven year old Matthew Steelgate walking to town with five cents in his pocket and hankering for gum and licorice. He is picked up by a stranger in a truck in a scene where Slade conveys the almost workman like menance of said stranger without making anything really untoward happen.Matthew's disappearance is the trigger for the novel, which is not a horror story such that Stephen King might terrorfy you with, but more a kind of 'lights on' ghost story that reminded me of Neil Gaiman.Our truck driving stranger has mysterious powers indeed and it seems that only Malcolm's older brother, Robert, can resist the lure of his evil spell and hopefully save the day.What elevates &#34;Dust&#34; above most other novels is the brilliance of Slade's writing. In particular, using eleven year old Robert as the protaginist allows Slade to play with words, drawing us into the emotion of the situation as Robert carefully considers words and phrases that are new to him, and through him, made fresh to us. The magic in play is credible because Robert makes it credible. As we see, adults are guileless to their slowly changed circumstances and the younger children lack the critical thinking that on-the-cusp-of-manhood Robert deploys.This is masterful stuff. A short-ish, very tight novel with a self-consistent logic that was made credible because of Robert and because Slade paints a wonderful picture of a post-war society where such goings on seem not just likely, but almost inevitable.And at 99 cents when I bought my Kindle copy, it is definitely worth trying, no matter your age.
3 Quick easy to read. I think about it and I am so glad to be able to make sure that other people would read this book too.
5 It was good to be a precocious 11 year again, this time to save the world. I look forward to reading another book of his
2 During the Great Depression, Robert's younger brother Matthew disappears from a small dusty prairie community in Saskatchewan, after Robert refuses to walk into town with him. Plagued with guilt, Robert finds himself at first drawn to the new stranger in town, Abram Harsich, who claims he can help the town's dry spell by building a "rainmill." However, as the rest of the townspeople fall under Abram's spell, Robert and his Uncle Alden seem to be the only ones who think that Abram isn't who he says he is. More children start to disappear and eventually Robert starts to piece together the mystery. The premise of the book was interesting, but all the supernatural elements were kind of strange. And the ending was just unfulfilling.
3 I wondered at a file size of 362 kb and length of 8 pages.  A mass market paperback costing $12.88 for 8 pages??  Sosemthing's not right here.  Especially with all those awards.  I rarely purchase a book of less than 10 pages - even for free but I took a chance and bought the book.  Page 8 (on my Kindle) goes from location 93 to 1873.  Page 8 just never ends.  I'm glad I took the chance.I'm reading it now so can't give a proper review but I wanted to let people know that this is more than 6 pages long.  So far I'm enjoying the story.
4 Tension is the key to this well-written piece by Arthur Slade. Reading Dust reminded me of the high voltage power lines that passed through the back pasture of my grandparents' farm. No matter how far away I was from them, as long as I was on the farm I could hear the steady thrumming they generated. Most of the time in Dust the tension is far away, yet ever-present as a distant hum. Occasionally, you move closer to the source and the hairs on the back of your neck start to rise. Eventually, you will stand under those lines. For this reader, it is an experience well worth the wait.This is the first work by Slade I've read and I'm sure I'll be reading more in the future. He writes beautifully of the Canadian landscape and the simple people who inhabit it. The main character, a boy close to becoming a young man, is rendered in almost perfect pitch with the story and setting. He isn't better or smarter than his small rural home and its people. He is either more "in-tune" with the natural world or the unnatural. Which of these is the case, or both, isn't wholly clear, and that is my only complaint with the book. Two other characters are also aware that something is wrong with the new man who has come to town, but the resemblance, in character, between the two is almost non-existent. They each share aspects of the main character, but they are opposites in many ways.It's the only hole in an otherwise tightly knit tale.The language is beautiful, as is the way the author weaves the story of one boy into the fabric of a time and place in history that is little known, even to other Canadians. I look forward to reading more from this lyrical author.
5 I'm not sure what drew me to this book, but upon reading the opening chapter I immediately downloaded it and was engrossed. In the Dustbowl days in Canada, Robert's younger brother Matthew has gone missing. When a mysterious stranger appears in town and makes miraculous promises, Robert is the lone skeptic. Driven to find his brother, he continually searches for answers.While the prose was beautiful and the characters were vividly painted, it was the element of mystery that made it such compelling reading. I really enjoyed this book and will look for more from this author.
4 The book, James Cameron's Titanic, was good.  I recently saw the movie and the director's book only helped to enhance my appreciation for the movie.  It is not a great movie, in my opinion, but it is a highly watchable and fascinating film.  The mastery of the special effects used by Cameron to re-create the &quot;Titanic&quot; is evident in all of the scenes featuring the large cruiser.  I recommend the movie to all, but I strongly encourage all readers to purchase the book &quot;Titanic&quot;.  Simply fabulous and worth a read!!!!
5 This book has excellent photography of many scenes from the movie.  It explains all the measures of making the movie from costumes to digital effects.  It shows every character and their part in the film.  The shots  of the replica of the Titanic are very nice.  It tells you how they built  and designed the ship.  It's like the Behind the Scenes of Titanic except  it's in a book and you don't have to tape it.  I enjoyed reading about how  they made the computer extras.  They look very real.  I recommend this book  to any Titanic fan or photographer.
5 The scope of this majestic book truly befits the epic effort by James Cameron with his cinematic masterpiece "Titanic". Much great information here for the movie buff who likes to see how it is done. Incredible sets including the dining salon, complete even to dishes and decor. I was amazed to see how this particular set was pulled underwater by hydraulics to provide a very realistic feeling of sinking. Page after page of photographs and stories about the magnificent sets that brought this film to life. Lots of info about the stars and other cast members as well the production crew. This book is a perfect companion to the movie as well as a testament to the filmmaking genius of James Cameron.
4 I hope this is the right book, I just love the story, and the music, and the movie too!
5 This is an excellent narrative of the making of the film &quot;TITANIC&quot;. Where other &quot;film&quot; books hope to tread, this book takes you there and beyond. Superb photos blend with crisp writing that simply make for a great reading experience.
5 &quot;James Cameron's Titanic&quot; has a little something for all different sets of movie fans. There's an incredible amount of photos and captures from the movie which will no doubt be scanned and posted on the net by hundreds of the movie's teenage fans (and those sites DO exist), while the way in which the making of the film is presented in words and behind-the-scenes photographs will surely please film students and buffs. The detail payed to the execution of the material is as meticulous and praise-worthy as the movie itself. This is a must-have for any fan of the movie, offering more than you could ask for for a movie that gives you everything you want from it.
5 As a filmmaker, this book provided me with great insights on the making of one of the most seen films of all times. It's awesome for filmmakers as well as regular audience. It will blow you away. You will see the film under a different light.
3 I originally got this book for the pictures of the costumes, which were so beautiful!  The book was an interesting look behind the workings of the making of the movie.  Enjoyable, but not enough pictures of the costumes!
5 James Cameron has done every person interested in Titanic the Movie, a huge favor. This book gives you some idea of the massive undertaking that is this Movie. I have been interested in Titanic since I was 10 years old. I know a lot about the Titanic, but James Cameron has brought life to the passengers and crew of the doomed liner. Note in the one scene where Cameron has Jack &quot;lift&quot; a coat  from a deck chair, while a small boy plays with a  toy top, and his father looks on. This scene was taken from real life, as a photo was taken of this actual scene by a passenger who departed at either Queenstown, Ireland or Cherbourg, France. Cameron duplicated every item. Some are only seen for a fraction of a second, as witness the racks of china falling over as the ship begins it's final plunge. That china is absolutely correct and Cameron had it duplicated from the original maker. The boat davits were made by the makers of the original. Quality tells, and this book tells more... Cameron used the love story to tell the tragic story of hundreds of lives entertwined and ultimately, lost that fateful night 86 years ago April 14-15. It is a MUST READ.
5 What a wonderful book showcasing James Cameron's incredible talent and vision...any film buff should have this one....
5 This is a MUST have for any Titanic collector. I waited for about 9 or so years for this book and I am so extatic that I finally have it!!
5 This book is absolutely beautiful!  The photography is amazing and the book is very informative as well.  A must for any fan of this classic film.
4 This book on how the film was made is FAR and AWAY better than the film itself.It is absolutely fascinating how the producers made this film, the models, the special effects, everything about this book is great.We do not own the DVD but we have seen the flick--this book about how the movie was made is better than the film.
5 Somewhere between the boring textbooks of cultural studies and the objects of culture which the field explores, this book offers an excellent overview of the Dick and Jane readers' evolution over time as the ideals of the society in which Dick and Jane were grounded evolved as well.  And what a tumultuous time it was!  Through illustrations from the original texts and photographs of cultural change, short essays on subjects and eras, and even the inclusion of Dick and Jane cut-out dolls to stand on one's desk, the authors take us through the evolution and meaning of Dick and Jane, from Dick and Jane's depression-era origins to the loss of their relevance in the sixties, when the books stopped being produced.  Both a reminiscence and an excellent analysis of cultural change through a single set of broad-strokes ideals, this text is both a fun read, a strong cultural text, and a solid way for me (or any teacher) to introduce high school media and communications students to the ways in which ideals, ideas, icons and culture affect and are affected by each other over time.Those who look to this book for an explanation of Dick and Jane as representing complexity, as one reviewer does below, seem to have missed the point -- Dick and Jane represented cotton-candy ideals of a conservative and young-minded nature; to ask them to have represented more is to completely misunderstand what cultural studies assumes as a foundation.  Those who come to this book with an open mind and an interest in mid-19th-century american culture as seen through the evolution of its primers and iconography will find this an excellent, well-presented, and fun work of scholarship.
5 This book was exactly what I expected...and was a gift for a friend that I was proud to give.
3 ...but fear, in this day when psychobabble, family values, and the like are taken far too seriously, the &quot;American Dream&quot; as related to Dick and Jane is as well.Most of us &quot;Depression Era through Baby Boom&quot; kids (I'm the latter) can enjoy some memories of the Dick and Jane we knew so well in first grade. But anyone whose memory is keen enough will know that the &quot;Dick and Jane&quot; family were hardly those we'd have wished to imitate. The kids apparently had no friends (though the book shows that, after &quot;my time,&quot; they did acquire a few); were not terribly bright; hardly had a decent conversation (remember story one: &quot;Oh, Look!&quot;?); their prime concern seemed to be &quot;helping mother,&quot; and they might have been an adult's dream (never caused trouble, and so forth) but were not a fellow kid's.
5 This is a wonderful book for anyone who attended elementary school in the 1940's and 1950's.  Memories of reading about Dick, Jane, Baby Sally, Spot, Puff, and Tim will quickly return to the reader.  This book also tells what was going on in our world during the time that the Scott Foresman reading series was so prominent in our schools.  The introduction of the book was written by Bob Keeshan, our beloved Captain Kangaroo.  I actually bought my personal copy of this book several years ago and purchased this one from Amazon for a dear friend who is a retired librarian.  She was fascinated by her reading.  She would tell me every day what decade of Dick, Jane, and Sally that she had just read.  This book covers the time period from 1930 through 1960.  This book could be called a "keeper." Those growing up with Dick, Jane,and Sally will want to keep it forever and read it over from time to time.
5 This book takes you back to the days of Dick, Jane, Sally, Mother, Father, Spot and Puff. All the primers that I had as a child are in this one book.
4 Fans of deep and subtle horror from intelligent writers, not of the cheesy slasher or forbidden passion genres, should be more familiar with Jonathan Aycliffe's novels from the 1990s. (Aycliffe is one of the pen names of professor Denis McEoin, who also writes fiction as Daniel Easterman.) This novel is a fairly typical psychological horror story and most of the backdrop is built on stock literary devices of the Dracula/Frankenstein variety. In short, the intellectual hero does research on amateur occult groups and finds himself mixed up in the real thing, falling under the sway of an evil master pursuing the most forbidden knowledge. Thus, the action and character developments here are quite predictable for anyone who has seen more than one old horror movie. Though Aycliffe does have a few advantages thanks to his voluminous education in religious practices and occult history, and this novel rises above a few of its stereotypes with a very robust knowledge of international occult phenomena and a rather disturbing Lovecraftian take on ancient knowledge. Unfortunately there are too many unresolved subplots and unexplained psychic phenomena, previously unknown and under-described characters pop up mysteriously near the climax, and the conclusion to the action is disappointingly implied off-camera. The works of Aycliffe and his alter egos are certainly worth exploring for the educated horror fan, though this particular novel shows his in-depth knowledge playing second fiddle to stereotypical plot construction and too many loose ends. [~doomsdayer520~]
3 I'm a new fan of Jonathan Aycliffe and &quot;The Matrix&quot; is thethird novel of his that I've read this year.  The first two, &quot;TheTalisman&quot; and &quot;A Shadow on the Wall&quot; were more tightlyplotted and ultimately more satisfying and frightening.  &quot;TheMatrix&quot; seems to wander through a series of horror storyset-pieces, e.g. the claw marks on the apartment door, the violationof Catriona's grave, the sucker marks on the hero's body, withoutreally connecting them together in a way that satisfies and makessense. A new character, Father Silvestri, pops up toward the end ofthe novel and juggles our hero out of the fire a la Dr. VanHelsing in a Dracula novel. Then he dies, and we never really learnwhat group he belonged to or why he was trying to save Andrew from theNecromancer. Yet another new character, an evil book seller isthreaded into and out of the story's climax without really helping towrap up the plot.  It made me wonder if &quot;The Matrix&quot; had aprecursor or a sequel where some of these seemingly extraneouscharacters are introduced in more detail.At any rate, Aycliffestill manages to write a horrifying although rather discombobulatedstory about a young, recently widowed doctoral student who is slowlydrawn into the web of an evil Necromancer.  There are some nice Gaelictouches, brooding Scottish scenery, and a pilgrimage to the stifling,ancient landscapes of Morocco.  I'm in violent agreement with theother reviewers in that this author should be much more visible on thebookshelves.  He writes a more frightening story than any of theauthors in the Buckets o'Blood school of horror fiction.However,I'm glad my introduction to Jonathan Aycliffe was through &quot;TheTalisman&quot; and &quot;A Shadow on the Wall&quot;.  &quot;TheMatrix&quot; unravelled into too many loose ends: Why were thoseflapping, tentacled thingies in the Andrew's attic?  How did they getthere?  Who was the baby in the coffin with Catriona?  What purposedid it serve?  Where did Father Silvestri learn about the Necromancer?How did he die?  Why did he show up so late in the plot?
5 I agree with one of the other reviewers - why Jonathan Aycliffe's works aren't better known is beyond me.  I first bought a paperback copy of The Matrix years ago - well before the 'other' Matrix came out at the movies - and this is the one book that unnerves me again and again.  What I like about this book is that even though I know what happens to the characters, each time I re-read the book I go through the same emotions I had on the first reading (horror, fear, quiet unnerving) except these emotions are amplified.  If you like the more subtle, 'play with your mind' type horror you can't go past The Matrix.  An absolutely brilliant book.
3 Old fashioned horror story, Andrew Macleod becomes obsessed with the occult and falls under the spell of the mysterious Duncan Mylne, who has a secret agenda and Andrew is an essential part of his future plans. The writing is very descriptive and as with all classic horror relies on the imagination of the reader to bring the story to life in his mind...."And yet, for all the neglect, the building had lost none of it's power. It had been designed to communicate a sense of religious awe, and that remained in the sheer scale with which it towered over the passer-by. But it possessed something else, something I had felt the first time I saw it in my dreams; a sense of brooding evil so overpowering that it took the breath away. There was a force in the very fabric of the building, a strength of purpose, as thought the stones themselves had been imbued with a malign and ancient consciousness. Even without setting foot inside, I could feel that same presence of fear and loathing and brutality..." The story evolves around a book known as "Matrix Aeternitatis" and the evil vision within, taking the reader on a journey from the island of Stornoway to the rain soaked streets of Edinburgh and the oppressive heat of North Africa. As we race towards an exciting conclusion Andrew Macleod must use all his cunning to outwit the evil that accompanies Duncan Mylne.
5 When the film of the Exorcist was first released to all of the accompanying now well known `who-ha' I went to see what all the fuss was about and came away unimpressed.  That night I woke about 3 a.m. and gradually it occurred to me what I'd seen the night before and a feeling of dread increasingly overcame me.  Reading this book was a similar experience.  The prose is quite plain, in keeping with a straightforward narrative account of a man who feels compelled to record certain experiences he's had for the benefit of others.  The opening scenes are set in Edinburgh and centre on an academic sociologist who is given a contract at the university to conduct research into the prevalence of satanic cults in and around the city.  He begins by insinuating himself into various groups in order to learn more about their affairs and to use their libraries.  Eventually, he gets `taken up' by one of the city's leading barristers who is a member of one such cult, The Fraternity of the Old Path, who offers to act as a kind of mentor and allow him access to valuable literary resources that would otherwise be `forbidden'. From the outset he senses that his mentor might potentially be a dangerous man to know but he cannot turn down the opportunities he presents.  After a fairly prosaic beginning, there is a progressive feeling of dread emanating from the narrative as though the protagonist is being drawn, in spite of his knowledge of the consequences, into a dark shadowy world that is palpably evil and from which there is no turning back.Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos has been mentioned elsewhere in relation to this novel and I can almost understand why.  I'm a fan of Lovecraft and find his stories, for the most part, entertaining.  However, when you read him you know it's simply gloriously hyperbolic entertainment; similarly, with Le Fanu, M. R. James, Stephen King etc. Aycliffe's sublime skill, as far as this novel goes, is that when reading it, you forget it's fiction and really come to believe that there do exist those who are in possession of certain arcane knowledge and evil enough to use it with fatal consequences.  The closest that anything comes to capturing the same feeling of palpable menace I can think of are Susan Hill's, The Woman in Black (the book not the film!), the BBC's M. R. James productions of a few decades back: A Warning to the Curious and Oh Whistle and I'll Come to Thee.  In film I suppose the closest would be the films of Jacques Tourneur; for example, Night of the Demon, itself based upon the James story, Casting of the Runes.The book remains a masterpiece of its kind and the author has never quite reached the same heights again although The Lost comes close.
5 A young Jewish women, newly married to a Rabbi, is raped by a blaack intruder who broke into her sister's apartment, and the same night not only does she hide the fact fromer her husband, she also has sext with him. When she finds out she's pregnant, but is not sure who's the father... She turns to two of her childhood friends to help her out, and eventually decides to keep the baby and the secret, which is kept until her son's wife suddenly has a black child, and she feels she has to finally take the blame, and find out - too late - she could have unburdened herself earlier with no unwanted results... Unlikely as this story seems to be, I think it shows 2 major aspects of American orthodox jews:1) Their different lifestyles - of more or less observant Jews, with both their positive and negative sides.2) More implrtant - women's lack f knowledge with anything to do with the most basic rules of their lives, which could cause so much confusion and misunderstandings...
4 Unfortunately I have been reading several of Ragen's books over a short time. This has revealed an unfortunate tendency forlittle diversity on the author's part.
2 I enjoyed this story about religion, faith,friendships and family. Makes you think what is important in life. worth the price .
5 Tamar Finegold has a secure and predictable life , as wife of one of Brooklyn's leading ultra-orthodox rabbis , but when she is violently raped by an intruder , all of this is thrown into turmoil.She turns to two childhood friends , but keeps the secret from her family , until years later , a strange turn of events forces her to confront her past.Naomi Ragen's books deal with the struggle of Jewish communities and the various threats and dilemmas that face them.I had previously read The Covenant and The Ghost of Hannah Mendes.This book shows both the tranquility and beauty of religious life and the dilemmas faced. It is beautifully written and shows how Tamar deals witht he trauma of her rape by an intruder and how her life and that of her family develops, as well as that of her two friends, one who has wisely embraced all that is good in Judaism , and one that has divorced herself from her roots.A very compelling and easy read , that gives us a rare insight into ultra-orthodox communities and their ways of being and thinking.
2 I did not like the book..it moved quickly  in the beginning but slowed to a snails pace after that..I was very angry with the main character and her machinations. ...her lack of honesty her fear of not fitting in with her community and her need to keep her  status quo  marriage alive really bothered me..I am not a member of the ultra orthodox family but I would think that one should be able to tell their husband as well as the police what transpired....being raped is never the females fault..and telling could possibly prevent another heinous act...usually  violent rapists are not one time only felons..her speaking up would never have been a sin  in my eyes but concealing what happened permeated her being as well as all the lives she touched..not a good decision and it does put a very poor light on the orthodox women and their roles  and views on life.
5 The &quot;Sacrifice of Tamar, not unlike the author's other two books, &quot;Sotah&quot; and &quot;Jepthie's Daughter&quot; takes place in an insular ultra-othrdox community. &quot;Sacrifice of Tamar&quot; centers mainly in Brooklyn and later moves to Isreal. In the opening chapters Tamar is raped by a blackman and later, the same night, has sex with her own husband. She becomes pregnant and is very concerend that the child may be the rapist's. (She keeps the attack a secret from all but her two closest freinds.) Later she is relieved when the baby born to her, a boy, is white. There's is suffuicient foreshadowing to predict some of what that might occur in years to come when her own son marries and his wife is pregnant with his child. Her characters in this book, Hadassah, Jenny and the Klovitzer Rebbie are believeable and likeable characters.  Ragen writes with such authority it's almost as though she has witnessed  much of what occurs in her books as good writers write from experience. The books is out of print and her other two novels are difficult to find in my library system owing to their popularity and not ther scarcity. Having read all three in recent weeks I am looking forward to her 4th, due very soon. Another book, &quot;Romance Reader,&quot; by Pearl Abraham is also about insular Orthodox communites. Although not very well writen it too is worth searching out in your library.
1 Um, the situation described in this book is completely impossible.  I guess the author did not pay attention when dominant and recessive genes were discussed in science class.  Sheesh.
2 In her last book Naomi Ragen's main character reminded me of a Jewish Madam Bovary. In this book, I'm reminded of the old Southern Gothic, Desiree's Baby. In Desiree's Baby, Armaud's falls in love with a nice girl, marries her and is shocked when she gives birth to a black child. He's furious and sends her on his way. Later he finds out that the black ancestry in the family is his own.The Sacrifice of Tamar is set in New York and Israel but it's just as turgid as the old gothic. Tamar is an unpleasant, smug character who's only redeeming feature is her love for her son Aaron. Aaron is also the son of the black man who raped Tamar when she was still a newly wed. A severely traumatized Tamar tells no-one about the attack and carries on. The son, shows no black ancestry but his newborn son looks like "burnt" monster who sends everybody in the deliver room into a frenzy. I really could've done without that scene.  Everything plods predictably along, Tamar feels sorry for herself through out the entire book and I couldn't wait for the whole dreary mess to be over with.
5 "The Sacrifice of Tamar" is another one of Naomi Ragen's compulsivelythrilling books to read. She is just an incredible writer. I recommendthis book to anyone interested in learning more about their Jewishheritage.
2 the book in itself has a good story line yet it is too predictible and also has some parts where you just "get lost" in it...being from israel also didnt help me understand some of the complex terminology of the book which made the reading a bit more harsh then fun.
5 One of the best books I've read. Well written and emotional. I think you have to be somewhat know somethingabout Jewish law to get the full vision of the story. I loved it.
5 Naomi Regan makes for a great read; somewhat predictable after awhile but still a &#34;potato chip&#34; experience - can't put it down.
4 I absolutely loved and HIGHLY recommend this gem of a novel!The story of a young ultra-religious girl in 1950s Brooklyn having to deal with having been brutally raped by a African American man and unable to tell anyone or deal with the consequences, was gripping, intriguing and an extraordinary premise. Yet this book is about so much more....it is about friendship, beliefs, tradition, family loyalties, truth, honor and love.It is a book that will stick with you a long time after reading it and hopefully you'll feel as compelled as I to pass it along to friends/family.Despite its predictabilty, I would consider this a "must-read" and recommend it highly. For those of us who grew up Jewish, or at least familiar with Jewish culture/traditions, it will be extremely compelling and relatable....(I was proud to recognize/understand all those yiddish words I heard growing up!) However, I hope it finds a universal readership, across cultural and religious lines, as I believe it is through learning about other people/cultures, that we become a more tolerant society.
4 Gripping story! Writing is OK but the narrative is very good! May read Naomi Ragen's other work at some point.
5 Let me begin by saying that those reviewers here who are accusing Naomi Ragen of racism are confusing the author with her characters.  It is true that there are racist attitudes among the characters in the very insular, tight-knit community where the story takes place -- and this is what the author is exploring and ultimately condemning.  The author could not have written this book with such understanding if she HERSELF were really a racist.It is also important to keep in mind that the rape takes place about 40 years ago, at a time when it was much more difficult for victims to come forward and be believed -- and not just among Orthodox Jews, either.  It was also a time when neighborhoods were changing, there were "race riots" and civil rights protests, as well as a lot of tensions on both sides.  Interracial marriages were not yet accepted in most of America, nor were the children of such unions.  Not to mention that DNA research was still in its infancy and superstitions about "bad blood" were very common.  So yes, Tamar, the main character, is raped by a black man, fears her baby will carry "black rapist genes," and is relieved when he looks white.  And yes, there is a horrified, hysterical reaction in the family later, to the birth of the darker grandson -- not only about color, but also about possible adultery, since nobody knows about the grandmother's rape.  But, as in any good novel, the character(s) will grow and change with their life experiences.Tamar eventually transcends these racist attitudes -- making a great sacrifice to go against the group.  A specific reference is made to her seeing the racial and cultural diversity on the streets of Israel, and comparing it in her mind with her all-white Orthodox community of European background in New York.  Tamar realizes the gross injustice of rejecting this innocent baby, takes charge of her newborn grandson, and against everyone's wishes, arranges for him to have the circumcision ceremony he deserves - resulting in a very touching scene that literally brought tears to my eyes.  (Sorry, no more spoilers, I've given away enough already.)A wider issue here is the intolerance among many Jews (and not just the Orthodox!) of physical or mental disabilities and/or differences. "What's nice we don't show" is the theme that runs through Tamar's community, and is challenged in the book -- not merely about "not showing," but also about how we define "not nice."  At the time Tamar is growing up (around the 1950s), children with disabilities were often shut away in institutions out of shame or embarrassment -- if not mere inconvenience.  We see this attitude early in the book with Tamar's deaf younger sister, whom nobody wants to take anywhere in public, because she will wave her hands around and make funny noises -- thereby embarrassing her family.  In Tamar's world, admitting there might be a "defect" in the family line -- genetic or otherwise -- can mean all kinds of social rejection.  So this book is not just about race. It is about "keeping up appearances" versus love and compassion.Later, when Tamar re-connects with her girlhood friend Jenny in Israel and sees her handicapped children, she assumes there is a "tragedy."  But, as Jenny explains, there is no tragedy.  Jenny and her husband, unable to have children of their own, have adopted these children that nobody else wanted, children who were abandoned at the hospital at birth because they were not "perfect."  Jenny has come to see this as her mission in life, to take in those children that others do not want, to love them, nurture them, and see them thrive.  And in Jenny's more modern Orthodox community, where such children are accepted -- they do indeed thrive.  It is this interraction with Jenny and her family that helps Tamar see her black grandson as "just a baby," with a face of his own, and not that of her rapist.One criticism I do have about this book is that the author does not give enough explanation of Yiddish terms and Jewish customs to be more accessible to a reader who is not familiar with Orthodox Judaism.  I found myself wondering if she wrote this primarily for other Jews and not so much the general public.  As I wrote in the introduction to my own book,Jewish Tales of Reincarnation, when you tell cultural stories to people within the same culture, you can be relatively brief in your descriptions.  For example, if were to say to an American audience, "It was Christmas eve..." most readers know what that holiday is and can picture the scene in their minds.  But if I refer to "the eve of the Sabbath" outside of a Jewish readership, most people CANNOT picture what the scene would be like.  As a religious Jew myself, I was able to pick up on the more subtle nuances in this book, but, as other reviewers have also noted, this was difficult for someone not familiar with the culture.  Judging from some of the reviews, a lot of things were either misunderstood or not picked up on.  A glossary and maybe even an explanatory appendix might have helped here.
3 The writing in this novel is exquisite. However, any reader who isn't familiar with Orthodox Judaism will need a road map, a cultural dictionary and a Yiddish-speaking tour guide if they want to understand the book.  The time line is also confusing as the story jumps back and forth between the present and the past.Author Naomi Ragen writes beautifully about the culture of religious Judaism, but she never lets the reader in on the secret, never decodes the lingo so that they can walk in Tamar's shoes, which is necessary if the reader is going to be able to empathize with the character.  For this reason, the book is less than satisfying and I would hesitate to recommend it.
4 Probably none of these are going to be quite as perfect for me as the first book in the series, &quot;Glittering Images,&quot; because I am now familiar with this Anglican Church world and the characters who people it.  Nevertheless, Neville Aysgarth, the protagonist in this novel, an archdeacon in the Church, tells a compelling story which involves himself always being after winning the big prizes in life, whether they be the perfect career, wife or children.  This leads him to a breakdown and his spiritual battle back, this time with the counseling help of two other Anglican ministers, one of whom is Jon Darrow again.  Aysgarth has some unlikable characteristics, along with likable ones, but some readers may be put off from him.  He also picks a lulu of a second wife, Dido, who is supposed to be grating and abrasive.  She succeeds well in this role. I've already started Book #4, &quot;Scandalous Risks,&quot; so I am obviously hooked on the whole six book series.
5 For all that the plots of her novels tend to cross the border to melodrama, Susan Howatch's gift for characterisation, and for the integration of superb spiritual insight (into the dialogue, if not the lives of the individuals depicted!) is impeccable. Neville Aysgarth, whose commitment and faith are unquestionable, is an odd but interesting blend of hard sense and the ability to create a personal world of his own, where his natural dedication is lost in the inability to have any real compassion or understanding. Others in his life, though he remains clearly unaware of this and, indeed, capable of believing he has a remarkable and favourable role, are &quot;prizes&quot; which he creates for his own benefit.The bizarre love match of Neville and Dido will keep anyone with interests in psychology or odd relationships pondering its aspects. However, Susan does not disappoint those used to her excellent spiritual and theological insights. Some of her other &quot;clergy,&quot; for all of their failings, remain great men. Neville, by contrast, is one who has genuinely good qualities that show his ever unrecognised potential to be in that category as well, but this can never be achieved. He can see the truth and wisdom in concepts such as Aidan and Jonathan present, or the ideals of his modernist heroes, yet can never get past his inability to accept his own weakness, any need for others beyond their being his prizes, nor his tendency towards deceit in the garb of theological integrity.With vivid characters and an intriguing, if rather bizarre, plot, even those readers who do not wish to be inspired can be assured they'll never be bored.
5 This entire series is outstanding and I could not recommend anything more highly! These books are not &#34;easy reads&#34; but they are well worth the time needed to absorb her message and appreciate them as they should be enjoyed.
4 Unlike most of the other persons who have commented on the book I was not aware that it was a part of a series. Regardless of that fact it was an interesting novel and I would read other books in the series. The story reads like a soap opera set in the Church of England as opposed to a hospital, hotel or other kind of workplace. In the book the Church is set up as a business with persons trying to reach higher in the hierarchy and thus it has all the drama that goes along with that kind of situation. I liked the issues that were articulated and the story was not reduced to melodrama too often although there were one or two instances where it happened. I liked that it was set during World War II and the situations depicted were very believable.The main characters I will be honest are not likable from my point of view but the writing is so good I still wanted to see what would happen next regardless of that fact. I enjoyed the book and have already gotten the next one in the series.
4 I ENJOYED READING THIS BOOK BOTH FOR THE INFORMATION IT PROVIDED ABOUT THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND BUT ALSO BECAUSE OF THE TALE of Neville's personal struggles.  I would recommend this book to anyone who likes historical fiction.
5 &#34;Ultimate Prizes&#34; offers the reader a rich and fascinating view into the life of a Church of England archdeacon (Neville Aysgarth), who, at the story's outset, appears to have it all. A position of high authority with the prospect of future advancement, a loving, supportive wife and 5 children. But, during the course of a dinner party given by his Bishop, Dr. Ottershaw, in the late spring of 1942, Aysgarth makes the acquaintance of a vivacious young woman (Diana Dorothea Tallent, otherwise known as &#34;Dido&#34;), with whom he strikes up a witty, bubbly, wide-ranging conversation --- both at the dinner table, in a nearby room among guests, and later during a short walk the two took afterwards on the grounds of the Bishop's residence. (Aysgarth's wife, Grace, who was not overly comfortable with some of the societal expectations of being the wife of a high Church official, had begged off from attending the dinner that evening with him.)All the while, Aysgarth asked himself: &#34;... Who exactly was this fantastic creature? I had heard of her but my knowledge was sketchy because I never read gossip columns unless the sexton accidentally left his Daily Express behind on the churchyard bench; like all good clergymen I confined my excursions into the world of secular journalism to The Times. However with the aid of the sexton's Express and the glossy magazines which nervous tension drove me to read in the dentist's waiting-room, I had learnt that Miss Tallent moved in the best society despite the fact that her father was a self-made Scottish millionaire. I had of course long since dismissed her as a frivolous creature I would never meet, and yet here she was, in a bishop's drawing room --- in my Bishop's drawing-room --- giving me impudent looks and talking about balls. I could hardly have felt more confused if I had been confronted by one of Orson Welles's invaders from Mars.&#34;Dido expresses to Aysgarth a desire for religious instruction as a way of forging a firmer and greater sense of purpose with her life. This leads to a correspondence between them. (Dido is on active service with the Navy.) At the same time, the reader is given access to the relationship Aysgarth has with his wife and family, which is not as wholly harmonious as it appears at first sight. And as the story progresses, the reader is also made painfully aware that Aysgarth is driven to the point of collapse following a profound shift in his family life and from longstanding (hitherto suppressed) personal issues stemming from his past, which force themselves to the surface, threatening to undermine and destroy everything he has struggled to achieve for himself. Thus begins a long, painful, and hard journey for Aysgarth, which extends to 1946.Simply put, &#34;ULTIMATE PRIZES&#34; is one of the most compelling novels examining the private life of a public figure that I've yet had the pleasure of reading, juxtaposing the sacred and the profane. What's more, it's gripping stuff and comes highly recommended.
5 Neville Asgarth is the son of a draper who has overcome his lower class origins to rise up the corporate ladder of the Church of England.  He has a deeply troubled psyche and is my least favorite character in Howatch's six book series.Not without an innate ability as a clergyman, Neville also has the remarkable luck to marry a woman above his social station who is too good and too kind for him.  He finds her tedious.  And when she dies, worn out and under-appreciated after giving birth to Neville's five children, Neville feels liberated to pursue the society "It" girl, Dido Tallent, a glossy, fluffy flirt who sets her cap for the seemingly stable, mentally integrated, charming clergyman-on-the-rise because she fancies playing "Bishop's Wife" on the social scene.  After a prolonged courtship, Neville finally wins his prize, and Dido becomes his wife.The book deals with Neville's unresolved antipathy to his uncle, his conflicts of social class, his guilt over his treatment of his first wife and the guilt inherent in her death, his obsessive nature as evidenced by his single-minded pursuit of Dido, and his ability to compartmentalize aspects of his psyche into multiple personalities.  This guy has issues.SPOILER ALERT: Ultimately his exhaustive pursuit and subsequent winning of Dido come back to haunt him.  The pursuit was everything; the having nothing.  He quickly loses interest in her and, worse, it becomes apparent in subsequent books of the series that Dido morphs into a regular horror, one of those people with an uncanny intuition coupled with a brutal candor that leaves her victims positively skewered emotionally and psychologically.  We've all known people like that, people whose verbal bludgeoning is qualified by the pious phrase,"I'm only speaking the truth."  In addition, Dido is so highly strung that she is subject to episodes where she can't function at all, and she is disgusted by the sex act whereas Neville is very much a sexual being.At any rate, divorce is out of the question as it would ruin Asgarth's hard-won career, so he is stuck with Dido and as book four, "Scandalous Risks," serves to point out, it couldn't happen to a nicer guy....Howatch's Church of England series is a beautifully crafted, deeply pithy look at human nature with all its warts as well as a thorough examination of theological rationale.  Truly, if you're at all bent in an intellectual direction, you will devour these books.
3 I have to confess that out of all the narrators in the Starbridge series,  Asygarth is the one who I take to the least, and Jon Darrow and Charles  Ashworth being the ones who I support the most. I think that says more  about my theological stance and my belief in Absolute Truths more than  anything else, but it is also due to the fact that Asygarths unwillingness  to face facts causes damage to himself and others, both emotionally and  spiritually in his quest for the Ultimate Prizes. For this is the backbone  of the novel. Archdeacon Asygarth, a liberal, and yet a comappsionate and  admirable believer (In fact this is where I hold him in high esteem) in  Christs grace and atonement despite whatever upset, goes for the 'Prizes'  the wordly type things that he believes will make him happy, which will  'rescue' him from his troubled childhood. 'Ultimate Prizes' shows how this  came to a head and how Jon Darrow helped him fully realise his vocation  (not just a priestly one) and also his need for vulnerability before Christ
4 In the third of the Starbridge series we get a closer look at Neville Ayesgarth, who was at loggerheads with Jon Darrow in the second book. Here it is Ayesgarth&#65533;s turn to be stripped apart and laid bare by Howatch&#65533;s expert scalpel! I have to admit that though I didn&#65533;t dislike this book, I didn&#65533;t like it as much as others in the series. It began promisingly enough, with Neville falling under the spell of the young flibbertigibbet Dido. Dido &#65533; who later becomes famous in the series as a loose cannon  - resists his advances until&#65533; well,  that would be giving things away. I felt though that the second part of the book gets bogged down in the dissection of Neville&#65533;s past. I found it not so interesting to  read about his background as he tells it to his spiritual director; as such the characters who are so important to Neville  - his mother, his father, Uncle Willoughby &#65533; never came alive for me and his recounting of them felt rather slow. However, it is still a great book and indispensable to the series. (...)
5 If you enjoyed the first two books in the series, you'll like this one as well. Howatch weaves in the characters that we already know while exploring Aysgarth's struggle to be perfect.  It is well written and makes you ponder the prizes on life that you are seeking.
4 This is the first Susan Howatch book I have read. I was fascinated with the intertwining of Anglican church history and the problems of a clergyman, his struggles to come to term with his past and the secular idea of chasing and obtaining life's ultimate prizes. The soul searching of Neville Ayesgarth and his reponses to those around him, and those trying to help him were most realistic and made for that type of book that you are anxious to get back to and then read other in the series.
3 Whether or not "Glamorous Powers,"  the second of the six Church-of-England novels by Susan Howatch, appeals to you, will depend on your attraction to or disgust with the protagonist.  In this book, as in no other of the series, the first-person narrator, ordained priest Jonathan Darrow, sets the mood and the tone, and dominates the proceedings from beginning to end.  The reason my review has only three stars, is because the character of Jonathan Darrow is, for me, a three-star narrator and not a five-star narrator!  Why not admit to my own bias?  Especially when father Darrow is one of the most disruptive and polarizing of all the clergymen populating Howatch's fictitious Starbridge diocese, and that is indeed saying something. His character -- and, as I think of it, his novel, his story -- are guaranteed to divide and polarize readers of the Starbridge series into pro-Darrow and con-Darrow factions.
5 I love these books.I even occasionally re-read them.  Who wouldn't love a spiritual adviser like Jon in there lives?Each book stands alone, and yet, when you are done?  There is the added treat of being able to read 'the other side of the story' or to continue on to the lives of other characters.When I first read them, I thought some of the theological debates were tedious, because the author really has the ability to write a page turner as well.  However, in re-reading, since I already know what will happen, I relax and completely enjoy the entire book.She writes compelling characters, and their justifications, extremely well.  I have loaned this, and others from the series, to skeptical friends, and every single one wanted one thing.  MORE.  How happy were they when I showed them the other books!Anyway, it doesn't really matter which one you start with.  Glamorous Powers is the first one I read, and it completely hooked me.Curl up in your favorite chair with this book, you are in for a treat.
4 With the 2nd book in Howatch's Anglican trilogy, we explore the story of the monk who was the therapist in book #1.  He is also 60 years old, a psychic and a vision from God sends him back into the world and out of the monastery.  There is a great deal of counselling and angst in this novel as well.  There isn't enough different about this novel to make it the same fascinating read as book #1 though.  I've already bought book #3 and I hope we follow a different pattern with that one. He does find a new woman as part of his vision from God as her bag and her estate were specifically seen in it. The Anglicans must spend more time in analysis than Freud himself ever dreamed possible!
5 This review is for the first Ballantine Books paperback edition, November 1989, a volume of unknown origin found while cleaning out the bookcase.  I decided to read it only because Amazon.com customers rated it five stars.  Although I was raised as a Roman Catholic, and at age thirteen spent a year in the seminary, I soon became disenchanted with, and largely disinterested in, organized religion.  Notwithstanding this bias, I'm glad that I read GLAMOROUS POWERS.The plot opens in Grand Chester England at a quarter to six on Friday morning, May 17, 1940 in the cell of Jon Darrow, who for the past seventeen years has been a monk in the (fictional) Anglican Fordite Order of Saint Benedict and Saint Bernard.  Jon is having a vision.  He interprets this vision as God's instruction to leave the order and embark on a new, unspecified calling.  Before Jon can leave, however, he must convince the Abbot General, Francis Ingram that his vision was a communication from the Holy Spirit and not an aberration of a disturbed psyche.  There follows a fascinating mental dual between Jon and Francis.This deep and literary exploration of psyches pervades the story.  Before each chapter and section, the author liberally quotes from the works of W. R. Inge, particularly MYSTICISM IN RELIGION.  Jon has mystical (glamorous) powers, healing powers, which Francis thinks are often nothing more than "parlour tricks."  I thought of "Anglo-shamanism."Although the story evolves within the institutions of religion, it does not tamper with faith or belief, so the reader need not worry about being upset by heresy or theological debate.  The author confines polemic disputes between Anglo-Catholics and Roman Catholics, Low Church and High Church, to ritual, and treats these as external conflict rather than internal struggle.  This story is not about religion, but about the psyche, with pervasive emphasis on the guilt and anger emanating from parental failures.Jon Darrow has problems, "dis-ease" he would say.  The larger than life character is Francis Ingram who unravels Jon's troubled psyche without revealing his own disturbances.  At one point Jon shuns Francis and mires himself into a muck of troubles, and at page 296 I made a note that the story was getting a bit tedious.  It revived, I thought, around page 339 with the return of my hero Francis.  Indeed, the acerbic and witty letters written by Francis to Jon are splendid examples of writing at its very best.
4 I stumbled upon the Starbridge series by reading the 4th book "Scandalous Risks", which I absolutely loved.  I then decided to read the series starting with book 1, which introduces the character of Jon Darrow.  In "Glittering Images", he is a wise and compelling priest who counsels a fellow priest.  In "Glamorous Powers", we get to know Jon Darrow, at times ad nauseam, warts and all.  I love the intelligent, energetic dialogue in Susan Howatch's books, but found this book almost too talky.  The first 100 pages or so are particularly tedious.  I found that I, as another reviewer admitted, grew a bit tired of Jon Darrow, whereas in "Glittering Images", I couldn't get enough of him.  Nevertheless, this is a wonderful read with fascinating insight regarding spiritual pride, mystism, marriage, God's love and redemption.
5 I read this first 20 or so years ago, and I suddenly decided to go back and reread the whole series.  They have aged well.  Life in the hierarchy of the Church of England gives the novelist plenty of scope for drama and exposition of the various aspects of the church.  Additionally, the author addresses the social changes wrought by World War I and II in theBritish world.
3 First and the fourth were good. This second one was boring and I found myself skipping many pages.  After this one I am not sure whether I want to read the third one.
5 Absolutely one of my favorite Howatch novels and I have them all.Love the  19th century retelling of Cleo, Caesar, and Mark Anthony.
5 Rest assured that if you start this book you will be totally frustrated each and every time you have to put it down for menial everyday tasks! This is one of those books that you savor every word and hate for it to come to an end. I cannot recommend this book more highly!
5 This book was thoroughly absorbing.  It's a serious and emotional look at a religious man and his demons, and was inspired by actual events (as the author informs us in the epilogue).  I enjoyed being in the company of a man who takes his faith seriously, prays, and calls on God in times of need.  Contrary to what you'd expect from a novel that takes faith seriously, the characters aren't whitewashed.  They swear and have sex.  They sin in many ways.  The sexual scenes are somewhat graphic, but there weren't many of them. I didn't find them offensive, and they are necessary for the plot.If you enjoy psychology, our protagonist is enlightened about his life and identity through several therapy sessions with a monk.  I found this portion of the novel enthralling.  The monk is a fascinating character and the issues the main character uncovers through these sessions are quite compelling.Complex characters, good writing, excellent dialogue and a compelling plot make &#34;Glamorous Powers&#34; a standout.  Though some people might find it a bit melodramatic or soap opera-ish, I enjoyed the strong emotions experienced by the characters.
5 If you are an introspective person, I believe you will love this book.  I'm reminded of the saying that goes something like 'the way things are changes with the way you look at them.'  I'm a long  time fan of Susan Howatch as a writer.  This is the second in her Church of England series.As I grow older, I find myself trying to solve some of the mysteries of life and relationships.  This book helped me.  Don't misunderstand, this is a novel with a great plot, but also delves into personalities and faith and family relationships.  I read this about a month ago and still think about it often.  Obviously, I recommend it highly.
5 Susan Howatch is one of the best writers.  I am amazed at the history and background details which she weaves into all her fantastic stories.  I have nearly all her works and even got my husband hooked on her novels. This is second of a series and it is best to read them in order, from "Glittering Images" through "Absolute Truths", all six.
5 Susan Howatch may be a woman with training in the law, but she gets inside the mindset of male priests in the Anglican Church (Episcopal Church in the U.S.) better than anyone else. This is a mystery, a suspense novel, a love story and a deeply psychological look at spiritual direction all rolled into one. The book begins with a man having a vision of a small country chantry (chapel). Outside the chapel is a unique suitcase. Is this god telling him to pack his bags and leave the monastary he has known for so many years? After intense spiritual direction, that I found riveting, he decides to leave. He goes on holiday, and while walking down the hall of the inn he is at, he see the suitcase of his vision! He has to meet the owner of the valise. She turns out to be a beautiful woman (much younger than himself). Will love ensue? What is god's will? This book will encourage you to consider the power of prayer and god's direction for your life. It will call you to wrestle with the possibility of healing and evil. This book began my love affair with each of the books in the &quot;Starbridge&quot; series. It could be the start of something special for you, too.
4 Each novel in Susan Howatch's Church of England series revolves around one of a group of interconnected individuals in the fictional town of Starbridge.  Episodes in these stories, spanning decades when the series is taken as a whole, overlap and differ in presentation, seen as they are from the perspective of each particular novel's protagonist.  The genius of Howatch's writing is evident in her ability to tell a story beautifully through and though the limitations of the protagonist.  The narrator is not, in other words, a reliably objective observer and so the reader is challenged to find the truth somewhere in between the lines.GLAMOROUS POWERS, the second entry in this series, focuses on the mystic and healer Jonathan Darrow, a widower and, as the story begins, an abbot of the fictional Anglican Fordite order.  Darrow has a vision that convinces him that he should leave the monastery.  After an excruciatingly difficult discernment process under the guidance of his abbot general, Francis Ingram, Darrow is released from his vows and enters the secular world of England at the onset of World War II.The story is told through Darrow's eyes and one soon realizes that all is not quite as Darrow makes it out to be.  Indeed, Howatch marvelously conceives the book such that even Darrow's "glamorous powers" of prophecy and healing might be rationally explained away as wishful thinking and the power of positive thinking, respectively--this despite the fact that the power of faith remains a theme throughout the book.  The uncertainly that the unreliable narrator creates in the reader's mind can make this a taxing read at times: we know what Darrow thinks, but what's really happening?  Moreover, we get to know Darrow very well, perhaps too well, and he's not entirely a sympathetic figure.  Familiarity, as they say, breeds contempt.  When Francis, who was so annoying at the beginning of the story, returns towards the end of the book, you're glad he's back; Darrow was getting on the nerves.The story is engaging despite the fact that virtually nothing happens of real import except late in the book.  Much of the book is interior, the perceptions and misperceptions of the aging ex-monk.  When stuff does happen, it's understated--perhaps too much so.  Yet if all of this had amounted to some real insight into the human condition, I might have felt more edified.  As it is, plot resolutions--well presaged in the book--come about as a matter of coming to terms with one's family.  So, in the end, Freud.However that may be, GLAMOROUS POWERS puts on display Howatch's gift of narrative.  If this book may be seen as too confined to the topography of the mind and with too little to show for it, it nonetheless remains an enjoyable piece of literary fiction.
5 One only gets small hints in 'Glittering Images' that there is a lot more  to Jon Darrow than meets the eye, 'Glamourous Powers' is his story. After  leaving his order after seeing a vision, Darrow tries to work out his  vocation and in his attempt lets his ego and spiritual arrogance get the  better of him which leads to tragedy, but also the offer of spiritual  renewal afterwards. An excellent look at how spiritual leaders and mentors  have their own failings and the fact that they also need to be helped and  disiplined. It is an excellent argument against those who are completeley  against charismatic renewal, but also against those who are totally for it  without seeing the warning signs and the need to be answerable to someone  who you trust but who who you also don't have a cosy relationship with.
5 The second in the series of Starbridge books - Glamorous Powers - is the one I  liked the best. IN this book we get to know Jon Darrow, who figured in the first volume Glittering Images as Charles Ashworth's spiritual director, more intimately. Whereas in Glamorous powers, seen through Charles Ashworth's eyes, he was the perfect super priest who knew everything, here we actually get under Jon's skin and see him as he sees himself: as a flawed, confused man with many problems, in particular concerning his relationship with women. Jon had spent several years in a monastery as a monk, but now, in his sixties, he receives a calling from God to leave the monastery and fulfil a mission in the world - but he doesn't know what. Nor is he certain if that mission includes marriage.For anyone with an interest in Gnosticism and mysticism, this is a particularly interesting book - but such an interest is definitely not a pre-condition for reading and enjoying it! I'm not the only Howatch reader to have this as their favourite in the series. (...)
1 I chose the book because I loved others books written by Howatch, but this one unfortunately disapointed me a lot.-
2 I didn't hate it but I am not sure it was worth reading.  The "past lives" overstory was fine until it went totally hokey (the rape scene).
4 I really enjoyed this book.  However, it is a very long book.  It is well written, with a captivating story based on real people.  Jo, a journalist, involved with Nick, her lover, is hypnotised and regresses 800 years into the English and Welsh past.  She is then Matilda, who lived in the time of Henry the 2nd of England.  She is married to William DeBraose, a cruel lord, but is in love with Richard deClare, another noble.She travels back and forth through time, eventually recognizing her modern companions from her life in the past. Sometimes she travels through hypnosis, sometimes she regresses spontaneously. The book takes you through some actual events , some imagined.  But it keeps you interested.  I was compelled to look up the characters online, and found them very interesting also.I do think Barbara Erskine could have condensed the book when she wrote it in 1986.  Her research is very good, but like some other authors, she tends to digress.
1 I enjoy stories about past lives. I love good historical novels. I have some first hand experience with hypnotic regression. I usually love novels written 20-30 years ago. But not this one. It managed to annoy me on many levels.One could excuse the repeated violent rape scenes, including one perpetrated by the hero, as being characteristic of the 1980s when this book was written, as that was a time before women had finally figured out that a man who says "I love you" and then perpetrates a violent rape belongs in prison, not in your bed.One might even excuse as characteristic of the 1980s is the fact that all the protagonists in the story behave like alcoholics, downing what we now would consider volumes of drink that would be diagnosed as binge drinking in just about every scene set in the present.But one one cannot excuse the ridiculous way in which hypnosis and past life regression are presented in this story and the silly way that everyone including supposed medical professionals encourage what would be in real life a psychotic reaction in the heroine.The heroine herself is Too Stupid to Live--the classic dumb heroine who, when warned not to go down into the darkened basement while a killer is on the loose and the power is out, always goes into the basement. If you enjoy that kind of story you'll love this one. If you like your heroine to be slightly brighter than a guinea pig, save your 99 cents and download something else.The worst part of this book is that the writer has enough of a command of style to get you reading this bloated, endlessly long book. So that it isn't until you've gotten more than half way through that you realize just how stupid the plotting is. If you keep reading after that you are rewarded with a completely unbelievable and emotionally unsatisfied ending.Further complaints: The book claims that the history that lies behind the endlessly dull past-life story is well-researched, but any author who puts bubonic plague into a story set in the last decades of the 1100s has NOT done their research. Even in the days before Google mildly educated people knew that the plague first appeared in Europe in 1348.If the book had swept me into an emotionally moving story I would have easily overlooked the innaccuracies, but the emotional interaction between the main characters is wooden and we never get into their heads or feel their reactions, both in the story set in the present and the one in the past. Both are static, with no character undergoing a hint of growth anywhere. The characters are the same on at the end (which felt like page 9000 by the time I got there) as they were in Chapter 1. How this book got to be a bestseller in a world that produced Outlander a few years later is beyond me.Perhaps you had to read it in 1985 to love it, since there do seem to be many readers who did. But reading it in 2012, I certainly didn't. Between the rape scenes and the endless boring interactions between dull English people living what must have been considered a glamorous life in the mid-1980s this book struck me as one that should have remained a fond memory.
5 I was going to write up a nice review of this book, and I see that someone named Western Reader has pretty much jotted down my thoughts perfectly!
4 Hardened journalist, Jo Clifford is working on an investigative piece to debunk reincarnation and regression hypnosis.There's only one problem, the fact that once she agrees to be hypnotised in order to try and be fair, she has very realistic images of a woman from the Middle Ages, Matilda, Lady of Hay.Is Jo really the reincarnation of someone who lived hundreds of years ago? Or is she just remembering some facts that she had forgotten from long ago history lessons?Flitting between Jo's modern life and Matilda's past life, the book is a real page turner, keeping you guessing until the very end. The regression is handled quite well and as you finish the book, you do begin to wonder if reincarnation is such a far fetched idea after all.Barbara Erskine has the talent to weave a spell with words, you just have to finish the books once started.Reviewed by Annette Gisby, author of Silent Screams.
4 The premise of the book is regression of past lives that affect present lives. Other historical fiction authors portray Maud de Braose as an mean spirited shrew. This version cleans her up and makes her much more sympathetic. I don't think that is historically valid but these problems really didn't impair my ability to totally enjoy the book.
2 The content of this story left no impression in my memory. All I can remember is, that I did not enjoy it and cannot recall even the theme, let alone the detail, six weeks after reading it.
2 Lady of Hay makes a promising start. Jo is a young journalist who researches past life regression for a magazine article. As research, she undergoes hypnosis and discovers that she is not only easily hypnotized (so easily that later in the book someone calls and hypnotizes her over the phone!) but in a previous life she was Matilda de Braose, a 12th century Welshwoman. How exciting, I said to myself. This could be very fun. Matilda is a real historical figure. I love historical fiction. I would enjoy the puzzle of matching past lives with present characters, and of course I hoped for romance. But alas...it was not to be.The first half of the book was great.  It keeps up a good pace and intriguing events unfold as Jo and her present life alternate with regressions to Matilda's existence.  But by the second half of the book there is no new material and far too much repetition as well inexplicable violence against the main character that simply turned me off to her possible love interests. In the 1st half of the book we learn that 3 men love Jo in both the past and the present and we know who they were in their past lives.  We also learn about the end of Matilda's life very early in the story.  So where can the author take us from here?I hoped that some of the modern day characters besides the 3 men would eventually be revealed to have some involvement in the past lives or a more important role in the present.  However, they don't.  I also expected that that the author might expand on history and offer an explanation for the legend of Matilda building Hay castle in one night.  She doesn't.  And I was disappointed with the mundane theory about rumors that Matilda was a witch.  The explanation: she studied herb lore with her nurse Jeanne and rides horses swiftly, like a man. But perhaps most disappointing of all is the fact that Nick, the man she is in love with in the present was very cruel to her in her past life and not very nice to her in the present and there is no satisfactory explanation of why.  Nor did it seem that his behavior was ever an obstacle to their relationship in the present.  And what about Sam's behavior?  The actions of 2 of Jo's lovers leaves me questioning how much if at all, they really care(d) for her.  Richard was the one nice guy and I was hoping he would somehow turn out to be a hero, but when he turns out to be a junkie I think my hopes for a satisfying finale were extinguished.Maybe the fact that 3 men are supposedly in love with the main character is the romantic attraction of this book.  Or is it Jo's suffering that is intended to be attractive?  Perhaps I was ultimately disappointed because of the promising start, but my advice is to skip this book.
3 i think this book is similar to  the timetravellers wife as it jumps back and forward  not a real favourite of that type storyline
5 Barbara Erskine has a PhD in Scottish history. You can look up all the historical details that she weaves into her stories and find them as being true. if you don't like the genre of books - a bit of fantasy is mixed with proven historical facts - then this book is not for you. If you like to learn about history by ways of a fantasy novel - you can't find anything better! One of my favorite books! And by the way: I read all of Barbara Erskine's books.
4 I couldn't put it down.  I'm not usually a fan of this particular genre ---- but I literally could not put it down.  When my Kindle ran low on power I plugged it up and kept on reading!
4 If you are into historical fiction this book will not disappoint.  Engaging and entertaining for a quiet rainy day read.
3 The book description and plot appealed to me as I am interested in both reincarnation and historical fiction.  I started reading the book and found it interesting but the further I got, the less engaging it seemed.  About a third of the way through I realized that I was starting to skim read.  About half way through I started skipping entire chapters.  In the end, I never finished the book or even read the end.  It had potential but...
2 I though I would never get to the end of this book.  I felt like I was nearing the end and I was only a third of the way through.  There were way too many characters that were completely unnecessary.  Way to much talking and back and forth about the same things over and over and over. (get hypnotized; no its dangerous; no I have to; stay with me; go away blah blah blah).  All these people did was go back and forth between each others houses, argue, and drive to old castles.  After the first third of the book I skimmed and skipped so much but didn't really miss anythign.  I enjoyed the past life part at first, but then even that got a bit depressing.  Nothing good happens in this book.  Oh except for epilogue 2 which seemed tacked on at the last minute and doesn't really fit the rest of the book.The only reason I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 was because I did actually want to find out how the story ended so apparently there was something in it that pulled me in in spite of myself.  But I'm certainly not keeping this one around.
4 This is one of those books that you either embrace wholeheartedly or dislike intensely I think. I read this many years ago and found  myself quite disatisfied with how the story unfolded. However this is my second reading of Jo Clifford/Matilda de Broase the Lady of Hay and I really enjoyed it the second time around.Matilda was a woman of her time with very few options open to her but how she defied a Prince, gave all for her family and was betrayed by her husband is compelling reading. That is where the strength of the story lies, the medieval aspect, the political intrigue and the love/hate relationship between Prince John and Matilda.But this book did have it's detractions. I would have liked more explanation for William's course of action, there were major repercussions for Matilda and her family.The characters depicted in the present weren't as strongly depicted as their alter egos and it was difficult to feel any empathy or sympathy towards them.Still I very much enjoyed the medieval setting and the story of Matilda de Braose.
5 This book was so hard to take breaks from reading and now that I am done I wish it was longer.  Really well written I love a story where I can not guess the end just a few chapters in.
3 I really liked this book, however there were parts that moved a little slow.  I loved going back and forth between centuries and the constant who is the good character and who is the bad.  If it moved just a little faster I would have given it a 4 star review, but I gave it 3.  I would recommend that you read it perhaps you would have a different perspective.
4 Barbara Erskine's novel LADY OF HAY, in part an historical novel about Maud (or Matilda) de Braose, who had the misfortune of living during the time of King John the Bad (1199-1216), is one of those novels with parallel plotlines.In 1970s England, we meet 19-year-old Jo Clifford, who has an amazing ability as a subject in a regression hypnosis, when she relives the last, tortured moments of a 13th-century Norman-French woman, whose husband held a great deal of power in the Welsh Marches during the reign of Henry II (1154-1189), and his sons Richard the Lionheart (1189-1199) and King John.The modern story then jumps 15 years, and we meet 35-year-old Jo Clifford, successful journalist, and as hard-headed as you expect a modern woman to be. She is given an assignment to investigate regression hypnosis, which is a technique that claims to access a person's memory of a past life. Jo initially pooh-poohs the idea, until she becomes a subject herself.At that point, the medieval story takes off.I am not alone in finding the medieval story more compelling, primarily because the stakes are so high, giving Ms. Erskine opportunities for building a spine of tension to hold up the story arc.The modern part of the story was not interesting. The relationship between Jo Clifford and her on-again, off-again boyfriend Nick went round, and around, and around, and while true to life, this spinning of wheels meant that many opportunities for tension were lost.Nick's brother Sam is cast as the mad scientist, and as a former scientist myself, I wish that Ms. Erskine had eschewed the cliches and dug deeper to have formed a more interesting character. Sam's motivation is not clear, except that he seems to have gone quite mad for no apparent reason. My question was how did we get from the concerned young man we glimpsed in 1970, to the out-of-control sadist in 1985? No satisfactory answer is given.The modern story deserves 3 stars, the medieval story deserves 5 stars, so I am giving this novel 4 stars.
4 I confess that I have a love of books that explore past lives of the characters. I'm not sure I believe in reincarnation but I wouold like to. In the Lady of Hay, the possible past life/possible possesion of journalist Jo Clifford as the Lady of Hay is explored. Jo begins her exploration of past life regression as research for an article she plans on writing. Soon she is totally immersed in her past life: being drawn back to her past at inconvenient times, in inconvenient ways. A smattering of darkness, evil and insanity invades 'both'of her lives as she struggles to make sense of what is real and what isn't. I have to say that, while I loved the story and the author's style, I really did not like Jo. She struck me as wimpy and weak in both lives. That said, my feelings for the main character did not take away my total enjoyment of the book. Definitely recommended reading.
5 Well-written and enjoyable.Lady of Hay is a book I'll reread and recommend to my reading book club.It's difficult to find such a good book these days..
5 I loved this book.  I had a very strong emotional response to it.  Don't let the title fool you.  Barbara Erskine made this one sooo believable for me that I googled some of the names of the characters and places.  Some of them really did exist. They way it's woven together is amazing.
5 If you're in the mood for an epic drama involving hypnosis and past-life regression during modern times, faced against historical Welsh fiction, then Barbara Erskine's Lady of Hay is definitely the book to read. What an extraordinary novel!Lady of Hay is the story of Jo Clifford, a head-strong journalist who falls prey to being an easy subject for past-life regression within hypnosis, or even reincarnation. When Jo is under hypnosis, she lives the life of Matilda de Braose; a woman head-strong in her OWN time during the late 12th and early 13th centuries. Not only does Jo bring components of Matilda back to present time (scars and bruises for example), but we also begin to learn that her present-day lover Nick and his brother Sam are also present-day men that knew Matilda. WHAT?! you may ask?Lady of Hay is abundantly full of intrigue, suspense, and violence, and is good enough to keep your interest despite its length of over 700 pages. Lady of Hay will pull you in; and its combination of past and present events are distributed evenly and tastefully throughout the book. We become frustrated that Jo is forever drawn to Nick, whose past-life character continues to hurt her, and we also become emotional when dealing with Matilda's life woes and hardships. The only aspect of the book I disagree with is Jo's weakness in regards to Nick. I figured a strong, intelligent woman would not keep succumbing to Nick's advances. The redundancy of Jo constantly returning to Nick becomes annoying as we reach the end.Although the novel was written in 1986, Lady of Hay is still very much a classic. The dialogue between the present-day characters is a little time-sensitive and old-fashioned, but it does not deter from the storyline and the joyful experience of the book.Lady of Hay is Barbara Erskine's debut novel, and I am disappointed that I did not learn about the author sooner. Barbara Erskine is now very prolific in historical fiction featuring Wales, and her latest title is called Time's Legacy. I plan on adding all of Erskine's novels to my wish list for future reading!
3 I bought and read this book when I was 13 and visited London.  At 13 I adored it passionately.  At much older than 13, I find it a bit laughable.First, I agree with several reviewers who object to the "strong, independent" heroine being raped and abused, and finding her "happily ever after" with one (!!!) of her rapists.  His excuse was that he was hypnotically regressed to King John at the time.  Oh, well, of course.The historical parts of the book are outstanding, detailed and well-researched, and they win 100% of the three stars that I give this book.  Readers of Sharon Kay Penman's _Here Be Dragons_ will find this an excellent companion piece.  In fact, if you love medieval Welsh history, I highly recommend getting this book and just flipping the pages whenever the modern characters appear.The original cover art I have from my British edition reads, "Fascinating, absorbing, and original." The first two are subjective, but as many reviewers have pointed out, it is hardly original; Anya Seton's _Green Darkness_ and Mary Luke's _Nonesuch Lure_ played the same themes at least 20 years before _Lady of Hay_ was published.  But it became even less original when Barbara Erksine began searching out abused women in British history and did the same thing over and over again, injecting historically inaccurate feminism along the way.  _Lady of Hay_ is definitely the best of her efforts in the past-life regression genre.
5 One of my favourite books, and so glad to have it on my Kindle. Great, interesting, delves into a time of history that is fascinating, and written in such an easy to read, enjoyable, un-put-downable way!!! Can thoroughly recommend this book, and any of Barbara Erskine's books !!! FANTASTIC READ!!!
1 I'll pretty much read anything but this book goes on a very short list of "books so awful I couldn't finish."  The story is an interesting idea but the characters are unrealistic and the plot chaotic.  To compare this to Diana Gabaldon is unfair to Diana.
3 I have mixed feelings about this book.  It's a modern day woman who has visions and goes off in search of herself.  Her visions are of another woman who lived hundreds of years previously and the two stories are intertwined as she has these visions and questions her sanity, and as she discovers the story of the woman from a previous era.I liked the story, generally speaking.  It was well thought out and fairly well portrayed.  But honestly, I would rather have just had the story about the woman in the past.  I found the modern day parts to be frankly boring and the whole &#34;voyage of self-discovery via hallucinations&#34; thing didn't really do it for me.
4 [This review can also be found at anafichesdelectures.wordpress.com]&#8220;Lady of Hay&#8221; has been recommend to me for quite a while now and I never got a chance to read it. It is a suspenseful novel full of mystery and historical facts about the Welsh culture, specifically the story of Matilda de Braose of the 12th Century, also known as &#8220;Moll Walbee&#8221; (1). It is intense, long, enriched with details, tedious at times but you really  get to enjoy the novel. You never get bored. Her life will mainly revolve around &#8220;three men who so ruled her life: William, the king, and Richard de Clare.&#8221;(2)(1) Erskine, Barbara (2010-10-01). Lady of Hay: Two Women, Eight Hundred Years, and the Destiny They Share (p. 411). Sourcebooks. Kindle Edition.(2) Erskine, Barbara (2010-10-01). Lady of Hay: Two Women, Eight Hundred Years, and the Destiny They Share (p. 447). Sourcebooks. Kindle Edition.The author used quite a complex medium of narration, I must say, to invite us to the life of Matilda. The main character, Jo submits herself to a series of hypnosis where she is regressed to her previous life. The theme of reincarnation takes full meaning in this novel. Despite my carelessness on these various themes [hypnosis, regression techniques, and reincarnation paraphernalia], I really enjoyed the historical part of this novel. Even if you don&#8217;t really care, nor is invested into reincarnation, as me,the splendid work done by the author on the historical part is outstanding. The novel is therefore multilayered and complex.I definitely will be reading more novels from this author.[* Spoilers alert!]My complaints:1. I felt the end was rushed.2. The author never really explained how Sam knew all along who he was in Jo&#8217;s past life.3. I quite did not agree that Nick represented King John. In my opinion, Richard de Clare was a better choice. You will learn that  her love affair with this last one was fictitious anyway.
5 If you love historical and contemporary fiction as I do, this is the book for you. This particular novel is two stories in one. One, is the story of Lady Mathilda of 12th century Wales. While the other story, parallel to that of Mathilda is about Jo Clifford, reporter. Note the definitive word: &quot;parallel&quot;; because Jo and Mathilda are one and the same person in different incarnations, along with the people with whom they interact in their respective lifetimes.This book has all the elements of a good story... beautiful visuals of the 12 century Welsh landscape and castles, not to mention murder, suspense, mystery and romance. Another page-turner to be sure.
4 Lady of Hay was my 'first' Barbara E novel - and as a consequence I have a soft spot for it and have to admit to having read it several times.It is not a novel that requires a great deal of thinking on the part of the reader, but that takes nothing away from the story itself, which I enjoyed.The characters did not grab me in the way that I like (writers such as Elizabeth Chadwick 'The Champion' or or Catherine A and Catherine T Wilson 'The Lily and the Lion' do it better) but I liked it none the less.For an international flight or a long car trip.
1 This book is a horrid combination of writing that is good enough to keep you reading and bad enough that you wish you weren't.  The book is 700+ pages.  The heroine is repeatedly raped (forceably and not) or otherwise abused by men who supposedly love her.  She repeatedly makes stupid choices, leaving the reader to wonder how "smart" she really is.  There are too many irrelevant characters.  The ending is completely unsatisfying, given how long I spent to slog through the book.  The author is not bad in terms of description, but the only real element of "suspense" will be figured out by a thinking reader by page 100 or so of the book and is not nearly enough to carry a reader happily through to page 700.  Avoid this book.
5 This is one of my favorite books.  I love the history of England and can find a number of the characters in my family tree.
5 I read this book based on the recommendation by a friend and was surprised by how much I loved it.  For some reason, the back cover summary left me skeptical and unconvinced.  I finished the book tonight and loved it!  The mix of a modern day story versus the period time story of the "past life" kept me interested and turning the pages (or pushing my Kindle button forward is more like it).  I think people who are fans of the Outlander series by Diana Gabaldon will relate well to and enjoy this book as well.  Don't let the "past life" part scare you off.  Highly recommend it!
1 I read a lot of English historical fiction.  I was really surprised to see all the good reviews for this book.  I thought much of it was boring, hard to read, very contrived and unrealistic.  Also there is a disturbing amount of abuse of the heroine, including multiple rapes - and the heroine keeps going back for more.  SPIOLERS ALERT:  At least four characters (Sam/William and Nick/John)are violently abusive to the main character.The only interesting thing about it for me was the look at the life of Moll Wallbe.  I could barely get through this book and was glad when it was over.
4 Love stories that go back in time. Author does a great job of blending the past with the present stories.
5 I think this was a great book. It is almost like getting two books for the price of one. The current day cast has a past that ties them together 800 years ago. It was very well written and slid from present to past and back smoothly. I think the whole story was good. I read it day after day and carried my kindle around with me like I used to carry a book to the table at dinner when I was a kid. If you enjoy stories of the past and a good love story then this is a good choice.
3 It was pretty good, but the story was too drawn out.  Much repetition of the same theme.  The story itself was o.k.
5 What wonderful news to see a classsic book make a reappearance. Who can we thank for such insight? LADY OF HAY is classic past lives/reincarnation, certainly a step up from current time travel . This is where it all started  influencing authors such as Jeanette Baker and Jude Deveraux.  LADY OF HAY  was a wonderful read when it first came out and is now a classic in its own  right, sure to help a whole new generation of readers discover this  exceptional author. The concept of writing two storylines in two seperate  time periods with each effortlessly interwoven with the other is only  possible because of the exceptional writing talent of Ms Erskine. If you  are reader who devours all sorts of the paranormal historicals and  historical romances  this one should be an automatic buy, because this is  where is all began.  This is not time travel this is reincarnation and no  one does it better than Barbara Erskine.  Jody Allen,  Charter member-RIO  Reviewers International Organization
5 JoeDanDonigiI got the kindle version of this book and cover is different so don't be surprised if kindle editions looks different from this.  A caveat.  Now on to the book.  The main protagonist, Jo lives in the current time as Jo and in the past as Welsh Lady named Matilda.  She jumps in the past and the future pretty seamlessly and the author, Barbara Erskine, seems to be adept at carrying on two love triangles, or squares would be more precise but not as phonetically pleasing.  Though I've never been to Wales the writing is good enough to evoke me effortlessly to believe I have been there even though I haven't.  I can imagine it just as I can imagine living 800 years ago in Wales.  This surprised me couple of times and that's what I like, I want to try to guess before the author makes it obvious.  This kept me on my figurative toes.Photoman35mm
4 I bought Lady of Hay used a few years ago and didn't pick it up again for a few months. I've always been fascinated with past lives but usually the way it is portrayed is unbelievable. This book, on the other hand, is fantastic. Imagine been put under hypnosis and having a past life emerge? For the author to actually use a real person from history is great...it made me think and I even looked her up. I read this book again every few months just for pure enjoyment.
5 I loved the descriptions of the characters and their surroundings! It felt like I was right there with them. I loved following Jo's story. I was really rooting for her!
3 I enjoy fictional novels of centuries past, and have some training in hypnosis, so at the beginning of the book, I was intrigued with Joanne (main character) who finds herself fipping back and forth from 12th century to present. The story began to unravel for me as more and more people in Joanna's life became also a part of her past life, and somehow, all seemed to get regressed to the same time slot.  At times there was more than a credibility gap; and even though I enjoyed the theme of the story, I found the ending to be very weak..
1 I read this book years ago, must have been not long after it first came out.  I remembered really liking it and looked forward to re-reading it.  What a difference on the second reading!  The male/female relationships are so dated. The violence and abuse against Jo are horrible, and her taking it and going back to her rapist over and over are appalling.  The characterizatons are two dimensional, and the writing is melodramatic and ridiculous.  I'm quite frankly ashamed of my younger self for liking it so much.  There are much better "past life" novels out there; " The Winter Sea" by Susanna Kearsley is one that I recently read and thought quite good. I would stay away from this one.
2 This book could be about half it's published length. It goes on and on and on...Perhaps so the author can insert yet another rape scene? The writing itself isn't awful. But the characters' constant fowl language and the rape author's insatiable longing to write yet another rape scene ruin it.
5 beautifully written and could not put it down.l  Loved the present to the past concept and the suspense.  I will definitely read more from this author.  Not wanting to spoil the plot i will not explain but it has sparked an interest in past life regression .  It is well worth reading.
5 I loved this book. It's not perfect but it's well worth my time and money.There were parts that dragged on but I couldn't put the book down. Read this book! If you like historical novels, it is worth your time.
5 Originally posted at:[...]Absorbing and hypnotic, Lady of Hay seethes and sizzles with emotions that often erupt out of control. Whether in twentieth century or twelfth century, the volatile personalities love, hate, connive, and preserve with intensity as they work out theirs destinies.The feeling "I've-been-here-before" takes on a whole new meaning when Joanna starts researching regression by hypnosis. Skeptical and expecting to uncover information well suited for her often-vitriolic style of writing, she agrees to be hypnotized to see if she regresses to an earlier time in history.Wow! What a past emerges--an 800-year-old past. While in a trance, Joanna seems to become Matilda, the lady of Hay in twelfth-century Wales. She takes the reader on a journey full of treachery and passion that mesmerizes.Both Joanna and Matilda are strong women who strive for control of their own lives while navigating through a maze of ambitious, egocentric men whose jealousies and territorial attitudes play havoc with lives.Matilda's husband William, ambitious and a user; King John, the cruel royal who feels entitled in every way; and Richard de Clare, who loves and understands Matilda make life a minefield ready to explode with a single misstep on her part.Joanna is not married but the men in her life begin to take on different personalities from time to time. Nick, Sam, Tim, and Pete make Joanna's twentieth-century life a tangled mess of emotions and danger. Knowing who the bad guys are and who the good guys are is indeed a guessing game.Barbara Erskine's writing style with layers of plots, strong characters, exquisite imagery, and graphic descriptions, plops the reader down right in the middle of events happening 800 years apart. The supernatural, historical, and the modern day (replete with promiscuity) blend to make LADY OF HAY captivating. The tale gives one pause for thought. Do people work out their own destinies or does some unknown force propel people along?SUPERB READING!
5 Great story..Suprise ending...exciting and fast paced! Everything Barbara Erskine writes is awesome!
5 Read this years ago but lost my copy.  A good historical romance.  Lots of detail and good characters.  Does not disappoint.
3 "Lady of Hay" was an interesting dive into the world of hypnosis and some would say, time travel.  The story uses the theory of hypnotic regression as well as the concept of reincarnation to support the plot.  I myself am not a believer in either of these psychological/spiritual ideas, so my approach to this novel was that of a time-travel fan.  I saw our main characters not as reincarnated, but as people whose minds seemed to be alternating from 1985 to the turn of the 12th Century.  I'm sure this wasn't the author's intent, but it enabled me to enjoy the story.Joanna is a feisty young writer, researching the topic of hypnotic regression for an article that she's putting together for an English publication.  Through her research, she finds that she seems to be inexplicably tied to Matilda de St. Valerie, born in 1160 AD and wed to William de Braose in 1174.  Other friends and associates in her life also seem to be linked to citizens of ancient England.  Through hypnosis, the past and the present begin to intermingle, leading to life-or-death situations for some of the main characters.Originally released in 1986, "Lady of Hay" went on to sell over 3 million copies.  This is not surprising to me, as Erskine weaves an interesting and compelling tale.  I enjoyed the frequent alternations between past and present, as well as the various struggles that characters went through in the different time periods.  There was suspense, romance, mystery, and a dynamic plot that pressed on with consistent energy until the conclusion.As a non-believer of reincarnation, I wish the story could have been told in another way.  I think one motivation of using reincarnation is to give characters a chance to "begin again" and try to improve upon what has happened in a past life, even attempt to atone for mistakes they've made, especially with loved ones.  This is a central and driving need for all of us--the desire to be loved and to achieve a state of reconciliation or atonement.  As such, the reader can relate to the desires felt by the modern characters of Jo, Sam, Nick and Tim.  Despite all the hardships they endured and/or perpetrated, in their souls they sought love and resolution.Because of my religious faith and some of the graphic and adult nature of some of this novel, I can't say that I would heartily recommend it to those who share my beliefs.  However, if you can look past the spiritual overtones and see it as a time-traveling adventure and a realistic depiction of how people lived & were treated 800 years ago, then you should enjoy Lady of Hay.  Not all of it wraps up with a perfectly tied bow at the end, but the main conclusion is satisfying and the tale as a whole was an interesting experience.  If nothing else, it made me grateful for the beliefs I hold to be true (and not fiction) and for the husband I heartily enjoy in this singular life.***********(I wish I could give this title 3 1/2 stars, as I enjoyed it, but not enough to warrant 4 stars.)
4 It seems that the reviews for this book are all over the map. This is totally understandable to me, as I just finished the book and spent a while sorting my feelings about it out.That said, I really like this book. I'll tell you why in a moment.Jo Clifford is nineteen years old and volunteers to be a patient in a hypnosis experiment taking place at her college. While under hypnosis Jo becomes extremely agitated and then, her hands begin to bleed. The professor conducting the experiment is thrilled, he thinks Joanna is showing signs of stigmata, but his assistant Sam Franklyn, is scared. Then, Jo's hearts stops and she nearly dies. Sam manages to bring her back to life. This is the prolog.Fast forward fifteen years. Jo has recently broken up with Nick, who is Sam's younger brother. She is a freelance journalist and is starting to write a series on nostalgia, one of the articles is about past lives and reincarnation. At this point she has no idea what happened to her all those years in the college experiment because the doctor conducting it gave her a post hypnotic suggestion so she wouldn't remember.Nick does know, and try's to dissuade her from writing the article, but she is too mad at him for cheating on her to care. So she begins to write the article, and is hypnotized by a doctor she goes to interview.Immediately Jo is flung back into the past. She is Matilda de Braose, women who is married to a twelve century marcher lord in Wales, but is love with the handsome Richard de Clare. And King (currently Prince) John of Robin Hood fame is in love with her.As Jo continues her trips to the past via regression it becomes obvious that the three men in Matilda's life, her husband William, her lover Richard and her lord John are all involved in Jo's life as well. The men, Sam, Nick and Tim (a photographer Jo frequently works with) begin to act strangely.This book was very exciting. The story line is going at a break neck speed until about page four hundred, when it slows down it bit. It does seem like some of it could be cut, but I couldn't tell you what parts.My only gripes with this book are few. The scenes in the past can be a little boring, the evil man in Jo's life seemed to becomes very evil very fast, and I don't think you can really hypnotize someone over the phone. Also I was a little confused about the scenes where Jo thought she was Matilda talking to her husband but really she was being hypnotized, and something like the conversation she was having never really took place in Matilda's life. (You'll understand that if you read the book.)Spolier alert!!Also given everything that happened in the book the ending was a little un realistic. I mean, after having a man rape you in not one but two incarnations it seems like you'd have trouble trusting him again, much less loving him. But the destiny aspect of the book sort of makes it all seem ok (not that its ever acceptable to rape someone, it just sort of explains it) and hey, its fiction.I give this book a very solid four point five stars and I would definitely try something else by this author.
5 This is one of my favorite books.  I bought it on a Ferry between Victoria and Seattle.  I loved it so much that I bought as many of her books as I could find, so neat that she has been revived.  Great writer, great plot.
4 I had looked forward to reading this book after listening to the audio book version of Daughters if Fire which I found fascinating.  This was unfortunate because by comparison, Lady of Hay felt repetitive albeit written many years before, and therefore if read in  chronological order maybe Daughters of Fire would have been slightly less enthralling.I was impressed by the depth of historical research in the books, the attention to detail and insight into the characters both ancient and modern.  I felt I was observing joy and despair; feasts in the great Hall and the loneliness of cold dark castles; the change of seasons and fortunes.Lady of Hay is a good holiday read for those who enjoy 'big fat' novels and have a Kindle.
3 Coincidentally, I had just finished reading 'Here Be Dragons' by Sharon Kay Penman that covered a somewhat later period of Welsh history but featured many of the same historical figures as this book.  'Here Be Dragons' is ten times the book this is.  If I have one pet peeve it would have to be authors who command their characters to do illogical things.  Case in point: At the beginning of this novel, the title character Jo, has just broken off a relationship with the man in her life who has gone off to pursue another woman yet, there is no discussion of what preciptated the breakup and the heroine nonchalantly allows the 'rat' to waltz blithely in and out of her life and apartment without batting an eyelash.  The 'rat' and his brother also have a relationship about as fraternal as Kane and Abel but there is no discussion whatsoever as to why.  I also found it rather ridiculous that all the men in Jo's modern existence had ALL followed her from her previous incarnation 800 years ago!  The heroine also runs around Wales falling spontaneously into regressive hypnotic trances at the drop of a 'Milady'.  The author even had one of her 800 year old, medieval characters utter &quot;Hey&quot; like he was hailing a cab.  C'mon!  Maybe this book should be better classified as science fiction?  I am as willing as the next person to suspend disbelief for the sake of a good yarn but because of the author's inablity to flesh out the details to make her protagonists credible I found the characters of this novel did not develop beyond cardboard cutouts.  My advice:  You money and your time would be better spent on 'Here Be Dragons' by Sharon Kay Penman.  Go read the reviews on this site for THAT book.
5 I absolutely loved this novel.  The time travel thru hypnosis concept was great.  I didn't put this book down until I had finished, and wished there was more. Barbara Erskine is a terrific author, one of my all time favorites..
4 This book held my interest for the most part but the author ruined the story for me by having the past become a physical part of the subject's past life. Except for that. I did enjoy the book.
4 Jo, an investigative journalist, is working on a series about hypnosis, past-life regression and reincarnation.  Initially skeptical, she allows herself to become hypnotized as part of her research.  Immediately she begins reliving the life of Matilda, the Scottish Lady of Hay who lived eight-hundred years earlier.  As she becomes more and more involved in Matilda's life, the men around her also appear to be reincarnations of the men in Matilda's life.I was immediately drawn into the story through Erskine's writing style and dynamic characters.  The historical nature of the book was carefully entwined with the present, creating an interesting and dynamic plot.  At times the book did seem to drag on and the people Jo encountered seemed a bit too serendipitous.  Despite these flaws I highly enjoyed this book.
4 Book was enjoyable; people who are into paranormal, incarnation, new age would most likely enjoy this book. I have not read other books by this author but would consider doing so.
4 I enjoyed this, but I would have enjoyed it a lot more if it had all been in Matilda's past and skipped the stuff in the present time.  The idea of regression was interesting, but it got to be a bit much after a while.  I mean, how many people do you know that are experienced hypnotists?  And Jo was hypnotized by was it four or five different people?  That did become a bit of a stretch towards the end of the book. ***Spoiler*** Also, unless I missed something, I don't think Sam's obsession with the whole Jo/Matilda thing was explained to my satisfaction.  How did he become so evil -- to the point of harming his brother.You should be advised that this is not your "true" historical fiction.  Matilda, William De Braose, Richard, etc. were real people, but as the author notes at the end not all that happened in the book to Jo/Matilda actually happened to the real Matilda.  I almost didn't read this book because of what really happened to Matilda -- yes she was held prisoner with her son and they starved to death but the story ended a bit more gruesome than that, if what I read in SKP's Welsh trilogy is true.  I was relieved that Erskine left that part out. Otherwise an interesting read, I blew through it quickly.  Four stars instead of five for the inconsistencies.
4 Ever since I first heard of the unthinkable,horrific death of Matilda De Braose and her oldest son , I've felt a sympathetic fascination towards her so when I remembered I had this book in my possession I was eager to read it.Mrs. Erskine does a brilliant job at bringing a woman and her family who have been dead for over 800 years to life as well as painting a vivid portrait of not only the world they lived in, but the daily realities of that world .The story is engrossing and well researched as far as I can tell (although my knowledge of English history is still very rudimentary).However, the book is also entirely too long.It took me about 5 days to read it and at times, the narrative dragged and became very repetitive and I found myself wishing that I could just get to the end.As tragic and gripping as Matilda and her son's death scene and other passages was , I sighed in relief when I came to the last page.I feel the story would have been better told if the book was about 200 pages shorter.As a last positive note,I'm very glad that this book was written because I feel that it exposes Matilda and her story/horrific fate/ to a large and continuing audience that would likely never hear of her otherwise.Lord knows that a woman and her son being thrown into a dungeon and starved to death on the direct and deliberate orders of a monstrously cruel King should never be forgotten.The suffering of both , both physically and mentally, before death finally came must have been unbelievable.PS- To any history buffs- while this book is based on real people and events and is basically accurate, one should be aware that there are events that by the author's own admission never occurred , such as Matilda's great love affair with a handsome,dashing nobleman(who also really existed), others are the pure speculation such as Matilda's rape by the same king that would later order her death- King John.If using such devices to "spice up a story" and speculation about real people and events irks you then you should definitely stay clear.
4 This book kept me up late at night. The story unfolds at a great pace, intermingling present and past. I was so involved in Lady Matilda's and Jo's characters and their intertwined destinies , that I could literally feel their emotions, pain and fear, the book is so well written it plunges you right in the middle of it all. A great story. I would highly recommend it. This book will make you want to discuss with others who have read it - it stays with you long after you have finished it.
3 The good? - I loved the premise of remembering of past lives and the intertwining with the present.  The historical elements were well done, and the scenery was vivid. The idea that there are these three men who were in love with Matilda who are still in love with her present incarnation of Jo is handled fairly well.  There is an interesting unexpected twist in the romance, and you're not entirely sure who is going to win out in the end or why.The not-so-good? - The characters were too inconsistent and unrealistic.  If the characters are actually the same people from the past why did they change so much as soon as they began to remember?  Also, the present dilemma was nothing more than dealing with the stress of remembering the past. It would have been nice to see a parallel story in the present (aside from the romance) that had more to do with modern reality but somehow reflected the past.  I agree with other reviewers that this was waaaaay too long, and Jo's reaction to the abuse is weird.
1 I was sure I would love this book after reading the other reviews and the fact that I love historical English fiction, but this book is truly awful.  The premise is wonderful and the book starts off great, but it soon becomes repetitive and disjointed.  Also, I volunteer for a domestic abuse support center, and the scenes of a young woman allowing herself to be physically abused over and over were very disturbing.  I wish the book had lived up to my expectations.
4 When I downloaded this book, I was expecting something like a traditional time travel romance . . . you know, the modern heroine goes back in time and discovers her true love.  This book is nothing like that and the unexpected, unpredictable nature of the plot was a pleasant surprise.  That said, this isn't a very easy book to read.  Matilda is treated like a means to an end during many parts of her life and virtually all the men in her life either let her down or subject her to violence.  Since we, to some extent, expect that from the distant past, those parts are easier to read than the parts where Joanna - the woman in 1980 who is experiencing Matilda's life - goes through the exact same treatment from the men that she knows.  What she experiences is bad.  What is even worse is the casual attitude that everybody has about it ("What happened to your face?  Did he hit you?  Too bad.").The book is fascinating and the author does a good job of setting up the parallel stories, as well as how Joanna is compelled to go forward even when she knows it is dangerous for her to continue regressing.  It is a little odd how everybody is so connected ("Oh, let me tell you about this person you can go visit who will know stuff to help you), but that is overlookable.  The book does drag at parts, though it is difficult to determine what could have been cut out.What you get in this book is a very enjoyable and well-done story (that will take you at least a few days to read!).  Parts of it are very graphic when it comes to violence against women, specifically intimate partner violence.  But that is part of life and I don't fault the author for covering it in her book.
3 The plot has been described by other reviewers.  The one point I want to add is that the behavior of the medieval characters is extremely brutal. Although in that way, the story is much more true to the past than most historical novels, if you are sensitive (as I am) you may find the descriptions disturbing.  In any event, not something to read while you are feeling blue.
4 Journalist Joanna Clifford is researching regression by hypnosis for an article she is writing. In 1970 Jo herself was hypnotized, but remembers very little about the incident. What she doesn't know is that she nearly died during the session, her heart having stopped, and the hypnotherapist gave her a mental suggestion so that she would not remember anything that occurred.Now, 15 years later, Jo has agreed to be hypnotized again for her research. Her old flame Nick is adamantly trying to talk her out of it, while his brother Sam is as well. However after the first session, Jo regresses to 800 years in the past and finds herself seeing her life through the eyes of Matilda de Braose, The Lady of Hay.Before she knows it, Jo's hypnotic trances are getting really vivid and she is having a hard time distinguishing what's real from what happened to Matilda. She learns that Matilda was unhappily married to William, but was secretly in love with Richard de Clare. She experiences Matilda's pain and heartache. Jo even finds herself missing Richard and wanting to regress just to be able to be with him, if only in a trance.While under hypnosis, Jo experiences Matilda giving birth to her first born son. When Jo awakens she find herself having post-partum symptoms. She also misses the baby and hears him crying at night.Jo starts to think that she may have at one point in time actually been the Lady of Hay, and is just now remembering her past life. She also insists on being hypnotized again and again until she finds out what became of Matilda. But soon enough, scared of what is happening to her, she tries to make herself forget Matilda, to no avail.At 571 pages, Lady of Hay is a pretty hefty book. It took me about 100+ pages in to get hooked on the story. All the while, I didn't really relate to any of the characters, but I was curious about what was going to happen next. The plot fascinated me, but some of the characters annoyed me, mostly the men in Jo's life. There's some physical violence during the current day storyline, and the female characters put up with it, which had me shaking my head as I read.I found the scenes where Jo would regress into Matilda's life to be really interesting. That's when the book really took a turn into the historical fiction element of the story. Barbara Erskine makes a smooth transition from Jo's world to Matilda's and vice versa. You can also tell that the author did alot of research for the book. The events and people in Matilda's world are well detailed.The plot is full of drama, backstabbing, time travel and a touch of romance. I liked the paranormal element to the book as well. There's alot going on in this story and I found myself hooked from the second half of the book until the end.
5 I have read every book Barbara Erskine has published.  I love her style and characters.  If you like her books you will also enjoy Elizabeth Harris's books (e.g. Herb Gatherers).  They are the type of books you don't  put down until you have finished!  Keep it for a rainy day that you have  all to yourself.Waiting anxiously for more from Barbara Erskine.
5 For years Lady of Hay has been my favorite book. It is captivating, takes the reader from the present to the 15 th century. I can imagine myself having lived a previous life because the author, Barbara Erskine,presents the image so well, I can visualize it like I was actually living it. Even though it is a huge book I have read it twice and will likely read it at least once more. Barbara Erskine, Ken Follett and Diana Gabaldon capture the spirit of the past and transport the reader  back as if they actually lived the life. Kudos to them
5 I enjoyed the history and pschological turns in this book. It was very suspenseful up to the last, and easy to read.
4 Although I don&#8217;t believe in reincarnation; I do wonder about imprinted genetic memories.  This story starts kind of slow; I didn&#8217;t really get into the story until after page 100.  I&#8217;m glad I stuck with it because it really is a good story.  The author makes the transitions from present day to early Wales in an easy way.  Some of the descriptions were a bit long and the book could have been edited to a slightly shorter version.  With all that I still recommend it as a good read if you like reincarnation and flash backs.  Certainly a &#8216;twist&#8217; as to the &#8216;who done it&#8217; portion.
4 Barbara Erskine tells an intriguing tale of life with kings and nobles.  I especially like the way she tied it to the present.
5 When I first saw the description of the book, i was not convinced it was something i wanted to read, it took me days to decide and i am glad i took the chance. The book takes you back into the time of kings, barons and earls but at the same time makes you grip on to the modern world. The author does not waste the readers time by using run on sentences or place unnecessary information into the book.The writer takes you on a roller coaster ride of emmotions from the view of three main chracters but also introducing the roles of other persons in the book to help bring about the story. You know it is a good book when you want to start and figure out for your self what is happeneing and you know it is awesome when even in your dreams you want to know what the end results going to be. I was really happy i got this book even though i usually stick to paranoumal book. High praises to the writer, fantastically written. I recommended it to all my friends.
4 For me the book started off pretty slowly, I really didn't get into it till the 3th or 4th chapter.  From then on though, I couldn't put it down, I liked the characters better in the past though. I was far more anxious to read about them then Jo and the rest from the 20th century. It was a refreshing read, I recommend this book 100% and also Kingdom of Shadows which I absolutely loved.
5 I couldn't put this down and have reccomended it to several friends. I think it's well written and extremely entertaining. I was drawn into the hypnosis scenes and facinated how all the counterparts came together in the present day. Definetly a good read!
3 Though I am not one that really believes in past lives, I am aware that those types of things make for a good story. Its also a good way for a story to use both history and present day to intertwine a great story about a historic figure.Lady of Hay is a dramatic story of Joanna who is researching hypnotic regression (which I am not sure I believe in either) and as she researches this she decided to let them put her under hypnosis. While under hypnosis Jo becomes Matilda. Matilda is a young lady from the 12th century and her life a mixture of emotions.Matilda's husband William is not really nice, King John feels he can do what he wants with her, and Richard de Clare is the only man who really loves and understand her. Joanna has a life not to far away from Matilda's as she has a group of men who think they know what is best for her but she is not married to any of them and Jo is pretty head strong, but with each man thinking they know whats best for her she finds her self confused and overwhelmed and sometimes she has a hard time distinguishing between herself and Matilda at times.It was a interesting story about two different centuries, but two women who where a lot alike, although I don't really believe in reincarnation, past life stuff it was still a interesting story and if you like historical/modern storytelling then I think you would like this book.
3 I found the concept of past life regression interesting in this book. It was enjoyable to read. It did drag on in a few spots.
1 I read constantly and I agree with other reviewers about the excessive and un-necessary violence in this book.  There are less than 5 books in my entire life I did not finish but I finally threw this book out - it was not fair to inflict it on my local library.  The time period is definitely violent but it seemed that whenever the author did not know what to do she threw in a rape scene.  I will never purchase another book by this author.
4 This is a rather convoluted story given that you must keep track of both past and present story lines for multiple characters. The characters are compelling by themselves, but when placed into this particular story they become entrancing.Ms. Erskine was very thorough in researching the material for this book, and the descriptive details were wonderfully enchanting. The only place I feel she slipped a bit was in the way the historical characters spoke, occasionally using the word "hey," which was not introduced into common language until several hundred years after the historical portion of the story took place. And for all that Lady de Baorse was a trailblazer, I still found it a bit challenging to reconcile her attitude and how on the one hand she spoke to men - particularly the king - as if they were equals, and on the other hand she would talk about the duties of women being to submit to their husbands and acknowledging that they were owned by their husbands just like a horse or an item of clothing. But much of that can be forgiven and understood since the Lady de Baorse was being channeled by a modern-day woman who wouldn't be afraid of men as women of the 1200's would be, since women were chattel and only used to gain necessary alliances and such.That hiccup aside, the story is riveting. All the main characters are strong forces on their own and combined together they become a volatile mix. Even the secondary characters have a surprising depth not often seen in a character that may only be in two or three scenes in the entire book. Just when you feel that the story arc is beginning to drag, you are whisked back in time to relive the extraordinary life of Matilda, otherwise known as the Lady de Baorse. However for the majority of the book the story moves right along at a lovely clip.If you have an issue with wanton alcohol consumption be forewarned, as I'm not sure if there is a single scene in which either alcohol or coffee is not consumed - and often the coffee contains alcohol. Also, Jo comes across as having a rather loose moral code when it comes to sex, but I much of that is driven by the historical portions of the book oddly enough.This book is perfect for those who enjoyed such books as 'The Other Boleyn Girl,' 'The Virgin's Lover,' and other books that take historical periods and their more well-known people and try to recreate what their lives might have been like. While that may sound like a simple romance novel it is clear the hundreds of hours of research that goes into the creation of the top-shelf books of this genre. And there is no doubt in my mind that this book belongs up near the top-shelf with the others, though it is not in the same league as the Diana Gabaldon's "Outlander" series. Definitely a challenge to put the book down and get anything else done until I finished reading it. Thankfully it is a fairly quick read, regardless of its size.
5 This is a wonderful story but very heavy.  The emotions of the characters reel you in as if you were a prize catch on the line but believe me when I say that there is no struggling to put this down.  I found this real and engrossing as if you are watching a 3D movie in the best of theaters.Our heroine Jo volunteers for an experiment on hypnotism.  Right from the start our secondary characters are in awe and pretty much scared half out of their wits with the intensity of Jo's regression. The results bring forth many physical manifestations that could bring about a costly price to Jo herself so her memory is wiped clean for her own safety.Upon seeking out a professional so that she can verify clinical results for an article she is working on, Jo gets caught up in the experiment these many years later.  Can she help herself to deal with what is about to start happening to her?  Will she be strong enough to change a past life for the good of a woman she never even heard of?  Will Jo's physical manifestations catapult around her sucking in people she knows as well as strangers to the point that not only is the past coming to life but the present is changing also.This story has a double intensity as far as I'm concerned for I do believe in past lives belonging to one person.  One soul, multiple renditions of lives lived, loved and died only to become again.  Those feelings of, "gee have I been here before because it sure feels like it", as well as others just might have some credence to them.  Is there such a thing as luck or is it just our having learned from a mistake made in a previous life and making the right choice this time.
4 I read this book years ago and I loved it. I thought that the lives and story lines that were interwoven were really interesting. I have often felt the pull to the past myself and when I read this book I started to think the author may have not just created an imagined story. I really got involved in the twists and turns of the plot. Again, I loved it. Can't wait to read it again.
5 This was a well thought out, detailed story with so many twists and turns it gave the plot a new dimension. There was a definite line between past and present for the reader but confusion for the characters themselves. I began reading this book expecting one thing and it surprised me with something else. All the characters were well defined and completely believable. I actually found myself with tears in my eyes a few times. The historical aspect was well written and as the plot became more intense, I was rooting for multiple characters. This book kept me up reading late at night. - Theresa B.
5 I couldn't put it dowm. When at work I kept thinking about it and couldn&#34;t wait to get home to read!!
5 Lady of Hay is one of the most interesting books I've read this year. The attention to detail of events from the 12th and 13th centuries, counterposed against modern times, grabbed my attention right from the start. The thought of being able to travel to the past has always intrigued me, and this book didn't disappoint. It is well plotted and the characters are well developed.While those characters are certainly all too human, Sam is probably one of the snarkiest villians I've read about in recent months. Of course, there's the argument -- was it all planned by Sam in his evil, twisted mind, or was he really William? Was Nick really King John, or did Sam really do a number on Nick via hypnotic suggestion? Was Jo just an impressionable woman, hoisted on her own petard of vivid imagination and a love of history, or was she really a reincarnation of Matilda?Each reader must make his/her own decision. Me? I just went along for the ride and enjoyed every moment. Along the way, I learned a bit more about English history ... and that's a good thing, too.I highly recommend this book for a jolly good read.
5 A fascinating book about the behind-the-scenes of British parliamentary politics just before World War II.It makes me think worse of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain than I already thought of him and betterof Winston Churchill than I already did.  It was a riveting book.ABH
3 The book is beautifully written, but it was hard to read. The Kindle display wandered all over the screen with broken lines and broken words. Paragraphing was totally missing (even admitting that the English method does not indent a new paragraph but does leave an empty line above.) Punctuation also left something to desire. In short, the book should be read on paper and not subjected to some electronic whim with no one casting an editor's eye upon it.
5 Wonderful read! Captures Churchill ' s signature style while adding layers of depth to character. Great cast of characters. Could not put it down till I finished.
4 I enjoy historical fiction and this work was exceedingly believable. Very credible dialogue in the story given what factual information I am aware of.
5 Many writers of historical fiction start with an actual event in history, and then let their imaginations run free. This fascinating book shows great imaginative restraint. Certainly there are fictional threads running through the tale, but Mr. Dobbs seriously wants to tell us about Neville Chamberlain's politics of appeasement, a policy that ended with his downfall as Prime Minister.Throughout the book we are a fly on the wall listening to the political machinations of the principle characters in the story which include, Chamberlain, Churchill, Ambassador Joseph Kennedy, Lord Halifax, the traitor Guy Burgess, and many others. It is fascinating to see Chamberlain's party struggle to hold on as their political capital steadily declined. Churchill, on the other hand starts as an outcast, one who continually cries out that peace with Hitler is an unattainable goal. His rise to First Lord of the Admiralty, and then to Prime Minister is a long fight against the odds.I am a history buff who's read books on WWII and English history, and this book taught me many things that I didn't know. Now I've said that this book fascinated me, the almost 700 pages just sped by, but I must say that this book may not be everybody's cup of tea. It definitely is not a wartime thriller. The novel is full of conversation, and as for action you'll have to settle for walks through the garden of Buckingham Palace with Lord Halifax, and King George VI (who, we find out, was so tongue tied that it was difficult for him to make clear statements).
5 Michael Dobbs has written a great book that points out all of the deceit and misinformation that is still going on today.  He also shows us what real political courage is even in the face of ridicule and a relentless and paid off press.
5 Winston's War is a longish but fascinating novel of Great Britain in the 1930s and in the first days of World War II. The author is Michael Dobbs. This novel is the introductory volume in a series on Winston Churchill's rise to power as Prime Minister during Britain's darkest hour.Dobbs weaves an intricate tale from high level political high jinks in the Parliamentary and Cabinet level world to a prostitute's life in seaside Bournemouth. Along the many pages we meet such luminaries as:Winston Churchill-The hero of the novel and Dobbs' series. Churchill is a Conservative scorned for the failure of the Gallipoli campaign in World War I. He was First Lord of the Admirality during that war being held responsible for the disaster. Churchill is disliked by the Conservative party leaders but is popular with the people. Throughout the 1930s he was a voice crying in the wilderness for Britain to reaarm. He warned of the rise of Fascism under Mussolini, the Nazis under Hitler and the Communists led by Joseph Stalin. On May 10th, 1940 he became Prime Minister on the same day the Nazis had invaded Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg. Appeasement was at an end in England. Churchill was prepared to lead his great democratic nation against the forces of totalitarian evil in Europe.Neville Chamberlain-He trumpeted "Peace in Our Time" after the Munich meeting with Herr Hitler in 1938. The result was the seizing of Czechoslovakia by Germany. Chamberlain hated Churchill but after the war began in Poland on September 1, 1939 he chose him to serve as Lord of the Admirality in his cabinet. Chamberlain was from the old school of polite British politics. His handling of the Norway invasion and marshalling England to fight was a total disaster. His three years as PM were a disaster in preparing Britain for the cruel war ahead.Edward Halifax- A close friend of Chamberlain and King George VI. He was an appeaser who would not have been a good PM. At the last minute it was Churchill and not Halifax who received the call to assume leadership.Guy Burgess- A Soviet spy who is a conduit of information to Winston Churchill. He is dissolute, homosexual and alcoholic.Joe Kennedy-Father of JFK. He is the American Ambassador to England and an arch appeaser. He is an adulterer who does not believe England can survive an attack by the Nazis.Mac-A barber who secretly passes government information to Burgess. He has an affair with a prostitute named Carol.Brendan Bracken-A private parliamentary secretary to Churchill who is a red headed Irishman. Bracken carries on an affair with Anna Fitzgerald. She turns out to be a Soviet spy.Joe and Susan Graham-Lovers whose lives are tragically altered by the early days of the war in Norway.Dr. Dobbs has brilliant insights into this crucial period in British and World history with a solid knowledge of the working of Parliament.
5 A great read. Both the story line, the way it is related and Mr. Dobb&#34;s faultless cadence.....Read them all..though you will decide that for yourself.
1 I'm glad I got this book for free.  I'd hate to think I wasted money on it.The writer spends and exorbitant amount of time describing the characters feelings and thoughts to the point that it is boring to the extreme.  I didn't even make it to the end of the first section before deciding that life was too short to keep trying to read this book.  Maybe if the author had Chamberlain and Churchill go after each other with broadswords and dueling pistols in the London Underground it would have at least have had a little action and been more interesting.
4 This reimagining novelization of Churchill's rise to the Prime Ministry leans towards the cynical except in its portrayal if Churchill himself. It is worth reading as it brings to life a critical moment in British history without being a hagiography.
4 Michael Dobbs, Winston's War (2002, 2009) and Churchill's Triumph (2005, 2008)A principal advisor for British prime ministers Margaret Thatcher and John Major, and the holder of a Ph. D. in nuclear defense studies, Michael Dobbs knows of what he writes when he takes on British politics. These are two of his series of novels following the career of Winston Churchill from his accession to the prime ministership in 1940 through the momentous meeting of Churchill, Stalin and FDR in Yalta in 1945, which settled the fate of Poland and, by inference, other eastern European countries for decades.  The subtitle of the first novel is "A Novel of Conspiracy" and the conspiracies are largely the work of prime minister Neville Chamberlain who came back to England from giving away Czechoslovakia to Hitler and talked about how he had earned England "peace in our time," only to discover within the next year that he hadn't. The second book has as its subtitle "A Novel of Betrayal." The betrayal is FDR's, who was so eager to secure Stalin's approval of the United Nations that he moved away from his wartime ally Churchill and gave away Poland and large parts of China to the crass and ruthless Stalin. There are lapses of style and construction in both novels but they're almost beside the point, so compelling is the story Dobbs tells and so appealing is the larger than life figure of their protagonist.
3 The book starts off in an annoying way--cramming in all the real life characters who were part of Churchill's world in 1939-1940. Bear with the author, however, because he then spins an intricate story based largely on the actual history of the times. He takes you very much behind the scenes of the drama of Churchill's rise to power. OK, the author takes some historical liberties--Ambassador Kennedy is an easy target and Dobbs shoots so many arrows into him that he looks like a porcupine, but, on balance, the author deserves great credit fot making this bleak period in Chutrchill's life come alive.
5 If you think you know how Winston Churchill became Prime Minister prior to World War  II, think again &#8211; and read this book. Guy Burgess is a central character, as are the henchman of Neville Chamberlain's whose claim for &#34;Peace in Our Time&#34; got so much wrong. If you have any history buff in you you'll love this novel.
3 the author uses real people to present this fictional account of the 1940's prior to the full Declaration of War.  Shows one view of Clement Atlee and a totally different view of Winston churchill in the 1940-1941 period.
4 By way of historical fiction, Winston's war provides an interesting look at the run up to WWII. The Neville Chamberlain goal of "peace in our time" is accurately portrayed as self delusion as Churchill battles to stand up to Hitler before it is too late. I found this novel informative and entertaining.
4 A very good blending of fact and fiction. I learned quite a bit about the personality of Chamberlin,whom  I had always considered as a sort of inept fool No so,accoriding to Dobbs. He was a ruthless politician,as they all were. The writing was serviceable,if not memorable..
2 I have read and enjoyed two other books in the Churchill series by Mr. Dobbs, but I can not recommend this one.  I stopped reading after roughly 300 pages.  Mr. Churchill is barely present in the first half of the book which is taken up by minor characters and minor sub plots.  Perhaps I missed out by not finishing the book but I could not see plodding through another 300 pages.
