4 I think the best way to approach this book is not to think of it as a modern novel but instead imagine that you are being told this story by a grandfather or a bard in an inn on a stormy night.The Long Ships falls somewhere between epic poetry, an oral story, and a history of the Vikings; the book is not, however, a study of complex characters with deep psychologies and nuance. What you'll find here is a rip-roaring yarn about the various heroic adventures of Red Orm and his friends as they travel into Muslim lands and even as far away as modern-day Russia, and they'll fight and kill and marry and get religion and behave much more like regular people than what preconceptions about Vikings tend to describe.The only real complaint I have about many of these adventures (and the book in general) is that too often there is very little sense of danger for Orm - I never felt like anything really bad was going to happen to him and so even though the book is very well written (it moves at a great clip) there is no real tension moving the action forward. Basically we know Orm is going to be alright and so we just need to sit back and enjoy learning how he became alright. And that's not really a bad thing, but even Homer was able to place Odysseus is much tighter spots whose outcomes didn't always feel inevitable.Bengtsson's strength in the book is portraying the Vikings as real, living, breathing people and not just blood-thirsty killers bent on raping everything they see. Orm is a generous king, one who even converts to the strange and foreign (even undesirable) religion of Christianity. He treats his friends well, is fair to everyone fair to him, and is basically the ideal of a great warrior king - sort of like a Camelot but with more beards. I got the impression that Bengtsson wanted to celebrate his people's heritage by lending his characters all the good qualities other writers and historians have managed to overlook when dealing with these people. Of course this means the pendulum swings hard the other way and so this book can only be taken as entertainment with a heavy dose of ancestral pride.Yet it would be unfair for me to require Bengtsson to do anything more than what he has. He has written a story that is, above all else, fun to read and hard to put down. I mean, we're talking Vikings here and that's a subject nearly impossible to screw up. Is it uneven? Sure, but so what? I had fun with it.I would like to add that I find it really strange that this book is not more well known. This book deserves a much wider readership outside of its native country. Thankfully the New York Review of Books have created a wonderful edition (and they always do, too) and hopefully more people will discover this hidden treasure.
5 An excellent, action packed, fast paced look at the Norsemen of the eleventh century. Excellent characters and good story really make this world come alive. The book is surprisingly funny, as our hero adopts and discards Islam to later become a rather unorthodox Christian. This time period was fairly unique, as several different cultures clashed all over Europe as the Moors of Spain, Byzantium, The Kievan Rus, the Britons, all waxed and waned, with gangs of rowdy Norsemen going a-viking seemingly everywhere.This is an interesting and entertaining look at a unique culture in a unique time, and is highly recommended.
5 I first read this book about 1970. And re-read it again and again. I had not been able to find a copy to replace mine when it wore out. Glad I found it on Amazon.A good book. Adventure, a little comedy, people you can get to care about and come to like. It is all there in one big, colorful package.I highly recommend this book.
5 I read this when I was a boy. Its an absolute classic - Don't be put off by the awful Hollywood movie of the same name.
4 Every serious reader has had the experience: perhaps by accident --on a library shelf, or in a dusty box at a garage sale-- you stumble across an out-of-print book that seizes your imagination through its author's sheer mastery of the storytelling craft.And you wonder: why, O why, doesn't the publisher re-issue this in lieu of one or another of the emminently forgettable titles in current release?Such a book is THE LONG SHIPS by Frans Bengtssen, which crossed the Atlantic from Scandinavia to America in the early 1950s; like Leif Ericson, who made the same trip long before Columbus, this book lingered only briefly here before vanishing with scarcely a trace.And that is a tragedy for anyone who craves an epic, lusty tale of Vikings and their travels-- told with a sophisticated humor that is both wry and understated and with a sense of historical perspective that blends so subtly into the narrative that one is staggered to later find it is painstakingly accurate. Thank you, History Channel-- but I heard it all first, and far more compellingly, from following Orm Tostesson's exciting voyages, enthusiastic plunderings and thrilling adventures in THE LONG SHIPS.This book is a delight in every way: certainly, you can read simply for it for the lyrical use of language (it is, by the way, a translation from its original Swedish, and translator Michael Meyer deserves canonization for his masterful rendering of it into English). But it works well on so many other levels --as an action/adventure, or as a character-driven historical novel-- that to attempt to limit this book's sophisticated multi-layered appeal would be a disservice.The copy I obtained (with great difficulty; it's hard to track down THE LONG SHIPS, but well worth the effort when you do) was published by Collins of St. James' Place, London. I understand Random House holds the American rights.If there is any justice in the literary world --or wisdom left in today's publishing houses that is not measured with a cash register--  THE LONG SHIPS would immediately be reissued to a new generation of readers, to much fanfare from those of us who have already had the pleasure of reading it.--Earl Merkel(Author, FLU SEASON/THE FINAL EPIDEMIC and LIKE DISTANT CITIES BURNING, NAL/Penguin/Putnam, both scheduled for publication in Summer/Fall 2002.)
2 Has fun aspects, with believable historic detail. However, the endless 'blood & swash' (to pull a quote from an old favorite move, "The Ghost & Mrs. Muir") gets a little tedious.
5 I first read this novel in high school and loved it.  In the intervening years, I had forgotten many of the best parts, Or simply didn't understand them at the age of thirteen.  This is a good read for almost anyone.
4 This was fun.  I was engaged the whole way.  Great adventure story for a long winters night.  Good history read.
5 This book is written like a Norse legend told. Sure the main characters are he men (and ladies) who are larger than life, that is the fun. On a more serious note, it does provide some insight into where and how these Norse men went &#34;a viking&#34;.
4 I know this sounds picky, but I would have enjoyed about half of "The Long Ships."  What I truly did enjoy, however, was the writing style and the language.  Every sentence sounds like it came from one of the Islandic Sagas.  This gave a feeling of the Viking Age that was enjoyable.  Orm's adventures never seen to end, though he tries to settle down to farming.  Is this still part of the Nordic character.  I hope so.
5 Two Finnish Swedes gave me this book as a house present long ago. They said it was well known and loved in Swedish. I had always liked Viking sagas and Norse mythology, but the book's cover makes it look like an airport novel, so I opened and glanced at it without high hopes. It took me by surprise, it was so good.I soon climbed into the long ships to go marauding with Orm and his friends and never looked back. Twenty years later, I often find myself still thinking about those Vikings and their adventures in Spain, in Bulgaria, back home with their girls who don't respect wimps....My husband, who thought he was not the least interested in Vikings, was also enthralled. The translation is great and it reads like an English novel.Someone "borrowed" my book so I am hoping it will be republished as a hardback. It well deserves it.
5 awesome historical adventure.surprising element is the detail of the christianization of the norsemen, which i personally didn't have a problem with, i just wasn't expecting it, from the other reviews i read.this may be a selling point for some, if you happen to be into christianity. it should not detract for others, if you are interested in history/ancestry.if you think this is going to be just ravishing, pillaging, plundering and adventure, you're going to find it a bit meatier than that.the vikings could be a very solemn, reflective people, as well as some of the fiercest, most effective, successful warriors ever.anyone ever write a book about a viking in the court of one of the kahns, i'd like to read it.
4 A very well-told tale of the Northmen. It is interesting in the information it provides about their manner of life. The English translation is excellent
3 There were some things to like about this book.*It transported me to another time, another way of life.  I'm not sure how accurate a portrayal of the times this book managed but I'm pretty sure there was much about it that caught the flavor of the time.  Fighting hard and thieving adventures with ominous dangers all served to remind, we weren't always washing our hands with anti-bacterial soap and recording three television shows while watching a fourth.  Mankind has a colorful past and this is a part of it I hadn't spent a lot of time thinking about but I enjoyed my immersion into the Viking world with all those men and all those kings.*The humor was sometimes subtle, sometimes not, but definitely there and woven effortlessly throughout.  I found myself giggling and snickering and snorting on occasion and smiling through much of this book.*I like a good action movie and I like adventure stories and there was definitely some good adventure in this book.But to me this book had some big problems.*It was episodic.  Not a bad thing per se if you're picking it up over a number of weeks, months, and reading it like a serial.  But I was reading this as a book group selection and had to keep trudging through it even when I would normally have put it down.  It just didn't hang together for me as a novel, more as a series of short stories.*The characters were simple, not too deep, and they fit with the stories but it was hard for me to care, too much, about any of them.  I have trouble when I can't invest in at least one of the characters.*Finally, and most importantly, it was too long.  I have two or three other books on my shelf and about a third of the way through this one I kept wishing I could put it down and read something else, something that would excite and interest me more deeply.For these reasons I can only give this book three stars and would only recommend it with caveats.
5 I have recently gotten in the middle of a Viking phase, started by the admirable works of Tim Severin. When I came across The Long Ships - I thought, "why not give it a try" having heard nothing about the story or history.In short, this book is very good. It is entertaining and the characters - particularly Orm and Ylva - are enjoyable, realistic, and personable.It is also very clear (to me at least) that Mr Severin had to use this as his inspiration for his own Viking trilogy. And, like many other imitiations, Mr Severin's work does not own up to The Long Ships.Buy this book and be prepared for a few hours of enjoyment!!!
5 Another reviewer commented that this book was a combination of Jane Austen and Patrick O'Brian:  that's a perfect assessment.  I haven't gone wrong yet with a NYRB Classics.
5 Couldn't put it down. I loved it. I was so sorry to see the book end. I've been looking for a book of comparable quality ever since, and I can't find one that I haven't already read. This was truly an exceptional read. I've gone back and re-read all my favorite parts. I find myself thinking about Orm and his family wondering what happened to them. Exceptional writing!!!
5 The Long Ships is fantastic in every way, and also fantastic to read aloud. It flows wonderfully and has the most amazingly vivid scenes, and real narrative suspense. If you like reading aloud with your family or loved one, this is a great choice.
5 Let's get this out first.  The cover to this book is just plain awful.  Normally I would pass this book by figuring if the publisher didn't care enough about it to pay for a decent artist how good could it be?  Thankfully, some of the reviews here encouraged me to take a chance and I definately didn't regret it.I don't know if it's due to the translation or the author's style but the writing is absolutely superb in conveying the feeling of the time.  You could just imagine this story being told in exactly the same way hundreds of years ago across a campfire or over a good cup of mead.A great story that takes place in a time and among a people who don't get many (good) books written about them.  Check this one out!
5 This book is an eternal classic. Set in the height of Viking Age it tells us how Orm (Snake) is kidnapped by a band of marauding vikings. He then serves as a slave on a moorish ship, he is a mercenary among the muslims, he is marauder in England. He marries royally, settles, and goes on a treasure hunt for stolen gold in Russia. Bengtson uses the laconic language of the vikings to hilarious effects. The translator manages to keep it, which is great. The book is historically accurate with many historical events and persons interwoven in the narrative.
4 The Long Ships is a book for those of us who as boys read Sir Walter Scott and Rudyard Kipling, the Rover Boys Series, Mark Twain and  Moby Dick as an adventure story and  also for everyone  of us of either sex and of whatever age who can now sit back and enjoy some great stories of Viking adventure threaded through and through with humor and not a little historical accuracy. While it's a serious book in that I was written by an author of talent, an essayist and poet in his own land (Sweden) and is therefore well written it's not a serious book to be taken seriously. It has no message and no moral. It doesn't try to solve any problems. It just tells some great stories.For the record The Long Ships is a collection of four novellas, centered on the life and adventures of Red Orm Tostesson, a late Eleventh Century (980-1025) Viking who lived in Skania in what was then a part of the kingdom of the Danes but which now lies on the southern tip of Sweden. The stories were first written and published in Swedish by Frans Bengsston, a Swedish essayist, translator and poet, in 1940-41 and then  translated and published in English in 1954, 15 years laterAll four of these novellas contain a heady stew of history, derring-do, adventure, love, fortune, friendship and - always - violence. In the first story where Red Orm, the son of Toste and his wife Asa, goes a-Viking in Krok's ship with his friend Toke, plunders the coasts of Normandy and Northern Spain, is captured by the Moors, spends six years as a galley slave, becomes a member of the Empower Alamansur's bodyguard, steals the world's most valuable necklace and then the largest bell from the Monastery of St James  (now Santiago de Campostella in Galicia) escapes and returns home safely there is enough material for a year's season of TV episodes.The same is true of the next three - in the first of which (he second of the novellas) Red Orm is a part of the Viking fleet which defeats the British (read Anglo-Saxons) at the battle of Maldon and eventually procured a true King's  ransom from weak King Ethelred.Then in the next story (the third novella) Red Orm and his family and retainers move to a safer place in the woods above their home in Skania to escape the wrath of King Sven Forkbeard (Orm has  married Ylva the beautiful youngest daughter of King Harald and sister of King Sven Forkbeard who is furious over the marriage). Here they have an almost endless series of adventures; and then, finally, in the fourth story Red Orm and his now grown sons and retainers together with his old friend Toke take a ship up the River Dvina, over "The Great Portage" to the Dneiper  and down the Dneiper past Kiev to "The Weirs" where they retrieve a great treasure and return safely home to live happily to the end of their days with fortune and family. (Best I can figure the route in present day terms is that they entered the Dvina at its mouth in the Gulf of Riga in Latvia, went up the Dvina to the source of the Deneiper in Russia and down the Dneiper to what is probably site of the huge Dnipropetrovsky Dam 200 miles up river from the Black Sea. Whatever it was it was quite a journey!)I recommend that the book be read slowly and for pleasure, not for knowledge - although there's a lot of history in it. . Take one novella at a time and enjoy it. I think Bengtsson wrote it for pleasure. An accomplished poet himself he larded it with the extemporaneous verses of his characters, although as translated from the Swedish, the poetry does not come through to the English reader. And he has a sense of humor. In every novella there are episodes which are simply over the top - funny - like the Flashman stories; they have all characteristics of Red Orm as Dick Armstrong the All-American Boy. In fact I think all these novellas are basically for men who are still boys at heart. Don't take this book too seriously.You will however - if you read it - come away with some real feeling for history in Red Orm's time. You will realize that there was no glamour in the Viking life. The Vikings were basically plunderers, setting out each spring in individual ships or  groups of one or two to go "a-Viking" along the coast of the North Atlantic countries. They were violent men. Swordplay and battle was the rule rather than the exception and the pages of this book run red with the blood spilled by the characters in these stories. If  you believe what Bengtsson writes they actually sought warfare and violence rather than peace.Furthermore if you read it  you will have a feel for the work of the several religious orders that sent Priests to the Vikings in an effort to Christianize them and the effect on Red Orm of his baptism in Book Three. You will have a feel for the limited extent to which "civilization" as the Western World then knew it had changed the way of life of the many small tribes which inhabited the region of the Danes and how far they had to come to catch up.I enjoyed it and hope you do too.
5 This is good writing done with dry wit.  Not only do we see the lifestyle of the northmen but we get a good dose of history and the surprising extent of Viking influence.
4 The book was long as it traced the life of a Danish Viking from youth to maturity. It consisted of one adventure after another based on the concept of a-viking across England, Ireland, and Europe.  Clearly the main character traveled far and wide including time in the Spain of the Moors. If you are not a patient reader you could become a little bored with the ongoing story, but it was overall an entertaining story.
5 Of all the historical novels I've read, the ones that stand out for me are Quo Vadis, I, Claudius, and Frans Bengtsson's The Long Ships. Though not as well known as the other two, this saga of Viking adventurers resembles them in recreating a convincing and authentic historical period, peopled by characters whom we can relate to, even though they are not (as in so many historical novels) merely disguised moderns. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants a great, entertaining read that's also educational. I haven't seen the 1963 film of this book, but I've heard it's not nearly as good.  So if you've seen the film and were disappointed, give the book a try anyway.
4 A brilliantly written tale, it smacks of the Nordic sagas in style but never heavy.  Many here have given it five stars; I have not only because I reserve five for the fabulously great that I don't think any educated person should fail to read.  This might not quite gain those heights but it nevertheless was a fabulous read.
4 If you liked Michael Chabon's Gentlemen of the Road, you will love this, which I believe was the inspiration for that first book.  Published in 1954, it is by turns, epic saga, straight forward, historical, engaging and sly, and generally a satisfying old yarn about the Vikings in Scandinavia in the 10th century. Adventures on the high seas, romance, and kidnapping abound. Released as a New York Review Books Classic. Enjoy.
5 From my perspective, the mark of a really good book is fear that it will soon end.  That was my feeling when reading, "The Long Ships".  While I long for a successor work, there will be none from the now-deceased Frans G. Bengtsson, whose outstanding tale of the Vikings with its epic hero in epic adventures is, quite simply, one of the best examples in the long-standing tradition, one which extends from Homer's "Iliad" and "Odyssey", through "Beowulf" and "The Nibelungenlied" to mention only a very few of the very finest.  Red Orm is now resting in Valhalla just as Odysseus lies in the Elysian fields and Siegfried's "strength had ebbed away, for in the field of his bright countenance he now displayed Death's token.  Soon many fair ladies would be weeping for him."Bengtsson's hero "goes a-Viking", initially as a captive of the marauding Krok on his long ship and later on his own adventures. He sails as an oar-slave for the Moors; roves ashore in the guard of the Moorish potentate Almansur in Cordoba; returns homeward in a captured ship; returns home where he establishes himself as a sober-minded chieftain; humorously and pragmatically engages with and accepts Christianity; quests for Bulgarian treasure; battles with sword and club and finds domestic contentment at voyages' end.The writing style is heroic, but not overwrought.  Here is an example with Orm talking to his companion, Toke: "I know what I am leaving behind but the wisest of men could not tell me to what I am returning or whether things will turn out as I fear they may."  Another example, "But sometimes he was visited by evil dreams, and then he would become so agitated in his sleep that Ylva would wake him to ask whether the night mare was riding him, or whether there was any trouble on his mind.  When he had awakened and had fortified his courage with strong ale, she would hear, perhaps, that in his sleep he had returned to the Moorish galley and had been rowing his heart out as the whip snaked across his shoulders and the groans of his fellows filed his ears and their wealed backs bent painfully before his eyes; and on the morning after such a dream he loved to sit beside Rapp, who never dreamed, in the carpenter's shed and exchanged memories with him of those far-off days."  What could be more perfectly evocative?  The playful and pragmatic engagement of the "heathen" Vikings with their gods and the Christian god was also brilliantly rendered.  For example, Orm remarks, "Whether any of our gods have done anything for me, though, I do not know, certain it is that I have not done much for them."If there are any authors who are currently writing with the verve and epic sweep of "The Long Ships" I am unaware of them.  If there are any other modern adventure tales that can stand equal with "The Long Ships" I know nothing of them, either.  This is, I say without hesitation, an immortal masterpiece.  NYRB deserves immense credit for resurrecting it.  If you are searching for another book that embodies the same virtues, I unhesitatingly recommend (if you can find it),  the wonderful textual rendering of ancient poem, "The Nibelungenlied" by A.T. Hutto, found in an early (1965) Penguin edition.
4 THE LONG SHIPS is old-school narrative with a very traditional feel, as Frans G. Bengtsson weaves historical fiction from a Viking point-of-view.  There's a sweep to it, yes, as it follows the life of Orm Tostesson from his youth to older age.  Episodic, it is also interrupted in the classical way as brief stories are told by new characters who happen into the narrative.To start, Orm goes to Muslim Spain where he is captured by the Moors and forced to convert.  He becomes the bodyguard of a wealthy Muslim caliph.  After a series of adventures there, the action shifts north to Ireland and then England under the inept King Ethelred.  Yes, you will learn some history reading this book, as Bengtsson allows Red Orm to interact with real characters throughout.  Part Three of the book takes us to Orm's homeland and concerns marriage, conversion to Christianity, and children.  Of course, to keep readers interested, violence remains a way of life, even here.  And in the final section, Orm seeks a treasure in the lands past Kiev.  This part was too brief and seemed to have more possibility to it.Nevertheless, there's no denying the bond that will form between reader and Orm.  Although it might be called a man's book, it holds strong female characters, too, especially Orm's wife Ylva, daughter of Harald Blue-Tooth.  And through it all is a sense of humor.  Can you do worse than that, between all the looting and bloodletting?  I thought not.  If you're looking for a book of the sort you read as a kid -- the kind you just ate up due to its "story" -- this is a distinct possibility.  Adventure and history make wonderful bedfellows, and nothing proves it as much as THE LONG SHIPS.
5 A most entertaining story about the adventures of Orm the Viking! My interest was held throughout the whole book. I recommend it!
5 LOVE historical novels.  This one really gave me lots of information about my ancestral roots, and explains alot about the different experiences of the Vikings.  The hero of the piece returned to Malmo/Skane, the area from which my Swedish ancestors come.  The journeys through the known world also gave me insight into why my Norwegian great grandfather had dark hair, dark eyes and a last name which, it is said, has a meaning regarding the land in Italian.One of my grandfathers (Swede side) is named Fred Oscar Bengtson. :-)
5 I am enjoying this book very much as it gives a good view of the movements of Vikings and the coming of Christianity and how it started to be applied. Also the ways of Odin, and the long boats that went to far thru seas. What violent people they were in their plundering. especially since that blood runs thru our family! The near generations we come from are so far from that kind of people.
5 I had a copy of this book thirty years ago, and loaned it to someone.  Never got it back.  After I read it again, I was as pleased as I was back then.  Adventure, gold, comrades in arms -- if you like this in a Viking setting, you should enjoy this book.
5 Written with humour and accuracy, this tale, or saga, sets the standard for Viking era fiction. The characters are written with sympathy and are entirely believable, the action moves along at a brisk pace and altogether this is an excellent book.Don't be tempted to watch the Hollywood film of the same name, after the book, it's laughable.
5 'The Long Ships' has been on my short list of 'best books ever written' for years. It is a rip-roaring adventure tale, a great introduction to historical fiction, and one of the funnier books that I have read. Any time that you spend on it will be time not 'spent' but 'invested'. I'm excited that it has been reprinted - I'll be able to retire my 50 year old yellow-paged mass market paper copy before the spine splits into a third part. I genuinely envy everyone who has not yet read this book, and picks it up. You're in for a real treat!
4 This was a long read but I found it interesting as it gave some feeling of the Viking years. At times it was a bit corny but overall it was enjoyable.
5 Would you be surprised to read a Viking-age Epic and find it to be warm, inspiring, and relentlessly violent (but in a good way!)?Would you be delighted to read a good yarn that included people referred to as "Berserks"?Just have fun with this one.  Well-written, accessible, but describing a time that was critical to the creation of the Western World and yet never quite covered in normal history classes.
5 I've read this novel many years ago and left within me a certain fascination for the Viking Era.Lastly books like Harry Harrison's "The Hammer & the Cross" trilogy, movies like "Grendel & Beowulf" (2005) and "Beowulf" (2007) had triggered again my curiosity about these times. So I decided to "pay a visit" (aka re-read) "The Long Ships".And here I am reviewing this excellent book authored by Sweden writer Frans G. Bengtsson (1894-1954). The book was originally published in two parts first in 1941 and second in 1945; the present edition contains both of them.The story follows the life & circumstances of Orm from infancy to old age at the same time describing daily life of that period.Orm as teenager is abducted by a Viking war-party and joins them willingly after a short period. From their homeland they sail to Spain where they are captured by Moors and enter Almansur's service.After serving some years as Caliph's bodyguards they are forced to fly and return home, yet not empty-handed.They are welcome at Denmark King Harald's Bluetooth court where Orm fall in love with Ylva one of the King daughters and ask her hand. The King is quite accessible but asks Orm to ensure his wealth and return next year.Orm & his friends join a mighty Viking army and sail to invade King Ethelred's the Unprepared England. After many battles and errands Orm rejoin exiled Ylva & marry her, returning then to his home.Orm and his family are forced into exile to escape King Sven Forkbeard revengeful mood and finally root in his mother's ancestral domains.After years of consolidating his position as a respected member of that frontier community, Orm sail for his last great adventure in Eastern lands.This is a very entertaining book merging seamlessly historical characters as King Harald, Sven, Ethelred and Caliph Almansur with fictional ones as Orm, Ylva, Asa and Toste. The author is able to transmit to the reader the true spirit of those turbulent times. Another very interesting aspect of the story is showing the beginning of Christianization of Scandinavian communities.Take a joyful romp thru Viking's world, you won't be disappointed!Reviewed by Max Yofre.
5 This had been recommended to me several times, particularly by others who read and enjoyed Bernard Cornwell's Saxon Tales, which take place at exactly the time as The Long Ships, and actually include some of the historical characters.I tried to ration this novel out, savoring every chapter, watching with dread as the number of pages to the end dwindled... Alas, I couldn't make it last forever... it's one of those books that left me a bit sad at the end, for I'll never again have the thrill of reading it for the first time.It's a story about Vikings: one Viking in particular, who gallivants around 10th century Europe doing all of those things that the Vikings were famous for doing. Orm Tosteson's world is a surprisingly cosmopolitan one: he travels from his home in Sweden to the Mediterranean, befriending a Jewish merchant and entering the service of the Muslim Caliph of Andalusia... returns home with stops in France and the British Isles... and ventures, later in his life, up and down rivers in Central Europe as far as the Black Sea. His travels and associates allow him to experience and weigh the relative merits of several different religious traditions... these Vikings really got around.Michael Chabon's effusive introduction to the edition I read was spot-on: yes, it's basically a Viking adventure story, but "offers... something for everyone." Although initially skeptical of the praise heaped upon the book, I now find myself agreeing with Chabon that the novel "stands ready, given the chance, to bring lasting pleasure to every single human being on the face of the earth."It's beautifully written, or at least beautifully translated from the Swedish, imparting a love of language and a loyalty to the ancient epics.I was totally unprepared for, and very pleasantly surprised by, how funny certain parts of the book were. The first few pages deal with the fate of Christian missionaries in the lands of the Northmen, and are absolutely hysterical. Bengtsson's sardonic humor blends perfectly with the brutality of the age he's writing about.In short, I can't recommend this book highly enough. If you enjoy reading fiction at all, you'll enjoy it. Again, I'll steal from Chabon's introduction: I "loved it immoderately".
5 If you like historical fiction this is a must read.  You will come to love Red Orm and his adventures.  But you will also learn a lot of history about Denmark, England, Norway, Sweden, etc.  I kept repeatedly referring to Wikipedia to read more about the kings and others that Orm kept meeting up with.  I also found out that our modern day bluetooth was named after King Harald Bluetooth!  I highly recommend this book to any fan of historical fiction.
5 This book covers an amazing period of history that is basically neglected.  It was fantastic and very well written although it was a translation from the original. This would appeal to men and women alike as well as teens that are history buffs....Can't say enough about the "saga" as Norse stories are called...
5 I have a Norse heritage and loved every minute of this, it must have hit my DNA just right!  If you like real adventure, believable and historic, you will like this one.
5 This novel, originally published in the 1940's as two books, tells the story of Orm Tostesson, a Dane who did what many Scandinavian men did in the 10th century -- he went a-Viking.  Orm's voyages take him to Andalusia (Spain), Britain, and Russia.  He makes friends and enemies, has wins and losses, and while I've never been a fan of pillaging, I had to admire him.Bengtsson's writing style might seem odd (even staid) to modern readers.  There are no &#34;literary&#34; embellishments -- Bengtsson simply tells Orm's story -- explicitly.  It's all on the page.  There will be passages that make the reader pause and ponder, not to decipher meaning but to consider the differences between present day and the 10th century.Religion -- Christianity and Islam -- has a large role in the book.  In one of my favorite passages, a character wonders why a king has converted to Christianity.  He determines that &#34;...kings drink stronger ale than other man, and have many women, and that can tire a man over the years, so that his understanding darkens and he no longer knows what he is doing.&#34;I wasn't bored for a minute.  The book is loaded with everything that makes a good adventure story, and even when Orm is living quietly at home, there's plenty going on.  I totally agree with Chabon, who says in the introduction that this book &#34;stands ready . . . to bring lasting pleasure to every single human being on the face of the earth.&#34;
5 A number of years ago I stumbled upon a non-fiction history of the Norman invasion of England in 1066, and immediately decided that I wanted to read everything I could about this historical period, especially works of fiction, which I love.  Well, there was Mirsky's King of Vinland Saga, which was good but needed more depth;  there was King Hereafter by Dorothy Dunnett, which was, as usual for her, too dense;  there was the out-of-print Golden Warrior, by Hope Muntz, which was excellent, but perhaps required a bit too much work.  I finally read several hundred pages worth of the Sagas of the Icelanders, but as interesting as these were, they bear little resemblance to the modern novel.  Recently, I came upon the Long Ships and here, finally, it is.  This great book ranks up there with the best historical fiction of any genre and is certainly the best I have come across as it regards the ancient Vikings.First, it is page-turning, exciting adventure.  Little battles, big battles, individual confrontations, blood feuds, revenge, camaraderie, treasure, despair, hate and love;  it's all here.  The book pretty much follows the career, as it were, of Orm, who is initially kidnapped by the crew of a Viking ship and who agrees to accompany them on their ambitious, faraway raid to a wealthy fortress on the Iberian peninsula.  Orm didn't particularly mind being kidnapped too much, as raiding for plunder was pretty much the goal of every Northman over the age of about twelve anyway.  (Interestingly, the word "Viking" here is used as a verb.  To go on a raiding party is to go "a-viking.")Their raid is a success, to begin with, but they are in turn are attacked by a fleet of Moorish vessels out for revenge.  Those that survive are captured and become galley slaves for almost three years.  Through luck and circumstance, they are freed, and made bodyguards to the powerful Almansur, the Muslim lord.  Eventually they escape and make their way back to their homes in the North, but not before fighting several other battles and experiencing many other adventures.  We're only about half way through at this point, and there is much, much more to come.Along with Orm's adventures the novel is interspersed with the stories of just about everybody they run into.  The Vikings loved stories and poems and there are many different tales told by many different personalities, many of which are of some length, and all of which are bloody and riveting.So there is adventure a-plenty here but the novel is also very well-written, filled with wit, irony and humor.  Orm is grievously wounded after a bloody battle to the death and is tended to by King Harald's daughter.  (The Vikings had a pretty sophisticated system of justice, but, alas, when all else fails, it's a kill or be killed.)  In any event, she tells Orm that she was betrothed to the person that he killed.  Orm is, naturally, worried that she will seek her revenge on him.  She tells him that she hated the man that Orm killed, and would have murdered him in his sleep.  Eventually, Orm begins to take to her, and starts to woo her:  "You told me that if you had been forced to marry Sigtrygg you would have driven a knife into him in his bridal bed," he says to her, after suggesting that he wanted to marry her, "and I should like to be sure that you feel differently towards me."  She laughs, "merrily."  The book is filled with clever wordplay such as this on just about every page, and you will find a smile coming to your face often.Some reviews here have expressed doubt that these illiterate Vikings would be so articulate, but I'm not so sure.  No, they were not educated to any extent, but it must be remembered that there were few forms of entertainment in those days other than story-telling and word-of-mouth, so it is quite likely that to entertain or to be entertained, one may very well have had to cultivate linguistic skills.Lastly, the novel is rich in historical detail, especially that having to do with the mindset of those that lived back then.  The Vikings were somewhat religious, but not terribly so, and were far more interested in doing whatever it was that would bring them "luck."  Indeed, they become Muslims while in Spain at the insistence of their Muslim superiors.  "Our Gods don't seem to be too powerful here," one remarks.  Eventually, Orm is persuaded to become a Christian, not because of a new found love for Jesus, but primarily due to convenience.  There is a great deal of discussion of Christianity in the novel, the way it was practiced, and the pragmatic, unconventional ways by which the priests tried to gain converts.  It is quite interesting and has the ring of truth to it.There is also the Viking way of life, their customs and their culture.  Farming, mostly;  some trading.  They loved women and they loved boozing.  As much as anything, though, it was raiding and fighting and maintaining one's honor.  A brutal way of life, to be sure, but that was the way in northern Europe.  And there are many descriptions of foreign climes as well:  northern Europe to be sure, but also England, Ireland, Spain, central Europe, and Russia.  It is, simply, fascinating.Great novel.  Ranks up there with the best historical fiction.
3 Okay...I love historical fiction a lot. This book gave a blink into the Viking Era. But the characters were very flat, almost boring, especially the protagonists and antagonists. I kept asking for more, and more, but it never showed up. I liked the descriptions of daily life of the Vikings, and even their contact with other cultures, but this book had so much more potential.Honestly, a little more about battle and fighting would have been nice, but the author was trying to hard to romanticize the Vikings as opposed to depicting them for what they really were. Violent and raging fighters.  At one point, I just wanted it to be over.
5 This is a fantastic, action packed, picaresque (enough adjectives?) Norse saga.  Our hero, Orm, and his band of merry bad asses go &#34;a Viking&#34; and get into all kinds of interesting and thouroughly enjoyabe scrapes en route.  The plot has a nice way of seeding characters and events that reappear later in the story.  The book is plot driven but the main character is nicely drawn and the tone is deadpan humor no matter the event.It was written in 1956 so I was afraid it would be dated but no, its fresh and crisp totally au fait with our zeitgeist.  Having read far too many of Bernard Cornwell's Saxon saga's this was  truly refreshing.  Unlike the recent crop of Cornwellia, the author knows exactly where he's going and doesn't tarry taking you there.  The translation is excellent, I guess - my old Norse is a trifle rusty; it certainly scans well.Highly reccomended.For those of you who like this genre, you might want to check out &#34;Eagle In the Snow&#34; by Wallace Breem.  Another forgotten classic, it tells the story of Maximus who guards the Rhine against people like Orm.  He is woefully outnumbered by the Northmen and the struggle is epic.  A great read albeit a shade or two darker than Long Ships.
4 A well documented adventure novel which has not become dated. I read for the first time 20 years ago and this time I enjoyed even more. Excellent ambience which shows the author's great knowledgfe of the period.
5 All the reviewers are correct. I was a bit skptical at first. One of the greatest tales ever told. If you like 'Vikings' on the History Channel, YOU'LL LOVE THIS!Adventure, love, betrayal, gold! Even the most jaded reader will find this enjoyable. A real page turner that'll keep yo up at night...Enjoy~!
3 The first half of the moving moved along smartly, but then the story bogged down and after slogging slowly through about 30-50 more pages I threw in the towel.
5 Quiet simply, this is one of the great adventure stories. It  deserves to be read by everyone who loves wonderful characters, exotic settings, fast action, and clever dialogue.Like Michael Chabon, who writes the introduction, I first read this book as a 13 year old.  I remember sneaking the book into church and hiding it in textbooks on top of my desk.  I don't remember where I got the copy I read. I always remembered the story, but the title was lost in my memory banks.  Despite searching many bookstores through the years, I was never able to find it again.It was a great pleasure to rediscover the book on Amazon.  In the last few weeks I've sent Kindle copies to my wife, my grown children, and many friends.  I've also bought a couple of hard copies just to make sure I don't loose track of it again.It you only have time to read one book this year, I strongly suggest you choose this one.
4 A quick read of historical fiction. A look at the life of the vikings that not all blood and guts.
5 "The Long Ships" is a true classic novel, as much as that term is overused.  This splendid novel combines deadly adventure, humor, and an insightful look at the Viking age and society into a story that is a true page-turner.  This is the story of Orm, a Danish Viking of noble blood, who leads a life that is more fruitful and adventurous than most.  Orm begins life as an over-protected younger son, who is abducted by Vikings and who then speaks up for himself and eventually becomes a Viking chieftain by virtue of his intelligence, leadership, and strength.  This novel really gets inside of Scandinavian society at the height of the Viking Age and truly acquaints the reader with the way people thought about life and things in those days.  There are more wonderful anecdotes in this novel than I can count or remember.  This novel is a rare reading pleasure.The Viking Age was a terrible age of rich living and hard dying.  The Vikings themselves were a scourge against the peoples of Europe and beyond, and yet, as this novel shows, they were people too, with all the motivations that people have always had, in every age.  This novel truly brings this age to life and the reader will come to greatly care about Orm and his wife Ylva, who is the daughter of a King.  This story is not all about war and battle.  The sub-story about the Christian Magister, and his love of women, is one of the funniest things I have ever read.  It is a rare novel that can combine adventure and humor the way this one does.Incidentally, while this novel was the inspiration for the Richard Widmark/Sidney Portier movie "The Long Ships," the storyline itself has about nothing in common with that fun movie.  At most some of the names are the same.I could go on and on about what a fine story this novel is, but I am sure that by now you get the idea.  This one is an outstanding reading experience and is not to be missed.  Highly recommended.  RJB.
5 Amazon needs to create a six-star rating just for this book. It encompasses the whole sweep of life, and it is filled with humor.
5 This book was vivid in its descriptions of life on the sea in the days of the Vikings.  The adventures seemed really taken from the lives of people in that era.
4 This was a good book.  I was not able to zip through it, rather I put it down, read other books, and came back to it again and again until it was finished.  It was absorbing.  I got a feel for the time and how these people thought and interacted with one another and also other people.I would recommend this book to others.
4 A book like they don't write any more, more's the pity. An absolute hoot of an adventure.  I'm sorry I didn't discover it years ago.
5 I bought this more-or-less on spec, on the strength of a couple of sentences of recommendation from Michael Chabon (for which many thanks, Michael).  The funny thing is that now that I have it, it is immediately obvious that while Chabon covers a fair bit of ground in his intro. one thing that he doesn't know is that Red Orm is alive and well, and familar to any six year old german boy (e.g. my two sons), in Vickie und die st&auml;rken M&auml;nner (''''''''''''), an old japanse-german animated TV series that tells the adventures of the clever red-haired Viking boy Vikkie, his girlfriend Ylvi (his mother is Ylva) and his enemy Der Schreckliche Sven, and which has been repeating forever on german TV.  It's pretty obvious, as soon as you pick up the book, and then  you run into Ylvi (and the Swedish entry for Vicke Vicking, the original book, on Wikipedia confirms it). This only makes The Long Ships even more fun to read, and is precisely the sort of configuration that MIchael Chabon of all people would appreciate.Adventures, ships, galley slaves, friends and roasted lamb round beach campfires, pretty girls, fights, axes, toledo swords, more adventures, more fights, and, of course, baddies that cry out to be played by Alan Rickman in the movie.  In short, a very superior ripping yarn for literate small boys of all ages (and sexes).  You can imagine Orm, late in life on his estate, settling down to a copy of Beowulf, ale-cup beside him, and not being terribly impressed.
5 Having heard so much about this saga-type novel I sought it eagerly & finally broke down & bought it via amazon uk (after a long & fruitless hunt stateside).  Rather expensive for this paperback w/lots of  typos & editing problems, I thought. But the book, I judge, was worth  it in the end. The tale of Orm Tostesson & "friends", this  book follows the adventures of this typical late tenth century viking  through nearly all the high-points of vikingdom in the period. From raids  & servitude on the coasts of Moorish Spain, to visits with Irish monks  and dinner with the Danish King, Harald Bluetooth, and his assorted guests,  including no less a worthy than Styrbiorn Olafsson, the Jomsviking and  claimant to the Swedish throne about whom E. R. Eddison wrote so  brilliantly in his own viking novel,Styrbiorn the Strong, this book takes  us through all the paces. Orm ends up with a very noble wife living in a  backwater part of Scandinavia (the borderlands between Sweden and medieval Denmark) but even there he gets no peace since his enemies and adventures pursue him. And in his maturity another and final adventure comes his way when he is summoned to the eastern reaches of  far Gaardarike (the country  that was to become Russia) to claim an  "inheritance" of great  value. Along the way, Orm makes some good friends, some bad enemies,  participates in some (but by no means all) of the great events of viking history in that period, and finally mellows to become a better man who embraces the new way of thinking while yet feeling at home in the old.I  did think the book a bit too episodic though this is no indictment of it since the sagas themselves are nearly always such and the "voice"  smacks very much of the sagaman's art. However, a close reading makes this very clearly a modern novel for the humor is quite bracing and alone marks this tale out as one of ours and not one from an earlier time. I especially  appreciated Orm's hypochondria, despite his courage in the face of battle, a very human and humorous touch! And the fighting is all very realistic, no great superhuman  feats of derring do (except occasionally as we find in the real sagas). Some of the literary technniques used, besides the  marvelous sense of tongue-in-cheek humor, are also quite contemporary. I  did think the tale a bit slow in places, especially at the beginning, and rather more predictable than not.And, more, it is not, in my opinion the  best of the viking or saga novels despite what others have said here. For  tautness and action, none have yet done it better, in my  opinion, than H.  Rider Haggard with Eric Brighteyes. For the pure poetry of style, Eddison's  STYRBIORN THE STRONG still has my vote. And for the resounding greatness of  the tale and the power to move, no modern author has ever penned a better  saga novel than Hope Muntz did withThe Golden Warrior. But Bengtsson did a  very nice job and deserves five stars for it. I take my hat off to him and to those here whose reviews obliged me to obtain and read this fine viking  tale.(For those with an interest in the saga as novel, a few other good  ones I'd recommend include Cecelia Holland's very modern and psychologicalTwo Ravens, a glimpse into the hot-house environment of  an Icelandic farm,  and Jane Smiley'sThe Greenlanderswhich tells of the final days of the the Norse settlement in Greenland as the cold and the Eskimos closed in around  the settlers there. And if you still have any patience and want more, perhaps  you'd want to try my own small effort, THE KING OF VINLAND'S SAGA, which I  wrote to be the saga I'd always wished had been written and preserved about  the Norse excursions to this part of the world. All, I believe, are  available in some form or another on-line. Mine I know is.)Stuart W.  MirskyAuthor ofThe King of Vinland's Saga
5 This is a slower moving story of one mans life back aroun 900 to 1000 AD.  I found it interesting and easy to follow.  By the time I was in about two chapters in I was hooked.  I was sorry to see the story end.
5 The Long Ships was a perfect addition to what I know about Gotland, Sweden. The story is well written and I can feel a closeness to the main characters and their struggle to travel, make a success of their long voyages, and learn new beliefs and religions. This book is a wonderful, action filled saga. I hope readers will share it with a younger generation of reader with Viking heritage.While the story is full of twists and turns some can be anticipated. The text is long.I found it perfect for my purposes of increasing my knowledge of The Viking life. It is amazing and lucky the hero and his family had a happy ending on those violent times. The ending makes the account hopeful and a good choice to share with readers new to sagas.
5 Swedish author Frans Bengtson wrote this tale about half a century ago! These are the adventures of Orm, who began his Viking career as an obscure farmer, and ended it as a respected and prosperous land-holder. In the course of his life, Orm participates in great deeds abroad, and meets many famous Nordic warriors as they forge the events of history.Orm's tragic first viking expedition took him on an unprofitable summer of raiding on the coasts of the Baltic Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean. In Spain, although fighting heroically, the Norsemen of his company were overwhelmed and captured by Moors. Here they languished for a few years as galley slaves, until they escaped, stealing a galley and a massive golden bell in the process.Returning to the Northland, Orm and his comrade-in-arms, Toke, attend a feast at the hall of King Harald Bluetooth of Denmark. Among the exhalted guests are King Styrbjorn, usurped king of Sweden, and some survivors of the notorious Jomsvikings. A Jomsviking veteran retells his account of the momentous events after their last battle, and Orm fights a duel with a disgruntled guest.Orm goes home to settle in Sweden, becoming a land-holder, but his adventurous days abroad are not yet over...
4 This book, so rousing and delightful, bogs down depressingly in the middle half. The Border Lands section is a terrible slog. Otherwise, spending time with Orm and his sweaty friends is the most fun I've with a book in ages.
2 Here we have another highly-rated book which I could not finish.As others noted, it begins very strong.  But it never progresses nor develops into a story which becomes involving.  The characters are uni-dimensional.  They generate neither sympathy nor joy and they are stuck in a storytelling style which is framed in the act of "recounting" a multi-year adventure where the same things keep happening: The Vikings go ashore in strange places to pillage.  They then high-tail it on the sea before they are caught. Sometimes they escape, sometimes they are captured and enslaved.  Rinse, repeat.Drama, complications, character development: Nonexistent.  Humor: Rare, regardless of what the other reviews promise.  Nevertheless, it's the non-dynamic style which truly kills it.I usually give up on boring books if they don't become very promising by the 25% mark.  I stuck with this one until I'd finished 30% because it was unusual and intermittently interesting at the beginning.  But there are too many good books to discover rather than stick with something tediously written, delivering diminishing returns.While thick, it is a very shallow book which might make a good adventure movie for kids or the extremely undemanding.
5 The Long Ships by Frans G. Bengtsson offers a glimpse into the ideals and attitudes of Viking life at end of the 10th century.  The Epic takes the readers into the Kingdoms of Spain, England, and Russia as it follows the adventures of Orm and his fellow adventurers.  I particularly liked the attitudes expressed as the new religions were confronted.  It illustrated how religions are altered to fit the needs and existing attitudes of the new adherants.  I agree with the other reviews and wish the book were republished so more people could enjoy it.
5 Bengtsson has done a spectacular job of bringing the days of Viking to life. In the past, I've enjoyed reading translations of many sagas from around the era this describes. There's nothing like an original source, of course, even in translation. But, for a fictional tale, I found this a lively and clever invention. It makes the most of the cultural shifts under way as Christianity made its first, uncertain inroads into the north, but also takes advantage of the Vikings' wide travels downward toward Moorish Iberia and inland toward modern Russia. These offer wide scope for adventure, swashbuckling, humor, wild coincidence, and a bit of understated warrior philosophy.And, throughout, Bengtsson throws in asides that had me rolling. For example, one recent convert to Christianity had also been under Muslim command in previous years, including religious observances. So, when he crossed wires and announced &#34;There is no god but God, and Christ is His prophet,&#34; it seemed a natural (if humorous) enough slip - not that the priests took it in that spirit.I can't comment on the original, but I found this translation easy to enjoy. It comes across as natural and reasonably modern, but without losing the thousand-year-old flavor of they story's setting, and certainly without losing any of the incredible factual research that went underlies the fiction. This book was recommended to my by someone with an uncommon knack for picking books as gifts, and proves that she hasn't lost her touch. I was sorry to see the last page arrive.-- wiredweird
5 Vikings on the rampage, hilarious prose, swashbuckling action on land and sea - what more could you ask for in a novel?
2 It's probably no accident Alistair MacLean's literary career rose to widespread prominence at the same time as commercial air travel. MacLean was the ultimate airplane fiction writer, someone whose picaresque, globe-trotting adventure novels could be devoured in a single sitting.He might be remembered for thin characters and wooden dialogue, but it was MacLean's fast-paced narrative, often very alive and tactile, that gained him fans. Something else, too; he had a formula but a lot of creativity within that formula, an ability to develop gripping stories by putting his good-guy-bad-guy adventure yarns in unusual settings and situations. In that way he was a lot better than many give him credit for.Unfortunately, MacLean's mobile imagination didn't always produce great fiction, which leads us to "Caravan To Vaccares." A mysterious fellow named Bowman shadows a group of mysterious, murderous Gypsies around the south of France. He jokingly explains his motives to his companion Cecile as being those of "a vengeful layabout," but what he's really up to is left opaque.Adding to the chemistry of mood here is a group of mysterious women being held captive by the Gypsies, one with weals covering her back; a Chinese couple that appear and disappear at several points in the narrative, saying nothing but watching everything; a charging bull; and a French duke of marked appetite and hauteur who may not be as much of a neutral observer as he seems."Le Grand Duc," as he is called, is the most interesting character in "Caravan," and MacLean has fun with him. Bursting in on a budding hostage situation, he is told he can't just barge in."Nonsense. I am the Duc de Croytor. Besides, I never barge. I always make an entrance.""Caravan" is nonsense, though fun at times around the middle when MacLean gets going with a clever reverse chase between Bowman and the Gypsies. He's chasing them chasing him. There's a good opening, too, of a Gypsy's murder, which MacLean paints darkly and well.But as the story progresses, it becomes harder to follow. MacLean gets caught up in the sport of playing with reader expectations. You think one thing is going to happen, so something else does instead. Nearly every character has a hidden identity; one has two. The back end of "Caravan" becomes one confusing about-face after another, winding up in a too-cute tidy resolution with one character calling out "Encore!" No thanks.Also weak is the Gypsy angle, which is never explored in any great depth. You feel like he made the bad guys Gypsies just because it would make for good cover art.I was amused by some of this book, and enjoyed its first half pretty well. But a thin setting and confusing narrative really brought me up short. I had no problem reading the book; it's MacLean, and something to make a flight pass quickly. But "Caravan To Vaccares" is the kind of book that gives airplane fiction a bad name.
3 Caravan to Vaccares is a well-plotted espionage tale set in Europe against the backdrop of a wandering gypsy caravan.It's not without humor, and it's a fast moving story. However, the book lacks the characterizations of Maclean's earlier books, especially those dealing with World War II.The books he produced after this novel seem hastily written. Pick this one instead of Seawitch and Way to Dusty Death.Recommended, especially for Maclean fans.
4 Hey folks,It may sound like a clich&eacute;, but I really did grow up reading MacLean's stories.  I was in elementary school when he first published H.M.S. Ulysses, and I was captured by it.  When he followed it with &#34;Guns of Navarone,&#34; it seemed he switched from his naval story to more of a thriller genre.  It did not matter; I liked everything he did.  By the mid 1980s, I suspect MacLean had more novels made into films than any other author to that time.I have to admit I did not find this book quite as good as so many of his others, but it is still a fun MacLean story.  The shortcomings I find in this book are mainly in the credibility of the Bowman and Le Duc characters.  They do stretch credulity a bit too far, and Le Duc seems more like a &#34;tongue-in-cheek&#34; Ian Flemming character.  In spite of this, however, this is still an enjoyable MacLean story.  I just finished reading it for the third or fourth time since 1970, and I still had a thrill reading it.Best wishes,Dave Wile
4 Alistair Maclean's "Caravan to Vacares" opens with the pursuit to the death of a man somehow connected to annual Gypsy caravans to France.  The scene then shifts to a restaurant where two young Englishwomen on holiday are seemingly by chance paired with a older French nobleman and gourmand and a younger man named Bowman, who claims no occupation at all.  Maclean takes his time filling in the clues that connect these two events and this results in the somewhat unusual pacing of "Caravan."At the heart of the plotline is a smuggling operation by the Gypsies that has attracted international law enforcement attention, but Maclean devotes most of the novel to the adventures of Neil Bowman.  Bowman turns out to have both very unique job skills and the unfortunate knack of drawing murderous attempts on his life.  His pairing with one of the young Englishwomen provides Maclean with the opportunity for a rather chaste romance and some sharp repartee between the two.  The two must overcome various obstacles, including a nearly fatal encounter in a bullring, while stringing together the clues that will solve the case.  As with any Maclean novel, very little is as it first seems.  Unlike most Maclean novels, the twists and turns of the story are a little harder to follow than usual.This novel is highly recommended to Alistair Maclean fans and to readers looking for an entertaining story.
5 Well you have to read this book if u r a fan of suspense and intrigue.......this book has enough twists,turns and suspense.i am sure that anybody who reads any of macleans books will get addicted to him......
5 MacLean never wrote a better novel than this, his first.For those who love the sea and yet respect her fearsome savagry, HMS Ulysses satisfies.  Brilliant character development, superb technical detail.HMS Ulysses is  a good novel -- more than that, the book pays tribute to both the Royal  Navy and the Merchant Marine, and homage in equal measure to all -- German,  British, American.  It reminds us that brave men sailed the North Atlantic,  and that courage knows no boundaries.The book follows the fortunes of a  fighting ship whose crew is slowly self-destructing after months of convoy  duty in the North Atlantic.  They are offered the prospect of a break in  the Mediterranean if they can complete one final convoy to Russia through  the murderous North Atlantic, and thereby atone for a mutiny that has left  two people dead...Their voyage -- and ultimate atonement -- tests the  mettle of all on board, and challenges the base assumptions we tend to make  about the inherant goodness of Humanity.  It will leave you pondering how  you would have responded under similar circumstances, and perhaps may leave  you less than satisfied with what you learn about yourself.As a tale it  compares well with Noel Coward's wartime movie &quot;In Which We  Serve&quot;.  MacLean paints his tale with prosaic pictures that stay in  your mind more persistently than any film could.  The final image of the  HMS Ulysses, with battle ensign flying, stays with you long after you put  the book down.MacLean's book reminds us that things like this happened  every day, once.  It is a reminder of the gallantry of a generation that is  fast disappearing.
5 Probably one of the best ever WWII naval novels. The writing made you feel you were part of the crew, living with characters like Valerie and the Kapok Kid. Not only the crew but you felt you were part of the ship and all that happened to her. A book you couldn't put down nor one you wanted to put down.
5 One of this author's best books.  I have read the book three times in the last fifty years and each time the appalling conditions suffered by men on warships and merchantmen alike jumps out of the page.  The conditions and tactics experienced by all the men involved are superbly drawn by MacLean.  One of my very favourite naval books.
1 I wanted to like this book, but I could not. Maclean seems to have an encyclopedic knowledge of life aboard a cruiser, but the naval strategy that drives the book seems nonsensical. Go read C.S. Forrester's "The Ship" to see a better handling of life aboard a ship in battle.*** SPOILERS ***But the real problem with this particular book is that almost every single character is killed off. They either have a spectacularly gruesome death, or die in an act of suicidal bravery, or more likely both. How much of this can you take as reader? There's not a single bright spot in this whole book. Every time you think the mood is lifting with some character redeeming himself by an heroic act he is either blown to smithereens or frozen to death within a page or two.There's not even any logic to it all. The idea that the Admiralty would sacrifice an entire convoy just to draw out the Tirpitz is stupid. The goal of the Admiralty was to get convoys through, not sink German warships. It's the convoys that would win the war.I think Maclean was on some sort of medication when he wrote this. It's a complete downer from start to finish.
1 This novel has been inexplicably compared to Nicholas Monsarrat's post WWII naval classic, "The Cruel Sea".  Although a fan of MacLean's I could not get beyond the first 65 pages.
5 I would rate this higher if I could. There aren't, in my opinion enough superlatives to do this stirring Naval story justice. It's the story of the heroic H.M.S Ulysses and her crew who are ordered to undertake the escort of a convoy to Russia across the merciless and dangerous North Atlantic. For a crew that is at the end of it's tether after months of battle, it's almost beyond belief.It's a story of survival, for both the Ulysses and her crew against insurmountable odds. A story of men who have been pushed beyond their mental, emotional and physical limits, who don't at first realise that they will be called upon to give even more.It's a journey fraught with difficulty, battle against enemy air attack, roving U-Boats harrying the convoy at every opportunity. Then there is the harsh and unrelenting environment, cold inducing frostbite, angry seas, freak waves, unrelenting storms, exhaustion.The writing is descriptive, you can almost feel yourself aboard the rolling, ice encrusted decks of the Ulysses. There is a wonderful cross section of characters who are well fleshed out. It's a stirring, heroic story that will stay in a reader's mind.
5 What a glorious end to a great ship and wonderful crew.  Alistair Maclean masterfully mixes the glories of warfare with the utter waste and senselessness of such conflicts.
5 Alistair MacLean at his very best, what more can I say. I could not put it down until I finished it at 4am
5 "H.M.S. Ulysses" was famed author Alistair Maclean's very first novel, a raw, emotional, and thinly-disguised account of a British warship on the Murmansk Convoys of World War II.  The convoys carried war material to the Soviet port of Murmansk in the high Arctic under the guns of Nazi planes and ship operating out of occupied Norway.  Between the frigid weather and the Nazis, convoy losses were extremely high.The warship of the title suffers the disgrace of a mutiny aboard ship after too many days and nights on the convoys.  The British Admiralty, short on escorts, sends the ship and crew straight out again on a voyage of redemption.Maclean's service in the Royal Navy during World War II included time on the Murmansk convoys; he populates the crew of H.M.S. Ulysses with the kind of battle-weary men he served with, and their portraits ring true.  These were men with no illusions about themselves or their chances for survival, and no loyalties save to the ship and their shipmates.  Among the most memorable is Captain Vallery, the Commander, a duty-driven, almost saintly man, slowly dying of tuberculois but unwilling to abandon his crew.  His sacrifice is only one of many portrayed by Maclean; an ordinary seaman's refusal to leave his post under fire, even to save his own life, is made believable and memorable.H.M.S. Ulysses and its crew will strive to the very end; few readers will be unmoved by the penultimate scene of the book.  This book is highly recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean and to others looking for a first-rate reading experience.
5 With "HMS Ulysses," his first novel, Alistair MacLean established himself as a writer with a flair for action, humor, and pulse-pounding plots. He showed a penchant for capturing the heroism of men in tough spots, the cold of icy environments, and the crash of the waves on the high seas. He gained fame through books such as "Ice Station Zebra," "The Guns of Navarone," and "Where Eagles Dare," but some of his later books seemed to devolve into predictable affairs."HMS Ulysses" still stands as a remarkable first novel and as a classic of war on the sea. With nail-biting scenes and teeth-grinding suspense, the story shows the fight for survival of men aboard a ship. I miss the straightforward storytelling of dear Mr. MacLean. I sincerely hope his books remain with us, to be passed to the next generation.
4 I loved this book when I read it years ago and carried the memory of it. However, on re-reading there's a dated feel to the writing, probably due to our changed needs and perceptions of modern books. It is still a gripping and very sad war story. The Murmansk convoys and the men who served on those ships should never be forgotten. And the fact that the book is written by one of those men has impact. Read and remember, but don't expect to feel good at the end.
5 MacLean's account of the desperate fate of a wartime convoy to Russia is his magnum opus. A detailed study of the human condition in the most extreme circumstances imaginable.Puts modern day complaints about hardship into stark perspective.Everyone should read this to understand the generation who fought in WW2.
4 This is MacLean as I love him, writing about the cold sea, competent men, and miserable circumstances.I am going to tell you all sorts of plot points, on the theory that this book is 20 years older than I am.We start with an abortive mutiny. The poor sods crewing this escort ship are officially about to have a very bad trip. They are slated to do yet another run of the convoy to Murmansk, which is pretty much Dead Men Sailing In Ships. They are pretty sure that they do not want to do this again. However, the ship is sent out again, under the auspices of the kindly, overworked doctor, the kindly, stoic captain, and the kindly admiral. The whole book could really be titled "HMS Ulysses and the Terrible, Horrible, No-Good, Very Bad Convoy". In only a rough semblance of order, here are SOME of the things that happened.* U-boats* More U-boats* Henkels* Being bombed* Being torpedoed* Catastrophic winter hurricane* Rogue waves* Stukkas* People having to be trapped on the wrong side of a flood door to Save the Ship (x2)* Tall taciturn strong man sacrifices self in misguided expiation of sins* Captain dies of TB* Betrayal by the command structure* Poor bastard finds out his sisters and mother died in a bombing the day they ship. Then his brother is killed. Then he has to fire on his father's ship because it was endangering the convoy.* Admiral goes crazy* Admiral dies of frostbite/amputation* Bad apple saves the engineer who gave him a chanceReally, it was like a microcosm of horsemen, what with the war, pestilence (TB), starvation, and death. By halfway through the book I was cackling madly and reading choice excerpts to my roommate. It was just the sort of adventure book I love, full of hard luck and people pulling through anyway.Amazingly, some few battered survivors lived to tell the story.
5 This is a gripping tale of survival on the high seas during World War II.  The HMS Ulysses is a British light cruiser taking part in a large supply convoy making the dreaded Murmansk run from England to the Soviet Union.  The ship's crew is already stressed and on edge from mistreatment and near-mutiny.  Now they must contend with ever present dangers like Nazi U-boats and Luftwaffe attacks, not to mention equal (or greater) danger from the angry ocean.  As the crew realizes, stricken ships and their crew can rarely be rescued because the other ships must keep moving or share a similar fate.  Of course, how long could a sailor survive in those frigid waters anyway?  Among the memorable characters are Captain Vallery, an ill but duty-driven man, and more than one ordinary seaman that define duty and bravery.  Readers feel as if they are there aboard the ship as they dare angry seas, fog, and ever-present danger of Nazi U-boats, surface ships, and Luftwaffe.  This was the first novel by Alistair MacLean (1922-1987), a worthy, fast-paced naval thriller.For those that don't know, the Murmansk run brought vital war supplies from the USA and Britain to Soviet Russia, but it involved a hazardous sailing trip from Britain and up around Nazi-occupied Norway.  After reading this book (as a teen), I met a veteran of those death-defying runs, and his face expressed many memories of his harrowing experience.
5 What exceptional story of naval combat! Alistair MacLean gives us the best of his work. The story is that of a Marine convoy, comprising warships and vessels, civilians, merchants, the departure of British coast to Russia. However packs of U-boats attacked the convoy without respite. In the cold, snow, the misery of war, these episodes glaze your blood.25 years after reading this book, I remember many vivid passages. A book of great emotion.
5 At first I found reallyhard to follow this book, since there were many specific terms of the naval language (English is not my native language). However, the adventures and the endurance of the crew really made the book fascinating and emotionally intriguing. The non happy ending is another peculiar feature of the book.I really enjoyed reading the book and I would recommend it to anyone.
5 A staggeringly good book that has stood the test of time. I bought this in 1973 and regularly re-read it. The quality of the writing , measured by its flow and and the atmosphere/images it generates, jumps at you from the very first page with the meeting and showdown in Scapa Flow.The characters are very well drawn, even Commander Orr whom we meet in person for just a few seconds but one empathises with him from the descriptions of his actions and his signals throughout the book. One image that will remain with me is of the Stirling in the last quarter of the book. Why/how can I become so emotional about what normally would seem to be an inanimate object? It can only be due to the quality of the writing.There's been discussion about making a film. The time to do that was several decades ago, dare one say when the world was filmed in black and white. My suggestion is to read this book then watch 'The Cruel Sea'. I can't imagine the present generation of 'Hollywood' actors conveying the stresses and resolve of Alistair Maclean's characters and we certainly do not need whiz-bang CGI special effects. This is a book about gritty determination and strength of character; those of us who have never served in the Armed Forces should learn a lot of life's lessions from it.
5 I just re-read HMS Ulysses after about a 30 year hiatus. I don't think anyone has capture the desolate, cold and terror-filled  world of the Arctic Convoy run from Halifax to Archangel, like MacLean. It is a classic, unforgetable photograph of a brief period in history when men with undaunting courage, loyalty and almost superhuman endurance, put their lives at risk in unparalled sacrifice.
5 MacLean's first novel, this is easily his best. It is a little different than his usual adventure-thrillers.  This is a serious book about the naval war of World War II. The North Atlantic convoy runs saw some of the highest casualties during the war and MacLean puts the reader squarely in the middle of that icy Nordic hell.  What happens when men are pushed far too far makes for some of the most gripping reading around.
5 MacLean's HMS Ulysses is a classic book of man against man but more importantly, man against the sea.  Set in the brutal Murmansk Run, this book is an account of the men of a ship marked out from the rest of the Royal Navy by a resistance to discipline.  The crew is rebelling against mindless authority but is still ready to do its duty - along the lines of the great Mutiney of 1797, when ships of the Royal Navy effectively deposed brutal and mindless officers but always maintained that it would up anchor and fight any attackers.  The men of Ulysses strike me as linear descendants of the sailors fighting Napoleon's fleet.There is a great cross section of British society in the officers and men of Ulysses; from aristocratic flag officers to gentleman rankers in the lower rates.  Petty tyrants and officers one would gladly follow anywhere.  MacLean has included them all and made it work to perfection in his tale.THe constant theme is not the brutality of war, or men killing each other, but the constant battle with the sea in all its many forms.  MacLean's attention to detail gives an almost 'you are there' quality to his writing.  The reader feels he is right there on the bow of Ulysses as it gets underway for one more run to Murmansk, to being on the bridge in her ultimate engagement with the German Navy.  You can almost feel the bone breaking cold whenever you are placed out on deck.  MacLean puts you right in the middle of it.If any of MacLean's books deserve to be made into movies, this is one that is long overdue.I found this book to be one that I didn't want to put down.  I felt the charecters were all extremely well developed, men that were almost real.  I don't know if MacLean was in the Royal Navy during World War II, but reading this book, I certainly get that impression.  This is a classic in Naval literature.
5 This was Alistair Maclean's first book and what a book to have written.A ship has to make a run to Murmansk during the height of the Second World War battling dreadful seas and the marauding enemy. On board there are a crew who are worn-out and on the verge of mutiny. There is the Captain who is deathly ill. Conditions could not be worse.This is a tale of great bravery under the worst of circumstances. Maclean using a third person narrative tells the tales of a number of characters well and although at times he becomes a little melodramatic, he writes a novel that is justifiably regarded a classic of the sea.It is a book that starts off a little slowly but builds up to a dramatic ending.
5 In his other work, MacLean is an adventure/spy writer.  The stories are interesting, some of the work and dialogue cliche'd.H.M.S Ulysses is different.  Much different.I had an uncle who commanded an escort in the North Atlantic, and went to Murmansk at least once.  His view of the book, which he recommended to me, was that it was perfect in every detail.While there is the suggestion that MacLean puts together everything that could happen to a convoy, and happened to some or many of them at one time or another, into one story, the fact is that it remains perfectly feasible that the convoy is hit by unbelievable Arctic storms, air attacks, submarine attacks, and a surface raider.Some books write of cold, but if you read this book, you will be cold.  Some write of fatigue.  If you read this book, your eyes will burn and your face will feel as if it's sliding off your head.  Some write of despair.  If you read this book, you will understand going on and on despite there being no hope simply because that's what you've been doing.MacLean's characters make mistakes. The admiral orders a tactical turn which results in several ships being torpedoed.  He realizes that his tactics are old and predictable.  The Germans set him up because he was not sufficiently aggressive with himself.  An officer orders guns to fire before the tompions are out and several men are killed.  This is the way it is.  War involves, among other things, a sharp and determined enemy who will mess you up and use yourself against you.Kipling refers to "the drowsy second's lack of thought that costs a dozen dead" in a poem referring to adolescent naval officers in WW I.  These are men who should be hospitalized but instead are forced to operate on overdrive every moment of every day with no relief in sight.In other books, you will read of the immense tonnage of war materials brought to the USSR during the war. The numbers stagger the imagination.  This book explains the cost.  Good men.  Good men, all.  All gone.Read this for entertainment.  Read it to know how much you owe to men you've never heard of.
5 My grandfather was a Master Mariner - qualified in both steam and sail - and he was also a captain on these Murmansk convoys on a merchant vessel. There was no armour plate for him or rapid-fire Oerlikon guns, just a few out-dated machines guns, and the selfish hope that it would happen to someone else. He could not outrun the bombers or the torpedo, a little zig-zagging was the most he could manage, and pray that his colleagues in the destroyers and other warships would look after them, and that his engineer would keep the steam pressure up.His enemies were the German Navy and AirForce, and the incessant Arctic weather. There was no hiding place, or port of respite, the supplies had to get through, the ammunition, oil, guns and tanks - the bricks and mortar of war. If the merchant ships sank, soldiers were left unable to fight or planes could not take off - these thoughts were always in the sailors' minds. It was always the sacrifice of the few for the good of the many.The crews of these warships were the forgotten heroes, toiling in the cold, damp, dark chambers of these warships, stoking the boilers, minding the pumps, carrying the ammunition; knowing that in the event of a leak, the hatches would be sealed above them, and the would drown or suffocate, whilst they were separated from torpedoes and gunshells by a thin layer of steel, instant death was a second away. The admirals and captains got the fame and credit, but it was paid for by the flesh and blood of the ratings and those marines who volunteered to serve aboard.This book just tells it like it was.
4 The HMS Ulysses was built for one mission - escorting convoys from Scotland to Murmansk in Russia to deliver supplies Russia needs to keep the Wehrmacht on the run on the eastern front. By 1943, the tide of the war had turned against the Axis on every front but the Atlantic. Worn down by the arctic storms, by constant attacks from German subs, dive bombers and cruisers, by outbreaks of TB and the constant threat of the mighty Battleship Tirpitz, Ulysses is a ship coming apart at the seams. The only thing holding the crew and ship together is there respect for its young and ailing captain and the desperation of the allied war effort. Their superiors in Admiralty would gladly supply less outdated escorts with more experienced crews, or replace their undersized (and outgunned) escort jeep carriers with fleet aircraft carriers - if that were available. But disintegrate the ship does, under attack by u-boats, Hipper-class cruisers, Condor bombers and the ceaseless assault of the Arctic. McLean does a superlative job taking both crew and vaunted ship apart. While he doesn't glorify war, he doesn't stoop at taking cheap shots at those who lead the war-effort either, and those who made critical decisions leading up to the tragedy of convoy &quot;PQ-17&quot; are given their due. (don't worry if you don't know a thing about PQ-17 - McLean gives aperfect intro). Neither does McLean stoop to gory effects. &quot;Ulysses&quot; neither glorifies war nor condemns it with cheap tactics. The horrors of war are enough for that, and McLean's prose do that - sort of like &quot;Private Ryan&quot; at sea....
5 I've always been a great fan of Alistair McLean books, with this being one of his best.  I love the classy look of these Heron Editions, and would highly recommend them!
5 I read it as a teenager and was deeply impressed- my first &#34;grown up&#34; book. So I read it for the third time, now 67 years old and it has lost nothing of its coldness and horror. Living in Iceland I might get a still better understanding.
5 No words can describe this Master story telling. This was the beginning of MacLeans career and showed his tremendous skill. You will not just read it once but many times and you will laugh and cry each time.
2 I know I'm the odd person out here, because virtually all the reviews are favorable &amp; some consider this work a &quot;classic&quot;, but, frankly, I didn't like this book.  And, mind you, I like war novels &amp; have read many of them.  This book is unrelievedly gloomy &amp; depressing &amp; gets more so as the book goes on.  There is way too much description &amp; not enough conversation.  Contrary to what several reviewers said, I found the character development weak to nonexistent.  There were some interesting characters &amp; I would have liked to know more about them, but the characters took second place to endless descriptions of the weather &amp; damage reports.  I plowed through it because I thought it was my duty to do so, but really, I found this book disappointing.
5 I've read several of Alistair Macleans books, seen the movies of his famous "Guns of Navarone","Ice Station Zebra" and the others but I'd never come across this, his first novel. Thought it would be interesting, as my father had been in the Royal Navy during WWII and did North Atlantic Convoy runs, similar but not quite as cold as the Artic Convoys described in HMS Ulysses to supply Russia with much needed medical and military armaments.From the very begining of the book to the end it was gripping, I devoured it.The constant tension, hardship and vigilence, the weakness and courage of each character was awesome, not a word I frequently use but this story is awesome.We follow the H.M.S.Ulysses on her last Artic Convoy, before promised deployment in the Mediterranean. Nothing goes as planned despite the senior officers capabilities. The unrelenting cold, poor nutrition, disease and psychological stress just keep on coming. The characters are plausable, fully realized and capable of truely heroic actions, while being vulnerable and very human. No amount of planning, training or experience is possible for the unexpected that they find in this, harshest of conditions.It's not an easy read but I think it's his best novel, I've recommened it to all my family and friends.I know this story and it's characters will stay with me for a very, very long time.
5 Alastair Maclean's books tend to run along formulaic lines - the good guy good humouredly taking a fearful beating, the bad guy snarlingly getting his eventual comeuppance. Whether it's a Formula One race track, an island in the Barents Sea or a submarine beneath the polar ice cap, the pattern is unshakeable. Not bad, you understand, but familiar.This book, however, is completely different. Mr Maclean served in the Royal Navy during the Second World War and took part in several convoys similar to those described in this book. His experiences have coloured his writing and given this book an immediacy and a depth that the others lack. This book serves as a tribute to the men that lost their lives in the fearful Arctic Convoys of World War Two, a critical theatre of war that was largely forgotten.
4 The book's title refers to the first circle of Hell in Dante's Inferno.  This is the least oppressive level of Hell.  The prison camp described in this book offers plenty of food to the prisoners, no backbreaking physical  labor, and a warm bed.  Most of Stalin's prison camps are located in  Siberia where the prisoners freeze and starve.  What accounts for Stalin's  leniency?  The prisoners are scientists working on top secret projects like  a telephone for Stalin's use that can't be tapped, and a system of  identifying anonymous voices on public telephones by the voice prints,  similar to finger prints. In Stalin's evil country, you are not innocent  until proven guilty.  You are guilty as soon as you are arrested.  One  prisoner was put in jail because his neighbors wanted his family's  apartment and made up an unsupported lie about him.  They got the apartment  and destroyed his life and family.  Most of the prisoners were WW2 vets,  POWs returning from Germany.  They weren't welcomed home with appreciation  and honor.  They were lured home by lies, and immediately  imprisoned.There are many great characters.  You'll remember Nerzhin and  his wife, and wonder how things will work out for them.  You'll remember  Rubin, the sincere communist caught in the web of the system he believes  in.  You'll remember Innokenty Volodin, in trouble for doing a good deed,  as innocent as his first name.  When you read a mediocre book there are no  characters to remember, just a predictable formulaic storyline and a group  of people and events you find hard to believe. This is a rare opportunity  for you to be a fly on the wall, halfway around the world, observing life  in a Russian prison camp.  The reason I give it only 4 stars is because I  like happy endings and resolved problems.  This book would make a good  movie.  There's plenty of room for a sequel (which hasn't been written)  where we can find a satisfactory ending for some of the characters.  Stalin  the insane sewer rat died eventually and was denounced by Khrushchev, so  maybe in time these people were allowed to live out the rest of their lives  in freedom.
5 I was first introdced to Solzhenitsyn's works when I was a freshman in high school, far too many years ago in a little town. The book was the Volume 1 of The Gulag Archipelago.  It was really an eye-opener for me in so many ways, given that it was the first &quot;really serious&quot; book that I'd read.I believe that Solzhenitsyn is the best writer of the 20th century, or at least he's the top writer I've read so far (and I've read a lot of books).  Maybe that's influenced by my early exposure, but I don't think so; I find his works just as compelling now as I did then.The First Circle is one of his most &quot;accessible&quot; works (that is, you can just jump in and start reading) and probably one of his best.  A very compelling story; his portraits of the various vile creatures of the Soviet government have been shown to be quite accurate, and the way the various plots intertwine and are resolved is wonderful.The First Circle gives great insight into a culture totally foreign to most US citizens, as the book's a mixture of spy novel, guide to life in a Gulag camp, and brief introduction to Soviet society of the 1950s.  A depressing place to be sure, but fascinating.  Well worth reading.
5 This book will absolutely challenge your political and spiritual ideas, no matter what they are!  I was brought to my knees in gratitude for the freedom we have in America after finishing this book.  A true miracle that it ever got published, with all the KGB attacks and threats.  A MUST READ!
5 This immense story amazingly spans only a few days in the lives of several people unduly imprisoned by Joseph Stalin's secret police. Unlike the senseless horror of the &quot;gulag&quot;, The First Circle involves the incarceration of select and highly skilled prisoners in a relatively privileged Soviet prison which is really set up as a research laboratory where these skilled inmates are exploited for their expertise. Here, (after they've been arrested under any number of false pretenses) they are forced to invent and develop elaborate electronic devices which will help in the detection and arrest of any other &quot;subversives&quot;. The main gadget that they are called upon to produce is a &quot;phonoscopy&quot;... a device that will be able to accurately identify a person by examining recorded conversation.Right from the opening tense chapters, Solzhenitsyn once again had me in his grip. For me, he is the master at capturing the foreboding sense of loss of freedom. It is palpable... in some ways, worse than outright murder... because you know that whatever happens to his characters, they are going to have to LIVE through it... they aren't even afforded the luxury of dying. At one point, he used the phrases &quot;trampled yearnings&quot; &amp; &quot;soaring passion&quot; in one sentence and it stuck with me and I feel it summarizes what his characters face here in TFC. In ch.34 the protagonist, Gleb Nerzhin is musing with a fellow inmate on the hardships of imprisonment and he concludes that, of all his deprivations, by far the worst is the loss of freedom to be with his wife. She is allowed a visit once a year, and even then, he is not allowed to kiss her. Hearing this, his cellmate Gerasimovich concludes that &quot;there is probably only one path to invulnerability... to kill within oneself ALL attachments and to renounce ALL desires.&quot;This book looks deeply into the process of passivity that creeps into and consumes the life of the imprisoned. Also, there are times when it reminds us of the resiliency of the human spirit in the midst of numbing regret and longing. (I am thinking of the unforgettable scene of Rubin following the guard toward the end of ch.67).There is a passage in ch.84 which I think wonderfully capsulizes what Solzhenitsyn is telling us here in TFC:  &quot;Unfortunately for people - and fortunately for their rulers - a human being is so constituted that as long as he lives there is always something more that can be taken away from him. Even a person imprisoned for life, deprived of movement, of the sky, of family, of property, can, for instance, be transferred to a damp punishment cell, deprived of hot food, beaten with clubs, and he will feel these petty extra punishments as intensely as his earlier downfall from the heights of freedom and affluence. To avoid these final torments, the prisoner follows obediently the humiliating and hateful prison regime, which slowly kills the human being within him.&quot;This is not a &quot;happily-ever-after&quot; book. We may be able to deny ourselves the luxury of exposure to Solzhenitsyn's themes, but one thing we cannot deny is the fact that his books are based upon things that actually happened in history. Because they did. And they do. Here is one of the finest writers of the 20th Century, and this is his masterpiece.
5 The theme of this book is not prison camps: it is nothing more narrow than life itself.  And it is almost as rich in characters and stories within stories (here Solzhenitsyn is very like Tolstoy) as life: constancy in love, artistic integrity, the whimspy of fate, literacy in Medieval Novgorod, the prison in the Count of Monte Cristo, snow, how to sew, the law of unintended consequences.A few major abiding themes run like threads throughout the book, providing unity: First, the life of the &quot;zek,&quot; the prisoner in Stalin's camps.  Second, loneliness: not just of prisoners longing for a woman or lost loved ones, or of persecuted wives trying to make lives for themselves, but ultimately of each person.  Every conversation carries a different meaning for the people involved.  The author &quot;gets inside of peoples heads&quot; in an amazing way -- from the janitor Spiridon to the &quot;Best Friend of Counter-Intelligence Operatives,&quot; Joseph Stalin himself.  Third, and on a deeper level, integrity, both artistic and moral.Fourth, and I don't know if this was the conscious intent of the author or not, the book reminds us of the unity of Western civilization.  Aside from mentions of Tolstoy, Dostoevski, Pushkin, and Lermontov, (which, I might add, also describes the company Solzhenitsyn belongs in, with honor), the book is honeycombed with references to the great thinkers and artists of European civilization -- from the ancient Greeks and the Gospels, to Dante, the Holy Grail, Bach and Beethoven.  The Marxist Rubin even quotes Luther.  Primarily, no doubt this is a reflection of the fact that the prisoners in the &quot;sharashkas,&quot; the top-secret scientific work camps, were educated men, unlike, say, the hero of his shorter novel, One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.  (The contrast Solzhenitsyn draws to their well-paid Neanderthal captors is just one form of the irony that is his most distinctive and powerful stylistic weapon. But even the Neanderthals, including Stalin himself, are portrayed not as cardboard villains, but with insight and imagination.)  These references also remind us that, as much as Solzhenitsyn has been accused of being a &quot;Slavophobe,&quot; as if that were an insult, the Russian culture he loves is an integral part of Western civilization.  This iconic dialogue of the ages, similiar to the works of great Chinese painters, also adds another layer of delight to the book.The final and greatest thread that unifies this work is the idea of achieving humanity, of becoming what a person ought to be, of heroism.  The prisoners are poets, eccentric, and philosophers (though there are also scoundrels, and everyone is tempted that way), beaten down by life and the forces of disolution within, trying to preserve their souls, or civilization, from the barbarians who are their masters.  In describing the simple heroism of some of his characters, Solzhenitsyn achieves brilliance.  In my opinion, First Circle is the greatest of his works, and one of the most powerful pieces of writing of the 20th Century, at least.  And it is not about the Gulag, primarily: it is about what it means to be human, and the choices we all face.Aside from the characters and stories, many of the scenes are wonderful (again like Tolstoy): of Rubin standing in the courtyard at night in the snow when he hears the train whistle, of the party at the prosecutor's house, of the arrest of the diplomat.  If life is sometimes too strange for fiction, (and it is) there are also pieces of fiction that seem truer than life.  First Circle is a marriage of style and substance made in heaven,  or at least, the highest circle of hell.author, Jesus and the Religions of Man
1 Maybe the fault is with the translator, or maybe it is because the author is really a mathematician, but i found this book leaden and uninspiring. The prose are workmanlike to say the least. The dialogue is stilted and would sound at home in mouths of Dostoyevsky's or Turgenev's creatures.Aside from the hero, the characters --and their voices-- are undifferentiated. The women are two dimensional like figures constructed from formulas of femininity rather than real women drawn from life.The same is true of Solzhenitsyn's play of ideas. One theory trotted out after another. The characters who orate them as simply mouthpieces for the author's erudition. As didactic as a textbook. All that's missing is footnotes. Of course it was not possible for the publisher to refine and polish the text in collaboration with the author as all the great novels of the 20th C were, so we really can't expect it to live on the page as do the great novels of the 20th C. Still, I can't help but think Solzhenitsyn's Nobel was for his politics than his prose. Is he really the equal of his contemporary honorees Kawabata, Beckett, Boll or Neruda?The great power of The First Circle is its insight into Stalin's terror. But there are many other books on this theme, many of them much better. Koestler'sDarkness at Noonsprings first to mind. Nadezhda Mandelstam'sHope Against Hope: A Memoiris the undisputed masterpiece of the genre--and the has the benefit of being all true. Every page of that wrenching memoir is as soul searing as... as... as a poem byAkhmatova, another victim and survivor of the terror. There are even academic books written with more style and feeling than The First Circle.Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsarfor instance. And the works of Bruce Lincoln (Sunlight at Midnight: St. Petersburg and the Rise of Modern Russia) who was a superb writer as well as historian.I know that Russian is near impossible to translate, yet there are so many works of grace and power available to us in English. With so many great and truly moving books about the horrors of the Soviet Revolution, Stalin's reign and life in the camps and asylums, I cannot recommend this lumpen tome.
5 Where are the all the cyber-communists calling this book lies as they do Robert Conquest's "The Great Terror"?If you enjoy the human spirit squirting away from under the totalitarian heel then you'll love this book, which is packed tight with erudition and acute observation.
5 Like Solzhenitsyn's first literary work, the novella "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich", his first full-length novel "The First Circle" is an autobiographical work based upon his experiences as a political prisoner of the Soviet regime. The title is an allusion to Dante's first circle of Hell in "The Divine Comedy", that being the circle reserved for virtuous pagans, especially the ancient Greek and Roman philosophers, who because of their paganism were denied entry to Heaven but  because of their virtue were not otherwise punished.The novel is set in Mavrino, a place which can be considered part of the "First Circle" of the Soviet penal system. Mavrino, a former stately home now converted to a "sharashka", or special prison, is a very different place to the Gulag described in "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich". It is not situated in Siberia, or some other remote part of the country, but in the Moscow suburbs. The prisoners, who are mostly intellectuals, especially scientists, engineers or mathematicians, are adequately fed and enjoy good working conditions. They are put to work on technical projects of use to the Soviet military or to the MVD, the organisation which was later to become the KGB.The novel is unusual in that there is no single main character. One of the prisoners, the mathematician Gleb Nerzhin, is said to be an autobiographical character, based upon Solzhenitsyn himself, but several other characters are given equal prominence.  Instead, we are introduced to a wide cross-section of the prisoners, some of the guards, officials and free workers in the prison, as well as a few outsiders. What can be described as the main plot is set in motion when Innokenty Volodin, an official at the Soviet Foreign Ministry, makes a telephone call to a doctor friend, warning him not to give samples of a new drug to a French colleague as he fears that such an action could be construed as espionage by the authorities. Unfortunately for Volodin, the call has been recorded by the secret police and a copy of the recording is sent to Mavrino, where some of the prisoners are already working on a project to invent a system of "voiceprints" which will enable an individual to be infallibly identified from a recording of his voice.The main action takes place over only three days (December 25th-27th 1949), but there are numerous flashbacks which Solzhenitsyn uses to fill in the background of his characters. We learn that few, if any, of the prisoners have committed serious crimes; most are either guilty of trivial offences or else have been framed by the authorities, normally under the notorious Article 58 of the Soviet Penal Code which defined "counter-revolutionary activity" and which enabled Stalin to imprison as "enemies of the people" any opponents of the Communist system or of his rule. (Solzhenitsyn himself was sentenced to ten years imprisonment for some unflattering remarks he made about the "big boss" in a private letter which was intercepted by the military censors).The main philosophical theme of the novel is the moral dilemma facing the prisoners. They are acutely aware that they are much better off than the prisoners in the "regular" Gulags, but some have moral scruples about working for the system that is responsible for their suffering, especially as many of the projects they are working on are designed to help the secret police track down and capture other dissidents. The book ends with several prisoners, including Nerzhin and the physicist Illarion Gerasimovich, being transferred to the much harsher regime of the labour camps after they refuse to cooperate with the authorities. Contrasting with their attitude is that of another prisoner, the philologist Lev Rubin who is a key worker on the "voiceprint" project. Despite his imprisonment Rubin remains a convinced Communist and supporter of the Soviet system, who carries out his work enthusiastically. It is his research that leads to the arrest not only of Volodin but also of his totally innocent colleague Shchevronok. (The "voiceprint" system is not as foolproof as Rubin had hoped, and he is forced to admit that he cannot be certain which of the two men made the fatal telephone call. To be on the safe side, therefore, the authorities arrest them both).This does not necessarily mean that Rubin is the villain of the novel; indeed, he is said to be based on Solzhenitsyn's friend and fellow-dissident Lev Kopelev. On a personal level Rubin is intelligent, cultured and humane. Solzhenitsyn's quarrel is not with the man himself but rather with the ideology he represents and with the "end justifies the means" mentality which that ideology fosters. Rubin believes that anything that furthers the interests of the Party will also further the interests of mankind, so if the Party's interests require that men be murdered, tortured or unjustly imprisoned, then murder, torture and unjust imprisonment- even his own- are morally justified.Indeed, there are remarkably few villains in the novel, apart from real-life individuals such as Stalin and his brutal Minister of State Security Viktor Abakumov. (Stalin is  briefly but memorably depicted as a paranoid and self-pitying megalomaniac). Although Mavrino has its fair share of brutal guards and venal stoolpigeons, Solzhenitsyn reveals a certain sympathy even for the officials in charge of the prison, such as the Head of Research Colonel Yakanov, confronted with the impossible demands of his superiors, who in turn are placed in an impossible position by the demands of the Party leaders. Even Abakumov lives in constant fear of Stalin.During my youth in the 1970s and 1980s, Solzhenitsyn was a much talked-about author in the West, although (or perhaps because) his work was banned in Russia. He was hailed on the political Right, and also by some on the non-Communist Left, as one of the Soviet Union's most prominent dissidents. With the end of the Cold War, however, the position was reversed. Although his works could now be published in Russia, interest in him in the West began to wane; his conservative Russian nationalism, his adherence to the Orthodox faith, his support for President Putin and his trenchant criticisms of Western materialism made him an unlikely ally for many of those Westerners who had once feted him. Reading "The First Circle" for the first time made me wonder if we had in fact feted him for the wrong reasons, for transient political rather than artistic ones. Although he was indeed a strong critic of the Soviet system, he was more than that. Like others among his works, the book is a powerful testament to the power of the human spirit to meet hardship and oppression with stoicism and dignity.
5 This novel is set in what passes for the best of the worst:  Research duty for ex-Gulag inmates who know what misery really is.  Working on idiotic deadlines set in response to Stalin's quirks, the prisoner-scientists live in a world of denial and unreality akin to Dilbert on crack.  A worse fate befalls their jailer-managers, who are "free," agents of the government, and must  justify repeatedly failing to meet the ridiculous deadlines that their bosses set out of fear of offending The Boss, which typically ends in either immediate execution or in joining the ranks of those in chains.Some things that stood out as I read this book were the universality of the bureaucratic mindset:  avoidance of responsibility, inertia as a policy, stonewalling, and turfmanship, all in place of actual achievement or progress in any meaningful way.  Another thing is the prevalence of a false-accuser culture, where anonymus denouncements can destroy the innocent quickly, without explanation or even a trace.  (Given the state of our own society today, and the risk/reward calculus that favors the accuser, this trait appeared even more ominous to me as I read the book.)  The denial that gripped some of the inmates, either wholly (Rubin) or partially (Nehrzin, in the beginning, and others) about why they were in prison reminded me of "The Matrix," in that they were dreamwalking through life in a mist of Marxist/Communist mumbo-jumbo, rationalizing their fates as random chance, a mistake, the failing of the system even, but almost never as an understanding of their suffering being inherent in the System itself.  As Nehrzin awakes to this, to a degree (and the author may be semi-autobiographical in his sketch of this character, like himself a decorated artillery officer imprisoned over virtually nothing), he opens his eyes to the existence of the matrix of lies, false theory supporting false gods, etc., that has fully ensnared Russia and all within her power, hostage not only to Stalin's perversity, creeping madness, and hurbis, but to a system that is itself a reflection of all of these characteristics, too. The xenophobic search for American spies undermining Motherland security under every bush, the rewriting of history to support the current lies, and the occasional mind that breaks free by rejecting those lies, as Nehrzin did, starting in his youth, reminds one of Ayn Rand's "We  the Living."Echoing "1984," the older prisoners remember things as they were before the official history filled men's minds.  Things had been different than they were being told, better, materially and spiritually.  The prisoners themselves were frequently veterans - those who had done the most for the State reaping an unlooked-for reward, like Belisarius blinded by a jealous Justinian, left to beg in the streets.  The theme of war and survival is a thread that binds the veterans, either prisoner or "free," to each other. A bond of another kind exists between the inmates and their women - the latter mostly loyal, giving up their youth, and the possibility of starting a family, waiting for a release that may never come, sustained by the rare visit that bureaucratic stonewalling and trickery tries to prevent, their love provides a flicker of hope in the ashes of their ruined lives, where even being suspected of marriage to a political criminal was enough to make earning a living an impossibility, since the State was sole employer.Something else that seemed relevant to America today was the culture war that Yaralov, an ex-prisoner now running a research lab as a Colonel, remembers while pondering his posible return to zek status, from his youth.  He gave up the love of a Christian girl because while the Orthodox Church was legal in the 1920s, it was not politically correct.  As an ambitious young man with a future, Yaralov was torn between his woman and his career.  As the Church was chased out of the public square, it suffered from remembered abuses of thise in its' hierarchy, although those failures to meet the standard ignore the origin of the standard in question - the Church itself.  The sellout of a certain medaeval Metropolitan to the Tartars, used as an example by Yaralov in telling his betrothed why he will not side with the Church becomes a metaphor for bureaucratic sellout - applied by her to Yaralov when he chooses the System over what they both know he knows as the truth.Solzehenetsyn's account of life within the highest reaches of the Soviet Prison-Industrial Complex is both a fine story in its' own right and a warning to us that we can travel the same path, if we have already not begun to do so.  It is also highly literate, filled with allusions to literary and historical figures from the full scope of the Western Canon, in which Russia  shares, and contains very little in the way of anger - a remarkable achievement for one who emerged from the bowels of the  Gulag.  While anger is largely absent, satire abounds, especially comments by those on the outside about the "social origin" of others - in a supposedly classless society.This long book is well worth the time invested in it, as it is a work of rare and tragic beauty.-Lloyd A. Conway
4 InOne Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, Solzhenitsyn contrived a day for Ivan Denisovich that served to inform readers of the principal aspects of  life in a Stalinist Special Prison Camp in Siberia. Along the way, he included much about the GULAG system, how prisoners came to be there and their prospects of release. That was ambitious for a novel of rather less than 50,000 words, but Solzhenitsyn's objectives were fully achieved, aided rather than hindered by the limits that he set for both subject matter and time scale. In The First Circle, Solzhenitsyn looks again at the life of Section 58 (i.e. political) prisoners, giving himself this time three days just before New Year 1950 to describe a small scientific development and engineering facility on the outskirts of Moscow where political prisoners with appropriate skills were obliged to work long hours on projects such as a scrambler for Stalin's telephone. Taking just three days and only one such prison again help by containing the scope of the novel. Nevertheless, The First Circle is more than five times as long as One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich and has a cast list so large the two-and-a-half page listing provided with this translation of most of the character's names, their roles and relationships, is a definite asset.Only near the end of the novel is the mystery of the title revealed. A prisoner remarks, "Mavrino (the name of the scientific Special Camp) is the best, the highest, the first circle of hell. It's almost Paradise...." Unfortunately, the prisoner who speaks is at that moment being transported back to a labor camp.Besides telling us about Mavrino, its inmates and staff and their work, Solzhenitsyn paints in much of the background. Thus we spend time with the wife of one of the prisoners as she struggles to subsist in Moscow so as to be near her husband. We also meet the family of one of the free workers at Mavrino, who comes and goes on a daily basis; with a minor diplomat, arrested on the eve of a posting to Paris; and with Stalin himself as he works into the night, alone in his Kremlin office. As a sort of flashback, there is a visit by Eleanor Roosevelt (widow of the late President) to a Soviet prison shortly after the end of WW2. Of course, what she is shown is contrived to appear humane, clean, and a relatively happy place for the inmates, but is quickly changed back to reality the moment she is gone.As with One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, Solzhenitsyn is telling us of his own experience as a political prisoner, incorporating also the stories of some of those he encountered whilst imprisoned.  The plot of the novel, such as it is, serves primarily as a device on which to hang that information. It is the power of the individual stories that gives the novel its strength.
4 "The First Circle" is a deeep look into the hearts of people subject to near-absolute power.  There is a quality of Kafka more than Tolstoy.  The power is so distant.  But then Solzhenitsyn takes himself and us into the mind of Stalin himself.  This is the weakest part of the book.  He makes sounds which he imagines to be Stalin's, as having Stalin think of going to Church- like Christians everywhere.  One never feels inside Stalin. It seems almost a childlike view of the dictator. In many ways it is as one-sided, though not as propagandistic or overtly phony  as the many "studies" of Hitler.  "Ten years!  That's no sentence.  Thirty years."One can see the horror of arbitrary power, but not look into the soul of its possessor.  There is an immense suffering implied by the men driven away on the meat truck-  the one who says they are leaving Hell and the other who says No! We are going there now.  There is more reality in the suffering of a man who cares only for family.  It is tempting to compare this book with "Les Miserables" by Victor Hugo.  I think Hugo's picture of victimhood is less realistic, more Romantic than Solzhenitsyn's.  "The First Circle" is a book that ought to be read- that much I can honestly say--though I feel Solzhenitsyn bit off more than he could chew.  It would have taken a Shakespeare to have told the story as powerfully, yet with more realism.
5 Solzhenitsyn has written for the benefit of the rest of us, a work that recreates the madness that was life under Stalin. The First Circle is a story about what happens when the talents of a nation are wasted because those in power happen to be incompetent men (that tends to be generally the case, except New Zealand). At the heart of it, it is a testament to the power of a free market to value resources and direct them to where they are most valued.Well, no, not really. Solzhenitsyn is not a capitalist at heart and his work does not disparage communism. It is a non-partisan look at a cross section of society that had to suffer the loss of lives, loved ones and youth. It is about their hope in spite of the circumstances surrounding them.Solzhenitsyn's earlier work _One day in the life of Ivan Denisovich_ made Soviet society realize the genius that was in their midst. The First Circle cements Solzhenitsyn reputation as one of the greats of modern Russian literature. This book deserves to be in your collection.Trust me, you will not regret reading this. A definite must read!
5 What does a gulag for the learned elite have in common with an American corporation?  Far too much.  I read this book years ago, and wish that I could find my copy again.  Every engineering education should commence with a reading and discussion of this most engaging book, alongside Tracy Kidder's The Soul of a New Machine.  Kidder covers the exterior of the engineering process in an American context of a specific time. Solzhenitsyn, though goes to the deep essential tension, of creativity commanded to flower, on a schedule, in the arid fields of rigid institutionalism.
5 The best part of this book was the portrait of Stalin.  It's hard to write about historic figures -- whether it's Lincoln, Hitler, or whomever, they usally end up sounding wooden or cliched.  Yet here, the author &quot;gets  into the head&quot; of Stalin.  Reading it I felt, yes, that must be  exactly what Stalin thought and felt like.The rest of the book is fine  too, but Stalin remains the &quot;character&quot; I remember most.
4 What a wonderful story!Starts as classic pirate romance novel - sailor who is ready to get what he wants and maiden who does not want the sailor. Almost like The Taming the Shrew. Even after the maiden is abducted, I still thought that it's all part of the sailors plan, for taming his wife to be. That's when the first twist comes into the story. The story is full of twist and turns, and the minute you think you know what will happen next, it might go that way or not.It's a story full of love and passion, fear and grief, trust and hope. It is wonderfully written, nice tempo, nice fluidity. Reminds me a lot of Barbara Erskine books, or should it be the other way around, since Lion Triumphant is written almost 40 years ago and Barbara Erskine first book was published some 30 years ago. But the way, how Philippa Carr mixes real historic events into her novels are very enjoyable experience.It is good change from contemporary and modern romance novels.
3 A swashbuckling seafaring romance during the time of Elizabeth1 when England was renowmed for her Navy and taking on the might of the Spanish Armada.This is a very dated romance now and the hero Jake Pennylon left a lot to be desired in his actions and justifications for his pursuit of women and sons. No way could this be considered a PC romance. His long suffering wife Catherine certainly wasn't a pushover by any means and managed to hold her own.Still it was an engaging romance with some excellent historical detail and a list of characters that were interesting.
3 Some things about this book were predictable, which almost made me not want to waste my time reading it. But I enjoyed the history that was interlaced in the story, and the main character is very relatable. There's really not much else to say about this book. It wasn't amazing, but it was good.
5 Love Ms. Carr's style of writing - 1st person so you really feel as if you are living the story. Romance, danger, mystery, this book has it all! A must read!!
4 This is a beautifully written historical romantic thriller.  It challenged me in more ways than one, but kept me turning the page, struck not only by the violence of the Spanish Inquisition and the reversion to Protestant rule under the reign of Queen Elizabeth in England; but also main character, Catherine's, life during this period.  It is a gripping novel that delves into the barbarism of people who murder, rape, and seek revenge under the guise of religious doctrine and superiority.  Following Cat through her tumultuous life, finding love, losing love, and not appreciating love until it was taken from her, was a difficult process at times.  It seemed that no one person could go through the trials and tribulations of life, and continue to fight while remaining sane.The most disturbing part personally was the total dislike of the two "leading men" in Cat's life; Don Felipe and Jake.  I hated them both.  Then I loved them both, which was unsettling.  Both men were so dissimilar in their mannerisms, upbringing, and religious beliefs; yet, they mirrored each other in their quests for revenge, and ability to justify their evil, immoral actions through misguided reasoning.  Both were excessively arrogant, and believed they alone made the rules and decisions in their lives, and dictated events around them to achieve their desires.  They also both loved a woman who fought back vehemently; and despite her hatred of the men, she grew to admire and love those parts of each of them that were redeeming and worthy.Ms. Carr's knowledge of the violent history of this period creates a feeling of almost two novels in one, providing an amazing setting to explore the strength of women during a time when women had no authority and very little worth past producing heirs.  An exciting tale that had me glued to the page, and eager to read the next book in the series.
5 I have read this book many times and have enjoyed it each time.  I first did not realize it was a series of Daughters of England I now enjoy reading them all.
5 I never realized that Phillippa Carr is Virginia Holt (who is also not her real name).  This is a bit darker storyline than Holt's gothic.  There is violence, and manipulations, and acceptances.  This isn't a typical romance, and you're really not sure who to be rooting for.  But overall, I was engrossed and engaged... and enjoyed it!
4 The Mask of DimitriosCharles Latimer was a lecturer in political economy in England. In his mid-30s he began to write detective stories, and became successful enough to make a new career. While traveling abroad in Turkey he was introduced to the Chief of the Secret Police. Colonel Haki told him about finding a body, and Charles asked to visit the mortuary for the experience. Intrigued by the history of this Dimitrios, Charles decided to follow the trail and act as a detective. Dimitrios escaped Smyrna in August 1922 and went to Sofia, Belgrade, Paris, Lyons, and other places. The police knew of him, but can't prove anything. Then his body was found in Istanbul. Charles Latimer traveled to these places to try  to learn something. One unforeseen fact is that it is dangerous for a literary person to get involved with criminals; they don't appreciate the interest shown in them! But a Mr. Peters offered to help him in his research by referring him to a retired businessman in Geneva. Charles Latimer should have found a cause for alarm when told he had valuable information, but didn't know what it was! But he continued his journey without any fear.Chapter IX tells how a spy gained the friendship and confidence of a clerk in a government ministry. The clerk needed the money after he lost at a rigged card game. Peters told how he smuggled heroin to France in a coffin, but that couldn't be done regularly. The end of Chapter XI reveals the secret of Latimer's knowledge. [This is similar to Graham Greene's story "The Third Man".] Mr. Peters will profit from this knowledge. Their last meeting ends with rough justice. Charles Latimer decides to set his next mystery in an English country village. The ending seems unreal, forced by the need for Latimer's survival.
4 John Pearson, the author of The Life of Ian Fleming and the Authorised Biography of James Bond recommends that this is one of the classic Spy Stories which Ian Fleming strove to emulate. Read it and realise why.
5 My husband wanted this book and, to my knowledge, has yet to read it.  The story sounds rather grim, but I'' probably read it before he gets around to it.
5 The novel which inspired Graham Greene, John le Carre, Alfred Hitchcock and Ian Fleming (who described it as It opens with Charles Latimer, a mystery writer, navely accepting an assignment to discover who ended the life of criminal mastermind, Dimitrios. In doing so, he gets drawn further and further into the murky, corrupt world of the deceased: a man for whom war offered so many opportunities, he had no objection to helping start one. As our narrator crisscrosses World War II Europe, reconstructing the life and death of the great manipulator, he quickly learns that everyone who knew Dimitrios, is even less savoury than was the man himself. By now he knows he's been set up, and that he'll be lucky to escape with his life, but what he doesn't know is why.This is a taut, gripping espionage thriller, with lashings of intrigue, paranoia and double-dealing, which has held up well this past seventy years. Containing certain parallels to today's uncertain times, I feel this novel may well be set for a revival.A definite recommend for people who enjoy character driven tension.[...]
4 A tip from Tory Education spokesman Michael Gove led me to sample Eric Ambler. He is one of the finest, and most neglected thriller writers of the 20th Century.The Mask of Dimitrios is perhaps his best known book. It is a spare, stylish thriller that takes place amongst the seedy bars and crepuscular hotels amidst the dangers of 1930s Europe. The protagonist, Charles Latimer, is not a professional spy. He is a former university lecturer, now a writer of detective stories who is interested in the world around him. He is also something of a connoisseur of food and drink, ensuring he always has an appropriate aperitif before dinner.He comes across the mysterious Dimitrios when Mr Haki procures a dossier about the infamous criminal, whose body has been dredged out of the Bosphorous. Thinking he can garner material for a new novel, Latimer retraces Dimitrios's steps across Europe and uncovers several former acquaintances. Things are not what they seem, and Latimer realises through unravelling several false facades and shifting alliances that loyalties are not always reliable, and alliegances can shift easily.The Mask of Dimitrios is not simply a corkscrew plot thriller. Nested in the spare and elegant prose style are a wealth of pithy reflections and ruminations on life - from the political events of the era such as 1922 Greco-Turkish war, to an analysis of drug addiction, to memorable pen portraits and images of the 1930s: the gas lit theatres and dingy hotels, Ambler's prose does far more than tell a story.The Mask of Dimitrios offers a window into the anxieties and mores of the 1930s better than most histories of the period. An era when, As Ambler puts it late on in the book 'The logic of Michaelangelo's David, Beethoven's Quartets and Einstein's physics had been replaced by that of the Stock Exchange Year Book and Hitler's Mein Kampf'.
5 This book was made into an excellent film starring Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre.  (Never, to my knowledge, available on DVD, but still out on VHS on Amazon.) I saw the film first, before I stumbled onto the paperback in a used book store one day.  The film is very good; the book is better.  I urge you to get and read it.
5 The story and characters of a story set in ancient Atlantis is spell binding. I bought a copyfrom a second hand store in the 1970s and felt inspired, one dark night, to find it in my over stuffedbook cases to reread it. It was damaged and so I ordered another copy from Amazon Books. I am amazed at how fresh the story is and how it seems prophetic about ourcurrent global struggles compounded by environmental issues of pollution and global warming, fraught, of late,with many tidal waves, earth quakes and volcanic eruptions etc that disrupt international travel. The book seemsprophetic too about the corrupt practices people are becoming aware of in religious, scientific, political and media institutions. The book shows the materialism and weakness of modern society where welfare hand outs or a lush, sensual, materialistic way of life keep the populace subserviant but also weak with no sense of ethics or morals in their conduct towards others. Taylor Caldwell dreamed of this story with herself as  principal character, an Atlantean princess/empress, in a life time lived in Atlantis. During this lifetimeAtlantis supposedly sank into the sea, due to misuse of nuclear power that had fallen into the wrong hands of young, vigorous but dangerous powers.It is an enthralling read and seems as if channelled and prophetic.
5 I found this book at an exchange in a local library and am a big fan of Taylor Caldwell.  The writing is extraordinary especially for a 12 year old.  I find it too parallel to our present circumstances.
3 I have always loved Taylor Caldwell's novels and love the subject of Atlantis, but this book wasn't her best.  They say she wrote it when she was thirteen years old!  It was an okay book.
5 A 12 year old girl (Taylor Caldwell) prodigy wrote this but didn't publish it until many years later.  I had read several of her books so was prepared somewhat for the experience.  I recommend it for any age and gender.
5 I was amazed by a great novel especially through the eyes of the novelist as a precocious 12 year old.  That in itself blew my mind. And, it is a great read!
5 This book was quite a threat to read indeed. It is detailed description of a different culture that disappeared eons ago. It is said that this was the first book of Taylor Caldwell who was once one of the most famous writers.
5 Taylor Caldwell wrote this book when she was only 12 years old, even though it didn't get published until she was much older with the help of Jess Stern, I was so impressed with her ability to tap into that Era (Although many people think it never was, I do!)
5 I first read this book when it came out in the 70's.  I have a first edition, hardback copy still, signed by the author.  It is a remarkable book.  Whether she wrote it when she was ten or a hundred does not negate the fact that "Taylor Caldwell" was a marvelous story teller.
5 I have read most of Taylor Caldwell's books, and this is by far my favorite.  Probably because the subject of Atlantis is so intriguing.  I just finished my third read of this book and it felt fresh and new again.  I never reread fiction, but this book doesn't feel like fiction.  What it feels like is an autobiography, and as it turns out, that's what Caldwell believes it was.Written when Caldwell was only 12 years old, the Romance of Atlantis was sent by Caldwell's father to a publisher friend who said that there was no way a young girl could have written the story and claimed Caldwell must have plagiarized it.  Many years after becoming a famous writer, Taylor Caldwell learned of past life regression through a journalist, Jess Stern and soon, with his help, published this remarkable book.What is amazing about this story is how real everything seems.  I see ancient Rome, Greece and our own modern society reflected in Caldwell's story.  The main character, the empress Salustra, is so real that at times she's heroic and at others she's a product of her society as much as her degenerate people.  When Signar, the Emperor from the far north frozen country comes to take over her kingdom, Salustra falls in love with him even while knowing she must have his put to death.  We see the Vikings in Signar's people, a lusty, strong people as wild as their environment yet still able to produce an atom-splitting bomb.I highly recommend this book.  It's one of the most intriguing, thought-provoking, suspense books I've every read.When I Dream
5 Proves the proposition that one should never read any novel published after 1960. As good as C. P. Snow' s Strangers and Brothers.
5 I read this book many years ago and I must say I love it even more now. Powell is a wonderful and witty writer.
5 Over the years, I've come across references to Anthony Powell's 12-volume series, "Dance to the Music of Time," as being a towering achievement of 20th century English literature, and I remember, vaguely, that some decades ago I checked out one of Powell's volumes from my local library, the time then being when I went to the library and found books and a quiet reading atmosphere, as opposed to today, with the library being heavily digitized and the ambient sound filled with patrons seeking help on how to navigate the electronic devices that comprise the collection.  At the time, I had just finished reading and adoring C. P. Snow's "Strangers and Brothers" series, and I was hoping to find in Powell, an author akin to Snow, one who could absorb me into the lives of people from a society I only superficially knew, and then largely through its literature.  I was sorely disappointed in Powell:  his prose was long-winded, complex, and the plot moved slowly, if at all.  I put the Powell book down and after these many years, I think due to its ready availability on Kindle and its near give-away price, I thought I would give "Dance to the Music of Time" another try, this time starting with the very first volume of the series, "A Question of Upbringing."Set in the period from the end of WWI to about 1921, and within what I imagine to be upper (very upper) class English society, "A Question of Upbringing" introduces four students in a English public school, whom Powell will follow through the remaining 11 volumes of "Dance to the Music of Time," until after WWII.  It didn't take me long to realize the extent to which I had changed and how, what I long ago thought was at least boring, I now viewed as fundamental to good and enjoyable literature: the extended and complex sentences, beautiful in themselves, the leisurely pace of the narrative, with much of what "happens" being the subtle changes in the observations of the characters, and the universality, on a human level, of what they experience, even though the exterior circumstances of their lives reflect a world that passed at least a lifetime ago.  I credit Powell's genius with giving meaning to what happens to his characters.  Immediately after finishing this first volume, I enthusiastically started reading book 2, "A Buyer's Market."
5 I have read many of the twelve volumes a couple of times, and each reading leads to new treasures.  Powell is a superb writer with a compassionate but realistic view of upper class England in the years from 1930 to 1960.  You can start with any of the 12 but it is better to start with the first book.  Prepare yourself for a literary feast!
5 With A QUESTION OF UPBRINGING, published in 1950, the English novelist Anthony Powell began his ambitious 12-volume series "A Dance to the Music of Time", which follows the narrator and his social circle from the early 1920s until the early 1970s. As the novel opens an old man named Nicholas Jenkins reflects on Poussin's famous painting where four figures representing the Seasons dance to a lyre played by the personification of Time. A human life, muses Jenkins, is such a dance, with partners disappearing only to reappear at later times.Encouraged by this metaphor, Jenkins' reminisces begin with his school days in the early 1920s. Studying at an unnamed institution, probably Eton, Jenkins introduces his roommates Stringham, a melancholy soul from an aristocratic family, and Templer, scion of a businessman and a bit of a rebel. These three young men form a tight band and laugh at Widmerpool, a buffonish boy always on the margins of their society, but ambitious and intent on making a name for himself. The plot of A QUESTION OF UPBRINGING is rather simple, as Jenkins proceeds from school life to a summer abroad to learn French, and then into the university. Though the paths of all four main characters diverge after school, Jenkins meets up with his peers again at odd moments, until a rather dramatic separation marks the close of this first volume of the series."A Dance to the Music of Time" has been compared to Proust's "In Search of Lost Time" in its first-person narration and ambitious scope. To a degree, the comparison is fair. However, Jenkins is nowhere near as introspective as Proust's narrator. Although Jenkins often talks about how the events he recounts impacted his life, sometimes he seems to almost step out of the frame and dispassionately depict the events happening around him. Also, Powell adds a great deal of humour, although much of this is deadpan to an almost Edward Gorey degree and will not appeal to everyone.In fact, the aristocratic concerns of this series will put off a lot of readers. Powell has sometimes been attacked as a snob simply because he finds the lives of England's upper class to be a worthwhile setting for his series. But the decline of this world *is* an epic process and has within it a great deal of dramatic potential, even if we find these people's privilege odious. This decidedly middle class American reader enjoyed A QUESTION OF UPBRINGING very much. Jenkins' look back at his formative years has spurred me to consider my own. The novel is quite realistic in many ways (indeed, in later volumes there's an element of roman a clef about it). Powell's characters are universal archetypes -- we all know a Widmerpool or a Templer -- but they are never two-dimensional and have a convincing dimension to them.All twelve volumes of "A Dance to the Music of Time" have been reissued by University of Chicago Press in four handsome trade paperbacks. If you think you're going to go the distance, that's a better investment than older editions of the individual volumes.
2 I had never heard of Powell, or his twelve book symphony, until a discussion about the mechanics of the Alexandria Digital Library brought him to light. Although the recommender hadn't listed Powell as something I'd care for, one of the participants in the discussion who knew of First Impressions, thought it might be something up my alley. Based on this first book, I'm afraid that the machine wins.A Question of Upbringing introduces you to the main characters of Powell's magnum opus: the narrator, Jenkins, who one never really gets a handle on because he spends more time describing the others than ever going on about himself; Templar, the womanizer and lay-about; Stringham, privileged and haughty; and Widmerpool, the odd man out, with drive and ambition, but no class. One meets them at boarding school and follows them through college in this first volume, but what happens is never as important as what one thinks is happening. As a narrator, Jenkins is obtuse to the point of frustration, never quite describing the situation, but using plenty of words to not do so. Every time I thought something was going to get interesting, the novel would shift to some other scene.The blurb writers compare Powell to Proust, but I can safely say that A Question of Upbringing is much more interesting than The Remembrance of Things Past. A &quot;comic masterpiece,&quot; though? Not in this first volume. The book I have has the next two in the sequence, and I will likely go ahead and give them a try, but based on the first soiree, I must dance to some other fiddler.
3 If a bit over written at times this first book in the series is a fine introduction to one of the great architects of sentences
3 This is the first volume of Powell's highly regarded "Dance to the Music of Time" sequence of books and it offers a smooth, if rather unexciting read. The story evolves around a young Englishman in the 1920s, his school friends, their families and some of their adventures growing into adulthood in the post World War I era. The book offers a wonderful sense of time and place although the main character utilizes a strange, detached narrator voice. He's present as events unfold but he's never really a part of what's happening. He just observes, reports and discusses the various people involved.The characters in the book are interesting in an English drawing room kind of way, reflecting the strong class struggle that dominated society back then. The novel is well written and offers an excellent portrait of a specific time and place although readers of modern thrillers and suspense novels might find Powell's work a bit slow.
4 A man reflects upon his encounters with schoolmates, friends, and family as he grows up, enters university, and starts to find his way in upper class 1920's English society, offering detailed, thoughtfully drawn descriptions in a kind of measured, somewhat nostalgic voice.  I found this well-drawn glimpse into another time and another society quite fascinating; but if you don't like books where nothing much happens but observations of life, this may not be your cup of tea.This is the first book of a somewhat intimidating 12-book series, but I thought it stood pretty well on its own and was worth reading even if I don't end up finishing the entire series.
5 Once more I'll observe that the pricing, this time from the rapacious University of Chicago Press (why ARE they tax-exempt?) is exploitive and unjustifiable. You can buy the four movements (= 12 books) for roughly $68. Or you can buy the 12 volumes in e-form for roughly $75. Yet, the ebook costs nothing to ship, nothing to print, no dead trees, no ink, and in fact, U Chicago had no editorial costs. No wonder reading books is dying out. It's the rip-off publishers and wretched copyright laws that will have killed it.The series is wonderful; I've read it through 3 times, as well as individual novels at various times. It's a masterpiece.
5 In 1921 Widmerpool formed a concrete picture in Nick Jenkins's mind.  He always seems alone.  He never places in the events for which he trains vigorously.  His footwear squeaks.Nick's Uncle Giles visits when Nick is with Charles Stringham.  Uncle Giles believes that all material advancement in life is a result of influence.Jenkins's other particular friend at school during the instant time period is Peter Templer.  Stringham, having completed his studies, is to join his father in Kenya for the next nine or ten months.  Nick finds himself left alone at the school after Peter Templer leaves a term early at the urging of a master.  Stringham sends Nick pictures of people he has encountered in Kenya.  Jenkins decides that he is in love with Templer's sister Jean.When Nick goes to France to board with a family with whom his family has connections, he runs into Widmerpool.  Widmerpool has dedicated himself to learning French, it seems.  He is not the oddity at the French establishment that he had been at school.  Widmerpool is to be articled to a firm of solicitors.The former classmates reunite at a party given by Sir Magnus Donners, someone in the government during the war.  Both Stringham and Templer decide not to go to university and, so, in the end it is Nick who remains in pursuit of a degree.  He thinks that perhaps he wants to write and has, in fact, nearly finished a novel.This is the first of a multi-volume series.  It gets things off to a very good start.
2 After all the outstanding reviews of Powell's work, I decided to see what I was missing. Well, after reading the first installment of this 12-volume epic, I'm left with two questions:1. How did this man ever get this first novelette published?2. Why should anyone care to read beyond it?I encountered perhaps one quiet moment of smiling in this dull novel where nothing ever happens, and a lot of the world-weariness of the English upper classes, where the smallest details of home, dress, speech, gesture, action (not that there's much of it) are judged wanting by one or another of the characters. It's always about class and prejudice. Sigh. The author provides no reason for the reader to care about any of his characters.The introductory paragraphs promise great things, with a solemn nod to the muses, and occasional epic tags occur with libations and ritual movements, but it's all a tidy bag of nothing. Rather like Graham Greene, but without the nastiness. Henry James does this kind of thing well while engaging the interest and emotions of his reader; Powell could have learned from him.The next time I want to read about the English upper classes leading lives of silent desperation cloaked in ennui, I shall turn to P.G. Wodehouse, God bless him.
5 I'm currently working my way through Proust and I'd heard Powell's multi-part novel compared.  I found it excellent, but only superficially like Proust.The story, such as it is, involves Jenkins relating four specific times in his youth.  Many characters are introduced and the focus is on them -- everything we learn about Jenkins is pretty much in relation to those around him (unlike Proust).  Despite the relative lack of action, I found it almost compulsively readable -- the literary equivalent of popcorn, but much more filling.  Powell's dry wit and talent for characterization makes him a delight to read.
5 This is the first volume in Powell's mammoth work running to 12 volumes. These were published between 1951 and 1975.This first volume starts with Jenkins at his public school and his his two friends Stringham and Templer. It runs for four chapters , the school, a holiday, visits to his friends homes and then Jenkins first year at Oxford.Characters introduced here leave clues to how their lives may develop and intertwine with each other in later volumes.It is a reflection of the boys life, a chronicle of their time set in the early 1920sthe attitudes, the behaviour and of Britain's place in the world.Its great to read, it just flows along, very detailed but it is never boring, it just draws you in to a world that no longer exits and never did for the majority of people.This was brilliant and I am excited about reading the following volumes.
4 A Question of Upbringing by Anthony PowellAnthony Powell's "A Question of Upbringing" is the first part of his mammoth twelve novel epic "A Dance to the Music of Time". He writes with wit, humour and not a little sarcasm, describing a quintessential Englishness that perhaps was never representative of the society and has, arguably, disappeared. He wrote this first volume in 1951 and, though the book starts with a London scene from that era, the majority of the book deals with the characters' school and university experiences and recalls a time passed.The main character is Jenkins. I will follow the author's lead and use surnames only for males, surnames plus titles for married, older or otherwise unavailable women, and Christian names for eligible women, whether they be of a certain class or prone to wear flowery dresses while standing next to post boxes in the street. As his friend, Stringham, discovered, even some of the surname plus title women at times can prove highly eligible.The book's form is both simple and intriguing. It is so effective we almost miss the ingenuity of its construction. There are just four chapters, each in excess of fifty pages and each focused on one particular episode. We have school, a social gathering, a holiday in France and college undergraduate life. Powell's writing has such a lightness of touch that we forget how intensely we are invited to analyse the circumstances of each chapter and how penetratingly we discover the characters' lives. There is considerable innuendo, much gossip and usually piles of money, along with social status and influence wrapped up in every household.The quintessence of their Englishness, like characters in the novels of Evelyn Waugh, arises out of their apparent inability to question - or perhaps even notice - their privilege. It's a state they inhabit without either reflection or gratitude, so much taken for granted that it lies beyond doubt, its achievement apparently assumed, not expected. School means one of the better "public" schools. Going "up to university" assumes Oxbridge as a right, though Powell tinges this with the perennial blight of the English upper classes, intellectual paucity, by having several of his keen entrants "decide" not to complete a degree. One assumes that many of the others will take thirds before assuming their company chairs or ministerial portfolios. The army figures large in family histories, always at officer class, of course, and so does the City, where one can always become "something". Even Americans, however, can be described as having "millionaire pedigree" on both sides, an economic status that presumably compensates for what is otherwise a palpable lack of breeding. When family members do not assume expected and assumed heights, they are referred to in hushed tones, the words "black sheep" perhaps not politically or at least socially correct even then.But if this really was a quintessence of Englishness, it was a pretty rare ingredient. Maybe one or two per cent of the population went to the right school. Only about five or six per cent attended higher education of any sort, let alone a university one "went up to". Neither Sandhurst nor corporate board rooms were populated by the masses. (They still aren't!) And so this was a quintessence of separateness, of rarefied heights in an extended class system and, certainly by the 1950s, some of these peaks had been scaled by other aspirants, using new climbing techniques eschewed by the incumbents of years.And so "A Question of Upbringing" reveals its duality. It's a tale that celebrates a time lost, a nostalgic peek into a remembered adolescence where a hand placed apparently carelessly and always momentarily upon that of a member of the opposite sex remained a daring highpoint of teenage years.Nostalgia is always tinged with loss, however. Early in the book, Powell describes the school thus: "Silted-up residues of the years smouldered interruptedly - and not without melancholy - in the maroon brickwork of these medieval closes: beyond the cobbles and archways of which (in a more northerly direction) memory also brooded, no less enigmatic and inconsolable, among water-meadows and avenues of trees: the sombre demands of the past becoming at times almost suffocating in their insistence."And how about this for a presumption of affluence: "It was a rather gloomy double-fronted faade in a small street near Berkeley Square: the pillars of the entrance flanked on either side with hollow cones for the linkmen to extinguish their torches." And we notice we are in a different age when Powell has his lads pick up two girls off the street to joy-ride in a new Vauxhall. Without a suggestion of tongue-in-cheek or indeed relish he can write that: "The girls could not have made more noise if they had been having their throats cut."When I first read Anthony Powell, I could not get past my ingrained hatred of this class and its power-assuming, wealth-inheriting inhabitants. It was a country that was not mine. I come to it now a little wiser and a little richer myself, richer in experience at least, and now I can appreciate the irony that my previous naivety ignored. I now look forward with some relish to the next eleven episodes. "A Dance to the Music of Time" is certainly a masterpiece to be revisited.
4 Typically, this short novel, shall we say novella, is included as the first part of Anthony Powell's twelve part project, "A Dance to the Music of Time".  Putting aside any financial arguments about why one may be better off purchasing the latter project instead of this lone excerpt from it, "A Question of Upbringing" is nonetheless an engaging, worthwhile read that bodes well for the remainder of this epic work.The story focuses on a year in the life of three students in an English boarding school, capturing several incidents that characterize the lifestyle and that provide enough random details to fill in the back stories and probably futures of these characters.  One of the boys is a libertine in the making, displaying both a love of women and a disregard for authority.  One is a young man with family connections, adventurous yet cautious and bound to make a name for himself in the hectic London scene.  The third boy, the narrator, is the most timid and unsure of himself, constantly evaluating the actions of his peers and trying to find his own place in the world.Powell's writing is excellent, displaying an extremely dry wit that brings much humor to a rather staid and tradition bound culture.  The short novel is essentially a series of set pieces- an incident at school, a weekend in France, a tea party involving eccentric school intellectuals- that paint a complex and involved picture with the broadest of brush strokes.  It is truly a masterful work that seems effortless and encourages the reader to immediately jump into the second book, to discover where Powell is headed after this strong beginning.
4 Marcel Proust's great novel sequence,IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME, was published in England in twelve volumes between 1922 and 1930. English novelist Anthony Powell (pronounced "Pole") was surely thinking of Proust three decades later when he began his own twelve-novel sequence under the rather cumbersome titleA DANCE TO THE MUSIC OF TIME. It is taken from a painting by Poussin, details of which are reproduced rather unattractively on the covers of the four-volume Chicago edition. No doubt I shall be reviewing each three-novel set as I finish it, but I thought I would begin with the question of what the first novel in such a sequence looks like, and whether it can stand on its own. My quick answers: it is quite fun and considerably less pretentious than the overall title, but also very episodic; you need to look beyond the book itself to get much sense of a through line.Proust opened with the narrator bemusedly lying in bed, recalling his childhood. Powell begins his with a group of workmen repairing a street in an English winter fog. The setting, though unnamed, is clearly the surroundings of Eton College, England's premier boarding school. We are introduced by the narrator Nick Jenkins to his two roommates, the cynical aristocrat Stringham, and the wealthy Templer, already proving himself something of a ladies' man. Emerging out of the fog on a training run is an older boy called Widmerpool, whose awkward intensity has made him the butt of college jokes. The first of the four long chapters may seem strange to American readers, but it is familiar to me from my own days at a similar school, and though apparently consisting of quite minor events such as a practical joke played on the boys' housemaster, it nonetheless sets up the interplay of characters quite beautifully, here and throughout with Powell's wonderfully sly humor.Subsequent chapters show Jenkins on an extended stay with Stringham's family, spending a summer in France where he once again bumps into Widmerpool, and in his first year at (presumably) Oxford, an episode that comes to a head in an almost-disastrous outing in a fast car driven by Peter Templer. The most significant character in this chapter, though, is an older professor called Sillery who makes a habit of inviting young men to tea and injecting himself into their lives, with the ultimate motive of building a network of contacts in the outer world that will serve as the web for this avuncular spider. So he finds Stringham a job with an influential politician, and he leaves Oxford. The book ends with the three friends moving out along divergent paths, and several other characters introduced in the last pages who will presumably become important later. It is a curiously unsatisfying end for a stand-alone novel, but an auspicious beginning for a series.
5 A Question of Upbringing is the first volume in the twelve novel, &#8220;A Dance to the Music of Time.&#8221; In order, the books are:1. A Question of Upbringing &#8211; (1951)2. A Buyer's Market &#8211; (1952)3. The Acceptance World &#8211; (1955)4. At Lady Molly's &#8211; (1957)5. Casanova's Chinese Restaurant &#8211; (1960)6. The Kindly Ones &#8211; (1962)7. The Valley of Bones &#8211; (1964)8. The Soldier's Art &#8211; (1966)9. The Military Philosophers &#8211; (1968)10. Books Do Furnish a Room &#8211; (1971)11. Temporary Kings &#8211; (1973)12. Hearing Secret Harmonies &#8211; (1975)The books are the fictional memoirs of Nicholas Jenkins and some of his friends, family and acquaintances - although the author used many of his own youthful memories in this novel. This first book begins in 1921 with Jenkins still at school (based on Eton, which Powell attended), where he rooms with Charles Stringham and Peter Templar. Also mentioned is a slightly odd character, named Widmerpool, who Jenkins meets up again later in the book, when he visits France to improve his language skills. Although Widmerpool is identified as a figure of fun, Jenkins later reappraises his attitude slightly and it is demonstrated that he has both ambition and a strong will to succeed.Obviously, this first novel &#8211; the first in a three book sequence linked to the seasons as &#8216;Spring&#8217; &#8211; is very much an introduction. We meet several characters, including Jenkins Uncle Giles, housemaster Le Bas, members of Stringham&#8217;s and Tempar&#8217;s family and are introduced to Professor Sillery &#8211; a don who likes to plot and influence events way beyond the scope suggested by his university tea parties.The four young men who are the focus of this book are all very different, but the author weaves their stories effortlessly &#8211; telling a tale of class, friendship and the stirrings of romance. Critically acclaimed &#8211; the novel was included in Time Magazine&#8217;s Top 100 English language novels from 1925-2005, while the editors of Modern Library ranked the work as 43rd greatest English-language novel of the twentieth century &#8211; this twelve volume cycle of novels is one of the longest works of fiction in literature. However, I feel it is almost impossible to read this first book and not want to read on and that is the true test of a great story.
5 This is deft, clever, deeply felt but reserved English prose -- kind of a combination of Evelyn Waugh, Marcel Proust and some very expensive, very dry champagne.  It will make you tipsy, even if  Nick Jenkins, the first-person narrator and your host at this party, which follows its characters from the 1920s to the 1950s, sometimes drives you mad with his cool basilisk reticence. I know he's there to tell you about other people, but when he casually drops the news that he got married with barely a glimpse of the wife and no hint of the courtship, it gets somewhat irksome. But not enough to subtract a star. Take this book on its own terms. It's a masterpiece.
2 My first and continuing impression is that Anthony Powell wants to be Charles Dickens with barely a modicum of either his talent or his insight. Not the best use of one's reading time.
4 A Question of Upbringing is snapshot memories of the narrator's life in the transition between public (private) school and university in the years immediately after World War 1. The people and their world are privileged, moneyed but not necessarily wealthy. The memories are in more-or-less chronological order, related from the perspective of an older and wiser man. It's superficially straightforward and plotless in the conventional sense. The tone is faintly satirical, not broadly comic. The approach is observational, almost like a collection of essays on character and situation. In that sense, it stands alone, but you know going in that it's the first volume in a long series. This won't be to everyone's taste. I enjoyed it, though I reserve judgment on whether it's part of a great work of literature.The Kindle version was mostly free of typos (one missing space between two words was all I noticed).Note to the reviewer complaining about price: If it costs too much to suit you, don't buy it. If enough people don't buy it, then the publisher will get the message. The Kindle version of this book costs about half what the corporate giants are charging for comparable in-copyright backlist literary fiction and roughly 80 percent of current mass market paperback prices, which accounts for the difference in cost of printing, distribution, and storage. I find the price quite reasonable.
3 I found the book dated and mannered compared with how young people think and behave now in senior years of high school and at university. Its prose is also somewhat convoluted and stiff compared with current literary styles. I doubt if I will bother to read any of the subsequent volumes.
5 Jani is saved from a life in Tibet by Mister, a man she loves as a child.  Once in England, Jani saves the life of Mr. Lambert and is invited to become one of his family.  Years later, Jani's beloved Eleanor becomes ensnared by a strange man, and Jani is determined to save her.  This brings Mister, Adam Gascoyne, back into her life.This was the first novel by Brent that I read, and it remains my favorite.
5 I love Madeleine Brent and wish there were more books out there like hers!  This one is especially good.  While a little slow to start, the story picks up and I could not put it down.  I was so sad when it ended.  Jani and her friends are such loveable characters and the novel really made me feel good, as cliched as that is.  There were times when I laughed and cried while reading this book.  Highly recommended!
5 Before I discovered Madeleine Brent's books, my favorite author was Victoria Holt and I absolutely always said that I couldn't imagine another author ever topping her in my favorite's list but I have to admit that I was wrong, wrong, wrong!! And I am hardly ever wrong, just ask my husband!!  Anyway, you can't go wrong with any of the Madeleine Brent books and my two favorites (and it is very, very, very difficult to pick a favorite)are Merlins Keep and The Golden Urchin, the Golden Urchin being my favorite book of all time!!  How I wish Hollywood would wake up and make some movies based on these books by Madeleine Brent - I know they would become beloved classics!!  Read all of the Madeleine Brent books and you won't find better prices than those on Amazon.com  Happy reading!!!
5 Though written in 1977 its values are timeless and its historical value intriguing. I agree this should be a movie. As for the writing, at no time does the author intrude. Jani is a well written, strong and believable  charactor which one instantly likes, then falls in love with. Very well  written and entertaining to read. Madaleine Brent is a jewel to have shared  this story with us, her readers.
5 I read this book when it first came out.  That has been some time ago.  However, I find that this author stands the test of time.  What is so surprising is that after all these years I find that Brent was really a man.  The characters are well developed, the suspense is great and the story holds your interest till the end.  I have since reread quite a few of the author's other books and find I am enjoying them as much as I did then.  If you want a good entertaining read, with interesting locals and some surprising endings, pick up a Madeleine Brent.
5 I always enjoy Madeleine Brent books and this one was missing for several years. I'm glad to have it back.
5 This story is great adventure and romance with a plucky heroine, the child of tragedy. She's grows up where she doesn't belong near Nepal or Tibet but a time comes when she and her cockney-speaking caretaker have no choice but to leave.  They are pursued on their arduous journey through mountain passes.  Jani, the heroine, helps them make good time since she is able to communicate with yaks, mules, etc.  But Jani has a mysterious past which we gradually learn about as she does.  There are mystics and monks and Shangri-la-type temples, future prophesies and evil in wait.  Meanwhile Jani finally makes it alive to England but broke and alone.  She soldiers on, stays positive and good despite daunting circumstances and finally gets a lucky break.  And where's that manly, mysterious fellow she can't forget?
5 I own all nine of Brent's books, and each time I re-read them, they captivate me all over again. New readers may not know that Madeleine Brent is a pen name for Peter O'Donnell, who was better known for his Modesty Blaise series. All the great traits of the characters in the Brent books, both men and women, can be found in Modesty Blaise series as well - definitely worth collecting. On a side note, "Kirkby's Changeling" was the British title for "Stranger at Wildings".
5 I have read this book in past and when it came out in E-book, I decided to get itfor my phone - I like having books on it so I can read when waiting for appointmentsnice not having to carry a book in my purse anymoreNgaio wrote many books and all are interesting,  if you like Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers,you will like Ngaio's books - her main character,  Insp Roderick Alleyn, is lovable
4 It hasn't been very long since I've become aware of Allingham and Marsh's contributions to the mystery writing era in which Christie and Sayers dominated. After slogging through the first several Allingham entries, decided to switch off for a while and tackle some more later. For me, her stories have been so encumbered with difficult and now obscure British dialect as to wear one out trying to mine the story.  This first Marsh entry was thus quite refreshing with its entirely more readable aspect and simplicity of language. While it is somewhat redundant in its oft-repeated English country house weekend format, it is an encouraging start to the writer's series.  I sincerely look forward to succeeding editions.
5 James Saxon gives a royal send-off to Ngaio Marsh's very first Roderick Alleyn mystery, originally published in 1934. Russian spy rings could be dealt with then as somehow detached from anything Soviet, no sound Englishman need be suspected of association with the rather laughable group, and, wel,l to say more would be revealing too much. Nothing else about the book is dated since it is in the classic mold as it was being modified by Agatha Christie, Dorothy Sayers, and Margery Allingham, among the fine "British" practitioners. I enjoyed reading this fledgling Marsh effort, written ten years previous to my first acquaintanceship with Alley,n which occurred during WW2 through Colour Scheme. I should think this archetypal country house mystery would be required listening for any Marsh fan since, in addition to meeting Alleyn for the first time, we also get to meet the quite young and naive reporter, Bathgate, portrayed as few reporters have been in mystery stories. New Marsh readers will not be quite as enthralled, as the villain of the piece is not entirely unpredictable and the Russian element is more a diversion than an intrinsic element of the plot. Still and all, it is an admirable first effort which is, as I have pointed out, given a first rate performance by the expert James Saxon. It should be an enjoyable few hours for any classic mystery fan,  although not up to the standard Marsh later set for her works.
4 You would think that people in murder mysteries wouldn't go on weekend trips to remote mansions... and definitely wouldn't play murder games. So guess what happens in "A Man Lay Dead," the first of Ngaio Marsh's Inspector Alleyn mysteries -- while it feels a bit by-the-numbers at times, it's a genuine brainscrambler.To spice up a weekend party at Sir Hubert Handesley's's estate, the guests decide to play "Murder" -- which goes wrong when they stumble across Charles Rankin's corpse with an antique dagger stuck in his back. There are a few motives floating around, but the missing Russian butler seems to be the guilty party just because he's suspiciously missing.But Inspector Alleyn from Scotland Yard isn't quite sure about the murder, especially since the motive seems rather flimsy. And he must unravel a tangle of alibis, motives (illicit romance! The knife!) and odd clues before he can discover who is responsible for Rankin's murderCountry estate + a pair of attractive young things + hearty squire + suspicious/quirky foreigner + a handful of other random people + a Scotland Yard Inspector = one generic murder mystery.This was not only Ngaio Marsh's first mystery novel, but her first novel period -- and as a result, "A May Lay Dead" is rather paint-by-numbers as a mystery story. However, you can see the flickerings of unpolished greatness under the surface, and the second half of the novel is where she really starts to blossom -- both in prose and in plot.Marsh unspools the plot at a pleasantly leisurely pace, filling it with sunlit English countrysides and comfortable old manorhouses. And she sprinkles said plot with a fair number of red herrings, quirky humor (Ethel the Intelligent and Florence the Farsighted), and half-formed motives, although not as many as you'd expect. And while her prose is pleasant but unexceptional in the first half of the book, Marsh hits her stride about halfway through ("Impossible to see behind the shadowy face of the detective into the pigeonholes of his brain").Alleyn himself is a rather likable and promising detective -- we don't know much about him personally just yet, but he's depicted as a cultured, high society man who has somehow ended up in Scotland Yard. Marsh makes him intelligent and clever, but doesn't make him TOO perfect (when confronted by a surly kid with evidence, he doesn't know what to do)."A Man Lay Dead" is a solid if slightly generic start to Ngaio Marsh's classic series -- and by the way she improves in the second half, you know that better is yet to come.
4 This is not my favorite Ngaio Marsh novel. One of the things I like about her later books is where they break from the more classic chamber mystery form. This, her first book, (while still being very readable and enjoyable)  is much more in the line of the tried and true formula. The characters are,  as always, interesting and well-drawn; the red herrings are sufficiently  misleading. Solid all the way around.
5 It always takes time for me to settle into the pace and style of these old mysteries from a time and place I've never experienced, but this story is worth it. It's very well-plotted and anyone can identify with the different characters.
2 A preposterous tale that can only be excused by the fact that it was the author's apprentice work, obviously to Sayers and Christie.  The situation is wholly generic: murder done under cover of `The Murder Game,' and all the suspects have cast-iron alibis.  The murderer's is clever rather than convincing, but even this is undone by the complete absence of clues.  It is not, however, the central murder that damns the novel, but the sheer badness of the extraneous elements.  The facetiousness is embarrassing: Alleyn and Bathgate are at the nadir of their ingenuousness, giggling coyly like a pair of schoolgirls, while the passages with grubby brats are irritating in the extreme.  The final straw is the intrusive and irrelevant "Russian element," which badly dates the tale; indeed, the preposterous bratsvo-torture scenes are reminiscent of Walling and Wallace at their worst.  The previous owner showed his disappointment by scribbling Cyrillics in the margins.
4 An classic English style murder mystery from before WW II. If you like classic British style murder mysteries from the classic era, this one is for you.An Inspector Roderick Alleyn murder mystery. Sir Hubert Handesley is having a country estate party, with a twist, a murder mystery. Invitees include Mr.  Bathgate, Charles Rankine, etc. The difference is that a real murder is committed. That certainly was not planned.The author is very good at her craft, and keeps the plot turning and twisting to keep one from guessing who is the killer. Well done classic murder mystery.
4 Great plot, great characters, and beautifully crafted.  The author is an historic landmark of the genre, and she is st her best here.  Love it for its period detail.
5 This is a book which is part of one of my favorite series.  Ngaio Marsh is an excellent writer.  I always enjoy her books.
3 This is a pretty good book up till the time he explains how the murder was done then it just defies belief. I wish she  had just left the Russian gang thing out completely as it just sounded too melodramatic for a mystery novel like this.  I've read many of her books that are a lot better in every way.
4 In 1934 Ngaio Marsh gave us the first of a series which for lovers of the English cozy deserves to be known better than I think it is.  This, the first in the series gets things off to a great start.  True, this may not be Ms. Marsh's best crafted pure mystery; she got better with time and the plot here is so much a paradigm for the genre that it is at least now a cliche.  But Roderick Alleyn arrives on the scene as an interesting and believable centerpiece with enough of an enigma about him to make us want to know more.  I have read a half dozen others before coming to this one but wish I had started here.
3 Until now, I had never read anything by New Zealander Ngaio Marsh. Shall I ever again? Well, yes, especially when I feel in the mood for a `classic cozy'; and I mean that quite literally.  This is Detective Inspector Roderick Alleyn's first mystery. He has to be the most shrewdly charismatic of all the sleuths created during the Golden Era of mystery. In its most classic sense, "A man lay dead" takes place at an English country house. A party of five guests arrives for a weekend at Frantock, Sir Hubert Handesley's residence. Quite the tycoon, Handesley distinguishes himself in party planning and antique weapon collecting. One of his guests, Charles Rankin, brings with him not only his dull journalist cousin; but also a very old (and priceless) dagger of Mongolian origin. Upon perusal by Sir Handesley and the other guests during cocktails, the weapon appears to have a bloody past: it is believed to have been savagely used by some secret Russian organizations during the time of the Bolshevik revolts. Needless to say, after seeing the specimen Sir Hubert's mouth waters, his Russian butler disappears mysteriously, his only Russian guest, a Dr. Tokareff, starts acting weirdly then ever; and... Charles Rankin is stabbed in the back with the weapon during `The Murder Game', which was supposed to be the entertainment of the weekend. Thus, the innocently planned party becomes quite eerie, its guests more tense than ever; even though they all appear to have cast-iron alibis.This first novel is somewhat general at times, but two thirds into it, I couldn't put it down. I found ingenious the way Marsh would not give away whodunit right up to the last two or three pages in the book. Alleyn keeps everyone on their toes during a constant guessing game, and even though at times he may appear disconcerting to everyone else involved - including the reader - he is very much in control of his ideas, suave as ever. I did find, however, that the Russian element in the story was pushed a bit too much. Even though the dagger does have a bloody past, it has really nothing to do in the end with the actual solving of the crime. In bringing on a complicated background of Russian espionage, Marsh confuses the reader with so many new characters and plot twists. In the end, it all goes back to the beginning - literally - to Frantock, where Alleyn, in a most dramatic display of his powers of persuasion, taunts the murderer into self discovery. I very much enjoyed reading the descriptions of the English country settings and the way the game is planned - perhaps I shall try it for my next party? No dagger, mind you - and I look forward to more Inspector Alleyn mysteries, where, due to Marsh's love of the theater; everything has quite a dramatic development.
4 A Man Lay Dead is the first appearance of Inspector Roderick Alleyn.  Alleyn is Ngaio Marsh's &quot;handsome&quot; creation who went on to star in over 30 novels and short stories.  Marsh has often been overlooked in the mystery genre, but in my opinion she is one of the very best.  Her wit, characters, and tight story-telling make all of her books very enjoyable to read.  The murder may seem to be a little difficult to solve yourself, but as you get used to Marsh's tools and style, you quickly catch on and start to think like her hero.  I highly recommend this book as a great introduction to Marsh's wonderful world.
4 This is a classic, country house murder mystery, and the first of the Alleyn mysteries. I really think Marsh is at her best writing this sort of English countryside whodunit. A weekend house party leads to a body with a ceremonial dagger thrust in its back. In the house there are blossoming relationships, some mysterious Russians, a secret brotherhood, and Alleyn is called in to investigate. The result is a fast-moving and satisfying mystery.
4 This is a great introduction to a delightful series set in the classic English manor house..  Marsh takes her reader along not letting one know the "how" and "who" under the last few pages.  It's the beginning of a wonderful friendship between Alleyn and journalist Nigel Bathgate.  The series definitely improves over time, but I always like to begin at the beginning.  Personally, I prefer Marsh to Christie; maybe because I'm a procedurals fan.  Whatever your preference, there are interesting characters, effective red herrings, the classic reveal all of which result in a very satisfying read.
4 Our library mystery book discussion group read this first mystery by Ngaio Marsh this month.  Consensus was it has many fun elements: authentic 1930's setting, plot of murder mystery game in English country home, fairly likable detective, masterful writing, and somewhat dramatic plot.  However, we agreed it could have been improved with fewer stock characters, the detective and other characters fleshed out more, a more believable plot (less theatrical), toning down of Russian side-plot, more clues for reader to ascertain who the villain was, and more suspects.It's evident that Marsh is talented as a wordsmith--this book doesn't have a first-book feel with awkward prose.  We were glad we read the book and some of us want to sample some of Marsh's later books to see how her talent developed.  I love the authentic 1930's setting from someone who lived during the time and can accurately portray the feel of the times, which is why I love reading these Golden Age mystery authors such as Marsh, Sayers, Allingham and Christie.
3 When a house party is interrupted by a murder, Alleyn must wade through a revolutionary plot as well as a web of secrets to find the killer.Good enough police procedural, although Alleyn is not your typical by-the-book policeman. Not exceptionally involving but it kept me reading. Marsh irritated me with the hiding-his-findings routine, though.
3 Marsh is still feeling her way a bit here, and Alleyn, her Scotland Yard inspector hero, isn't quite who he'll be a few books further on, but it's where we first meet him and it's well worth a read. My biggest objection is the price. This is an digital version of a novel from the 1930s, and it's about the cost of a paperbackI'm separated by circumstances from my complete set of secondhand Marsh paperbacks, and I'm probably going to end up buying replacements I can read on my phone -- at scandalously high prices. How much is the Marsh estate actually getting, anyway?  Very little if anything, I expect. I suppose that this is better than the books being unavailable, but if they were $1.99 each in this form I'd have bought the lot already.
4 (3.5 stars) Taking place at an English country estate during a house party weekend, Ngaio Marsh's first Roderick Alleyn mystery, written in 1934, forecasts the later success of her successful thirty-two book Alleyn series.  Invited to the home of Sir Hubert Handesley, where they will participate in a "murder" game, the houseguests know that one of them will be chosen to be the "murderer" and that s/he will select and "murder" one of the other guests.  In this case, however, when the gong sounds and the lights come on, they discover that one of the guests has actually been murdered.Written in the tradition of Agatha Christie, Dorothy Sayers, and Margery Allingham, this "closed room" mystery draws Inspector Alleyn of Scotland Yard into the case.  A character who, at this point, has yet to achieve the unique characteristics which eventually makes him such a popular detective, Alleyn interviews the guests and staff, and, surprisingly, draws guest Nigel Bathgate, the cousin of the victim, into the investigation of the murder.  As Alleyn and Bathgate investigate, subplots involving an antique Oriental dagger, an anarchist Russian secret society, a grisly murder in London, and the romantic attachments of the victim unfold.No more realistic than other mysteries of the period, this one, like those, follows a formula, with surprising discoveries which strain credulity, at the same time that the author is tempting the reader to solve the case.  Much is made of the floor plan of the estate and the alibis of the guests, but ultimately, the solution depends not on logic, but on information which the author does not give her readers until the conclusion, making logical deduction impossible here.  Still the novel is fun to read as a period piece, a mystery which calls to mind a long-lost way of life with all its superficial pleasures and amusements.  n Mary WhippleVintage Murder (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries)Night at the Vulcan (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries)Black As He's Painted (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries)False Scent (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries)
4 &quot;A Man Lay Dead&quot; is a tight, well-written, and fun little murder mystery. It isn't a very long book, and reads quite fast, so it serves its purpose well as a quick and cozy get-a-way to 1930s England and the crime that seemed to run rampant there in the world of detective fiction.The set-up is deliciously wicked. A group of people gather at an old country estate for a game of Murder. Someone is secretly selected to play the murderer, and then at some point during the weekend has to pick a person to kill (not for real, of course). Well, someone takes the play-acting a little too far, and a man does, indeed, end up laying dead.The characters are delightful representations of 1930's stock murder suspects, and they are all well-drawn by the author. The protagonist, Detective-Inspector Alleyn, is quite an &quot;all-business&quot; kind of man, but his character develops remarkably, and naturally, well as the story unfolds. Some of the tedious things he does early-on make sense by book's end.This was a very enjoyable mystery. I only deduct one star due to its rather superfluous nature (it's not a classic of the genre, or anything), however, in my opinion, it does everything a detective story should, and in the best possible way.Short, sweet, and highly entertaining.
2 When beginning to read a series that unfolds various episodes in the lives of a group of characters, even in mystery series where the individual books are stand-alone works, one often wants to begin at the beginning. A MAN LAY DEAD, however, is an instance of a book not only at the beginning of a series, but at the beginning of its author's career, when Marsh was still experimenting with the craft of writing mysteries as well as working out how best to deploy her chief investigative character, Alleyn of Scotland Yard. (His rank varies over the course of the series, but here he's already rather distinguished and in his very late thirties or early forties. He's a character who will not age much over the next fifty years of his career.)The basic plot of A MAN LAY DEAD is fairly simple - Nigel Bathgate, a young reporter, is accompanying his well-off cousin Charles Rankin to a country house party, wherein the main entertainment of the weekend is to be a Murder Game (which, of course, features a real corpse sooner rather than later). Since the local police force is fairly small and has a few people off sick, they promptly turn the case over to the Yard, and Alleyn takes over the investigation. (The fact that some of the chief suspects ordinarily live in London doesn't seem to be a factor.) Bathgate is essentially the viewpoint character throughout, without use of Alleyn's point of view as in later books, and Marsh introduces some rather strained bits of business at times to ensure that Bathgate can be an eyewitness to parts of the investigation that realistically he should never have been allowed to see, let alone participate in. Alleyn is an interesting but rather remote figure in this story.The country house setting has about a dozen servants looking after a household whose official residents total two, as far as I can tell: Sir Hubert (a fanatical weapons collector with a hobby of giving parties) and his niece Angela, who is Bathgate's romantic interest. She's a demonic driver, and looks very good indeed compared to the female guests, who are both hangers-on of Nigel's cousin in one way or another. The other members of the house party generally give an impression of being stuffy and/or affected at first sight, while few of the servants have many scenes. Marsh in later years tended to develop supporting players more than she does here.Considered as a puzzle, the story has at least one weakness, which is that Alleyn has information about the motives of some of the suspects that isn't given to the reader. However, since the evidence about *how* the crime was committed and of the characters' movements is provided, the reader has enough to work with to attempt a solution.Considered in terms of portraying a police investigation, I don't think Marsh has been particularly realistic. On the one hand, Alleyn effectively puts the entire house party under house arrest by instructing them not to leave the house until the inquest (not, for example, just making themselves appropriately available), while on the other hand, the house isn't properly locked down and one of the servants manages to get away completely (and doesn't seem to face any consequences for having fled the scene once he *is* located). Alleyn messes around with forensic work rather than letting his fingerprint expert just do his job and *ask* for everyone's fingerprints, but on the other hand abets some illegal search and seizure at another point. As well as the standard reenactment of the crime/confront the murderer scene, Alleyn involves civilians unnecessarily in another bit of hunting with live bait that goes badly wrong.In terms of human interest that turns this into a story rather than a simple puzzle - and supplies red herrings where necessary - I *had* thought Marsh's second book, ENTER A MURDERER, was overly melodramatic in spots. I spoke without having completed *this* book, which combines some fairly believable personal relationships with incidents that try the reader's credulity. One amazing subplot - "amazing" as a descriptive, not a compliment - is that the murder weapon is a symbolic weapon of a Russian secret society. The reason I'm not being complimentary about this is that the society is introduced without really being made to earn its way - it could've been really interesting and colourful but fell flat. Marsh doesn't seem to have put much effort into consistently working out what she *did* use with it - it's a "Russian" society, but uses Mongolian weaponry and the first member of the society we learn about is Polish, without any sense of how all those elements are supposed to fit together. This kind of undeveloped gimmick isn't at all typical of what I've read of Marsh's later work, so if a reader began with this book, the reader might get a very inaccurate impression of her typical style.Drive-in totals:- Three love affairs, at least one including the viewpoint character.- One secret society with ceremonial sacred weapons and some torture.- One kidnapping episode.- Some rather prejudiced attitudes among the characters (mostly anti-foreign sentiment), with one noticeable ethnic slur.
5 Ngaio Marsh created many lovely cozies after her debut, but I think that "A Man Lay Dead" remains my favorite. In this book, Marsh establishes Inspector Roderick Alleyn as the irreverent, clever fellow we've grown to love. Those new to Ngaio Marsh should definitely start at the beginning.
4 which doesn't mean that you shouldn't read it, since even Marsh's books that aren't quite up to the mark are still very good reads.  I found the method of murder to be a little too clever for something that was not  necessarily premeditated.  Everything else, though, characters, motives,  weapon, etc. are in perfect order.  AND you get to meet the much-featured  minor character Nigel Bathgate, the gentleman-journalist who comes closest  to what one might call Inpector Alleyn's Watson.
5 Ngaio Marsh's A MAN LAY DEAD is the first of the Chief Inspector Roderick Allyen of Scotland Yard series.A house party game of murder turns deadly when a guest is stabbed within a short space of time. It's up to Roderick Alleyn to sort out all the conflicting and false stories to uncover a clever killer.A perfect beginning for this long running series with subtle false clues to confuse the most astute of readers.Ms. Marsh is one of the best from the British Golden Age of detective fiction.Nash Black, author of CARDS OF DEATH
3 The first of the Inspector Alleyn and the first Ngaio Marsh I've read. I read it quickly, in a morning, but didn't enjoy it less because of that. It's a classic country house murder mystery where some not very nice person gets done in, in a spectacular manner. As usual there are a host of suspects, all with motives, any one of whom could have done it, except each have an alibi. The good Inspector painstakingly works his way through the clues and red herrings, the snatches of overheard conversation and the dropped buttons, until he reaches a conclusion. The clues and red herrings may not be quite as cunning and inexplicable as they are in Christie and Conan Doyle, but they're clever nonetheless and designed to catch the reader out. Recommended for anyone who enjoys a good whodunnit where the culprit is eventually revealed at the end.[...]
5 This 1934 entry pretty much has it all... a large English manorial estate, a weekend party where "The Murder Game" is being played out, a Russian doctor whose specialty is ancient weapons, and of course, a murder.Inspector Roderick Alleyn is called in when a man, who was the recent recipient of an ancient and valuable Russian knife, is murdered. And his good friend was a weapons collector who wanted the knife at all costs.But another weekend guest, a quirky Russian doctor, desires the knife for yet another reason: it's morally property of an ancient (and dangerous) Russian Secret Society.There was also some hanky-panky going on between the victim and another man's wife, the jealous husband and the victim's mistress both being guests at the scene and they thus become murder suspects.In any event, said knife becomes an effective murder weapon as this elite group plays "The Murder Game". A young investigative reporter (who's there as a guest) also becomes a suspect but ends up helping Inspector Alleyn to solve the crime. There is also a sub-plot concerning the covert and nefarious activities of the Russian Secret Society in England.This is a good one -- VERY cozy! My highest recommendation.
4 I have read most of Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers, so it was inevitable that I would eventually find Ngaio Marsh. I am saddened that she is almost unknown here in Australia as her writing really extend the murder mystery genre. This debut is thoroughly enjoyable as a typical English manor murder mystery, although her subsequent novels really show off her skills.
4 The first Alleyn mystery is very much in the country house upper crust murder mode. Marsh hadn't quite figured out how to present Alleyn (he's a bit more high-strung here than in her more accomplished period, and he relies more on amateurs than he does later), and her later murder solutions were generally less absurd. Her prose style is by and large as crisp and competent as it is throughout her career.The Kindle version by Felony & Mayhem is mostly clean of typos (I noticed one incorrect word and 3-4 places where no space followed a comma or period, nothing worth reporting).
4 Alistair Maclean weaves as good a tale of intruige and unexpected plot twists as anyone, and he did it better in the 1970s than anyone.  When compared with today's similar action adventures by authors such as Tom  Clancy, however, Maclean's come up only slightly second best.Even with  that being the case, Maclean's books, and WHERE EAGLES DARE in particular  are worth a look.In this book, set during WWII not long before D-Day, an  American general who is one of the chief planners for D-Day is shot down  over Germany.  British intelligence decides to send in a top-flight group  of agents to try to rescue him from an impregnable castle fortress in  Bavaria.  The leader of the group, Smith, is accompanied by 5 other British  agents and an American, Shaffer (not to mention a woman who is part of the  endeavor, known only to Smith).Smith is completely British, including  his humor, while Shaffer is completely American -- including American  humor.This is a fast read, at only a little over 200 pp., quite a bit  shorter than the 400+ pages of Clancy's works.  The dialogue is good, the  plot development and its twists and turns are great.  There is not a lot of  depth of character development, just enough to carry the story, but the  action and suspense make up for it.As you probably know, this book was  made into a movie starring Richard Burton as Smith, and Clint Eastwood as  Shaffer.  The movie is quite faithful to the book, including dialogue  directly from the novel.  They kill fewer people in the novel than in the  book -- Shaffer and Smith both come across as being more gentle, still  cold-blooded, but gentle, than in the movie.Keep an eye out for  Shaffer's falling for Heidi -- something that doesn't happen in the  movie.It's a good, fun, summer read.4 stars.Be careful out  there!Alan Holyoak
5 I seldom read the same book more than once, but the books by MacLean are  an exception from that rule. You can have them in the shelf for years and  every now and when you dust your books you will start to look at one of  them. Before you know it you have finished of three or four of them. I  can't recall any other author having the same effect on me. Today I just  finished &quot;The dark crusader&quot; after reading &quot;When eight bells  toll&quot;... I think I've read those two books three times by now. The  MacLean books I rank to be among his very best are; &quot;Where Eagles  Dare&quot;, &quot;Fear is the key&quot;, Ice station Zebra&quot;,  &quot;H.M.S. Ulysses&quot;, Circus&quot;, &quot;The last frontier&quot;,  &quot;The golden rendevouz&quot;, &quot;The satan bug&quot;, &quot;The guns  of Navarone&quot;, and &quot;Puppet on a chain&quot;.  The following books  are also worth while reading: &quot;Force 10 from Navarone&quot;, When  Eight bells toll&quot;, &quot;Night without end&quot;, South by Java  Head&quot;, &quot;Bear Island&quot;, &quot;The dark crusader&quot;.  Alistair MacLean mixes suspense, spy stories, heroism, plots, characters of  good and evil, and humour like noone else. Thinking about it, its obvious  why I keep coming back for the same books over and over again. If you buy  and read them; you will agree with me. If you already have them; you know  what I mean. Let me end this review by saying; Thank you, Alistair MacLean  for having written so many good books! Finally; if you like Alistair  MacLean you will also like the books of Desmond Bagley, the earlier books  by Jack Higgins, and Dennis Lehane.
3 Like Louis L'Amour and other masters of the potboiler, Alistair MacLean styled himself as more of a yarnspinner than a writer. Actually, he could write some awfully fine prose, but even some of his most celebrated work have more than their share of clunky narrative. Take his 1967 novel "Where Eagles Dare."During World War II, an Allied commando team drops down in southern Germany to infiltrate the Schloss Adler, a mountain fortress occupied by the Gestapo where an American presumed to know all about the upcoming D-Day landings is being held. It soon becomes clear that some members of the team are less committed to the mission's success than others. Even the team's leader, Major Smith, is telling less than he knows.The mountain fortress itself, as well as the funicular that provides its only point of access, make for a sensationally dramatic backdrop, as MacLean follows his characters furtively grappling and clinging and dodging and sweating every German guard who lingers too long in one spot for an extra puff of his cigarette.There are some great action moments, too, well-rendered by MacLean's taut prose: "The knuckles of the hands gleamed like burnished ivory. And then, suddenly, there were no hands there, just the suspension arm and the empty wire and a long fading scream in the night."But the book is also burdened with some of the worst dialogue in the MacLean canon, especially involving the comedy stylings of Smith's American ally, Lt. Schaffer: "The Alpine Corps! If I had known this, I'd never have come along...Why didn't someone tell Ma Schaffer's nearest and dearest!" MacLean's attempts to make Schaffer a slangy Montanan fall painfully flat, and the humor between him and Smith is never better than strained.There's also some business with a Nazi helicopter. Yes, the Germans did develop a helicopter in 1936, but it was a prototype and never mass produced. If MacLean had to go and put an anachronistic toy in his Nazi fortress, at least he could have done something interesting with it.The 1968 movie seems to skim away the dross of MacLean's book and delivers slam-bang entertainment, with Richard Burton as Smith and Clint Eastwood as Schaffer keeping the repartee to a believable minimum. It's interesting to see how MacLean treats human life more respectfully in the novel; at one point Smith even endangers the mission by going off to rescue an unconscious Nazi guard too close to a growing fire. The higher kill count of the movie, with Schaffer blazing away with his machine pistol, is more mindlessly entertaining, but it's nice to see MacLean saves the truly nasty fates in the book for those who deserve them.The best parts of the book are featured to better effect in the movie: Watching Burton as Smith play his hand with the Nazi commanders is to see one of the 20th century's finest actors at his hammy best. But you have to credit MacLean for devising such a scene, and as it appears in the novel much as it did on the script you can't say "Where Eagles Dare" the novel fails at being entertaining. If only it were a touch more plausible.
4 An important Allied general with knowledge of upcoming large-scale war theatre plans is captured.  A seat of the pants mission is put together to try and get him back.  Failing that, to kill him.This is a joint American-British spook operation, so those doing the dirty work find out that all is not as it seems.
5 This is such a good book. It's exciting and funny in places. The fight atop the cable car and the car chase with a bus through the mountains can be read over and over again without ever getting old.
5 Alistair Maclean's novel, 'Where Eagles Dare,' is a great adventure story that takes the reader back to the desperate days of World War Two.  The story centers around a crack British commando team infiltrating a Bavarian  stronghold to rescue a high-ranking American officer.  From start to finish  this is riviting fiction.  Maclean's protagonists are the kind of  characters that make you want to cheer and the plot contains enough twists  to keep you guessing right up to the end.  The movie version of this novel,  which stars Richard Burton and Clint Eastwood, is one of the the most  faithful film interpretations of a book ever made.  Read the book and then  see the film!
5 Alistair MacLean proves himself to be an accomplished storyteller despite not being in possession of classic literary writing skills as demostrated in his taut, adventure thriller, "Where Eagles Dare".  Noteworthy was how closely the movie based on the book stuck to the plot.A group of commandos who had recently been chained to desks is mobilized by the British high command for a clandestine mission behind enemy lines.  A group of eight lead by British espionage officer Major Smith has been airlifted to the Bavarian Alps to rescue American Lt. General Carnaby who is being held by the Nazis.  The general is imprisoned in Gestapo headquarters in Schloss Alder, the castle of the eagle, atop Weissspitze, Germany's second highest peak.  The general is purported to be an important orchestrator of Operation Overlord, the Allied invasion of Europe.Major Smith, an agent previously assigned to Italy, is aided by American Lt. Schaeffer, a young but wily OSS officer.  Together with the rest of the group they must penetrate the formidable defenses of the heavily garrisoned Schloss Adler before the general can be made to talk.In a plot replete with surprises and startling twists MacLean leads his heroes through a veritable minefield of problems, the least of which being a harrowing cable car ride to the top of the wind buffeted mountain.  While the dialogue between characters is at time ridiculously contrived, the fast, exciting pace of the novel more than makes up for that.  MacLean proves to be a master of the double and triple cross in this engaging book.
5 Growing up in the UK my reading material was an eclectic mixture of Enid Blyton children's adventure novels, Ian Fleming and John Gardner espionage tales and Alistair MacLean wartime escapades. It was in this environment that my love for well crafted tales of suspense, adventure and espionage was fostered and nowhere is this more apparent than in the MacLean thriller WHERE EAGLES DARE.Second among my favorite MacLean works (my all-time favorite being WHEN EIGHT BELLS TOLL) the storyline for WHERE EAGLES DARE was faithfully recreated for the 1960s movie with Richard Burton and Clint Eastwood (not surprising really since MacLean adapted his own novel for the screen).A group of British Commando's along with an American Ranger parachute behind the German lines in World War 2. Their stated mission: the rescue of an American General who has been captured by the Nazi's and taken to a mountaintop fortress.Of course like many I had seen the movie several times before finally settling down to read the book, but settle down I did and what a ride MacLean treated us to. The action is well described with white-knuckle realism and MacLean's complex and intricate plotting is both well structured and compelling. For those unfamiliar with either the book or the novel there is also a nice twist that to this day has me marveling at its pure ingenuity.Okay so the dialogue may not be the best, but I for one do not read MacLean novels for their dialogue.For adventure novels, MacLean is the master as much as Agatha Christie is the Queen of the whodunnit. I wish that the entire series of novels would be reprinted for a new generation to enjoy.
1 Not a page turns without a member of the British commando unit making a quip. The humor is so dense that even one of the characters remarks on it! And the military behavior of the British commando unit, specifically the behavior of the unit's leader, Major Smith, is so laughable that it boggles the mind. In one passage Major Smith (played by Richard Burton in the movie) remembers that he tied up a German radio operator in a room just above the room he has set on fire to cause a diversion. Well, even with Alpenkorps soldiers just yards away searching for the British, and the whole fate of the mission in great jeopardy, Major Smith, even to the consternation of Lieutenant Schaffer (played by Clint Eastwood in the movie), runs back up to the room where the tied up German radio operator is and unties him! It would seem that the World War II Alistair MacLean wants to impart to us was a kinder, gentler World War II where chivalry still ruled military conduct; IT DID NOT, ON EITHER SIDE OF THE CONFLICT!Another thing that annoyed me was the disrespectful way in which Lieutenant Schaffer refers to Major Smith, his superior, throughout the novel: 'boss'. However, the character of Lieutenant Schaffer can be excused for such insubordination since MacLean, unintentionally, gives us a character devoid of any intellectual rigor, to put it kindly. Particularly squeamish is Lieutenant Schaffer's imbecilic spur of the moment decision to marry and spend the rest of his life with a British agent he's just met in Germany!The screenplay for the movie, also written by Alistair MacLean, is by contrast a far superior product. MacLean excises from the movie all of the ludicrous quips and the equally ludicrous military blunders committed by the British commandos that are found in the novel.Avoid the novel at all costs! Watch the movie instead!
5 "Where Eagles Dare" may be author Alistair Maclean's best known novel, thanks to the exciting movie version starring Richard Burton and Clint Eastwood.  The novel, in this case, is even better than the movie.Eight Allied agents parachute into the snowy Bavarian Alps deep inside Nazi Germany.  Their hastily-organized mission is to rescue a captured American general from a practically inaccessible castle before he can be tortured into revealing the plans for the D-Day invasion.  Their nearly suicidal mission is made infinitely more complicated by the quick discovery that someone on the team is a traitor.What follows is a succession of hair-raising, white knuckle adventures as the team struggles to enter the castle, rescue the general, identify the traitor or traitors, and escape Germany.  "Where Eagles Dare" is Maclean in his prime, providing a challenging and suspenseful plot whose last twists come in the very last scene.  The dialogue is brisk, sardonic, and occasionally humorous.  The team leader, Major Smith, and his deputy, Lieutenant Schaffer are the archtypal buddy team, easily outdoing their counterparts in the movie.This novel lacks some of the emotional punch found in Maclean's earlier novels such as "The Guns of Navarone" but excels in MacLean's clear mastery of his craft as a entertaining story-teller.  The descriptions of Bavaria add the necessary sense of place to each scene, well-supported by a tautly drawn supporting cast of characters.This book is highly recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean and to those looking for a very enjoyable reading experience.
3 WHERE EAGLES DARE was my first Alistair MacLean novel and while it certainly kept me engaged and even suffering shell shock by the last page, it was when the smoke cleared That I was left a little disappointed.Action thrillers by their nature stretch credulity and count on the reader being willing to suspend disbelief, but at a certain point WHERE EAGLES DARE went over the top and became simply too unbelievable. I place the tipping point in Chapter Seven when Smith and Schaffer descend from the minstrels' gallery into the den of Nazis and Nazi-bankrolled double agents. Smith bluffs his way through a delicate and tense situation masterfully if even too easily, and from that scene forward Smith takes on the traits of an invulnerable superspy bigger than James Bond, Derek Flint and Matt Helm.The suspense was considerably dampened in the latter half of the book compared to the opening six chapters. Earlier scenes leave readers wondering whether Smith can really pull off this impossible mission, especially with unidentified and murderous traitors in his midst. The scene in Zum Wilden Hirsch and the train depot come to mind as gripping ones where I really thought Smith would be caught, especially after he blunders by implying he's related to Heinrich Himmler and later leaving behind a warm radio set. Compare those episodes to the scene near the end aboard the Alpine post bus that with Smith at the wheel becomes a rolling fortress. I groaned when the pursuing Nazi Tiger tank's 88-millimeter shell crashes through the back of the bus, flies the full length of the interior and out again above the winsdhield and Smith and Co. hardly break a sweat over it.The book was clearly written with the film adaptation in mind. The entire novel unfolds like a movie, with an emphasis on vivid action sequences (and MacLean certainly knows how to create suspense with words, with the iconic cable car sequences testimonies to that). Mary and Heidi are wholly irrelevant in the book and I suspect were included only to meet Hollywood's demand for a leading lady and a romantic interest. The Nazi baddies, such as Kramer, Weissner and especially the randy Brauchtisch, had all the menace of Colonel Klink and Sergeant Schultz. In fact, the German soldiers as a whole were straight off the set of Stalag 13, less interested in winning the war than in haunting weinstubes warbling "Lili Marlene" while getting blitzed on Steinmechers of dark beer.I have not yet seen the film adaptation, but I picture it in circa 1968 terms as a big-screen production of what could have been Christopher George's invincible RAT PATROL in "The Schloss Adler Raid." Striking similarities to that short-lived series include an American and an English soldier teaming up to topple like ten-pins bumbling Nazis and leaving explosions in the receding background as they make another skin-of-their-teeth escape. I don't know whether MacLean was drawing inspiration from prime-time television, though I strongly suspect he saw GOLDFINGER as the closing scene aboard the plane bore unmistakable parallels to the conclusion of that James Bond classic.
5 Another excellent thriller written by Alistair MacLean in his prime. The film with Richard Burton and Clint Eastwood closely follows the novel.MacLean's tale of Allied commandos breaking into a heavily guarded German fortress is often dazzling and always suspensful. It's only after the reader has finished the last page and closed the novel that he may wonder about the plot. There are, to be diplomatic, a few holes in it. Not as awful as the plot in The Dirty Dozen but...  It's doubtful this operation would have ever been approved by the Allied high command. But the author makes you believe in it while turning the pages.The writing is superb. While a little suspension of belief is needed, "Eagles" is an excellent World War II tale.
5 Alistair MacLean is one of my favorite novelists, and this is my favorite novel by him.  The setting is World War II, and a team of seven (or is it eight) double-agents are sent to rescue a kidnapped actor (who is assumed to know something) from a castle in a mountain, accessible by cable cars.This novel keeps you guessing, at the edge of your seats.  The ending is the best one I've read by MacLean (I find his endings to be a weakness as a whole).
3 Classic book, interesting to read the differences between the book and film. Great story, characters and just plain entertaining. But could not get the music score out of my head.
4 This author makes his living on plot twists.  Just when you think you have it figured out there is a new course.  The story is a good one and very well told.  The author has his historical facts correct which is important in this type of book.  I would like more to a story, the editors in the 70's must have been paid per word they cut as it seams most books of that era are a little on the short side.  That aside this is a good yarn with a good story.
4 Alistair MacLean has written an entertaining, behind-the-lines World War II adventure.  LikeCasablanca, it only works with some willing suspension of disbelief by the reader.  It's a small effort with the large return of an enjoyable read.Lieutenant Schaffer is the only American assigned to a British commando team led by suspiciously-named Major Smith.  The eight-man team parachutes into the Bavarian Alps to rescue a captured American general.  The general apparently knows far too much about the plans for D-Day and they have to get to him before the Gestapo can begin interrogation.  It soon becomes clear that somebody on the team is a German agent.The story is enjoyable, with a number of plot twists and surprises.  Of course, real German soldiers weren't as blankly unimaginative as many of the ones in the book.  Some of the helpful coincidences are a little hard to swallow, too.  But the holes aren't so big we can't drive around them.  The story works well enough.  Themoviemade from it is pretty good, too.
5 I enjoyed this book very much. Having already seen the film made it even better. Highly recommend this book.
4 This is a classic MacLean novel. Lots of action, lots of plot twists, set in WW2, with a girl named Mary.If you have seen the Clint Eastwood movie, prepare to be surprised. The movie was a terrible translation of the book, even though MacLean was the scriptwriter. (Or maybe the book was an improved version of the movie -- I'm not sure which was written first.) In particular, the Eastwood character is a cold-blooded killer, while in the book he's a happy-go-lucky guy with a big heart and a crush on a helpful barmaid.As with all MacLean books, the point of view character lies to the reader about his real motivation and hides crucial information until the very end of the novel. This makes the novel something like a cross between an action book and a mystery.The classic image from the novel is the fight that takes place on the top of a cable car in the icy Alpine winter. But the big surprise is that, by the end, this British commando team has been inserted deep into Germany and yet they don't kill a single German soldier in the entire book. Very different than some other action novels (including some by MacLean) where the body count piles up quickly and the protagonist has a very itchy trigger finger.
4 This is simply one of those can't put down, thrill - a - minute, will he won't he? classic books that have us reliving WWII.  Bullets wizz, double agents crawl out of every hole and you are never quite sure of the outcome.  Brilliant,  I am so glad Maclean wrote thirty odd thrillers, I won't be  running out for a while!
4 Surprisingly hard to come by nowadays, this novel was written in parallel  with the fantastic film (in a similar way to '2001: A Space Odyssey', but  with much more action). It makes an interesting companion-piece  - there  are some subtle differences in detail and tone, and whilst the book has  plenty of action the destruction isn't quite so over-the-top. Best of all,  you can pour over the famously-tortuous plot at your leisure, without  having to pause and write down a little flowchart showing who is pretending  to be who. On the downside, you don't get the fantastic soundtrack, or  Clint Eastwood's mildly-peeved grimaces as bullets zing around his head.  Although he will forever be associated with 'Eagles', MacLean was more of a  cold war thriller writer than a war-thriller writer, and the book is an odd  cross between straightforward WW2 action and a John Le Carre-esque spy  thriller, meaning that the book is doubly dated, but still great fun.
5 One of Maclean's finest novels. Full action, thrills and wry humour.
5 this is one of the best thrillers i have ever read.  i started it after dinner and didn't stop til i finished it at 5 AM.  my brother did the same thing.  as good as the best of the ludlums (The bourne identity, the gemini contenders).  the movie was very well done too with richard burton and clint eastwood.
2 I expected to enjoy this book, since I love military and suspense novels. However, I soon realized that this book wasn't what I thought it was. The dialogue is truly awful, unless you enjoy comic book tough guy language. The heroes use flippant humor when they are in grave danger, not just once or twice, but continuously. I almost stopped reading, it was so annoying. And a Brit writing American slang dialogue for one of the characters is almost as bad as an American writing British dialogue. It just doesn't sound quite right.The plot, although certainly creative, just wasn't believable. Maybe this type of novel isn't meant to be believable, but it sure is something I like to see. And there weren't just one or two instances of these improbable plot elements. They just kept coming and coming. For example: an escape from their German captors based on a brilliant improvisation. In another instance, an impersonation of a double agent based on unbelievable luck, gullibility of the SS (not generally known for this) and a few convenient added elements that seemed just too good to be true.Now I should say that this type of book might appeal to a teenage boy. I think I would have enjoyed it at that age. But as an adult, I would look for better writing and a more realistic plot. If you are looking for something in the way of a 20th century military novel, I would recommend the following authors: Jack Higgins, James Webb, Tom Clancy, Patrick Robinson, Herman Wouk, James Jones, Larry Bond, Dale Brown, and Anton Myrer. _The Eagle has Landed_, _The Caine Mutiny_ and _The Hunt for Red October_ are among the best of these novels that I have read. Jack Higgin's books are probably most similar to MacLean's, with exciting plots and heroic characters, but with more realism and better dialogue.
4 I read all of MacLean's books when I was a kid, and although Where Eagles Dare is not his best, it is easily his most exciting. I remember being up at 4 a.m., unable to stop reading.Unusually, this is MacLean's only book in which he wrote a screenplay first, then based the novel on his script (that's why the film seems such a faithful adaptation). As a result, the book is shorter and leaner then many of his novels, and it definitely works for the story. The suspense never stops building, the action sequences - especially atop the cable car - are some of the best he's ever written, and the characters have a very entertaining repartee between them, particularly Smith and Shaffer. Where Eagles Dare also features some of MacLean's sexiest female heroes, not always present in his books.The Guns of Navarone had a greater scope and deeper character development, H.M.S. Ulysses was harrowing, gritty and deeply humanistic, Ice Station Zebra had a plot with more twists and double-crosses, but Where Eagles Dare was MacLean's all-time action/suspense fest.
2 I read this as a thirteen year old boy and enjoyed it.  A re-read twenty years later gave me a different perspective.  MacLeans dialogue between his characters is comic book variety at best. There are also a few glaring errors that I am surprised that his editor did not pick up on, two of note: Shaffer (supposedly from Montana) is credited with a Mid-West accent?? Montana is far west not 'mid' west.  Secondly, Nazi helicopters?  This is just plain sloppy.  MacLean should have known much better.This one belongs on the bookshelf of a teenage boy.  For a better read of MacLeans better works I reccomend; HMS Ulysess and Bear Island.  The characters are far more credible and provide a better story by far.  A poor effort by Mr MacLean.
2 It's inexcusable for this book to be as bad as it is, when the author is clearly a very able writer, and capable of coming up with some lovely twists. It showed promise; but some of the things MacLean asks the reader to accept just stretch credulity too far.  The plot has holes, the good guys are crammed full of contrived and tedious bravado, and, most infuriating of all to me, the hero continually endangers his soldiers and his mission through an utterly inexplicable refusal to kill nazis.  I really hope the movie is better (I've yet to see it).It's not without its charms.  You may be able to enjoy the way the hero cleverly improvises his way out of one predicament after another, if you can make yourself forget that many of the predicaments are directly caused by his own astonishingly stupid decisions.  You may find it possible to get your money's worth out of this book by just numbing yourself to the silliness, picturing Clint Eastwood, and accepting it as a quick-read thriller that will make - I promise - absolutely no demands on your intelligence.  But I couldn't do it.  Not recommended.
5 I had read most of Alistair Maclean's books back in the 70's and 80's.  Glad I decided to get the rest of his works. I had forgotten how much I enjoyed his thrillers
5 This is an unusual setting for Alistair MacLean to use.  I haven't read a &#34;good western&#34;  for many years but this is a very good story.  The many twists and turns in this story keep one riveted to the book from the very first line to the last.  As with most Alistair MacLean books, I would only recommend this one if you have the time to read it because you won't be able to put it down once you start it.
5 The other reviewer is right. This is a Western "thriller" written by an Englishman. It's a very exciting story. The gunfight as the train winds through the mountains cannot be put down. Read the book before watching the movie.
2 Love this movie with Charles Bronson and Jill Ireland. So reading the book. Not bad.  Still like Louis Lamour and Zane Grey better.  This is a good story.
4 Master action adventure author Alistair Maclean goes away from his usual World War II setting using a 1870's Western theme for his 1974 novel "Breakheart Pass".  While not written with the intricate plots or character descriptions of his earlier work, the book contains enough misdirection and intrigue to keep you guessing.  Maclean's writing style is which he displays an erudite command of the English language, gives us small bits and pieces of information slowly advancing the plot."Breakheart Pass" involves a perilous winter railroad journey through the Nevada territory in the midst of a frightful blizzard.  Aboard the train are Nevada governor Fairchild and his niece Marica, along with U.S. cavalry colonel Claremont and two carloads of troops.  Joining them are U.S. marshal Pearce and the governor's aide and Pearce's old army buddy Major O'Brien.  Pearce, a venerable lawman and Indian agent was transporting dangerous murderer and gunman John Deakin.  Their destination was the remote Fort Humboldt nestled deep in the Nevada mountains.  Their trip was a mercy mission as a cholera outbreak in the fort had decimated the troops who were in need of relief and medical supplies.  Dr. Molyneaux, a tropical disease expert was accompanying the aforementioned entourage.As the journey continues we slowly learn that all is not what it seems. Maclean has meticulously obliterated the lines defining exactly who were the good guys and who were the bad.  A nefarious plot had been hatched and the train passengers were mostly all integral parts of it.  As the story winds down the cunning deviousness nature of the plan is finally revealed.
3 "Breakheart Pass" is famed British story-teller Alistair Maclean's crack at writing a western novel.  The plot concerns mysterious events on a train traveling to a remote U.S. Army Fort in what may be the Nevada Territory of the mid-1870's.  The riders on the train, a collection of soldiers, politicians, and lawmen, are not who they seem, nor is the situation at the distant Fort as advertised.  Fans of Maclean will recognize the usual plots twists, thrill-packed finale, and sardonic dialogue.Maclean is less successful capturing an authentic tone of the frontier West.  His characters are a foreigner's view of American stereotypes.  The leading character, the mysterious Deakin, is not a particularly interesting protagonist, and the plot is unusually contrived and difficult to follow for Maclean.  The story still manages to be interesting and even entertaining, but it is not up to Maclean's best efforts.This book is recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean.
5 When I first read this I was surprised because Alistair Maclean had written Cold War thrillers, novels located in Arctic locales, some contemporary novels and some with World War II in the background. This was his first, and only, venture into the American West.Always thought this was one of his best novels. After this, the author sadly began to decline. But in "Breakheart Pass" his prose was still sharp and so was his plot. As in many of his novels, his characters are on a ship or outpost or, in this case, a train and a number of mysterious deaths occur. Clearly one or more of the characters are killers.This was made into a movie with Charles Bronson and it's one of the few MacLean books that Hollywood didn't screw up. That's probably because MacLean wrote the script and it adheres closely to the novel. A very suspensful tale. In his prime there was no one better than MacLean. The novel is a fitting tribute to the old West.
5 Alistair Maclean's only western. Written with excellent pace, suspense created very early, and as always with the old master - the right combination of romance, tension and action, all on a train headed for a lonely fort somewhere in the wild west.
3 By the mid 70's, Alistair Maclean had begun to decline in his writing, lapsing into overblown plots and cliche'd characterisation. Perhaps he realised this, since this book is quite a change from his usual naval fiction and Cold War thrillers.'Breakheart Pass' is set in the American West of 1873, and the action centres on a train carrying relief troops for Fort Humboldt, which has been affected by a cholera outbreak. On board are a varied bunch of Cavalry soldiers and officers, a US Marshall, Governor Fairchild of Nevada and his niece, and various individuals (a doctor, a preacher) taking up residence at Humboldt. Also on board is John Deakin, a criminal being transported to Humboldt to be executed for murder, arson, and robbery. Of course, since Deakin has a sardonic sense of humour, contempt for authority figures, and cracks lots of chivalrous one-liners at the Governor's niece, you know in an instant that he's the Maclean hero and that there's much more to him than first thought. Predictably, mysterious things begin to happen aboard the train; unexplained disappearances, tragic "accidents", sudden death, and acts of sabotage. We know Deakin cannot be responsible, but if not him, then who?`Breakheart Pass' is far from Maclean's best book. It has a similar light-hearted and self-consciously silly feel as (say) `Caravan To Vaccares'; the interactions between Deakin and Marcia Fairchild mirror the somewhat cheesy back-and-forth between Neil Bowman and Cecile Dubois, for example.  But it does have a couple of advantages over other Maclean books published around this time.Firstly, there is actually some suspense and surprise in how the story unfolds. The "whodunit" factor played a major role in Maclean's early classics, but in many of his later books the villain was easily identified. Here, there is a reasonably large cast of characters, all of whom are plausible suspects but none of whom have an obvious motive. Drawing three-dimensional characters was never a Maclean strong point; here, though, since they could all potentially be a goodie or a baddie, there is a bit of depth and mysteriousness to many of them. There are also some nice twists as the plot evolves, as the motive for stopping a train of Cavalry troops is not immediately obvious.Secondly, there is quite alot of action compared to Maclean's later yawnfests. Setting the book on a speeding train in the Wild West gives Maclean a chance to throw in all manner of gunfights, jumping from train rooftops, Indian attacks, blowing up of tracks, and some good old fashioned fisticuffs. In fact, once the plot has been established, it's pretty much action all the way. While it's not the heart-pounding suspense of Maclean's best work, it sure beats the boring talkiness of most of his later books.So `Breakheart Pass' is not Maclean's best, but it's definitely not his worst either, and the unique setting and style makes it distinctive within Maclean's catalogue. Probably not the best place to start (begin with his classics from the 50's and 60's) but there's still enough spark there to keep this an engaging and exciting read.[3.5 stars]
5 My first exposure to Allistair MacLean is seeing the movie adaptation of "Breakheart Pass."  Years later, I picked up another of MacLean's novels, and thought it reminded me of the movie.  Then, I found the book version and read it.Breakheart Pass is MacLean at its best.  The ending may not be the strongest, but compared to his other books, it is better than the norm of MacLean wrap-ups.This is an adventure, a thriller, and a mystery, set in the old west.  It keeps you guessing, when you're not at the edge of your seat.
5 When I was a kid, I read every single one of MacLean's novels -- and this was the one I found hardest to put down!  With a plot involving a Pinkerton agent on board a train in the American West, it is somewhat different from  other MacLean novels -- but just as authentic and exciting!  If you're a  MacLean fan, it'd be well worth your time to track down an edition of this  overlooked gem.
4 This book from 1974 was quite a departure for Maclean, this his only book using the West as a background.  His suspense novels circle the globe but none were to be set in the American west such as this one.  His approach is good one, and adds something to our vision of the west.  Actually that "vision" turns out to be quite good in its approach even if a bit typical. While not entirely formulaic, the novel does follow certain acceptable lines, but to be able to read the story and then to watch it unfold before your eyes in living color on a DVD, is excellent indeed.  (I read a lot of westerns)  Both the novel and the movie have several differences it is true but both are good in my opinion, with the screen version coming out a little ahead.  Maclean wrote them both so it was as he wanted it (I suppose).Having read the book a few times since that summer of '74 and seen the movie several times as well I find both quite enjoyable.  (I have both the hardcover and the DVD)  You may find either to your liking and enjoyment,also.
2 Unfortunately, I found this novel to epitomize trite stereotypes of the fading Wild West.  The author is an Englishman who wrote the book from England.  His observations and character developments are over the top and clearly based on the stereotypes of Western Americans that were widely circulated in Europe.It was really tough to get past the first chapter.
5 A highly enjoyable, quick-paced book. MacLean has more hits on his list than misses, and this is near the top of the hits. You can't trust anyone on board the train to be telling the truth, even the hero. Great setting as the train chugs its way through the mountains; less enjoyable once the destination is reached, but we don't spend all that much time there. Truly, getting there is (more than) half the fun.
5 Fun escapism in print and in the film version.  McLean is a master of the action genre where tension is maintained simultaneously across a number of points of view.
3 172 pages of dense, smallish print.  Very deceiving little paperback.  A spy thriller written in 1966.  Somewhat exciting, but not very.  Mostly plodding, I thought, if well-written.  Some beautiful descriptions.  Takes place in Bangkok, which I have been to, but only the river there is something I remember.  Certainly not street names, which Hall uses a lot.  Well plotted, couldn't find a flaw anywhere, just went on too long, for me.  But I will admit that this genre has never had much appeal to me, so that may be my problem.  Quiller in Bangkok, trying to protect the Person, a huge English dignitary, probably meant to be Prince Phillip, but that is my own interpretation, who is coming on an official state visit.  Possible Spoiler Alert - So Quiller is all set up to shoot the assassin halfway through the novel, and he does, only to find that the killer was a decoy, and the Person has been abducted.  To be held for a swap with a Chinese being held in Durham who has memorized a whole lot of English data on new laser technology, which would be terrible for the Chinese government to get hold of.  Anyway, you get the picture.  So the last half, Quiller is trying to get the Person back.  My husband loved it.  Maybe a guy thing.
5 Yes,'The Quiller Memorandum' got all the hype and awards as the first in the series but was far from a perfect mid-sixties espionage novel.  Adam Hall got all the ingredients right in this second installment, The Nineth Directive.  The pacing is taut, the plot is quite developed for its day.  The action is well-scripted and the local color is used to great affect.  He sews up most of the loose ends nicely.The Queen's consort (never identified by name) is on a diplomatic mission to Thailand and Quiller is sent to protect him.  Things do not go quite as planned and Quiller must use his imagination to rescue from the jaws of failure what appears to be a doomed mission.Do not be put off by reviews of this novel as a 'moldy oldie'.  Quiller novels are period pieces, like Jack Higgins thrillers or Le Carre's novels of the day.  Study up on 1960's socio-political history to get the maximum benefit from the stories.  If you're expecting techno babble, look elsewhere. If you enjoy disengaging from current events and taking an action-packed ride to the height of the cold war you can not go wrong with the Nineth Directive.
5 This is one of Hall's Quiller espionage novels, and the cool thing about this one is that it is set in Bangkok back in 1966, when the novel was first published. Like other novels in the "Quiller" series, this is fast-paced, full of crisp dialogue, and well written. Even tough it was written over 45 years ago, it still holds up very well. An espionage classic.
5 THE NINTH DIRECTIVE was Adam Hall's second book featuring the secret agent Quiller, and it's one of his best.  This mission has Quiller traveling to Bangkok, Thailand, to stop an elite assassination team from killing an important British person (never named, but implied to be the Queen's Consort).  Quiller is able to identify the ambush point along the parade route, but things do not go quite as he had anticipated.
5 I found The Ninth Directive so delicious I read it slowly, a chapter at a time.I read the first book in the series, The Quiller Memorandum, years ago, and enjoyed it.  I won't wait so long to move on to the third book, The Striker Portfolio.It's great that this is back in print.  It ought to be an eBook as well.  Highly recommended.
2 What started as quite interesting, turned out to be rather mundane.  Quiller, super-brain and second in world-importance only to The Person, fails to foresee what most readers would have guessed from the beginning.  Never once does he suspect that when everything goes ever-so smoothly, something may not be quite as it seems.  When I bought this e-book, I was thinking of "The Quiller Memorandum" which I remembered as very good.  "The Ninth Directive" didn't come close to it, in my mind.
4 If you have never read the Qiller books from Adam Hall, now is the time to start.  Qiller is a niche, an acquired taste, a flawed man with a strong self-destructive streak.  However, I think the strongest part of a Quiller novel is the writing.  Up front, it is sometimes flawed.  Sometimes clunky.  But, Hall (a nom de plume') uses techniques that are unique.  He sometimes runs on and on with no punctuation, driving the reader at a blinding speed.  He will intentionally leave you confused.  He frequently just stops.  Picking up the story at a later point.  Really interesting attempts to explore form.  Violent.  You get the feeling that the sex was tacked on as an after thought, to "punch up the story line".  (It was the '70's you know)  Quiller is a spy without the gadgets. This isn't deep literature.  More of a tilt-a-whirl than a quiet garden.  Always fun.
4 The Bureau sends Quiller to Bangkok to protect an important British official who will be visiting Thailand.  Quiller approaches the job in his usual efficient (albeit grouchy) style, but finds himself outsmarted ... at least for awhile.Quiller is a well-defined character:  independent, even anti-social, perhaps suffering from a (perhaps justified) superiority complex.  The other characters are more like caricatures, but the enjoyment of this novel comes from the intricate, twisty plot and from Quiller himself as he tries to out-think his adversary.  Quiller is an intellectual spy, but there's plenty of action to offset the thinking and scheming.  Fans of espionage/thriller novels should enjoy this.
5 This thriller novel kicks off with Dr. Carpenter, a British medical doctor, who gets orders to board the USS Dolphin in the UK. The US nuclear submarine Dolphin has a near-impossible mission: it has to cruise underneath the ice pack of the Arctic to find and save the inhabitants of Ice Station Zebra, a scientific meteorological station drifting with the ice pack somewhere north of the Arctic Circle. Ice Station Zebra was destroyed by a fire, but little does anyone know that fire at Ice Station Zebra was due to sabotage, and that one of the survivors is a ruthless killer. Furthermore, Dr. Carpenter is not what he seems to be and it later becomes evident that he has more staked in this cruise than originally suggested.What I liked about the story is how Alistair MacLean demonstrated his writing ability and mastery of the genre to create an atmosphere that gets the reader to feel that he/she is also inside the submarine and can sense, feel, smell and experience the conflict, fear and tension on board the submarine. Definitely not as turbo-paced as Matthew Reilly's more modern thriller novel with a nearly similar name, Ice Station, MacLean's book does not lack in pace, but the pace is controlled to such a degree that the right amount of suspense is created and that the tension builds up as the story progresses. Reilly's Ice Station is more about countless pages of jet-propelled action and relentless mindless violence, whereas MacLean's Ice Station Zebra consists of the finesse of expert handling of suspense, intrigue and tension.Although the dialogue may be more reminiscent of the era that the book was written in, this is truly still a masterpiece of the thriller genre and can almost serve as a template for thriller writers, where you have a plot stripped of all the unnecessary fluff that so many modern thrillers suffer from, which only serves to increase the page count and nothing much else.
4 A British meterological station is in danger, and those staffing it will soon be dead without help.  An American nuclear sub is sent out to help them, along with a doctor that is an expert in the sort of afflictions they may have developed.However, this American sub also has an underlying spook mission to go along with the rescue.  This hidden agenda causes a hell of a lot of problems and casualiies throughout.
3 The is the first of MacLean's books I can recall reading and it's not bad. Readers accustomed to modern thrillers that bolt out of the gate at 100 miles an hour should bear in mind this was written about 35 years ago when authors were allowed to build up tension. A mysterious British specialist boards a U.S. submarine that has been urgently dispatched to figure out what has happened to Ice Station Zebra, a top secret base drifting on ice near the North Pole. After many travails the specialist reaches the burned out station and quickly figures out that one of the nine survivors deliberately set the fire and murdered some of his colleagues. The survivors all board the submarine, which experiences a string of suspicious accidents, deaths and disasters. The idea is a good one but MacLean's characters are little more than one-dimensional. The superbly talented specialist is carrying a dark secret, the U.S. submariners are all superheroes, and like a previous reviewer, I was pretty sure I knew who the villain was the first time he appeared in print.
4 Alistair MacLean's 1963 Cold War thriller "Ice Station Zebra" opens with a British doctor named Carpenter trying to talk his way aboard the American Navy's nuclear submarine "Dolphin" in a lonely harbor in Scotland.  His announced mission is to organize the rescue of the crew of a British meteorological station on an ice island in the Arctic, victims of a deadly fire.  As with many MacLean novels, neither the leading characters nor the mission are quite what they appear to be."Ice Station Zebra" traces the Dolphin's exciting run under the polar ice pack to reach the last know location of Ice Station Zebra.  There, Dr. Carpenter and a group of volunteers from the crew of Dolphin will dare the weather and the ice pack to find the station and rescue its stricken crew.  Carpenter quickly discovers that the fire at Ice Station Zebra was no accident; among the surviving members of the Ice Station is a ruthless killer who will stop at nothing, including holding at risk the Dolphin, to achieve his mysterious purpose.  Carpenter himself proves to have a very personal stake in the outcome of the struggle with the killer.  MacLean's brisk prose and sardonic dialogue keep the suspense crackling to the very last page.By the time he wrote "Ice Station Zebra", MacLean had become a highly proficient story-teller.  If parts of this novel seem a little contrived, the wise reader will relax and enjoy the ride.  This novel is highly recommended to fans of the Cold War spy story and to fans of Alistair MacLean, master storyteller.
2 In Ice Station Zebra, a British secret service agent is given the aid of a U.S. nuclear submarine to investigate the fire that destroyed Ice Station Zebra, a weather research station that is also testing intelligence technology.Alistair MacLean really knows how to set up a story and characters. Within a few pages, we know the gritty world of the submarine, the hard-bitten men who serve in her, and the intense preoccupation of Carpenter, the narrator, who has both a professional and personal stake in discovering the fate of the ice station and the secret technology. MacLean is outstanding when he writes about jeopardy, and the men and the sub are in constant danger throughout the book.I found the resolution of the mystery very disappointing and substandard, straight out of an old Columbo in which the rumpled detective assembled the suspects in a room and then talked us through the unlikely scenario that made that person the murderer. It was made even worse by the fact that I guessed who the killer was on the very first page in which the character appeared.For that reason, I couldn't really recommend this particular book, though I am a fan of the author and plan to read more of his thrillers in the future.Reviewer: Liz Clare, co-author of the historical novel "To the Ends of the Earth: The Last Journey of Lewis and Clark"
5 This is a story set at the height of the Cold War and it still works wonderfully. MacLean, while short on fleshing out characters, is exceptional at action and moving the story along at a brisk pace. Throughout this novel, even though I had an idea of what was going to happen, and even guessed some of the mysteries (don't want to spoil it for others), I enjoyed it immensely. This is not a by the numbers espionage novel, where the big 'reveals' are the only payoffs.The story centers around a station set up in the Arctic, where a meteorological station has been established, but is in trouble and is sending out SOS and so the US sends a nuclear submarine under the ice to rescue them. Along the way, there is sabotage, harrowing fascinating moments of finding a place to break through the ice and pure adventure. I loved this part of the novel, when they were trying to find the drifting station.There are surprises and of course there are people who aren't what they appear, aka spies, which drives the final half of the novel to a very satisfying conclusion. Particularly frightening was a fire on the sub.I studied on a sub so I found it to be very realistic and innovative. MacLean clearly did his homework.Highly recommended!
5 One of Alistair MacLean's finest suspense thrillers. It may be more well known to some readers as a movie with Rock Hudson. Suffice to say, MacLean's novel is much better in terms of plot, suspense and coherence. The scriptwriters were morons, they should have stayed with MacLean's plot. The movie changes the ending and, again, the ending is better in the book. So if you've seen the film, don't think everything in the book is the same. It's not.MacLean seemed to feel at home in the Arctic. Several of his novels take place in the icy area and he always writes about it with skill. If you are reading one of his Arctic novels, even if it's July in Florida, you will feel chilled until you put the book down.The characters are well-drawn, the plot is first-rate, the writing is excellence and the twists will keep the reading guessing. The movie theme was excellent and Patrick McGoohan had a great role as the British agent in the film, but those were the only two items noteworthy in the cinema version.It's a great cold war thriller.
5 Anyone with a taste for naval warfare, mysteries and the Arctic in general will find this a fascinating read. I first read this book in my teens. I still return to it occasionally and never find it boring. I haven't watched the 1968 movie version of this book.
4 The Arctic meteorological base Drift Ice Station Zebra has suffered a catastrophic fire, with several men killed and the remainder desperately clinging to survival in the frozen wasteland. As the US Navy's latest submarine USS Dolphin prepares to make a mercy dash to Ice Station Zebra, they are joined by British doctor Neil Carpenter, an alleged expert in Arctic survival. But Carpenter is not all he seems, and it is clear that Ice Station Zebra is not all it appears to be either. Carpenter suspects that the fire was no accident, and a series of hostile acts aimed at the Dolphin convinces him that something is very far wrong. What was Ice Station Zebra's true purpose, what caused the fire that destroyed the base, and are one or more of the survivors responsible? And who is Dr Carpenter, a man who abilities go well beyond setting broken bones?`Ice Station Zebra' is one of Maclean's better books, written during the middle of his "golden run" in the 1950's and 60's. All of the Maclean elements are in place. The dry-witted laconic characters, with protagonist Carpenter clearly knowing more than what he is letting on. The workings of a naval vessel (in this case a submarine instead of a ship) and the men who serve in them. The Whodunnit locked room mystery set in an unusual location. And above all, the realistic and detailed descriptions of the harsh, bleak Arctic environment.  Fans of Maclean's other Arctic mysteries like `Night Without End' and `Bear Island' will find plenty to love here.There is perhaps a little less action than in some of his other books; `Ice Station Zebra' is more of a descriptive piece with mystery elements than a straight-out action thriller. But Maclean is able to use the slower pace of the book very cleverly. The mystery behind this Arctic research station, and of Carpenter himself, is revealed only gradually, with Carpenter openly admitting that he is not telling all his secrets. And the increasingly serious "accidents" which befall the Dolphin help set up a tension that only heightens with each new disaster. The claustrophobic environment of the submarine, along with the knowledge that the crew may be carrying a killer on board, only adds to the foreboding.After this great build-up though, the ending does let the book down just a little. While the final revelation of the purpose of Zebra and the reason for the killings is interesting enough, the revelation of the guilty party is not surprising. Although there are plenty of potential suspects, only a few of the characters from Zebra are well developed, and so you pretty much know that the killer has to be one of them. And that old plot device where the protagonist plays dumb and lures the guilty party into making a boastful confession has been used by Maclean several times before, and is a bit of a cop out really.Still, `Ice Station Zebra' is definitely one of Maclean's better efforts, and he is back in the environment that he writes about best. Four stars.
2 An American nuclear-powered submarine stationed in a British base is sent up, towards the North Pole, on a fact-finding and rescue mission about a British Arctic base, the interrupted last radio message of which was an S.O.S.-Mayday one. The submarine is carrying, as a guest, an English agent who also has personal reasons of interest. It comes out that the base had been almost totally destroyed by arson. A few survivors in terminal condition from frost are found and revived; the agent solves the riddle, prevents - nay, turns around 180 degrees - the final damage, and exposes the villainous traitor during the return trip(family circumstances of personal relevance are included). This book is in key with all others by the same author: introduce a seemingly desperate situation, masterminded by a super-fiend who is usually controlled by the bad side of the Iron Curtain; enter the afore-said super-duper British Secret Service agent (a past master in 20 different languages and all of their 300 dialects, and in all crafts of his trade. The situation evolves from bad to worse, apparently with no hope, till page " n/2 + 1 ", but Superty-Duperty keeps working at it until the devilish plot is uncovered. Final confrontation with Super-Fiend, and his utter humiliation, defeat and ruin. Down curtain, everybody stand up for "Rule Britannia". Read one book by this author and you've read'em all, in a "very pompous indeed" style of writing.
4 There's an old saying. "Write what you know." Alistair MacLean is Scottish, and so consequently, what he knows most is how to write British characters (and, weirdly, Germans - he tends to write them fairly well). Americans? Not so much. In fact, I've yet to encounter a believable American character in a single one of his books, and the otherwise excellent Ice Station Zebra is a good example of this.In novels such as The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare, this problem is limited because each of those books has only a single American in them, but in Ice Station Zebra, we get an entire American submarine crew, and MacLean's inability to write believable Americans becomes glaringly apparent.I don't mean their personalities and motivations - I mean their dialogue. Every time an American character opens their mouth, nothing they say rings true. Everything from how they phrase things to their banter to their word choices, is distinctly British. It reads like MacLean has never met any American servicemen, and wrote their dialogue based solely on what he'd experienced living in the UK. The end result is a bunch of American submariners who sound like British guys.While the novel, overall, is excellent (suspenseful, exciting, etc.), I think it's obvious that MacLean bit off more than he could chew by trying to write an entire American submarine crew. He should've just had them be British.
5 intriguing and it keeps on your toes till the end. Interesting when it describe the submarine and tactics. Dr. Carpenter character is very special and his relations with members of the crew are a plus to the story
5 This is the way action novels should be written: taut, interesting,and  loaded with realistic plot twists.  Anyone writing a thriller today would  do well to read this novel and realize that true writing does not require  heavy amounts of sick, glossy violence and unneccessary sex. Besides a  crackling story, the characters are smart and show a good bit of depth. It  requires you to figure who the antagonist might be.  One of my favorite  passages is during the accident in the Engineroom...talk abut cold!  But I  won't say anymore because I do not wish to ruin anymore of the plot.  Bruce  from Camaroon take a clue:  No one reads these reviews to be told who the  bad guy is, that's what keeps them reading.  All and all an excellent read!
3 Ice Station Zebra, an arctic meteorological station, located on the ever drifting pack ice of the high Arctic, has been destroyed by an equipment fire. The Dolphin, an American nuclear submarine, is about to set sail on a dangerous high speed mission under the polar ice cap to rescue the badly injured team.  But, just as one would suspect from a cold war thriller, all is not as it seems. Ice Station Zebra is a good deal more than just a scientific meteorological station. The scientific team is not just a collection of scientists. One of them is a ruthless killer for which the achievement of his mysterious secret mission against the Americans and the Brits may even require the cold-blooded execution of the entire crew of the Dolphin. Nor is Doctor Carpenter, a British volunteer member of the Dolphin's crew ostensibly along to seek out his brother who was part of Ice Station Zebra's stricken team, precisely what he shows to the world.As thrillers go, "Ice Station Zebra" is certainly enjoyable but it's a long, long way from what most readers would label a compelling page turner. It's got all the requisite ingredients to be sure - murder, sabotage, hidden identities, spies, accidents, cliff-hangers - but I think it could have been so much more. The parts of the story that took place inside the submarine were interesting and, at times, even exciting. But the action never reached the breathless urgent pace that was more recently achieved in other submarine thrillers such as "Hunt for Red October" or Larry Bond's "Dangerous Ground". The Arctic itself as an environment which can be stunning in its breathtaking beauty and is always fraught with danger and the potential for deadly accidents was never truly exploited as a part of the story to anywhere near the extent that it might have been."Ice Station Zebra" is an enjoyable change of pace and nice easy brain candy reading that won't tax the little grey cells. It just won't make anyone's top ten list of the best all-time spy vs spy thrillers!Recommended.Paul Weiss
5 I have friends who found this book boring, and I think I see what they mean.  &quot;Ice Station Zebra&quot; does not have the non-stop action pace of modern thrillers.  What it does have, to an exceptional degree, is vivid  characterization, enjoyable writing, and a sustained build-up of tension  that enables the reader to miss the occasional hole in the plot.  Something  I truly love about this book is that there is no fat on its frame: no  gratuitous violence, zero sex, no hype.  In some ways it strikes me as a  model for the successful thriller in its purest form, with everything  potentially inessential stripped away, and I re-read it every year or two  just for the sheer fun of it.
5 Unlike some of this author's novels, Ice Station Zebra is an easy-to-read, quick moving story that doesn't bore. Forget the movie (except you can visualize some of the actors as you read since casting was well done.) The action aboard the submarine provides some tense reading moments.
5 well a real gem from Alistair MacLean. This book was recommended by a friend of mine who along with her husband are avid readers and can devour books!! After reading the book i literally thanked her,because this book is a real winner....A taut thriller which entertains, mystifies,keeps the readers guessing and.... sweating!a suspense thriller brilliantly written i highly recommend this book to all suspense fans! This book has everything submarines.... the arctic.... the ice.... the chills....the thrills......a real page turner and an edge of the seat thriller this one simply doesn't let you down....... go right ahead if you haven't already!
2 I have long loved the movie version of Ice Station Zebra, which I first saw in my teens when the film was fairly new. I had been promising to buy and read the novel for many years now, and finally decided that this year's summer vacation was the ideal time.I honestly wish I'd never bothered.The writing in the first part of the book is so slow I almost gave up. The characters are not believable and the situation is unconvincing and farcically so by turns.I'm not by any means a demanding reader but in light of my finally reading the book I have to say it is a mystery to me why anyone would option it for a film. The story as written could not be filmed due to suspension of disbelief problems and hackneyed and unbelievable "I know what's going on but I'm not going to tell you just yet" behavior of the guest aboard the submarine, used to keep the story going because without that it would collapse around itself.I recommend people stick to the film for the best telling of the events at Ice Station Zebra.
5 This was the first work of Mr. MacLean's that I read and it left me spellbound up to the last page. I saw the movie first, but the book far ourweighed it for suspense, intrigue and action. The author's style of writing is similar to that of the "Quiller" novels, yet he has his own "fingerprint" that kept me guessing how the Dolphin was going to fare out. I will be reading "The Secret Ways" and "Circus" next...I highly recommend this book to anyone that enjoy's a thinking person's thriller.
5 Whose work are we actually reading at this point?  There were already major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead editions of this novel. There were further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further additions still in the recent Signet, Berkley, and Leventhal and Black editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  Here the publishers at Collins, dissatisfied with their own earlier efforts, put still more distance between author and public with a "New Ed" edition.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
4 The plot is simple, the characters memorable, and the clues, motives, and suspects pure Christie in this wonderful mystery that takes place at an English boarding school for girls.A young prince of a Middle East kingdom is killed in a flying accident and leaves behind a valuable collection of jewels to be smuggled into England by his friend Bob Rawlinson.  It is believed the jewels will turn up at Meadowbank School since not only the prince's sister but also the sister and niece of Bob Rawlinson are all students there.  Not surprisingly, murder after murder takes place at the prestigious school. Everyone from the headmistress and teachers to the students and parents are suspects until Poirot's clever little grey cells solve the mystery.
3 A longer novel than usual for Christie, "Cat Among the Pigeons" deals with international intrigue at an exclusive English girls' school. A coup in the Middle East triggers off a deadly search for missing jewels. Action converges on the school. The Special Branch and local police try to solve the string of murders among the schoolmistresses, but it takes Hercule Poirot's little grey cells to see through the disguises and subterfuge and bring all the loose ends together. The plot seemed flimsy at times and some of the attitudes expressed in the novel made it appear dated in the extreme. For a better Agatha Christie set partly in the Middle East, I would recommend They Came To Bagdad.
3 School Escape.Cat Among the Pigeons is a mystery involving a tiny tin-pot country, revolution, and jewellery.Poirot gets involved with an investigation at a very toffy girl's school, and he doesn't really expect to get involved in international intrigue, but it doesn't take him long to work out something odd is going on.
4 Cat Among the Pigeons by Agatha ChristieBlack Dog & Leventhal, 1959297 pagesHercule Poirot Mystery4/5 starsSummary: Meadowbank School is an outstanding school for young girls which is suddenly rocked by the murder of the new games mistress.  Was she too curious for her own good?  Does it have some connection to the recent revolution in a Near East country? (Hint: yes)  Never fear: Hercule Poirot and his little grey cells are on the case.Thoughts: The book opens with a four page list of the characters, which I read hoping to get set for reading this.  Instead it overwhelmed me and I had to just keep reading in order to be able to follow it.  There are a lot of characters, mostly female because the actions takes place at a fine girls' school.  The opening is very confusing as it shifts from Meadowbank to that Near East country to two females who connect both places. Headmistress Miss Bulstrode of course made me think of Millicent Bulstrode of Slytherin but luckily she's a much nicer person and Eileen Rich is consistently described as ugly although I cannot fathom why that's relevant to the story.There seem to be long passages where nothing is really happening.  I found it easy to read and I was motivated to finish it.  Interestingly Poirot doesn't show up until basically two-thirds of the way through the book.  Yet he solves it fairly easily by picking up on a few strands.  I didn't solve the murder (er murders) but I don't mind.  I should have noticed something was up about that person but I didn't connect it fast enough. I also thought there was going to be a romance (I like the little romances Christie sometimes throws in) but I was wrong.Overall: A fine outing although somewhat confusing and less engaging than Christie's best.  Do not begin your exploration of Christie with this.
4 This is my first experience with Agatha Christie. Mystery is not a genre I read a lot of, but Christie is so well-known I thought I'd give it a shot. Many novels do have elements of mystery in them, of course, particularly in hiding certain plot points or motivations until the end, so I am familiar with the conventions. I find that mystery, like many other things in life, is at its best before everything is revealed. Monster movies are always scarier when you don't see the monster than when you do. Cat Among the Pigeons is no different. I think it has a satisfying reveal, but Christie cheats a little to throw us off track.I like Christie's writing style. She sprinkles plenty of wit and humor throughout her storytelling. There is a general feeling amongst the characters that there is a cat among the pigeons. Somebody doesn't belong, but nobody can put their finger on who. The reader will have their guesses, of course, based on evidence and hunches. Christie throws out plenty of red herrings, and it's our job to try and see past these distractions. I had an idea of who the murderer was, but I was proved wrong. At first I was okay with this, but as Christie revealed more details I felt like she cheated. Something happens that leads us off the trail of the killer, and while there is motivation behind this something that happens, it is nonetheless difficult to believe it would happen. I will leave this vague so as not to spoil anything for you.Other than this, there was plenty to enjoy. The description of the workings of Meadowbank were fun to read, as was getting to know the key characters like Miss Bulstrode, who seems to amaze everybody, even the narrator. The introduction of Hercule Poirot feels random, but I guess it is necessary to solve the mystery. The early scenes in Ramat were also effective. There's a brief moment of interesting political discussion that took me off guard. The prince of Ramat can't understand why his people want to rebel against him. He wants to enact welfare programs to help his people, where his father was a murderous tyrant. Yet they want to oust the nice one. He's hurt and bewildered by these developments. It's as though his people aren't ready for a progressive leader just yet. The prince is left wondering the same thing as Miss Bulsrode - why murder at all?
2 For Agatha fanatics only. The plot relies on unconvincing behaviour in Chapter 1. This book reads like a serial for Girls Crystal and I suspect it was written long before Collins Crime Club published it in 1959. The author in 1959 was aged 69 and at the height of her fame. Did she salvage this from early efforts in her Rejects drawer and tack on Poirot in the last 70 pages? That's the impression I get.Nevertheless, the writing is good, the characters fascinating. Subtle copy editing would help. For instance, when a 15-year-old schoolgirl pulls up the leg of her knickers Poirot `ejaculated'. Modern readers please note: older dictionaries restrict the meaning of this word to `exclaim'.One thing nothing can help is the divine inspiration that helps Poirot explain everything using weird twists of logic. But doesn't he always!
4 I admit that I like old-fashioned books like Agatha Christie's. For me this was not a "typical" Christie book, which is probably one of the things I like about her so much - I find that often, her books are not quite what I expect them to be. In this case, a coup in a Middle Eastern country, a missing sack of precious jewels, and murder at an exclusive girls' school in England mix for a fun and fast read.  I like the way Christie does international intrigue; and it's also interesting to see how the unrest in the Middle East of the 1950s continues today.Another interesting thing about the book is that Hercule Poirot doesn't show up until the last third. As much as I like Christie, a little bit of Hercule goes a long way. (I often find the mysteries in the Hercule books "better" than the mysteries in the Miss Marple books, but I do enjoy Miss Marple's company more.) So, this was just the right amount of M. Poirot for me. As usual, he asks his crazy questions, like "Did anyone notice her knees?", that turn out to be quite useful in uncovering the mystery.Something else I noticed was Christie's wit. Interestingly, I don't usually think of Christie as in the "witty" category, but there is a nice sprightliness in the book that keeps the pages turning. The characters are well drawn, too; I know there are critics who complain about Christie's "lack of characterization," but the personalities at the girls' school are very nicely drawn.  Overall, I enjoyed the mixing of the genres here and found CAT AMONG THE PIGEONS to be a pleasant summer read.  Of course, it's not one of her very greatest (like TEN LITTLE INDIANS, MURDER ON THE O. EXPRESS, ROGER ACKROYD) but it's not one of her pretty bad ones (like ELEPHANTS CAN REMEMBER or POSTERN OF FATE).Enjoy - and if you have a teenager who likes mystery, get him or her into trying Agatha Christie. A great way to help teenagers become lifelong readers.
5 Cat Among the Pigeons is an Agatha Christie murder mystery. The novel opens in the Royal Palace of Ramat. A politcal coup is in place against Prince Ali Yusef. Ali is a young and democratic leader of the land. His aideEnglishman Bob Rawlinson and Ali plan to flee the country in a plane. Prior to this flight, Bob hides a bag containing priceless jewels in his sister Joan Sutcliffe's room in the hotel. Joan and her daughter Jennifer were visiting Ramat as tourists. Bob and Yusef are killed when their plane crashes. Where are the jewels?The plot then revolves around the events at the exclusive Meadowbank School for young ladies. The school was founded by the formidable Miss Bulstrode. Three persons are murdered at the school as the murderer wishes to locate the hidden jewels. The police are unable to solve the crimes until Hercule Poiret steps in to unweave all the strings in this complex thriller.A fun read as Agatha Christie's brilliant mind leads her readers through a complicated maze until the solution of the mystery is made manifest by Poiret. An excellent Christie!
5 I am enjoying reading Agatha Christie for the second time and have decided to collect her books.  I first read her books in the 80's.  I have been very happy with the books I have purchased through Amazon.com.  I have never had a bad experience with any of the books that I have purchased through you.  Thank you.
5 I am a great Agatha Christie fan and have all her books. I am very busy now so do not have time to sit down and reread them.  It is great fun to listen to them in the car as I travel from place to place.  I really cannot get enough of them
5 I have recently decided to revisit the wonderfully entertaining works of Dame Agatha Christie. And after a more than thirty year hiatus I have found the reading as fresh and entertaining as ever.  The author has an engaging style that holds the attention throughout the writing, and this is certainly evident in "Cat Among the Pigeons".  From the first pages the reader is provided with a detailed and intimate acquaintance with the physical setting as well as the characters, and this is developed and carried throughout the ensuing pages.  I especially enjoyed the appearance of the indomitable Hercule Poirot in the later chapters and the cool development of his part in the solution to the mystery at hand.  I have made a vow with my "little grey cells" to re-read every one of Dame Agatha' s Poirot collection as well as her other works.
3 This volume is anything but a regular "Hercule Poirot mystery"; Poirot first appears only at 68% into the book! As is well-known, Conan Doyle got sick of Sherlock Holmes over time, and Christie got sick of Poirot over time. She keeps Poirot's role to an absolute minimum in _Cat Among the Pigeons_; it almost feels perfunctory: "Sigh... if I absolutely must introduce him, here he is, at long last." We get to spend very little time in Poirot's presence in this volume; his input corresponds more to a Poirot short story than that of a full-length novel. We only infrequently get to hear his voice here; such as when delivering (in chapter 19) the following variation on one of his time-worn observations:&lt;&lt; "It is very valuable, conversation. Sooner or later, if one has something to hide, one says too much." >>The good news is: Poirot's presence, in the bulk of the book, is not really missed. Christie was 70 when _Cat Among the Pigeons_ was first released in 1959, but the schoolgirls milieu is depicted with such sprightliness and freshness of perspective, that a fellow Amazon reviewer voiced the suspicion that the bulk of the story must have been written decades earlier by a much younger Agatha Christie. That sounds plausible but is, ultimately, irrelevant. What matters is that the action truly is exciting and energetic; the dialogues are witty and everything moves along at a brisk pace. Who needs Poirot, then? Some reviewers complain of a "late murder", but I did not find that to be the case -- the first murder occurs in chapter 8 out of 25, and the second in chapter 15 out of 25 -- that is nicely spaced out, I'd say. It is also advertised as such right in the Table of Contents, so that there is no nervousness, really, for the readers, as to when the evil deed is finally going to happen.The most interesting, strongest character in the book is that of the girls' school head teacher, Miss Bulstrode. Christie offers some nicely drawn psychological observations as to what it takes to be a good "people manager", to employ 21st century parlance. In exploring this subject, _Cat Among the Pigeons_ is remindful of one of Christie's masterpieces from two decades earlier, _Murder in Mesopotamia_. Here is a sample from chapter 9:&lt;&lt; She reminded him a little of Miss Bulstrode herself: she was the schoolmistress type all right. All the same, he reflected, Miss Bulstrode had something that Miss Vansittart had not. Miss Bulstrode had a quality of unexpectedness. He did not feel that Miss Vansittart would ever be unexpected. >>Christie's favourite paranoia -- that of utter uncertainty in life, when it comes to truly knowing your fellow human beings -- is also very much present (quoted from chapter 21):&lt;&lt; One never really knew, she thought, about anybody. >>Finally, the volume is a combo of a classic British whodunnit with an international espionage plot -- outwardly ridiculous, yet even these minimalistic snapshots of revolutionary turmoil in a fictitious Middle-Eastern country called Ramat, are nicely executed by Christie. Talk about "plastic portrayal"!_Cat Among the Pigeons_ is a satisfying read -- no masterpiece, but among the best within Christie's rather weak output in the final decades of her long writing career.
4 Agatha Christie (1890-1976) is generally thought of a mystery novelist, the creator of Hercule Poirot and Jane Marple--but she varied her output from time to time, writing several celebrated plays, numerous short stories, and occasionally turning out a novel that was more of a thriller than a mystery. Such is the case with the 1959 novel CAT AMONG THE PIGEONS, which begins lightly enough among school girls attending the famous Meadowbank school in England and then unexpectedly seques to a revolution in the middle east, stolen jewels, a kidnapping, and three murders.Although most of the story plays out at Meadowbanks, the plot pivot is in the middle east, where revolution threatens progressive Prince Ali Yusuf. In an effort to protect himself and at least part of his fortune, the prince gives his personal pilot, Bob Rawlinson, an extremely valuble package of jewels and asks Rawlinson to find a way to move them to England. Rawlinson agrees and hides the jewels among the luggage carried by his unwitting sister and niece, who are visiting the area but are scheduled to return to England shortly. That same day Rawlinson and the prince attempt to escape the country on an airplane, but sabatoge causes the aircraft to crash and both are killed. It becomes apparent that the jewels are not among Bob's sister's luggage; the must therefore be in the luggage of his neice, schoolgirl Jennifer. To further complicate matters, Jennifer is not the only student at Meadowbanks with a connection to prince Ali Yusuf; his cousin, Shaista, is a student as well, and it seems likely that the jewels will find their way to her.No sooner are the girls settled at Meadowbanks than not one but two murders occur. Fortunately, Jennifer has a sharp-minded school friend named Julia Upjohn, daughter of a woman who worked in military intelligence during World War II. Julia soon realizes that there is a problem, unravels the story of the missing jewels, and after an inspired guess locates them as well. But now her own life is in danger, and Julia wastes no time in going to the celebrated Hercule Poirot, who produces a final solution--but not before a third death ensues.CAT AMONG THE PIGEONS is not among the first rank of Christie's novels; although she clearly had fun writing it, and writing similar novels, her gifts did indeed turn more toward the intricate plotting required of her mysteries and less toward the action-adventure required of a thriller. Even so, it is a very enjoyable read--for both fans and newcomers a like. Recommended.GFT, Amazon ReviewerIn Memory of Floy Bennett
5 1959. The year I was born. The year of classics by English cloak and dagger authors: Allistair MacLean's "The Last Frontier" and "Night Without End" and Ian Fleming's "Goldfinger." Another well known Brit also made an experiment into spy thrillers that same year, but Dame Agatha Christie is better known for her mysteries.Unlike her '54 story "Destination Unknown" -- which was more espionage than murder mystery -- "Cat Among The Pigeons" tries to balance between the two genres, and may be in a no man's land that purists of either don't care for. Another peculiarity -- this is a Hercule Poirot story. In the cast of characters listed in order of appearance (which I don't like because the descriptions give too much away), the Belgian sleuth is the next to the last name mentioned, just beneath his valet Georges. The star (assuming Poirot is the star) doesn't appear until chapter 17 (out of 25 chapters plus prologue).This is not a textbook example for writers, nor does this deem to be classified as one of Agatha's greatest. However, you still have interesting characters with a plot that takes twists and turns that might catch you by surprise. (I have previously seen David Suchet's adaptation of this story, which was fairly faithful -- except, of course, Poirot shows up much earlier in the movie -- so I did know where things were going a little more than someone who didn't.If you enjoy Agatha Christie in particular or cozy mysteries in general, or you want to read something that's not as easy to pigeon-hole, give this book a try.
5 This 1959 novel begins in a fictional mideastern country.  The country is on the brink of revolution, the young prince is planning his escape he entrusts the family fortune in gems to his closest friend to smuggle out of the country.  Arrangements are made shortly before the two young men are killed.Meanwhile, back in England it is the beginning of the summer term at Meadowlands, an exclusive girls' school.  Students and staff from all over the world are there, including a princess from the mideast whose cousin/fiance has just been killed.  The famous gems have also found there way there.  Various unusual occurances begin to take place at the school, strange visitors, unusual behavior among the staff and then murder and kidnapping.One of the students uncovers part of the secret and decides that she needs outside help so she contacts Hercule Poirot.  Poirot, of course, resolves the mysteries both large and small that have been plaguing the school.There are more characters introduced in this novel than is usual in Christie's work which makes this one of the more challenging of her work to figure out.  There are several subplots woven into the action that things confusing as well.  This is a departure from Christie's usual 'cozy' stories of village life or house parties.  It is more of a thriller than her usual work, some of her most sympathetic characters are killed and Poirot only appears at the end of the novel.  Even so it is a very enjoyable mystery and one of my personal favorites.We are also treated to an update on the Summerhills, old friends from a previous book, MRS. McGINTY'S DEAD.  Mrs. Summerhill is a friend of one of the students' parents.  Poirot is delighted to hear that although Mrs. Summerhill's house is still disorganized and her cooking is generally deplorable she makes wonderful omelets, a skill that she learned from him.
5 After completing this fast paced, character driven, thriller/mystery, I immediately stocked up with more Christie titles. Slueth extrodinaire Poirot makes an unusally late appearance but, this serves to only highten his effectiveness and our interest. Ms. Christie's masteries include the ability to make us like and even care about characters in as little as 2 or 3 sentences. By doing this she clouds our judgement on motive, deception, and the ability to deduce what only becomes obvious after another classic Poirot confrontations with the suspects. This is one Christie's best &quot;later&quot; works.
5 I'm a Christie fan from way back. Having my books on CD is wonderful. They are well narrated and entertaining - and I can do housework while I am listening to my favorite author. Thanks!
5 Cat Among The Pigeons is a Classic Hercule Poirot Mystery. Every home library should have this collection.  Books that make you think.....
5 This is one of my favorite books from Agatha Christie's later years.  Her grip of story telling, plotting and planning is still strong.  There is some humor in the narrative and amusement is provided by many of the characters.Agatha Christie tries her hand at the girls' school setting here.  Older reader will suspect that she was well-acquainted with similar settings chosen by A A Milne and Dorothy Sayers, and that she had been brought up on the once popular school girl annuals.  Of course there needs to be a raison d'tre behind the series of murders that occurs at the school and this is well narrated also.I have mentioned the narration several times.  It is an element that helps explain this writer's phenomenal popularity.  She gets the timing right.  Other writers in this genre produce more elegant prose but somehow fail in this regard.At this time in her career, Agatha Christie was experimenting with narrative methods.  She attempted the "quick scene change" method here, and brings it off with skill and flair.  She also, at this time in her career, frequently milked the situation where something was briefly glimpsed in a mirror, or a familiar face briefly glimpsed at a great distance.  Watch out for these occurrences as you turn the pages to reach Hercule Poirot's final revelation of just who is the cat among the pigeons.
3 The title of Agatha Christie&#8217;s mystery novel, Cat Among the Pigeons, refers to the idea of a stranger in a group. In this case the stranger is at an elite school for girls where one of the teachers is murdered. The story begins in the fictional Mideast country of Ramat where a coup is about to take place. The young ruler and his pilot prepare to escape before being killed and the ruler entrusts some valuable jewels to the pilot fearing that he, the ruler, will be captured. But the pilot also is afraid and decides to hide the jewels in the luggage of his sister who is in Ramat but about to return to England. He does so but is seen in the process.The story now shifts to an elite girls school in England. A woman is murdered in the sports pavilion, followed by other murders and an alleged kidnapping. Finally one of the girls discovers the jewels and brings Hercule Poirot into the case. He then tracks down the killer.I like the Poirot series but rate this story rather low for two reasons. First of all Poirot does not enter the case until more than 2/3 of the book is over. The fun of the Poirot series is observing and following along as he unravels a case and we are denied that opportunity here. Secondly, Poirot explains things too neatly and the murderer is outed in a way that is hard to believe. It is as though Christie developed the story line for too long without Poirot and decided to just end the novel abruptly in order to stay within a page limit.  If you really like the Poirot series Cat Among the Pigeons is not the best choice.
5 This is the first Agatha Christie I have read after my class was required to read a mystery novel written by one of the authors during the Golden Age of Mystery. I have to say, I was impressed. It was a little slow at the start, but it is to be expected in most of her books. Once the first murder occurs, though, things pick up pretty fast. This takes place in one of the best girls' schools. But what happens when the best girls' school has a murder? Is it the best?See if you can find out who the killer is!
4 This is one of Christie's best later works and it shows she can still weave intricate plots and characters together with effective ease. Great atmosphere and story, with Poirot popping up almost toward the end. You'll never see any of the final threads coming. Perhaps her most entertaining book of the 1950's.
5 Agatha Christie generates a lot of really interesting plots, and clever twists.  This book kept me guessing, and I enjoyed it thoroughly.
5 I first read this book when I was twelve, about the same age as the main characters in the story.  Some of the motivations of the adults seemed murky to me, but the children, especially young Julia, were all spot on!  Good work writing about children, as is typical of Agatha (CROOKED HOUSE) Christie.
2 This was one of Agatha Christie's &quot;not so good&quot; books. Thankfully there aren't many but they do exist. Perhaps she should not have mixed genres (spy thrillers and crime). Mind you, there isn't a James Bond chase scene in the book but the opening pages takes the reader to a fictional Arab nation on the verge of a coup d etat and sees its young prince exchanging ideas with his English pilot on how to smuggle out the royal jewels.I am not spoiling anyone's surprise when I say the deaths in this novel are connected directly or indrectly to the jewels (which have ended up in a girls school, by the way). The three murders all come rather late in the book and as such the revelation of the culprit by Poirot feels rushed.Yes, the book is touted as a &quot;Hercule Poirot mystery&quot;  although we only get to see him three quarters into the story. Since almost all of the investigation was handled by the local inspector, an undercover Special Branch officer and a very intelligent girl, it would have been better if they tied it all up with no need for Poirot to show up.All in all, I was not impressed with Cat Among the Pigeons. Those new to her work should start with other titles as this one may turn them off Agatha Christie, who was a good mystery writer actually. Her mystery novels usually ends with the reader (me, in this case) gasping and going, &quot;Damn! She's good.&quot;This one didn't. Nuff said.
3 Cat Among the Pigeons is constructed a bit differently than most of Agatha Christie's novels; rather than a single primary setting where most if not all the action takes place, with Hercule Poirot entering fairly early in the story, this book veers back and forth between times and settings.  It starts at Meadowbank, a very exclusive English girl's school.  Then it reverses in time by a few months and moves to the fictional Middle Eastern country (or city?) of Ramat, where the crown prince entrusts his close English friend with his most prized possession, not sure if he will make it out of his country alive due to the revolution that is taking place.  Then the setting moves back to the English school again, where we are told very early on that the handsome new young gardner is really a special forces agent working under disguise.The point of view often shifts, also, between the various characters and sometimes information is given via a "newspaper article" or a letter.It is not until near the end (disc 5 of 6) that Hercule Poirot even enters the story, when one of the students at the girls' school goes to him after two murders have occurred at the school and after she had made an astounding discovery.  Poirot remains a minor character whose sole role was his characteristic "summing up" at the end of the book where he always summons all of the characters into a room together and proceeds to tell them the solution to the mystery giving his step-by-step process.  Which was very unlikely in this case, since his lack of involvement meant he had to make astounding leaps of deduction which were quite unconvincing.This makes for a very disjointed novel and weakens Cat Among the Pigeons significantly.  Which is a shame because, as far as characterizations go, it is one of Christie's best, with none of the silly characterizations or gimmicky plot elements that she sometimes put in her other books.  As one other reviewer stated (much more articulately than I can), it is as though with this book Agatha Christie couldn't settle on exactly what type of mystery she wanted to write.As usual, Hugh Fraser's narration is excellent.
5 It was a fun read. I watched the movie on PBS. I loved the book. It keeps a reader engaged.
5 Anyone who enjoys reading Christie will enjoy this.  It has all the elements and attributes of a great thriller!  Of course Poirot is a master at getting to the solution through the use of his little grey cells!  I thoroughly enjoyed every part of the book!
5 excellent read with very intricate and clever plot , with the usual high quality standard you can get from Agatha Christie's book. My only comment is that Poirot comes in to the story only very late about a bit more than halfway through the book, but very good nevertheless
5 This is definitely one of Christies best novels, right up there with Death Comes as the End, And Then There Were None, and Murder in Mesopotamia.Yeah, ok, she might not be a literary genius, but she definitely has genius of a kind. She practically invented this type of detective novel (i'm not counting Conan Doyle. Why? Because i hate his ludicrous novels), using the brain, whilst at the same time creating great character sketches.She doesn't develop her characters loads, but then, that is NOT what her novels are about. they're about enjoying a great puzzle. And boy, can she construct a great puzzle! The one here is probably the bestm in that is lacks Hercule Poirot for about the first three quarters (some of her best books were those which were without Poirot or Marple). through that she was able to create a good psychological detective story, then bring Poirot in at the end to tie it all up neatly and provide the solution.The climax is great, and probably one of her best. I read this when i was about 12, and was not at all versed in the workins of a detective novel, in that it is the least likely person who did it. I just enjoyed the read, and was gladly surprised when i found out the identity of the culprit. No doubt, those with mroe experience would have been able to spot the killer straight away. However, this remains one of her best novels, and one which i will enjoy reading again and again.
3 Agatha Christie choses an illustrious girl's school as the setting to Poirot's latest mystery, though Poirot himself is not a major player in the proceedings, appearing for the first time well over halfway through the book. Instead most of the action centers around the staff of Meadowbank School, and its tone resembles that ofthe Tommy and Tuppence storiesconsidering its emphasis on espionage and international politics.Mrs Bulstrode rules over Meadowbank School with pride and competence, having established it from virtually nothing many years ago with her college Miss Chadwick. The two women now run the most exclusive girl's school in England, though unbeknownst to them, events are happening on the other side of the world that will have a huge effect on the school. When a cache of precious rubies goes missing from Ramat after an uprising against the monarchy, special agents across the globe narrow their search down to Meadowbank School thanks to a link between the Sheikh of Ramat's English pilot and a young student at the boarding school.Secret international forces converge on the school, leading to a cloak-and-dagger mystery, with plenty of secret identities, buried secrets, hidden jewels, and of course - murder most foul. When an unpopular teacher is found dead in the new Sports Pavilion the police are called in, but none of them have any idea as to the purpose behind such a killing. Only one thing is certain: that one of the school's staff is involved; the proverbial cat among the pigeons.Setting the story in a girl's school was an enjoyable change of pace, as Christie deftly paints the interrelations between a suspicious staff and the excited girls, all with their own secrets, opinions, viewpoints and understanding of the world around them. Though the characters are not particularly well-drawn (and a few are simply names on a page), the atmosphere of a school is well-handled and lends the book an added sense of danger considering the close proximity of so many innocent lives. In many ways, this is a "woman's book", given its emphasis on gossip, blackmail, mothers and the allure of jewels.Sometimes too many things - like the jewels' hiding place and the reason behind the focus on the school - are telegraphed too early, and as blasphemous as it may sound, I felt that the gradual uncovering of revelations were better handled in therecent television adaptation starring David Suchet, as well as being better paced in general thanks to Mark Gatiss's screenplay."Cat Among the Pigeons" is certainly not Christie's best Poirot novel. Perhaps by this time she was running out of steam, not to mention struggling with her well-documented frustration with the fastidious little Belgian. Devoted Christie fans will want to finish "Cat Among the Pigeons" for the sake of completion, but newcomers to Christie's work may wish to start their reading experience elsewhere - say withThe Mysterious Affair at StylesorThe Murder of Roger Ackroyd.
5 There was a time when I would honestly read this book about every two months. I simply HAD to be reading Cat Among the Pigeons, no matter what else I was reading at the time. I would alternate between two different Agatha Christies and this one, and it actually lasted about a year! That's my testimonial to how absolutely perfect Cat Among the Pigeons is.And what makes this book so great and worth the money? Well, for one thing, Agatha did a flawless job of capturing atmosphere in this book. Ramat doesn't even exist, I don't think, yet I could feel myself there, feel the heat, practically see the opulence of the unfortunate young prince's palace, and feel the current of danger and imminent disaster present in every Ramat scene. I have no idea how she did it, because she was never one to give readers a lot of local flavor. And now, here is Agatha Christie making us feel the heart of an IMAGINARY CITY!The same goes for the girls' school. I could clearly picture Meadowbank in my mind, with its lazy afternoons and young students concerned more with boys and hiding places for cigarettes, than the relationship between Iago, Desdemona, and Othello.The characters could reach out and tap you on the nose, they are made so perfectly. There are no faceless, plastic people in this novel (not that there always are in other Christies.) I've often mentally applied Christie's wonderful description of Ann Shapland's hair to other people in my life: &quot;hair that fitted her like a black satin cap.&quot; And even though there isn't much else to Julia Upjohn's physical description  besides having a freckled face like her mother, she forms a distinct appearance in my mind because of Christie's description of her personality. I don't want to give too much away, but I'll say that she's the kind of girl that Poirot would respect.And last but never least: How is the actual 'mystery' part? Well, as other reviewers have said, you will have NO IDEA who 'did it.' I can guarantee it. Truthfully. Honestly. You will pause for a second in that wonderful Agatha-Christie-Stupor while it soaks into your head. So don't worry about that part. Agatha didn't miss with this book. The shock effect for this one is one of the highest I've actually ever felt, higher than Death on the Nile, and actually getting up there with Roger Ackroyd and Orient Express. I'm serious! That's how surprising this mystery/thriller is.To sum it all up: The atmosphere is great, the characters are great, the mystery is perfect, and oh yes! I nearly forgot! The thrill factor is VERY high! There is one particular scene toward the end (it involves a chair; that's all I'll say) that will make you AT LEAST a little paranoid that there is someone watching you. Very creepy and very well done. That happens many times throughout this book.Cat Among the Pigeons is one of the best. To be fair, it is THE best of all the mystery/thrillers. Buy it and enjoy it!
5 An English pilot for a Middle Eastern ruling prince just managed to hide a fabulous fortune in gems somewhere in his sister's room, just before the prince was overthrown in a revolution.  The unsuspecting sister returned to England with her daughter, just in time for the girl to start in Meadowbanks, an &eacute;lite girls school, where a female cousin (& fiance) of the deposed prince, was also arranged to attend.Several interested parties had been on the prowl searching for the gems, the pilot's efforts had not been as clandestine as he had hoped.  With new girls, new teachers, and also a new young handsome male gardener, was it a wonder that some residents of Meadowbanks felt as if there was a hidden cat among the pigeons.Agatha Christie painted an excellent picture of an English public school going about its daily business.  There were staff as well as students who were trying to get use to a new environment.  There was a headmistress, who having successfully established the school according to her vision after years of struggle, was considering passing the torch to the next generation.  There were old faithfuls among the staff who were less prominent but had heard and seen much of what others missed.Meadowbanks was probably Agatha Christie's of what an ideal school should be like.Having got the background set, Agatha Christie got down to business with the first murder, the victim being a rather unpopular new staff in the recently completed Sports Pavilion.  Readers would have been given enough outright hints before this as to what would be of interest in the Sports Pavilion.  The object of the mystery quickly turned from recovery of the gems to the discovery of the murderer.Midway, a second murder almost threw the investigators off-track, and a third murder was committed before Hercule Poirot who was called in late in the game seriously got down to business.Mystery readers could find little fault in way which the authorities set about trying to find the culprit, but it took bringing back a student's mother from Anatolia to trap the murderer.All the while, Christie managed to maintain a light hearted atmosphere despite the deaths in the story, with occassional injection of humour and wit.  She included important and interesting roles for the diverse characters from students to faculty to police to parents in how the mystery was played out.  This is truly one of her most readable book.
5 I absolutly loved this book.  Although Hercule Poirot doesn't come in untill closer to the end of the book, this is in my oppinion one of the best Agatha Cristie's and it will keep you guessing to the last page.
4 First, let me say that Hugh Fraser does his usual great job narrating this book.  If you've listened to any of the other audio books he's done in this series, you know what I mean.  If you haven't, well, pick one and give it a try.Now, the story is a decent one with lots of Christie craftsmanship.  If you're used to Hercule Poirot from the popular BBC/PBS/A&E; video series starting David Suchet, you may be a little surprised by this story.  Yes, yes, all his personality is there, and Fraser does his voice well.  The surprise is that at least 80% of the story develops before Poirot shows up to solve it.Again, absolutely fine as a mystery tale.  It's just a bit limited on the famous Poirot mannerisms due to the way the story is constructed.[Update:  Since I wrote this review, I saw the new David Suchet version of this on PBS.  As expected, the video version turned things around a bit and featured Poirot more prominently from the start.  You will not find that to be the case in this audio book.]
5 Once again Alister MacLean has woven a story that kept me riveted to my chair.  I could not put the book down until I had read it through.  MacLean was an extremely good story teller and he managed to do this without the use of sex and foul language.  Quite a feat in this world today.  Be warned though, if you haven't the time to read a book from cover to cover in a sitting, then do not pick this one up.  It is truly riveting.
4 Alistair Maclean was a literary force of nature who influenced whole generations of thriller writers with his gripping stories, exotic settings and timely plots.  Maclean covered most of the major military/adventure thriller plots decades before Cussler and Clancy, in a more elegant and believable way.  Maclean didn't waste words on gratuitous sex, techno-babble or political ramblings--his stories are all plot, action and suspense."The Golden Rendezvous" combines a high seas murder mystery, piracy and nuclear terrorism in a gripping narrative that really goes into overdrive around the middle of the book.  In typical Maclean fashion, the protagonist has to overcome impossible odds, physical hardships, the forces of nature, and the treachery of people around him to prevail.  There are several trademark plot twists that keep the story from becoming predictable, and the shipboard setting is very vividly described by the former navy man. While the novel may seem somewhat dated to modern readers, the plotting and narrative intensity are as good as anything our current thriller writers could hope for. 4.5 stars!
4 Famed story-teller Alistair Maclean wrote "The Golden Rendezvous" as far back as 1962, but this suspenseful high seas adventure story holds up remarkably well.  The plot concerns the S.S. Campari, a cargo ship converted into a highly selective passenger liner to carry millionaires around the Caribbean.  A series of murders onboard bring out the detective in the Campari's First Officer, Johnny Carter, who soon uncovers a complicated plot involving a stolen nuclear device, a bankrupt Caribbean dictator, and a shipment of gold.  As a criminal gang takes over the ship, Carter must somehow uncover the last details of the plot in order to save the crew and passengers.  In typical Maclean fashion, the ending includes a series of plot twists and heoric deeds by First Officer Carter.Maclean's experience as a sailor informs his descriptions of life at sea aboard the Campari.  Similarly, his sketches of the principal members of the crew ring true.  His villians look to this Cold War veteran like nasty Cuban agents of Fidel Castro, but this may be transparent to younger readers.  Johnny Carter's heroic feats in rescuing the ship approach the improbable, but the wise reader will let it ride in order to enjoy the story. Maclean's dialogue is typically crisp and sardonic; Carter's relationship with the young, beautiful, and surprising daughter of a multi-millionaire adds some nice depth to the story.This novel is highly recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean, and to readers looking for an entertaining story.
4 Alistair MacLean - one of the premier adventure storywriters - is at his best when writing first-person narratives that put his protagonists in perilous situations, and then push them to the limits of physical,  emotional, and psychological endurance.  His early novels are exciting,  full of cliff-hanging situations, and rife with clever "detection" in the  classical sense:  MacLean plays by the classical detective rules, placing  all of the clues in front of the reader, and - at his most cunning - daring  the reader to figure out who the criminal mastermind is.But the  detection - and the undertones of "espionage" - are superficial elements  used to keep the narrative moving briskly along between action set pieces  that pit the protagonist against impossible odds and, very often, against  the severest imaginable environmental extremes.  By these standards, "The  Golden Rendezvous" is one of his better books.It is an excellent blend  of mystery, suspense, clever bluffs and double bluffs, self-deprecating  wit, action, and our protagonist's determined efforts to overcome painful  injuries and antagonistic environmental extremes.A luxury cruise ship is  hijacked at sea by a master criminal whose intention is not a simple  ransoming of the wealthy hostages on board.  Exactly what his goal is forms  part of the mystery that is left for our hero - the injured First Officer  of the ship, John Carter - to ferret out.  And to undermine."The Golden  Rendezvous" finds MacLean at near-top form.  The book does not have quite  the verve of "The Satan Bug", "The Dark Crusader", or "When Eight Bells  Toll", but it comes close.  Which - at the high level that MacLean delivers  excitement and page-turning suspense - makes for outstanding adventure  story reading.
5 All of his books are great. especially his earlier ones. toward the end of his carreer they dropped a bit. but most of them are fantastic. I read mostly all of his books.
5 Warning: SPOILERS!!!!I don't know what it is about The Golden Rendevous that sticks in my head. Like many of MacLean's stories, it's written in the first-person, which lends a sense of urgency to the impossible situations the hero finds himself in. Like many of the stories, there's a beautiful girl who isn't just a damsel in distress but lends crucial help to the hero. He just wouldn't make it without her. And like many of the stories, the bad guy is just that-a bad guy with no redeeming qualities. No confusion with MacLean-you know who you're supposed to root for and who you're supposed to detest not many pages in. I suppose it's the humanity that he manages to infuse into his characters that gets me. The Golden Rendevous has some particularly appealing characters.The plot is not very involved-a seemingly innocent passenger on the Campari is planning to use the cruise ship to pirate a ship carrying gold. He's brought along a kidnapped scientist and a stolen nuclear device to blow up the gold ship after he gets the cargo. And he's planned everything down to the last detail, not realizing that a member of the crew, First Officer John Carter, has figured out his plan and will do everything he can to stop him. It's a tense ride with gunfights, knife fights, and suicidal stunts aboard the most luxurious cruise ship in the world. The Campari is a character in itself-an incredibly opulent boat with prices even the fabulously wealthy can barely afford. How this book failed to make it to the big screen is a mystery to me-the sets alone would have made it a movie worth seeing.MacLean's heros are always likeable and John Carter is no exception. However, he is not just likeable-he has some scenes that have never failed to get me. Like when he tells Miss Susan Beresford, spoiled multi-millionaire, that her kind make him sick when they misuse their power to taunt the crew members who desperately need their jobs. Or when he sees the atomic bomb central to the plot for the first time and backs up to where it's not visible, reasoning that he's safe if he can't see it, poking fun at himself. When Carter helps the bad guy plan how to take the gold ship he's planning to pirate and tells his friends he has no family, only himself, and has to look after all he has in the world (he doesn't dare tell them what's really going on) I always feel for him-they're so mad at him. And at the end, when he pops up and reveals all his clever tricks to save the gold and the scientist and get the bad guy, I always feel like cheering.
5 Alistair Macean is my favourite thriller writer.Golden Rendouvous is a bonafide classic.Just reading this book reveals what a great plotter Maclean was and he always knew how to combine action suspense and he didn't need to write 500, or 10000 pages, unlike the new writers of today.He had a sense of humour as well and i always thought his characters were colourful.Also,though Maclean did his research thorougly, his books were never bogged down in details, unlike many authors today.Golden Rendevous is a must read!go and read it and make your day!
5 Alistair MacLean was one of the best adventure writers of all time.  He does it all on the strength of plot; style and characterization are nearly non-existent, but they aren't the reason you read MacLean books.  I dare  say that virtually every major adventure plot is covered in one of his  novels, and his influence is such that subsequent authors have paid homage  to scenes of his.  (For example, there's a scene in Clive Cussler's  &quot;The Mediterranean Caper&quot; that's a virtual reprise of a scene  from &quot;The Secret Ways.&quot;)&quot;The Golden Rendezvous&quot; is a  classic ocean hijacking story, where the hero is the ship's First Officer  (John Carter).  The ship is a converted ocean liner, full of guests, some  mysterious, and carrying some secret cargo.  During the cruise, the ship  gets hijacked by some violent but devious criminals.  Some of the ship's  officers are killed, and others, including Carter, are wounded.  Still,  Carter attempts to stop the hijackers. . . .This is one of the best  MacLean novels, written in the 1960s along with a stellar run that includes  &quot;The Satan Bug,&quot; &quot;Where Eagles Dare,&quot; &quot;Puppet on a  Chain,&quot; and &quot;The Guns of Navarone.&quot;  Most of those were  turned into movies, and in the 1970s, Hollywood adapted &quot;The Golden  Rendezvous&quot; into a so-so Richard Harris movie titled &quot;Nuclear  Terror.&quot;
5 This was another new Agatha Christie novel I had never read or even heard of. It was a really fun read, and definitely offered a slightly different twist from the typical Agatha Christie novel. I really enjoyed it, and love that it's available on Kindle.
4 I was intrigued by this case, and I had some idea of who the killer or killers were by the end. It is definitely one of the classic Poirot mysteries.
5 Twenty  years before this novel opens, a tragic double-death has occurred.  Alistair Ravenscroft and his wife Margaret were found shot to death near their home.  The deaths were declared suicides at the time.  Now, years later, their daughter Celia is engaged to be married.  Her future mother-in-law wants to know more about the cirumstances of the death and if the wife killed the husband or the husband killed the wife. She does not want some inherited proclivity to murder to affect her son.  Celia turns to her godmother, Ariadne Oliver, who once again enlists the help of her old friend Hercule Poirot.  Together they track down a list of &quot;elephants,&quot; people with long memories who never forget past events.  The officer who had been in charge of the case, a wig stylist, two French governesses, and a family friend each remember some piece of information that Poirot can collect and assemble as he uncovers secrets long buried and brings the truth to light.This is Mrs. Oliver's final appearance in a Christie novel and also the last Poirot book Agatha Christie wrote, although readers will see him again in &quot;Curtain&quot; which she wrote during the 1940's but was not published until 1975.
5 The intermix of farce with facts, small town minds & traditions of rural England was a fun mix to wade through along with the facts as stated.
4 Dame Agatha Christie's penultimate Hercule Poirot murder mystery is "Elephants Can Remember." The 224 page book was published in 1971. The story includes Poirot's friend the mystery author Ariadne Oliver ( who bears a close resemblance to Agatha Christie).The book is narrated in the third person. It is always delicious fun when Poirot and Oliver join wits to defeat crime!Plot: Ariadne Oliver the famous crime novelist is attending a literary party. She meets the obesely odious Mrs Burton-Cox. This grand dame informs Ariadne that her stepson Desmond is planning to wed Cecilia Ravenscroft. Desmond is the son of Kathleen Fee who was the mistress of Mrs. Burton-Cox's first husband. Fee was a wealthy actress who has died leaving a large fortune to DesmondBurton-Cox wants Ariadne to investigate Celia' background. It is believed that Miss Ravencroft's  parents committed suicide. Another theory is that Celia's father Sir Alistair Ravenscroft killed his much younger wife Molly or she murdered him. The murderer was then believed to have killed him/herself The unsolved case occurred some fifteen years prior to the novel's action.Ariadne refers to persons who worked or were otherwise acquainted with the deceased Ravenscroft couple as old elephants. This is because Oliver hopes those she interviews have good memories like elephants! Ariadne and her friend Hercule Poirot visit these characters hoping to learn more details about the murder/suicide. We learn of the romantic triangle involving Sir Ravenscroft and the twin sisters Molly and Dolly. Dolly has spent time in a mental institution. She was living with her sister and Sir Alistair at the time of the tragic deaths. Dolly is thought to have murdered a child in India as well as her son. Four wigs and a dog bite will clarify the crime.Though a very late Hercule Poirot novel I thought this entry in the Christie canon provides a good read. It is not one of her greatest mysteries but is a good solid read. Well done Dame Agatha!
3 This a good story that was not properly edited before it was released for publication.  Someone may know the circumstances around the time of its release who could shed some light on it.  Christie has shown some undue repetition in her books over the years, seeming to overly repeat points, and perhaps would have done it more without some editing.  Apparently, there was little to none done here, and that aspect almost ruins this book.  She had the story outline in hand, good characters and playing out, but the relating of it was fraught with over-the-top redundancy.  Besides that, some of the writing is actually trite and sophomorically mechanical. It's as if she was besieged with tasks at the time, had to meet the publication date and just shoved it to her publishers without time for them to work on it.  Or, she had someone write it or parts of it with her notes and it just went out the door that way.The story harkens back to others similar in theme, that of digging up past events and involved parties to resolve an old issue the police could not at the time.  They are done to bring closure to innocent parties on the threshold of their adult lives, and succeeded in doing that.  However, each time, the interesting circumstances and persons involved created a fresh story with its own uniqueness.Again, this is a good tale, poorly told.  I think you would have to have read a lot of Agatha Christie and maybe those other similar works to wade through, knowing she would deliver a good resolution.  However, the writing is way below the standards I have ever experienced under her name, and would not have thought her capable of such a poor job.  There are very amateurishly written portions, some meaningless sentences and a problem with flow that it would seem impossible for Ms. Christie to have written. A good, disciplined writer familiar with her works and her style could fix it.  It would take a lot of work.  There would have to be some cuts, rewriting of the transitional flow and almost all the dialogue redone.  This was obviously a rushed job.???????
3 Definitely one of my least favorite Poirot books. As other reviewers have mentioned, the solution to this mystery is quite apparent about halfway through the novel. I sort of wanted to shake Mrs. Oliver and Poirot and ask them how they could be so obtuse and not realize the solution. The quirks our beloved Poirot typically display are all gone here; all that is left is rather dry prose and a mystery that should have been shortened by about sixty pages. Having said all of that, it does make for a quick read that does not require much thinking. If you are looking for a great example of a murder-in-retrospect book by Christie, I would recommend "Five Little Pigs" instead.
5 Agatha Christies books are filled with little details that just cause her characters to endear themselves to you.  This novel of hers was a great mystery to read, but it also gives us more insight to the Poirot, the man and not just the detective.I heartily recommend this book and the entire series to anyone who loves a great mystery well written!
1 I feel really bad saying this, because the poor woman was 81 and had Alzheimer's when she wrote it, but this book is horrible. No plot development, no mystery, tedious and predictable. I didn't read any of the reviews before I bought it because I was afraid of spoilers, and because as a die hard fan I had trust in Christie's work. But I had no idea this was her final book, or that her mind was so far gone by the time she wrote it. I feel bad for her. She is truly a classic, and one of my favorite writers of all time. But I really wish I had skipped this one, and I recommend you do too.
4 Great bookI bought this book on tape by John Moffatt (no! not BY him, but read by him). This book proves a theory though; there's a significant change in Mrs. Christies writing over the years; the nice young lady who writes well-puzzled, crafted, formula, to-the-point murder mystery; and the old lady who's slightly bitter to the modern world, but writes more real and cozy books, about peoples lives. More relaxed and less upthight books. This book falls into the latter category. That doesn't mean it' a bad book, no-no! It's good, but different from earlier works. The later books seem to be more relaxed, and more about looking back, and viewing things from a distance; about great characters telling(not acting)great stories! This book really has a realistic ring to it; it has good, funny characters. It's not as "British murder mystery" as some of her other work, but more real, somehow.PS. Those of you who didn't like the book, get a hold of John Moffatt's reading, he's great! Really makes the characters come alive!!
4 I love that I can picture David Suchet as Hercule; he has his own kind of sexy, Agatha still keeps us guessing.  Love it!
1 This must be the worst Agatha Christie book ever. It's her very last Hercule Poirot novel, and one can see that the writer is very old by now (82). There is no freshness left in her prose; it is stale, predictable, corny, and generally trashy. As other reviewers have said, the material contained here would barely be enough to sustain a short story. To make a full-length novel out of this really is ridiculous. The book fails at what normally is Agatha Christie's greatest strength: the plot and the denouement. With dozens of pages left to go, the reader *knows* the solution! Unheard of in the world of Christie; if for nothing else, then for this the novel cannot be rated higher than 1 star. However, the characters and dialogs are boring and cliche-ridden as well, so the book has no redeeming qualities either. Nothing ever happens on the 200 pages of this book; no crime, no mystery, no real conflict among characters; it's all just endlessly boring talk, talk, and nothing but talk about the past. The only interesting thing, perhaps, is to contemplate the autobiographical hints Christie gives us in describing one of the novel's detectives, Ariadne Oliver -- a mystery writer. But these hints are only interesting because they throw light on our favourite writer, Agatha Christie -- they are not interesting in themselves and therefore do not improve the book's literary quality. It was excruciating to have to wade through the turgid prose of this book; this title cannot be recommended to anyone except extreme Christie enthusiasts.
3 Celia Ravenscroft is but a little girl when both her parents commit suicide. Never did she worry about the real reasons for that dramatic event, until today when she stands on the verge of getting married to Desmond Burton-Cox. Only one question suddenly seems of importance: Who killed whom, Celia's father or mother? Reason enough for Ariadne Oliver, Celia's godmother, to pay a visit to her old friend Hercule Poirot. The famous sleuth persuades Mrs. Oliver to delve -with his guidance, of course- into the past, to find the persons who are like elephants, the persons who will still remember the important details about this all-but-forgotten tragedy.Elephants Can Remember is Agatha Christie's next to last work of detection and the author shows clearly signs of age, which is understandable since she was eighty-two years old and in failing health.Elephants Can Remember is a "murder in retrospect" mystery. Although Christie has proven to fully master this format -see Sparkling Cyanide and Five Little Pigs- she now quickly looses touch with the story. She is forced to sow the narrative together with vague memories of a series of old spinsters and suddenly even events that should easily be remembered are covered by the veil of forgetfulness. No surprise that the plot is total confusion. It is less a mystery than a scrapbook of memories. Action is less important than atmosphere, which makes the story quite tedious and difficult to hang on to. Nevertheless, the experienced reader will figure out the solution to this not too mysterious mystery halfway through the book.
3 I found this late Agatha Christie novel disappointing compared to most of her earlier works.  The plot line involves a murder mystery that happened in the past.  Much of the novel is devoted to unraveling what happened through conversations with various people who knew the people involved.  There is so much repetitiveness as the chatty Ms Oliver talks to all those people, hashes things out in her mind, then tells Poirot what she was told, then he hashes things in his own mind, then he tells others, ...  Uh! The same "fact" or "theory" is repeated in many places, to the point of insulting the reader's intelligence.  This is so unlike Christie where every word had its purpose.  Perhaps one better think of this novel as a study of human memory.  Overall I give it 2.5 stars.
3 I have read lot of Christie , and I found this book to be slower than most. It as also les interesting, in that I guessed the ending, which I usually don't do.  As Christie books go, I wold call this one second shelf.
5 My beloved husband is a true fan of Poirot.  This book and the other Christie books we have found through Amazon have made him (and me) very happy.
4 Detective novelist (and Christie alter ego) Ariadne Oliver has been coaxed into attending a literary party, something she, like Christie, did not enjoy and avoided whenever possible.  Mrs. Oliver's experience at this one would ensure that it would be a long time before she attended another.  An overbearing woman, Mrs. Burton-Cox manages to corner the author cross examine her about her goddaughter, one of many Mrs. Oliver has managed to acquire through the years. And now that the young woman, Celia, is quite grown up, one with which Mrs. Oliver has quite lost touch.  It seems that Celia and Mrs. Burton-Cox's son are engaged, or will soon be, and Mrs. Burton-Cox wants to know if Celia's mother killed her father or did her father kill her mother.  Mrs. Oliver was quite shocked by the rudeness of the encounter and troubled about what to do about it so she contacted her friend, Hercule Poirot, for guidance in the matter.  Soon the pair, each in their own unique way, begin to tackle the problems, re-establishing contact with Celia, investigating the old tragedy and finding out just why Mrs. Burton-Cox is so insistance on knowing the answer.For fans of Ariadne Oliver this is a particular treat, giving the reader more information into her (and perhaps Christie's) personal life, than any previous stories.  It is interesting to see Oliver's and Poirot's different approaches to investigation, even to the point of different interpretations of what the actual problem is.This is not the cleverest mystery that Christie ever wrote, nor even the best written but it is a very enjoyable one none the less and is a definite must read for any Poirot or Oliver fan.
5 I enjoyed this book very much.  It was well written.  The plot, the people, all were well written.  I read it in about two days.  It flowed and was not hard to read.  I highly recommend this book to anyone seeking a good mystery.
4 I read this book at 19 and discovered the delightful character of Ariadne Oliver, the witty, self deprecating and charming self portrait of Christie herself. Indeed, I was so taken with Ariadne that I continued to read Christie in search of her. But while this story includes much of what is best of Christie, a very readable, engaging mystery with young love, a certain tragic nobleness, and of course some whimsy and humor, it is a little too tragic and even somewhat laboriously worked out in the end. A good Christie mystery, but not one of her top ten
4 Elephants Can Remember is Dame Christie's last Poiret full-length story according to most sources and written when the author was clearly playing the back nine.  This is one of the few detective novels that even I could figure out who had done it and most of the methods long before the Belgian detective assembled the remaining characters at the scene of the crime.Some will say this is Christie's weakest product.  I have not read them all so I will not make that judgement but it clearly suffers from a worn out plot and formulaic proceedings. We all know that elephants are claimed in nursery rhymes to never forget but this seems to be a revelation to Poiret and the aging writer Miss Oliver. As Christie's alter-ego, Miss Oliver is suffering the foibles of age, including total inability to recall anything or anyone, and stress over shortcomings in one's career, such as writer's block, and fear of crowds and public speaking.In a clever construct, both Poiret and Miss Oliver set out simultaneously to determine the relevant facts in a decade-old case of murder, suicide, or accidental death. Poiret warns all at the on-set that nothing good will come from this painstaking re-enactment but it seems there are always some things that daughters and odious in-laws need to know. Unfortunately for Miss Christie's reputation, she relies on a tired method of including twins in the mix so we all can see where this is going, especially when it becomes clear that the late husband had been in love with both twins.
4 Poignant story contains more dialogue than action but does have one of Christie's best twist endings, which is also a real heartbreaker. Poirot and Adriane Oliver try to discover who killed who in a murder suicide and find out that the tragedy never really went away. A really good story for readers who like to listen to characters speak and recall their history. Plot seeking others might want to delve into Agatha's more exciting yarns for suspense. This one is mostly about the power of memory. I found it touching and quite involving.
1 I know Christie was pretty old when she wrote this book, so it pains me to be so negative, but her age really does show.  The story isn't interesting, the mystery isn't mysterious and the characters are paper-thin -- even Poirot seems like a shadow of his usual self.  The exception is Ariadne Oliver, who gets a remarkable amount of development for someone who ostensibly is just a side character.  This is her final appearance in a Poirot mystery, and she gets an excellent send-off.  The same cannot be said for Poirot.  This is the final Poirot novel that Christie wrote, though not the final one that was published, since she wrote his real finale years earlier and set it aside to be published after her death.  I haven't read it yet because I cannot bear to, so I'm saving it to be the last new Christie book I ever read.  I just hope it's superior to this one!In this one, Poirot and Mrs. Oliver are trying to figure out what happened to the parents of one of Mrs. Oliver's god children.  They were found shot to death in the woods, but what happened?  Did the father shoot the mother or vice versa?  Was it a suicide pact?  Mrs. Oliver is asked to investigate by a woman she meets at a luncheon, then proceeds to go about interviewing a lot of people she hasn't seen in many years, to ask questions about what was happening in the family, to try and put the pieces together with Poirot, who is busy talking to the police.  It's quite similar toFive Little Pigs (Also published as Murder In Retrospect), another Poirot murder in retrospect.  The difference is that you'll be able to spot the solution to this one miles off, as I was.  I can now say that about only three of her books (Peril at End House: A Hercule Poirot Mystery (Agatha Christie Collection)andThe Mirror Crack'd (Miss Marple Mysteries)being the other two) and sadly, it doesn't make for a very interesting read.  More annoying still is that in this book, a character writes to Poirot and tells him that in order to solve the mystery, he should find and interview person X, because she might be able to help them with the truth.  And so after pages and pages of wasted time, Poirot finds and interviews X, and she KNOWS THE ENTIRE EXPLANATION TO THE MYSTERY.  She is flown to England, she tells her story and then the mystery is solved.  So tell me again why Poirot and Mrs. Oliver were even needed?!  That guy could've talked to this character himself anytime he liked!  Christie also employs a method I've seen her resort to in just one other book -- she has Poirot, the master detective . . . hire a detective!  In lieu of actually writing plot development, she settles for pages of exposition as a man shows up and tells Poirot all the details he needs to know about a specific character.  And she later turns out to have no bearing on the mystery whatsoever, so the entire interlude was a colossal waste of time.  Normally I'd decry this as a lazy author's way to get out of writing an additional chapter of action, but in Christie's case I'm charitable enough to substitute the word "lazy" with the word "elderly," which makes the choice understandable if not forgivable.On the whole, I have to admit that I wouldn't even recommend this book to a die-hard Christie fan.  But if you're dead set and determined to read everything she ever wrote, then go for it.  I am too, so I can sympathize.  Just be prepared to be bored and let down big time by this one.  It's just not up to Christie's usual standards.  Luckily, she wrote enough phenomenal, classic stories to be sure that her legacy would remain in tact regardless of what she published, and all Christie newbies can rest assured: it gets a heck of a lot better than this.
3 Hercule Poirot's friend Mrs. Oliver has so many godchildren that she has lost track of them, and she has not thought of her god daughter Celia Ravenscroft for many years.  She receives a visit from Mrs. Burton-Cox, a woman whose son wishes to marry Celia.  She has a strange request--that Mrs. Oliver find out whether Celia's mother killed her father or vice versa.  She does not reveal her reasons for wanting this information, but her request sends Mrs. Oliver right to Poirot who does much of the sleuthing for her.  The two friends take separate paths in order to interview as many people as possible who can remember things from the Ravenscrofts' past.  Mrs. Oliver dubs the witnesses as "elephants", people who will not forget important details which may help them solve the case.  The mystery in this particular novel is not as difficult for the reader to unravel as it is in most of Christie's books, and that spoiled the fun for me a bit.  Uncharacteristically the author reveals too many clues too early in the book, but it still is worth reading.
4 It began as an inquiry into the character of Celia Ravenscroft, someonethat Mrs. Ariadne Oliver is godmother to, but has not seen since she wasa child.  The inquiry also brings about the murder of her parents.  Didher parents kill one another?  With the help of her good friend, HerculePoirot, Ariadne seeks to find out.  Worth a read.
2 Elephants Can Remember was one of Agatha Christie's last mysteries; in terms of rating I would rank it as slightly below "satisfactory."  While it is far from her best, it is not quite among her very worst, either.The weaknesses of Elephants Can Remember are several.  First, there is a marked lack of action of any kind.  Elephants Can Remember is concerned with an investigation into deaths that happened entirely in the past.  Therefore, the whole book consists of conversations.  There is never any danger or threat to anyone living, so there is no element of "excitement" as in most of Christie's other books.The second weakness that I would point out is that the solution of the mystery, as it were, becomes fairly apparent to the reader about mid-way through; the rest of the time is spent waiting for Hercule Poirot's amazing gray cells to figure it out and catch up to what the reader/listener already knows.  The third weakness is that the solution to the mystery involved actions that I found entirely unbelievable.  I won't expand any further than that so as to not spoil the story for anyone who hasn't yet read it, but Christie had a couple of characters behave in ways that were quite reprehensible, but that is never called into question.  Her explanation for it, as it were, doesn't hold water.The only really excellent thing about this book is the narration.
5 Dame Agatha Christie wrote more than eight dozen mysteries in her lengthy lifetime, and Elephants Can Remember is nearly one of the last. But the old girl had lost none of her charm or wit in a novel that came more than 50 years after her first,The Mysterious Affair at Styles.An interfering busybody monopolizes the mystery author Ariadne Oliver (a delicious sendup Christie created of herself) at a literary luncheon about a 15-year-old tragedy in which an old schoolmate of Mrs. Oliver's and her husband died in what police presumed was a suicide pact. At the time of the tragedy, Mrs. Oliver had been on a book tour in America, so she had garnered what little information she had second-hand. But the long-ago deaths begin to trouble Mrs. Oliver. With the help of her old friend, detective Hercule Poirot, Mrs. Oliver begins to consult "the elephants" -- that is, older people who, like elephants, can still remember what happened decades ago.Elephants Can Remember provides a delightful puzzle for readers to unravel and -- better yet -- a glimpse into the remarkably romantic "Papa Poirot," who is so often eager to bring star-crossed lovers together (e.g.,The Murder on the Links: A Hercule Poirot Mystery (Hercule Poirot Mysteries),Sad Cypress, "The Arcadian Deer" and "The Horses of Diomedes" inThe Labours of Hercules: 12 Hercule Poirot Mysteries). Highly recommended.
5 No wonder Christie is known as the queen of mystery. I have read all her books and Poirot is my favorite character. She always leads  the reader into the suspenseful conclusion in such a delightful and surprising methods. Excellent reading, as always.
4 I am on an Agatha Christie run right now. This book is a Hercule Poirot mystery. This is a story of a woman,Mrs. Ariadne Oliver, that is approached while at a literary luncheon by some one unknown to her, Mrs. Burton-Cox, about Mrs. Oliver's goddaughter's parents deaths fifteen years earlier. Mrs. Burton-Cox is curious to learn the truth about the murder/suicide of Celia Ravenscroft's parents.This was a different type of mystery that was interesting to follow. You already know who the victims are you are just trying to learn who was killed first. Who was the actual person to murder and then commit suicide. Mrs. Burton-Cox is concerned because her son and Celia are planning to get married. She doesn't want her son marrying some one who may decide to kill her son. As the story progresses you start to feel that there is an underlying reason for Mrs. Burton-Cox's true concerns.
5 I can't say that I have not loved any of Agatha Christie's books and Elephants Can Remember is no exception.A very bossy woman, Mrs Bourtan-Cox confronts Mrs Ariadne Oliver, a famous detective fiction novelist, at a literary event and asks her the mysterious question`Did her mother kill her father or was it the father who killed the mother?'The question is in retrospect of two deaths that occurred fifteen years ago of General and Lady Ravenscroft. Both shot dead but were they murdered? Who killed who? Was it a suicide pact? A crime of passion?  Or A cold blooded murder?The police had left an open verdict and now Mrs Oliver decides to take the help of her friend, Hercule Poirot and solve this cold case. The case is old and the trail has gone cold with no witnesses apparent but as they delve into the past they discover that 'Old sins leave long shadows' and that people like elephants, can remember!Every time I read an Agatha Christie novel I am wowed and each time I feel like asking her 'How did you think about this?'The mysteries that she thinks of and executes in her books are fantastic and work of genius. In this book also, Christie displays an in depth knowledge of human nature and delivers a mystery which is unique, baffling and which leaves a haunting effect on us.This book, Elephants Can Remember, one of the last written by Agatha Christie is as sharp and captivating as its predecessors. Mrs Ariadne Oliver's character seems close to Christie and it seems like she is baring herself to her readers through this character. Poirot is showcased in a supporting role as compared to Ariadne Oliver which is interesting to note given his habit of self -importance and his pride. The story is sad and Christie challenges the reader to solve it by not having many people to pin the murders on. But still one is unable to clear the mist of the mystery till the end!I give this a full 5 on 5 for being splendidly written, the challenge of not having many suspects, a twisted crime that leaves us both sad and amazed at the levels of complexity of human nature and a story where there is love, sacrifice, caring, jealousy, execution, hopelessness, sadness, unhappiness, mysteries and finally truth and peace.This review is also available on njkinny.blogspot.in
5 I gave this book a 5 star rating because of the collaboration  between Hercule Poirot and his colleague, the famed mystery novelist.  It was great fun to see Poirot and his friend untangle the web of crime and finally solve the case !!
3 It is quite obvious, early on in this book, that the author was advanced in years.  The math is off, so badly, and so often, whenever the subject of years comes up: how many years ago did it happen?  How old is so-and-so now?  etc.  Also, the only character who remains essentially himself is Poirot, pretty much; Ariadne Oliver, though only supposedly middle-aged here, is more muddled than most eighty-year-olds I know.  Even the victims' ages: 60 and 35?  Pretty unusual, that.  If the wife/victim were only 35, why was she so worried about her advancing age?So, if the reader can get past all the muddle, it is still an entertaining read, IF, as I say, the reader is a die-hard fan.  I am, so it was worth it to me.PARTIAL SPOILER ALERT:  Christie's denouement of the crime is about as unrealistic as it can get.  She really hearkens back to very early Christie, in her inability to understand, much less handle, romantic love in any sort of realistic manner.
2 REVIEW: Not exactly the best book to start with if you're curious about Christie; and her expertly crafted, wildly plotted crime novels. Still, "ELEPHANTS CAN REMEMBER" does have its charms and its moments of glory. The story concerns the murder/suicide of General Ravenscroft and his wife Margaret on a lonely cliffside at their house in Cornwall some twenty-odd years before the book's opening scene. Famed mystery novelist Ariadne Oliver (Christie's alter-ego) is approached at a literary luncheon by the overbearing presence of a Mrs. Burton-Cox who wants her to find out the truth behind the tragedy as it involves Mrs. Oliver's goddaughter, Celia Ravenscroft, who just so happens to be engaged to Mrs. Burton-Cox's son, Desmond. The reason why she wants the whole affair dug up is puzzling to Mrs. Oliver, and so she pays a visit to her old friend M. Hercule Poirot who (though at first reluctant) decides to help Ariadne uncover the truth about the deaths. The solution to the killings is sound (if trite), yet no where near as intriguing as Christie's other "murder in retrospect" cases. On top of that: the book rambles on too much and is too leisurely paced for a lengthy novel (as a short story it might have had more success). Still it's hard to dismiss "ELEPHANTS" as an all-out failure. It is flawed yet engaging, and the sheer joy of reading along with such wonderful characters as Ariadne and Poirot makes it all worthwhile. Alas, there is an excuse for Dame Agatha's slightly below par performance: after all the woman was eight-two-years-old and in diminishing health when the book was written.
4 "Elephants Can Remember" does not read like a typical Hercule Poirot mystery.  Agatha Christie's famed detective is drawn into an old case by his friend, the amateur sleuth and mystery writer Ariadne Oliver.  The case involves what was apparently the double suicide of a loving husband and wife, and the concern that these past actions might have left a horrible impact upon their children.The story switches between the findings of Ariadne Oliver and Hercule Poirot as they each go in search of 'elephants' who might remember what happened around the time of the accident, because after all, an elephant never forgets.  While there is no definite evidence as to what happened, there are those who have never accepted the double suicide theory because they couldn't answer the question why.  But with Poirot and Mrs. Oliver working together, a long-unspoken truth is certain to be uncovered."Elephants Can Remember" is classic Agatha Christie, in terms of mystery.  It's central mystery has a unique, if perhaps a little predictable, twist, the denouement of which is quite evenly paced and satisfactory.  However, this might be one novel where the time period of the plot is more glaring than others.  The prose is heavy-handed at times and one does get a little sick of all the mentions of 'elephants'.  The characters are borderline two-dimensional and, therefore, the reader does not care about them, even if they are still interested in the mystery at hand.
3 It was with a certain sense of sadness that I read "Elephants Can Remember", knowing that it was the last book Agatha Christie ever wrote that featured the beloved characters of Hercule Poirot and Ariadne Oliver. Of course, there isCurtain, which stars Poirot and takes us to the end of his career as a detective, but this had been written several years prior in order to give Poirot a proper send-off and published after Christie's death.So this, for all intents and purposes, is one of the last Poirot mysteries, and certainly the last appearance of Ariadne Oliver, the mystery novelist that Christie often used as a self-insert to convey her own experiences and frustrations as an author. These would range from Ariadne's irritation with her literary protagonist (as Christie similarly held toward Poirot), to her habit of eating apples while she worked, to her bemusement at certain readers who would write to her in order to point out her mistakes. Here, she expresses her awkwardness concerning fans that gush excessively over her work.At a literary lunch Ariadne is approached by a compete stranger and asked a question about a godchild she hasn't seen in years. The woman who introduces herself as Mrs Burton-Cox asked Ariadne an incredibly personal question concerning her god-daughter Celia Ravenscroft's deceased parents: was it Celia's mother who killed her father, or Celia's father who killed her mother? It takes a while for Ariadne to remember the circumstances that she's referring to, but finally recalls that Alistair and Margaret Ravenscroft were found shot dead near their house, in such a way that made it impossible for the police to tell whether it was a double suicide or a murder/suicide.Ariadne discovers that Mrs Burton-Cox's son is engaged to be married to Celia Ravenscroft, and suspects that his mother is trying to form a wedge between the two of them by insinuating that Celia may have inherited murderous impulses from one of her parents. But Ariadne seeks out her god-daughter's permission to investigate the deaths further, and wanting to know more about her parents' demise, Celia agrees. Naturally, it is to Hercule Poirot that Ariadne turns, and together the two of them go on the hunt for "elephants."The witnesses are all elderly now, and it all happened so long ago, but Ariadne has faith in the "elephants" of the old saying; and Poirot agrees, believing that even little details and false assumptions may prove valuable. Together the two of them try to piece together the mystery of the past, in a book that relies heavily on oral testimony and the memories of those present.As a book written near the end of Christie's life, it's clear that she's slowing down. "Elephants Can Remember" has a few recycled concepts, several flat characters, and is one of only two of her books (thus far) in which I've been able to guess the conclusion far in advance. And trust me, if I can guess it, anyone can! There are lots of meandering speeches, some inconsistencies regarding the time-line, and many obvious details are held back simply because they would telegraph the ending too soon. Finally, solving the case has less to do with deduction than it does with finding the person who knew what happened all along.Yet there's a lingering presence of melancholy present that makes the story more important for its context than its content. Christie knew that she was nearing the end of her life when she wrote it, and so there's an emphasis on lost love, putting the past to rest, and young couples looking forward to the future with hope. Likewise, the fact that Christie may have been in the first stages of Alzheimer's disease brings certain bittersweetness to the fact that the novel relies so heavily on the importance of memory.It's rather sad to read, but impossible to dismiss if you are lasting fan of the author, especially since it's clear that Christie was getting ready to say goodbye.
4 I re-read this one recently, as it was one of the first Christie novels I read as a teen. Something about it had always stuck in my mind. It is interesting re-reading all her novels now and especially interesting to see the reviews of this one.Funnily enough I agree that it has several weaknesses and the fact that this is a "later Christie" shows. There are some points (a couple of children mentioned that I thought would at least be interviewed are only mentioned, no present-day action etc) that make this book compare unfavourably to her better ones. Also, Poirot doesn't quite sound like himself in this one and if Ariadne Oliver irritates you, you may want to pass anyway!Having said that, there is something quite melancholy and haunting about the ultimate resolution. If you take this more as a romantic mystery/tragedy, I think you will appreciate it better.
3 It could have been solved in half the time.  But it is not, and to appreciate or understand this novel, readers must place it in the proper context.The problem was at first vague; Ariadne Oliver was asked by a stranger if the mother of Ariadne's goddaughter killed the father, or was it vice-versa.  The deaths were actually some twenty years or more before.  As the stranger was the mother to a man who was contemplating marriage to Ariadne's goddaughter, she could be partially forgiven for her apparent concern.  Of course one of the things Ariadne did was to call on Hercule Poirot, and together they embarked on elephant-chase to pry for secrets from the past.&quot;Elephants can remember&quot; was published in 1972, that is 52 years after the first Poirot novel &quot;The Mysterious Affairs at Styles&quot;.  Many people did not even live that long.  Agatha Christie aged her characters along with the years, and therefore there were cases that were different from bodies being found all over the place.Other similar novels before this whereby Christie's detectives investigate deaths long in the past included Dumb Witness, Five Little Pigs, Mrs McGinty's Dead, Ordeal By Innocence, and Nemesis.  The common theme among them was that the investigator(s) had to depend on memories of various people who might not even be present; but from their recollections, clues were found to provide either the definitive picture of the culprits or the definitive picture of the crime.  What a lot of impatient readers would find irritating was having to sift through the useful information from the useless.  Elephants is such another tale.Mystery veterans would probably have been able to jump to the solution before Poirot's grand finale, but would they have been able to unravel the threads in the manner necessary?  Proofs have to be gathered, and evidence, motivation, etc were all the necessary persuasions for Elephants before they would give up their secrets.The meat and drink of this novel is more than solving the mystery of who killed who, but to recapture the atmosphere, the mood, the aura of that time in the past, and to be able to put events in their proper perspectives.  Also no less important was Poirot's being able to relate the past (in its correct perspective) and its impact on the present in order for persuade the elephants to give up their secrets.
4 When Adriane Oliver, noted crime author, is asked if she knows great whether her God-daughter's mother killed her father or vice versa, she enlists the help of the great Belgian slueth, Hercule Poirot to uncover the truth of a strange double suicide (or was it murder) from the past.Through a series of interviews, often revealing conflicting views on the same events, Ms. Oliver and Poirot reconstruct the sequence of events leading up to the deaths in question.  Personally, I enjoyed this book.  Christies narrative is top notch and the solution to the mystery is neatly tied up and intuitive.  I tought Christie did an excellent job of taking the reader from point A to point B and all the way to the end.  Little clues were dropped along the way, as well as a few blind turns.  As always, Christie's characters are interesting and well-written.  My only complaint, and its a minor one, is that the solution was a bit predictable.  Not necessarily a bad thing.
1 This novel is very slow moving, repetitve and it is totally lacking in charm or suspense.  There was not enough material for a novel in this story.  Poor Poirot!  Poor reader.  Skip this one.
2 This novel written in the twilight of Dame Agatha's long and illustrious career (1972) would have been better left on the cutting room floor.  It was especially painful for me to read because I not long ago re-read her vibrant, lively and completely mystifying "Murder at the Vicarage" which was written in 1927.  The comparison was depressing.Hercule Poirot is teamed with Mrs. Oliver, a crime novelist, to find the truth of a 15-20 year old murder/suicide.  Mrs. Oliver's goddaughter, Celia is the daughter of the couple who supposedly entered this pact. For the first one-half of the book, we are not advanced an inch in any direction.  Many people are interviewed (the "elephants" of the title) and most have vague memories of the couple, as does Mrs. Oliver herself.  Mrs. O's dithering is not artlessly charming, for we are as confused as she. Saddest cut of all, the red herrings are not "herrings" at all. They are giant signposts.  Rather than Poirot gracefully unraveling the mystery on the last page, the reader has left him in the dust 50 pages ago.  The prose has a distinctly purplish hue.According to the publisher, "Elephants Can Remember" was originally published as "Five Little Pigs."  I do not recommend this book, because it does not do Dame Agatha justice.  There are 75 titles to choose that will far better reflect her abilities and why she earned the title "Queen of Crime."
3 This mystery novel with 'Elephants' in its title uses the word elephant metaphorically to identify humans with long memories. The protagonist, Ariadne Oliver, with help from investigator Hercule Poirot, contacts such  'elephants' to find the answers to a twelve year old double suicide or  murder-suicide; that being the mystery.Story has nothing to do with real  elephants and no elephant ever appears in it. Enjoyable typical of Christie  stories I think.
4 What happens when a "bent" opportunist finds himself personna non grata with officialdom?  He looks out for number one in highly unexpected and potentially profitable ways.  Eric Ambler reprises his greatest character, Arthur Abdel Simpson from Light of Day, in an entirely new adventure set in the heart of Africa.If you have not yet read Light of Day, definitely read that wonderful novel before Dirty Story.  Light of Day precedes this book in time and is the better book by a wide margin.  Your appreciation of Dirty Story will be much higher as well.Dirty Story chronicles what happened to Arthur Abdel Simpson after he used his temporary travel permit to get back into Greece at the end of Light of Day.  The book opens with an interview Simpson has with the British vice-consul in Athens while attempting to renew his expired British passport.  In the interview, the vice-consul strips away any remaining illusions we may have about Simpson's claims to being an honest citizen with legitimate antecedents.  After describing the ugly reality behind Simpson's many claims, the vice-consul sums it all up as follows:  "You're disgusting, Mr. Simpson.  Your life is nothing but a long, dirty story."  To add injury to the insult, the vice-consul assures Simpson that all British consular officials around the world are now aware that they should be sure not to help him.Having neither a valid British nor an Egyptian passport, Simpson is at a loss for how to renew his Greek residence and work permits.  He decides he has to raise the money for a "flag of convenience" passport from a go-between, but he hasn't the money to buy one.  He soon finds himself doing another dirty deed to earn the money, for which he has to unexpectedly flee Greece while possessing neither money nor passport.  In his usual opportunistic way, he pretends to be what he is not . . . and soon has convinced others that he is an experienced soldier of fortune.  This false representation leads him to being shipped with a band of mercenaries into a border region contested between two African countries trying to seize a rare mineral deposit before the other side secures it.The complications rapidly mount from there.  Much like State of Siege, there are multiple allegiances and the need to watch out for one's own skin no matter how the "cause" turns out.  You'll love the almost tongue-in-cheek description of the mining companies, the governments of the countries and the mercenaries.  In the midst of it, Simpson plays a virtual Shakespearean clown's role in trying to upset some of the various plans, much like he did in Light of Day.This book isn't nearly as much fun as Light of Day.  It has a grimmer, darker and more serious tone.  But if you love Arthur Abdel Simpson, you owe it to yourself to read this book.After you finish this book, take some time to recount how an objective viewer might describe your background.  Compare that objective account to the way you normally present yourself.  Is your self-description a self-delusion, or an accurate view that will be helpful to others.If you find that exercise to be a useful one, go on to think about what you would have to change in your life for your history to be one that others would describe with honor and admiration.
3 I decided to read this book because I had tried some current suspense fiction but was boggled by the drone-on, convoluted writing style.  Is there no one who writes, clear crisp English with interesting characters and easy-to-follow plotlines? I asked myself.  The answer was Yes! Eric Ambler.  I've read most of his books but not this one.  I vaguely remembered A.A. Simpson from the "Light of Day."So I was pleased to discover just the sort of book I was looking for: sly humor, great human insight and a plot that started, continued and ended satisfactorily.  (Thank you!)  The three reviews that follow mine are excellent, by the way, especially the first one.
5 For today's reader, one of the reasons why Eric Ambler is so appealing is that he was a great chronicler of contemporary events.  In the years before the Second World War, he wrote about the rise of fascism.  In the years immediately following the War, he wrote about the domination of Eastern Europe by the Soviets.  In the 1950's, his best novels take place in Southeast Asia right after the Wars of Decolonization.  Looking back from the Twenty First Century, Eric Ambler's historical judgement is nearly perfect.  He knew evil when he saw it and he was not afraid to point it out.Dirty Story was written in 1967.  White mercenaries were still active in Central Africa.  Ambler's usually approach is to take an average person and have them through chance placed into an extraordinary situation.  To tell his story of mercenaries, Ambler dusted off Arthur Abdel Simpson, a middle aged, petty criminal with a talent for survival.  Through many mishaps, Simpson ends up in Central Africa working as a mercenary for a Multinational with mineral interests in a contested border region.Ambler's best known books are set in the years right before the Second World War.  They are still read because the Second World War is an era that most readers can still identify with.  The books he wrote after the War are not as well known.  I have read most of Ambler's novels and I think "Dirty Story" is as good as his better known novels.  Highly Recommended.
4 Eric Ambler specialized in stories of international intrigue featuring unlikely protagonists.  Dirty Story is no exception.  You'd have a hard time finding a protagonist more unlikely than the very weasel-like Arthur Abdel Simpson.By birth Simpson is 50% British and 50% Egyptian.  But by nature he is 100% chiseler.  When circumstances dictate that he leave Athens rather abruptly in order to avoid arrest, Simpson finds himself signing on with a mercenary security force in French Equatorial Africa.  This despite the fact his background and temperment make him utterly unsuited for such a job.Dirty Story is about a violent border dispute over mining rights between two third world nations.  Be forewarned that most of the native Africans in this novel are spoken of in very disparaging and racist terms by the white characters.Ambler is a very skillful and clever writer.  The narrative moves along quite smoothly and a number of astute, insightful observations about geopolitics are made.This novel clearly is one of Ambler's lesser works, but worthwhile reading nonetheless.
4 Arthur Simpson, man without a country is trying desperately to get a passport, any passport,the country is of no consequence. To do this he needs cash, so he is hired to make a pornographic movie but that goes pear shaped.After his directing debut he finds himself on a ship hiding but he still has no passport. On board thanks to the fact that he is an inveterate liar he signs a contract to fight with a band of mercenaries in a African back water that is hoping to realise great mineral wealth.So, even though our hero is a loser, liar and not a very nice person he manages to land on his feet, if not entirely squarely.Eric Ambler does not write dull stuff, this isn't one of his best works but its pure entertainment from the start, if you are lucky enough to find it at a garage sale, grab it.
4 The other reviewers are right--read THE LIGHT OF DAY first.  And then get ready for a less clever but more disturbing adventure with sleezy, subjugated cab-driver Arthur Abdel Simpson.The dangers in THE LIGHT OF DAY were: being sent to prison for life and/or being killed by angry criminals.  In DIRTY STORY, the danger is at least equally bad: becoming stateless, a non-citizen everywhere, prohibited from working, or living, anywhere.  An illustrative line is: "Finally, we were informed that if either of us were still [in the country] one week hence, he had better be able to swim."We get more philosophical musings on Simpson's childhood and helpful wisdom from his late father.  (Unhelpful wisdom, too.)  And our travelling companions include some people quite a bit more sinister than anyone in LIGHT including the crazy cook.In this novel Simpson does something new.  Something he almost never does and which we have never before seen him do.  It's pretty satisfying.
5 One of the master's best, though it moves from the smoke-filled alleys of pre-war Europe to the uncertainties of the postwar. The two central characters aren't trying to right a wrong or uncover a secret, but to get hold of a valuable stash of papers which will allow them to undertake a blackmailing operation. Can they do so without getting killed, and while falling in love? Terrific story, engaging if flawed characters, and a great send-up of American magazine journalism in the 1950's
5 The novels he had written before the war had established his reputation as one the finest spy novelists of his time. After the war and  a collaboration on several novels with Charles Rodda(as Eliot Reed) and a stint in Hollywood writing for movies and television,he returned  to the novel of  espionage and intrigue and proceeded to write several of the best post war  books of the genre.This one(A Kind of Anger )is one of the best and most entertaining.
5 To read or not to read the great spy novels of Eric Ambler? That is the question most people ignore because they are not familiar with Mr. Ambler and his particularly talent.Mr. Ambler has always had this problem. As Alfred Hitchcock noted in his introduction to Intrigue (an omnibus volume containing Journey into Fear, A Coffin for Dimitrios, Cause for Alarm and Background to Danger), &quot;Perhaps this was the volume that brought Mr. Ambler to the attention of the public that make best-sellers. They had been singularly inattentive until its appearance -- I suppose only God knows why.&quot; He goes on to say, &quot;They had not even heeded the critics, who had said, from the very first, that Mr. Ambler had given new life and fresh viewpoint to the art of the spy novel -- an art supposedly threadbare and certainly clich&eacute;-infested.&quot;So what's new and different about Eric Ambler writing? His heroes are ordinary people with whom almost any reader can identify, which puts you in the middle of a turmoil of emotions. His bad guys are characteristic of those who did the type of dirty deeds described in the book. His angels on the sidelines are equally realistic to the historical context. The backgrounds, histories and plot lines are finely nuanced into the actual evolution of the areas and events described during that time. In a way, these books are like historical fiction, except they describe deceit and betrayal rather than love and affection. From a distance of over 60 years, we read these books today as a way to step back into the darkest days of the past and relive them vividly. You can almost see and feel a dark hand raised to strike you in the back as you read one of his book's later pages. In a way, these stories are like a more realistic version of what Dashiell Hammett wrote as applied to European and Middle Eastern espionage.Since Mr. Ambler wrote, the thrillers have gotten much bigger in scope . . . and moved beyond reality. Usually, the future of the human race is at stake. The heroes make Superman look like a wimp in terms of their prowess and knowledge. There's usually a love interest who exceeds your vision of the ideal woman. Fast-paced violence and killing dominate most pages. There are lots of toys to describe and use in imaginative ways. The villains combine the worst faults of the 45 most undesirable people in world history and have gained enormous wealth and power while being totally crazy. The plot twists and turns like cruise missile every few seconds in unexpected directions. If you want a book like that, please do not read Mr. Ambler's work. You won't like it.If you want to taste, touch, smell, see and hear evil from close range and move through fear to defeat it, Mr. Ambler's your man.In A Kind of Anger, Piet Maas, a barely hanging on journalist is given a tough assignment -- to find a mysterious witness to a murder in Switzerland whom no one else can find.  But he is given a clue . . . a connection who may know the blonde, bikinied woman.  Using his knowledge of French property registration methods, he finds the connection and blackmails him into finding the woman.  In the process, he turns down a bribe . . . one that would be enough to start another publication like the one he ran into bankruptcy earlier.The woman intrigues him with her story, which he duly reports to his publisher.  She has kept the documents about a secret Kurdish organization that her former lover was killed for.  Then he disappears so he can join her to see how much they can seize for themselves in selling these documents.  Suddenly, they are trying to sell dangerous goods to even more dangerous people . . . Kurdish revolutionaries, the Iraqi government and a mysterious oil consortium.  They have to arrange for secret meetings, negotiate for large payments and avoid being killed in the process.  How will they do?An important aspect of this story is that Maas has once tried to commit suicide and feels he has little to live for as the book begins.  In the process of taking on large risks with Lucia Bernardi, the blonde, he regains his desire to live.  You'll find yourself pulling for the two scammers as they hold their document auction.After you finish this story, I suggest that you think about what would inspire you to attempt more . . . accomplish more . . . and  extend yourself beyond what you think you can achieve.  Then, get busy!
4 Let me start by saying that the Eric Ambler's books are truly a work of art. I have read and enjoyed the entire series I recommend that everyone read his books. That said, this novel is not among his best, but still good. To be read after you have read his classic novels first.
4 This is typical Ambler -- the everyman hero, the sinister but identifiably human forces manipulating events, the threatened damsel, the travelogue of venues. The hero (a nearly-failed journalist in this outing) survives through pluck and steady thinking rather than brawn and gadgets. In his day, Ambler was the anti-Ian Fleming, closer in some ways to Le Carre (but less cerebral) than to the spy-adventure novelists such as Fleming and Matt Helm's Donald Hamilton.The joy of Ambler is the scale of his stories. It's easy to place yourself in the hero's shoes, to see yourself reacting to the various threats and adventures in much the same way without having to engage in wild flights of fancy. While the villains are formidable, they're also human, with understandable motives and behaviors. The hero usually earns the girl rather than having her fall instantly into heat for him. In some ways, you'll be reminded of Hitchcock. Even fifty years later these stories still work.Understand that while A Kind of Anger and Ambler's other books were billed as "thrillers," by modern standards they're nearly cozies. There are no end-of-the-world tropes, no megarich master villains, no psychotic indestructible henchmen, no fabulous gadgets, a low body count, no on-stage sex. Ambler wrote about a version of the real world that modern thrillers often leave behind. If this sounds hopelessly quaint to you, move on. If you're in the mood for some 1960s-70s intrigue that doesn't involve James Bond and doesn't make you work as hard as Smiley, you could do worse than Eric Ambler.
4 Legendary author Eric Ambler achieved great success in relating well researched stories of international intrigue featuring unlikely protagonists.  A Kind of Anger follows that same formula.The star of this 1960s novel is Piet Maas, a Dutch born researcher for the Paris bureau of an American weekly news magazine.  Maas is a self confessed neurotic whose journalistic career has gone from bad to worse.  When an Iraqi colonel is brutally murdered in Switzerland, his mistress, a young Frenchwoman, goes into hiding.  It is left to Maas to find her and report back to the rest of the world the circumstances that led to her lover being killed. Once Maas comes face to face with the elusive mystery woman, he abandons any semblance of journalistic professionalism.  Instead of reporting the news, he starts making news of his own.A Kind of Anger is a fast paced cloak and dagger tale whose protagonist is very much a "fish out of water".  The narrative is quite detailed as Ambler expertly describes the novel's many interesting characters and the various, mostly French, settings against which the action unfolds.  Recommended to fans of international intrigue.
1 While I usually love Agatha Christie, I found this novel rather dull and quite disappointing. It wasn't the typical body-at-the-start book, where a mystery must be solved, and that may be part of the reason I didn't enjoy it as much; in addition, the twist seemed to come on... a bit too fast. I felt like I knew the twist, but only because (I think?) I may have seen the movie version of the book at one time or another -- clearly it was unmemorable, if I had seen it.In all, I suggest you steer clear. The first part was fun, but the majority wasn't, and the end did not make up for it.
5 What "improvements" have been made for the St. Martin's Minotaur edition?  There are already major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead editions of this novel. There are further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further additions still in the Signet, Bantam, Berkley, and Black Dog & Leventhal editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
3 This was not her best read...very slow throughout, although I thought I knew who &#34;did it&#34;, the ending did come as a surprise
4 Michael Rogers, a man who lives with his own way, falls in love with Ellie Guteman, a 21 years old American girl, who turns out to be the richest girl in America. They get married and build house on Gypsy's Acre. Soon the newleyweds find out that they are supposed to pay more intention with the curse that falls upon the land.I've been a fan of Christie since I was, like, 12 years old. I've read almost all of her crime novels and I must say, if you're a truly Christie fan, you won't get disappointed with this one.Endless Night was more melodramatic than the others I've read. The murder wasn't come until half of the book and even so, there wasn't any rapid investigation like when she writes about Poirot and Miss Marple. But the ending was surely Christie's style
3 Well it is not the classical Agatha scheme and it doesn't have a &#34;central&#34; character as Poirot or Ms Mapple but nevertheless is interesting, the end is unexpected as usual.
5 Completely different from any of her other books, this is the story of a psychopathic killer born to &quot;endless night.&quot;  Chapter by chapter, we see the desires and motivations of the character unfold.  Be prepared for an Agatha Christie with no detection, but spell-binding suspense that entertains completely.
5 This mystery is a small masterpiece. Though it doesn't feature Christie's beloved detectives, Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot -- in fact, it doesn't have a detective in it at all--it's a stunning depiction of what M. Poirot is fond of calling "the psychology" of a murderer. This isn't a book to begin with if you've never read any Christie, but if you're already a fan, it's definitely worth a read. (Christie, in her own quiet way, was also quite a social commentator, and this book, along with some of her others written in this period, will show you what she thought of the "sixties.")
4 This is truly a departure from the whodunits everyone is familiar with from Dame Christie.  In some ways I liked it--it is a brooding novel that sort of captures you; but in some ways I felt a little disappointed with the story line since I am so familiar with her other works that are always so special to me.  This novel was written in the 1960s and I feel that she perhaps wanted to distance herself from the Poirot, Marple, and other characters she had created in the past.  If written by anyone else, I would probably have given it five stars.  The character development and plot are fairly good and the ending has a bit of a twist, although I must say I couldn't really follow the reasoning completely.  Unlike her other novels, this is one that I don't feel I would read again, but I'm glad that I had the experience of enjoying another look into the wonderful, creative, and sometimes devious mind of Agatha Christie.
5 I was completely shocked at the conclusion of this story. I never guessed that Mike killed  his wife or the others.  I realized the hints were there as I read the end. marvelous story, by s wonderful author
4 As always Agatha Christie is entertaining and this book is a must for her fans.  It's been said thousands of times, Agatha Christie was a master at her craft.  Read and ENJOY.
4 A very interesting and entertaining story. A typical Agatha Christy novel. The conclusion is completely unexpected to the point that it is almost disappointing. A great book!
1 I love Agatha Christie, however it took me three tries to finish this book. I must admit that there came a point during the third try when I decided to skip half of the very wordy dialog to finally get through. 95% of the dialog was by one person and most of that in his scheming lazy mind.  Just happy to be done!
4 This story is far removed from the usual Poirot & Marple stories, which I have always enjoyed. It starts slowly and builds suspense and is full of false trails and twists. It is an original plot. The only reason I did not give it 5 stars is because I managed to figure it out before the solution was revealed. Still it is certainly worth reading for those who love a true and honest mystery and all the clues are there.
5 I've been a fan of Agatha Christie mysteries ever since high school, and the praise is well deserved that she had the capacity to lead readers down twisted and dimly lit paths strewn with red herrings whilst leaving the real clues in plain sight. This book is no exception. For as well versed as I always thought I was in discerning fake leads from genuine revelations, this one completely surprised me and is worth five stars of enthusiasm.Christina HamlettAuthor of Eire Apparent
2 This was a substandard piece of work by Agatha Christie. The plot is boring. The main character unsympathetic. I didn't like it.
5 Agatha Christie's Endless Night is far more than a great read, a psychological thriller and a riveting mystery: it's one of the most insightfulbooks about a sociopathic predator and his beguiling mask of sanity I have read.
5 Always a good read.page after page keeping you coming back for more.  Her endings are always . A breath taker .leaving saying I should have, known.
3 I chose this rating because the book was interesting and held my interest most of the time but not all of the time.  The ending was not expected and was unusual.  There were really good parts but sometime it was ho hum!
4 I read Agatha Christie's "Endless Night" almost 40 ago and did not like it at all then.  As other reviewers have noted, it is not a typical Christie mystery.  Not only did it stray from Christie's classic crime/deduction/solution process, but it lacked the humor that is one of her hallmarks.I thought I'd try it again to see whether age and experience would make me more appreciative.  Well, yes and no.  I still do not like the dark, heavy, suspense-building structure of the novel.  I still definitely miss the humor.  But this time around, knowing the "twist" at the end, I could admire her "fair play" -- the clues are all provided.I have to respect Ms Christie for her willingness to experiment so late in her career.  In "Endless Night" she has produced a good, well-plotted, suspense novel.  Nevertheless, I wish she had written another Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple book.
3 I like Christie's Poirot and Miss Marple mysteries, so I thought I'd try something different by her.  The plot develops well for most of the novel, but then it goes totally off the rails with the abrupt twist near the end.  It feels as if Christie couldn't think where else to go with the original plot and so created another story altogether to finish things off.  After the twist, the ending is hurried and unconvincing and quite unsatisfying.  A real shame--with a more plausible ending, it could have been one of her best.
4 &#34;Endless Night&#34; by Agatha Christie further solidifies her as the &#34;Queen of Mysteries,&#34; it's magnificent. The number of twists, turns, and misdirection's, in this story are mindboggling, you will think you are lost in an English labyrinth. The ending is startling and totally unexpected, at least for me it was. If you are a fan of murder mysteries and enjoy solving the case as you are reading you are going to love this story, it just doesn't get much better than this...
5 What can you say?  Different from the usual Agatha but masterful as usual.  Read it right away. Agatha fans will be surprised by this deviation from her usual but delighted with a fantastic story
4 I read this book right after I read And Then There Were None also by Agatha Christie. While I enjoyed Endless Night a lot I loved And Then There Were None so possibly I would have given this book a 5 star if I had read it earlier or later. There was nothing wrong with the book. The plot being about a man who is "poor" and ends up meeting this wonderful woman from America, getting married and having a house built on "cursed" land. The plot keeps you interested but I felt at some parts that I was really ready for SOMETHING to happen anything. In And Then There Were None for me the build up was much more interesting. Either way tho I will be reading more by Agatha Christie soon as I am just seeing what I have been missing all these years!
5 Great story, beautifully told. This story is more poetically written than Christie's usual mysteries. Hooefully other swill enjoy it as much as I did.
4 Agatha Christie is very good, I didn't like the betrayal by the main character just my preference in books I read
5 this book is better than i supposed.if u are a crime fiction votary(or christie votary)u must read this.very good.
4 Unlike most of Christie's mysteries, Endless Night is not written from the detective's point of view.  It's a good read.
5 Critics tend to debate what era can most appropriately be called Agatha Christie's "golden era"--and there is much to be said for her work in the 1930s, the 1940s, and the 1950s.  But like her earliest works of the 1920s, her later works of the 1960s are negelected.  And in the case of ENDLESS NIGHT this is an oversight indeed.ENDLESS NIGHT presents us with Mike, a restless young man who has drifted from job to job without seeming to find any true satisfaction--and a young man who is fascinated by "Gipsy's Acre," a plot of land in rural England said to be cursed by the Gipsies who once lived there and who were driven away.  While walking the property, which has come up for sale, he meets an attractive young American woman, and a whirlwind courtship ensues.  It is not until well into the relationship that the woman, Ellie, discloses that she is rich.  And not just rich: she is the heiress to a fabulous fortune.The two marry and hire a noted architect to construct the perfect home on Gipsy's Acre--but no sooner are they installed then the property's legendary curse begins to unfold.  A local gipsy woman warns them of bad luck; rocks are flung through windows; a bird is found pinned to the front door with a dagger.  And they are surrounded by Ellie's relatives and business relations, all of whom seem to have hidden agendas and none of whom like the fact that Ellie has been torn from their control.Many Christie novels can be read in a single sitting, but ENDLESS NIGHT has an unusually slow build--and Christie defies her detractors, who often accused her of purely mechanical construction, by creating an atmosphere that collects into deepest darkness before the novel's startling conclusion. As she often did, Christie lifts a plot twist from a previous novel for this later tale, and those who have read her more famous books may spot the trick; even so, this is not a copy of an earlier work, for the device upon which the inevitable crime hangs is used in a remarkably different way, and instead of the neatly drawn crime-detection-solution path of most of her works, ENDLESS NIGHT is a multiple character study that gradually descends into a Hitchcockian horror.  Perhaps the finest of her late work, and strongly recommended.--GFT (Amazon.com Reviewer)--
5 Michael Rogers is a simple chauffeur, whose only contact with wealth is through his rich and famous passengers. While dropping off a passenger in Kingston Bishop, Rogers discovers "the Towers," a decrepit Victorian house up for auction. He immediately falls in love with the beautiful location, Gipsy's Acre, the house is build on, but of course he can only dream of owning such a property. Then the impossible happens: he falls in love with the wealthy Ellie Goodman. Before long, they are Mr. and Mrs. Rogers and Gipsy's Acre is theirs. But when Mrs. Lee warns them of the curse, their luck seems to have come to an end.Of Endless Night (1967) Agatha Christie claimed that it was one of her favourites and I can certainly see why. The ingenious plot manages to avoid death itself for no less than the first three quarters of the book. Only near the denouement does the book become a detective story. At first the story tends to be perceived as long and tedious, but when all clues finally come together, the significance of that happened before can only amaze the reader.Quite remarkable for an Agatha Christie novel is the strongly developed characters. Whereas Christie in most of her later works seems engulfed by the idea that the modern youth is lazy and completely useless, in Endless Night she clearly proves the opposite. Never are the main characters depicted as a caricature. When you know the solution to the mystery you will understand that she did this with a reason.
5 Starts slow, but builds to a huge surprise.  Many details that seem irrelevant take on a different meaning at the end.  Heavy on characterization and psychology.  Complex relationships abound. Highly recommended.
5 I bought this audio book to occupy me during a few days' 'holiday at home' and couldn't have chosen better - it's the perfect relaxation to sit back and have a vocally very talented actor tell such a dark, intriguing story.Although a great Christie fan, this is, amazingly it now seems, a story I've never read, but I shall now buy the book also, because as with all Christie stories, knowing the outcome doesn't detract from the rereading or relistening pleasure. The false leads and red herrings are dropped into the narrative with such skill that although they are small and subtle they still take you along a variety of wrong paths. The final unravelling is, whilst not completely unexpected by that point, satisfyingly dramatic and dark. And even at - almost - the very end, Agatha Christie dares to tempt you with the possibility of a near impossible alternative ending. Brilliant!
2 Having read a great deal of Agatha Christie,  this has to be my least favorite so far.  It is a very "psychological" novel.  I thought it was slow and uninteresting, and I did no feel the ending was well done.  I had to really drag myself through this.
4 AS ALL OF AGATHA CHRISTIE BOOKS, THIS ONE KEEPS YOU TURNING THE PAGES TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS NEXT,AND YOU ARE NEVER DISAPPOINTED.
3 The "Endless Night" is a fine novel written outside the famous Poirot series. Agatha Christie did a marvelous job on the setting and the main theme of the novel. The novel is a two-prong approach to a mystery/thriller and a mystery/horror. The reader remains wondering and awaiting for the murder and in the process attempts many guesses. However interesting is the setting, end is that much disappointing. I say this because as the reader ventures towards the end, the conclusion becomes obvious. But then again it is the case with majority of the novels by Agatha. I, therefore, believe that her novels should be read for variety of interesting ideas and past time reading rather than a nutcracker mystery. I am a fan of Agatha, especially when it comes to early 20th century settings and the adventures Poirot.
5 My kindle version of this book. I like Agatha Christie books. Her style of writing and the way she draws you into the lives of the people keeps you picking up the book! Nice story.
4 ENDLESS NIGHT, published in 1967 in the UK as a Collins Crime Club selection, was the 60th detective/mystery novel written by Dame Agatha Christie (1890-1976) who wrote 66 such works.  It is a standalone novel (not a Poirot nor Miss Marple) written in three parts.Part One introduces the four main characters: Michael Rogers, a young drifter currently employed as a chauffeur, has a chance meeting with the lovely Ellie Goodman. He dreams of building a magnificent house on a particular spot of land along the Devon coast. Unknown to him, she is actually a wealthy American heiress and can make his dream come true. With the help of her efficient German companion, Greta Andersen, they marry and build a memorable home designed by noted but ailing architect Rudolph Santonix.Naturally the plot thickens... the land the couple purchased is known as "Gypsy's Acre" and is said to carry a curse. Mysterious accidents pile up, a self-proclaimed gypsy haunts the grounds, and after a midnight accident, Greta moves in with the couple to nurse Ellie back to health, much to Michael's resentment.  And all the while the few relatives (a stepmother and a few cousins) and many trustees, guardians, and attorneys disapprove of their young ward's marriage.A crime novel?  Not so far.  But read on as I did after thinking Dame Agatha has lost her marbles.  What starts as a romantic thriller becomes a mild literary success for the Queen of Mystery receiving some of the warmest critical response of her career. The London Times Literary Supplement states in 1967 that ENDLESS NIGHT written " in the persona of a working-class boy who marries a poor little rich girl...(is) a pleasantly gothic story of gypsy warnings" and that Christie "brings it all off, together with a nicely melodramatic final twist."  Robert Bernard, mystery writer and critic, considers ENDLESS NIGHT a splendid late flowering and the best of the late Christie.  He notes in his work,A Talent to Deceive: An Appreciation of Agatha Christie, that the plot contains a combination of patterns used in THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD (1926) and DEATH ON THE NILE (1937) and similarities in the "treatment of heiress/heroine's American lawyers in NILE...suggesting she had been rereading."  He adds, "The murder occurs very late, and thus the central section seems desultory, even novelettish (poor little rich girl, gypsy's curse, etc.). But all is justified by the conclusion."Regardless of your reaction to the novel's ending, I believe you will find that ENDLESS NIGHT is a very good read.  I agree with the laudatory review in the UK newspaper, The Guardian: "The old maestrina of the crime-novel (or whatever is the female of 'maestro') pulls yet another out of her inexhaustible bag...quite different in tone from her usual work. It is impossible to say much about the story without giving away vital secrets: sufficient to warn the reader that if he should think this is a romance he couldn't be more mistaken, and the crashing, not to say horrific suspense at the end, is perhaps the most devastating that this surpriseful author has ever brought off. "
5 but wonderful in its own way.  This is one of Christie's 'non-series' books - no Poirot, Miss Marple, Tommy and Tuppence etc.  Also it is MUCH darker and more serious than her usual work, this is not one to give a 'younger or more sensitive reader'.  It is, however, an example of just how talented an author Christie was, capable of much more than  clever, formulistic detective stories.This moody, 1967 novel is told by Mike Rogers, a young man who drifted from job to job looking for something, he wasn't sure of just what.  He found his passion in a place, Gipsy Acre, a piece of ground that he wanted to buy and build a marvelous house on, a house designed by a famous architect he had met.  The problem was that Mike had no money, and very little chance of ever getting the kind of money he would need for this dream.  By chance he met a beautiful young woman who happened to be fabulously wealthy.  They fell in love, married and.......well, read the book.Again, this is definitely not a 'cozy' mystery, it is dark, disturbing and scary.  It is one of those books that will stay with you and haunt you for years to come.  As with all Christies the clues are all there for you to follow, you may or may not guess the killer and there is definitely a Christie twist at the finish.
5 No Poirot or Marple but who cares when it is this good?! This book is so well written it will keep you up reading.
5 Having read so many of Christie's works, I was surprised I had missed this one. True to Christie style, the reader is captivated at the onset and remains so, seeking the resolution to the uncertainly of the tale, until the final page.
3 I had picked up a hint somewhere that this was not exactly among Agatha Christie's best novels, and, if anything, it was perhaps typical of what's seen as a decline in her last decade.  Not, therefore, entertaining high expectations, I picked this up on a Sunday afternoon and was pleased to find it a pretty engaging story. Rather uncommon for an AC novel, the crime does not even happen till far into the work; here is a case where you pretty much know (or think you do) the setting and the dramatis personae, and even the clues, BEFORE the misdeed is committed, which makes for a nice twist I thought. It is a richly evil story. Mike, the narrator and main dramatis persona, is pretty deftly drawn. In fact I feel he's got more substance and complexity to him than any other AC character that comes to mind at the moment. There is a scene that proves a crossroads in this story, which Mike himself recognizes as such, and it is poignant indeed. On the other hand I think the basic plot, with the oil heiress, strains credence a bit, even for a mystery novel (--and yet maybe this is part of the game).  Some characters, like Lippincott and Cora, strike me a bit as creaky stereotypes. Also, like some other late AC novels (Postern of Fate and Elephants Can Remember come to mind), the writing and fleshing-out has a--how to put it--a somehow professional, methodical, almost mechanical aspect, to my mind. It's hard to explain, but I wonder if perhaps AC in her late years limited her work, perhaps developing the basic outline but letting skilled assistants fill in much of it.  Finally, there is what I felt a certain degree of excess towards the end that mars the story for me, somewhat. It's still a pretty good story regardless.I've only read around 25 AC novels over the years (barely got my feet wet, compared to other reviewers here I see!). I guess my favorite by her would be Murder of Roger Ackroyd, And Then There Were None, Murder in Retrospect and Sleeping Murder.
1 I do not really understand how could all of the reviewers recommend this book. I did not think it was that good it was rather slow and sorry to say boring.If you have read many books by Agatha Christie and want to read  this book go ahead but you might not like because it is not so  thrilling.If you really want to read some good stuff by Mrs Christie go  for &quot;The Secret adversery&quot; a tommy and Tuppence mystery it is not  really bad and you might like it.If you want to read good mysteries I  would recommend Georges Simenon's Maigret's Novels they are really good and  M. Simenon is big time better than Mrs Christie (sorry to say that but try  and see)
5 Great book by a great author.  Definitely worth the read, from beginning to fantastic ending, it keeps you engrossed in the story.
5 Endless Night is not a typical Agatha Christie. If you're looking for Poirot or Miss Marple you won't find them here. Instead you get a moody, highly suspenseful almost gothic novel about a young man who dreams an impossible dream and makes it come true.....for a price. The ending is the most second most shocking one Christie ever wrote. My only complaint is with this edition. The picture on the cover hasn't a thing to do with the book.
3 This is set in a 3 book style.  It is very much a departure from Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple.  There is suspense, a bit of horror and some mystery.  I read the first 2 books and it was not to my taste but as usual for Agatha, well written and developed.
5 I love Agatha Christie & I really think this story, although a bit outside of her normal writing style, is HER BEST! A page turner & twists and turns that you NEVER see coming! I really loved it! And I couldn't stop talking about it!All Agatha Christie novels are not created equal...THIS is the BEST EVER!
5 I just finished this book and all I can say is wow. A beautifully written novel that just shocks you in the end. I was completely stunned and I think this might be my new favorite by Christie. You will never see the end result coming, even though she gives you hints throughout the whole book. A great journey into the deths of the human mind. I am surprised that this is one of her lesser known titles, it was brillant. A must read, Agatha Christie has outdone herself again.
2 I like happy endings and this one did not have one. It was boring until the 17th chpt. I felt like I was reading an Alfred Hitchcock book.  I figured out most of who the killer was and what was going to happen but the last few pages blew my mind.
4 The writing is excellent as always!  This had a different point of view than most of her writing and didn't feature any of the normal cast of characters.  Solidly English, this was a great read and an ending you wouldn't expect.
5 Absolutely my favorite Agatha Christie book.  I loved the surprise ending.  I have a paperback copy in my bookcase but it had been years since I had read it as the printing is too small for me to read now.  I wanted to read it again and I now have a Kindle (love my Kindle) so I got it for the Kindle.  I still think it is a great story and still love the ending.  Of course, Agatha Christie is still one of the best.
3 Big fan of Agatha Christie but while I'm used to the slow build up of her stories, this one didn't deliver at the end.  I think it's because I didn't find the characters compelling. All rather dull people.
5 Who says Agatha Christie only produces stock charaters? This is a very deft portrayal of a man, with a different background from many of her main characters, with personality, and quirks. The novel transcends into the suspense genre, and Dame Agatha very effectively comes up with an unreliable narrator for a (for her) rather unusual mystery. One of my favorites, along with "Sleeping Murder."
1 This book was very different from Christie's other writings and I was very excited about reading it.  Unfortunately it was much too dark for me.  SPOILER ALERT--I felt that the story being told by the murderer was horrible and the whole book was a huge disappointment.
2 This book looks interesting, but I 'd rather say I was dissappointed, having read almost all Christie's books.Get it only if you plan to collect every Agatha book. If you are a newbie in the Christie world or you want only the tops, this isn't for you.
5 Every once a while when I want a &#34;good read&#34; I turn to an Agatha Christie novel.  This one takes place in England and the story moves nicely.  It has a surprise ending and I really enjoyed it.
3 This was an incredibly strange story.  It was a tad boring in the beginning, then it gripped my attention but I hated the ending.
4 This book held my interest from the very beginning andI was very surprised at the ending.  Another good mystery.
4 This is a Christie mystery without one of her 3 main detectives (Poirot, Miss Marple, and Tommy & Tuppence).  That, in itself, is not unusual, but it differs from her other books dramatically as well.  Even ignoring the basic structural differences, it seems to me that usually her murderers are relatively straightforward in their psychologies.  In this one, however, she touches on evil of a more absolute nature.  I have searched and failed to find the poem that I memorized--which I'm pretty sure was in this book.  It goes:Every night and every morn, some to misery are born.Every morn and every night, some are born to sweet delight.Some are born to sweet delight, some are born to endless night.I think it gives the essence of what the book is trying to say--far beyond being a mystery novel.  If you want to see Christie in more serious, perhaps enigmatic, statement, read the book.  Don't expect the usual Christie.
5 This is my first Christie novel...I've read some other reviews saying that this book isn't recommended as an introduction to her work since it's not typical of her usual mysteries...but I have to disagree. This novel only makes me want to dive head first into another one!It had me from start to finish...I quite enjoyed the inner monologue and first person narration and about halfway through I was held in the grip of the most uneasy sense of creepiness that started colouring the story. There were points in the book where I actually looked over my shoulder...The suspense, character development and smattering of clues that only made sense as such at the end all make for a superb, edge of your seat portrayal of the inner workings of a mind gone horribly wrong.If you enjoy character development over plot happenings, glimpsing into a personality driven by darkness and a book that will have you thinking about it days after you've finished, then this is the novel for you.
5 I was so moved by this book that I wish to share my exhilarating read w/ others in hopes of encouraging them to read it.Like many reviewers here, I am a fan of AC.  And yet, I'd have to agree w/ the majority here that Endless Night is by far the most unconventional work of AC. Again, I'd agree w/ most of the critques in that the story moves w/ consistency, yet a bit slower for an AC. Indeed Endless Night can be undoubtedly labeled a mystery, but not the typical mystery that one would come to expect from an AC book. The plot is heavily laced w/ melodrama, evil beyond comprehension, and an impending doom that seems to get under the skin of a compassionate reader.  Out of all of the 8 AC novels that I've read, I never sympathized w/ any of AC's characters  until I read this piece. My heart bled for the victim as much as for the perpetrator. So much so, that I woke up the next day STILL contemplating these characters!! The only reservation I had about it was that AC managed to overlook a cpl of minuscule details that were never explained at the end. To the avg reader, it may not matter, but for the analyticals at heart, it may. Overall, an EXCELLENT READ!!!!
4 I have only read two or three Christie mysteries. This one was very good. Yes, the beginning was rather slow; it meandered here and there to what seemed meaningless tangents. However, by the end of the book, it all comes together. The second half of the book is a real page turner. By the time you get that far, you won't want to put it down.
5 It is really amazing how prolific Agatha Christie was without repeating herself.  The woman was a much underrated genius at murder mysteries.This book has a very interesting twist at the end that really smacks you like cold water in the face.  I had read this one before, many years ago, so I knew something was coming but couldn't remember the details.  It still was a surprise.You can't go wrong reading Christie, and this book is no exception.  It isn't one of her better known titles, and of course, has no Miss Marple or Hercule Poirot, but sometimes those books are among her best.I recommend it.
3 This cozy murder mystery was a re-read for me, once shortly after its initial publication in 1967 and then again just last week. I have the Pocket Books paperback edition which first became available in 1969.THE STORY: A roustabout and buoyant young man encounters a pretty young girl near a prime, if a bit decrepit, large and aging estate in the English countryside not far from London: Gipsy's [sic] Acre. They soon fall in love and ultimately acquire the property, (by means which you will learn by reading the book), hoping to live there together "happily ever after."But an old hag of a local Gypsy sternly cautions the pair that the land is cursed and, after having read their fortunes, belligerently warns the two to abandon the area forever; however, the amorous pair rejects the idea of bending to the superstitious rantings of a crank fortune-teller and so they proceed to pursue a life together, tearing down the old mansion and constructing an avant-garde dwelling, siteing it strategically on the iniquitous property.A number of intriguing characters highlight the story, from my view at the cost of more than a little hyperbole on Christie's part.Christie often spun her tales in First Person such as she did in here from the perspective of the fictional protagonist/narrator, Mike Rogers. Unfortunately, this account lacks the detailed atmosphere of the story environment as well as that of the people, all of which has previously defined the excellence of Christie's more renowned works such asThe Mysterious Affair at Styles (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)andThe Murder of Roger Ackroyd: A Hercule Poirot Mystery (Agatha Christie Collection). These notable voids in wallpaper can often occur throughout this and other genres of prose as a direct caveat of the First Person writing style but there is yet another specific reason for the attenuation of ambiance in this instance which I will discuss momentarily.The flavor of the story seems a hybrid of a typical Christie cozy murder case blended with one of her sprawling romance yarns which she penned under the pseudonym of Mary Westmacott, ergo:Absent in the Spring (Westmacott). I initially saw this element as a positive touch since the work represented something new and different. But sadly, this story goes NOWHERE for about 100 pages -- redundant dialogue and text abounds. There is a specific reason as to why this happened which also accounts for the general lack of atmosphere which we have come to expect from Christie:(MINOR SPOILER AHEAD!)If you have read all the Miss Marple stories in either The Regatta Mystery And Other Stories - The Agatha Christie Mystery Collection (originally published in 1939) or inMiss Marple: The Complete Short Storiesthen you will have encountered a brief entry entitled: "The Case of the Caretaker." This abbreviated Miss Marple mystery of only fifteen pages lays out the entire plot of "Endless Night," (which does not include Miss Marple.)So it would appear that Christie seized upon a previously written story idea and proceeded to engorge it with literary filler to create the book under review here. I have no problem with that except that the enlarged account clearly lacks the author's legendary distinction. Rewriting these shorter mysteries was something that Christie did from time to time. A well-known example was when, among other aspects, she re-penned "The Regatta Mystery" to supplant the more celebrated Detective Hercule Poirot with the lesser Detective Parker Pyne.In her autobiography,Agatha Christie An Autobiography, Christie comments that during certain difficult periods she wrote stories which she didn't even recall later along in her life. That could indeed be the case here considering that she eventually authored a total of over eighty books and plays -- having read them all I'll certainly give her the benefit of the doubt.One personal blog website which I encountered during my supplemental research for this review characterized "The Case of the Caretaker" as "irritatingly predictable." To a somewhat lesser degree I would describe "Endless Night" in much the same way.In summary, if you are a big Christie fan like me you'll of course want to read "Endless Night" -- however, if you're a more casual reader of cozy murder mysteries I would steer you toward some of Christie's superior works. If you wish to take in a good whodunit involving a multiple of Christie's preeminent sleuths, try readingCards on the Table (Hercule Poirot).
5 "Endless Night", written late in Agatha Christie's career, shows well her gifts for clever plot lines and spare but effective characterizations, as well as Christie's solid ability to remain current to the times in which she wrote, which spanned the end of the World War I through the early 1970s.  Much has been written about Christie's genius for constructing original puzzles, but her writing in books like this makes such expositions superfluous.The solution to this mystery is as ingenious as the solutions to the crimes in "Murder on the Orient Express", "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd", and "Ten Little Indians."  This book is truly a mystery lover's delight.DO NOT READ ANY REVIEWS REVEALING THE PLOT DEVICE!!!!  This is one of the true mystery novels that should be read for the delight of its construction!
5 One of Christie's later novels (first published in 1967) "Endless Night" was written well before her literary powers began to wane, and ended up being one of her personal favorites.Initially "Endless Night" reads a little bit like a fairytale. Michael Rogers is a poor but ambitious young man who writes of his fascination for a stretch of wooded land known as Gipsy's Acre, said to be cursed by the gypsies that were turned off it (and is in fact based on a real legend of a similarly named patch of land in Wales). A chance meeting with a beautiful young woman under the fir trees leads to a whirlwind romance, an elopement, and the revelation that she is in fact a very wealthy heiress. Suddenly all of Michael's dreams are within his reach, and together he and Ellie build their dream house on Gipsy's Acre.But from the very first page of his narrative, Michael makes it clear that disaster is on the horizon. It is impossible to say much more without giving away the entire book, (even the identity of the murder victim should be kept under wraps) but "Endless Night" ends up being one of Christie's most haunting novels, and certainly the best of her late work.Readers who are ploughing through Christie's books in chronological order (or who are at least familiar with her writing) may recognize some of the techniques she utilizes in order to shape the plot. There is one plot device in particular that she has used to great effect in the past, and some long-time readers may pick up on it as they read. However, even if one does figure it out, the realization does little to sully the enjoyment of the story; if anything, it simply makes the slow build-up even more disturbing.But the story is unique in other ways. With a deft hand Christie ramps up the suspense by leaving the murder until quite late in the story, and there is no "detective" character whatsoever. Instead the cast is relatively small, with only a small pool of suspects made up of Ellie's extended family and a few locals.  Where most of her characters are usually stereotypes, here they are given life and relationships that come before the needs of the plot, a result of "Endless Night" being more of a character study than a whodunit.It is quite different in tone and structure from her usual work, and the atmosphere is impeccable. It's creepy and forbidding, with an almost gothic ambiance to it thanks to the gypsy folklore and isolated country setting. Dread permeates every word, and I actually felt physically cold when reading it. I'd recommend a hot drink and a warm blanket if reading on a winter's night.The less you know about "Endless Night", the more enjoyable your read will be. As such, be very careful perusing some of these reviews, as I'm sure at least some of them will give the game away, even if it's just by referencing other Christie novels. With its slow burning setup and devastating d&eacute;nouement, "Endless Night" is easily one of my favorite Christies, as well as one of her strongest works.
5 Endless Night is not Agatha Christie's best mystery, nor is it ranked among the favorites by Agatha Christie fans. Judged by the standards of the genre it is easily dismissed, most commonly with a reference to her reuse of a plot technique she introduced many years earlier. But whatever it lacks as a mystery, Endless Night is among the best stories Christie ever wrote.While Christie's own legacy may have precluded her branching out creatively, if indeed she had any desire to do so, her popularity afforded her over half a century to hone her skills as a writer. In terms of the depth of her characters, Endless Night is the pinnacle of her career. In contrast to her earlier works where a cast of stock characters are carried by a continuous stream of plot twists and (in most cases) the strong central character of Poirot or Miss Marple, Endless Night gives us characters than can stand on their own. The tragic central figure of Michael Rogers is illuminated by the plot not simply swept along as a piece of it.At heart this story is not a murder mystery but a tragedy. Having purchased enough Agatha Christie books to fill three shelves I mean no disrespect when I say that I am certain that an element of her massive sales lies in the fact that most of her books are not ideal for a second reading, at least until sufficient time has passed that the details of the plot have been forgotten. But by 1967 Christie had matured as a writer and gave us Endless Night, a novel that resonates all the more deeply upon a second reading. It is no wonder that she listed it among her personal favorites.
5 The characters are interesting.  Very believable. Hard to figure out their motivation, whether he was a good guy or deceitful.  The ending was unexpected.
5 &quot;Endless Night&quot; was written late in Christie's career (1967), yet it is one of the best things she ever wrote.  The murder happens very late in the story, and Christie's ability to surprise her audience, even  after fifty years, is as strong as ever.  She does re-use old tricks (what  magician does not?), but her sheer ingenuity is as evident here as in  anything she ever wrote, and there is an atmosphere of evil about this one  that Christie was not always able to create.  Not to be missed!
1 That's what this book seemed to be...Endless.  It went ON and ON and ON  with irrelevant details about the main couples' relationship.  It takes over half this book just for them to get together.This book is NOT Christie's usual style.  This book takes a VERY slow build to an eventual murder that doesn't occur until 3/4 of the way through the book.  By that time...you just don't care.  The supporting characters appear in only brief moments.  Much of the action takes place "off the page" and you just hear about it after-the-fact.  Some of these things are significant.  Christie does a lot of telling and NOT showing in this book which makes it hard to get involved in.  The narrator is just reciting everything in his recollection.This is also one of Christie's last books and you can definitely tell.  Her writing style and format is completely different in this book.  She doesn't just stick to the facts and keep the story moving.  Instead...she's always up inside the main character's mind, constantly telling us what he's thinking and feeling and NOT keeping the story rolling along.  It's almost like she was trying to match the literary style of more contemporary writers of the time--1960's & 70's.  It does NOT work. I admire any artist for trying something new, but she needed to stick with the style she does best:  intro of suspects, murder, investigation...wrap up.I love Christie, but I cannot recommend this book.  It's not big, but I kept putting it down and it took me weeks to finish it.  If you want a great psychological mystery from Christie, go for Sleeping Murder and Toward Zero.  These are two of her BEST.
5 This is a stand -alone novel  by Agatha Christie and is one that I had not read before.  I have to admit that Christie is undoubtedly my favourite author of all time and, whether re-visiting favourite characters such as Poirot, or coming to one of her books for the first time, it always feels as though you are reading something familiar. In fact, immersing yourself in a Christie novel is rather like slipping into a warm pool and being taken effortlessly on a journey &#8211; she is the most capable plotter and absolutely joyous to read.In this book we meet Michael Rogers; a rather shiftless young man, whose aimless lifestyle is about to change when he comes across the beautiful young Ellie outside a ruined house called &#8216;The Towers&#8217;, but known to local as Gipsy&#8217;s Acre.  Michael had the area in mind for the house of his dreams, but does not have the means to build or buy it.  However, Ellie turns out to a wealthy heiress and, before long they have married secretly with the help of Ellie&#8217;s companion Greta.  Soon, Ellie has commissioned the building of their dream house on Gipsy&#8217;s Acre &#8211; even though both Michael and Ellie have been warned off by old Mrs Lee, who insists that the land has been cursed by gypsies, who were turned off the land.From the beginning, you feel that something terrible will happen and this is a dark novel, with many plot twists and turns and a surprising ending.  I am delighted that I finally got around to reading it and that, as always, Agatha Christie did not disappoint.
3 ive always heard about the Agatha Christie novels, and maybe the others are better, but this one just drug along and I got bored. I will try another of her books though.
5 Very different from the other Christie's I've read. It is a &#34;who done it&#34; but without a detective. Very psychological - twisted.
5 I hadn't read an Agatha Christie book is a while, and this is different that many of her others. Something about this book reminded me of  Patricia Highsmith novels. It's an interesting book, with an interesting ending. Put aside your expectations of how an Agatha Christie book will go and enjoy it!
4 One of the wonderful things about being in a bookclub is you discover hidden gems. I had thought I had read all of Agatha Christie's books. After all, I've been reading her over 40 years but I have never read this one. If I had not known who wrote this, I would have thought Daphne DuMaurier had written it. It had that type of suspense and it did feature a house.I wonder what it's like to see someone who is evil and be one of the few people to recognize it. This book explores that concept. It's a lovely story with unveiling that's not really a surprise but yet is unexpected.I highly recommend this to those who like cozy mysteries written by a true master.
3 I have read 30+ Agatha Christie novels and most of them  share the same structure:1) Murder occurs2) Introduction of main characters, one of whom is the murderer3) (This one takes up the bulk of the book) conversations with characters that reveal different clues.4) Glorious finale where everything is explained and the villain is caught, usually with a clever twist that I cannot foresee most of the times.And it is always very rational, everything has a reason and everybody has a self-serving motive, nothing is left to chance.This book, however, plays by different rules. The story starts with a love affair that goes on and on, and more than halfway through the book I had to double-check if the author is actually Christie because no one had been killed yet. In itself, it was actually quite good, the characters were interesting, and they even went through some psychological development, which is not very typical for AC books. Sadly, however, the end was somewhat disappointing.(*Mild spoilers ahead!*)First, maybe I'm just picky but the plot device has already been used in an earlier book. I'm not saying which one but if you have read it, 'Endless Night' might be spoiled for you. Second, the main villains were identifiable long before the end (especially if you have some earlier experience with Christie's plots). I kept hoping for a surprising turn that would give me someone else to suspect but this never happened.Also, the ending wasn't exactly coherent and rational (one might argue that it had great psychology; that's a matter of taste). If you have read Leo Tolstoy's 'War and Peace' to the very end then you know what I mean. It also voided some of the earlier character development that had been the most interesting part of the book for me.All in all, if you look for a nice analytical exercise for one's mind that her books usually offer, it's a letdown (hence my 3 stars).If you are OK with a psychological thriller, this book might be for you. However, there are many other writers that know the psychological crime genre better, so I still can't recommend this book whole-heartedly, unless you're specifically interested in everything that Dame Agatha offers.
4 This is a &#34;stand alone&#34; mystery/thriller.  Agatha Christie brings her characters alive in this page-turner.  A meticulously plotted mystery/thriller with a surprise ending.  Not the usual Christie but great entertainment.
5 I actually read this book over 20years ago, but felt compelled to write this recommendation, since this book was one that I could never forget.I thought it was ground-breaking for the time, and left such an indelible mark on me. The style of this book is very different from her previous books, and the pace is perhaps slower too, but climaxes to a startling and shocking end.The revelation of the schemers and murderer blew me away, and left an everlasting impression on the child that I was at the time.I fear reading this one again, as the years that have passed may spoil the milieu and tone that I had felt to be such an integral part of this mystery.Hats off, Mrs.Christie. You have immortalised yourself.
5 I just finished an Agatha Christie and it feels so nice everytime I pick up and finish one of her books. It's an awesome feeling that knows no bounds.Reading &quot;Endless Night&quot; was a rollercoaster experience. The title is taken from William Blake's poem and is as eerie as the story. The action takes place on Gipsy's Acre - a land cursed by the gypsies, where deaths and paranormal activities is an every-day routine.Enters a young man Michael Rogers who dreams of building a house there - poor to the core in search of his dream being fulfilled. Then he encounters on Ellie - a young heiress and falls in love - towards his destiny and dream of livinh happily ever after. Butwill their happy life be long lived at the cursed land? Will they see the dawn of light or be lost forever in Endless night?Read it and love it the way I did!
5 This is the first Stella Riley book I've read. It will not be the last. I'm glad her books are being released in e-book format as they are inaccessible otherwise.Ms. Riley's characters true to the period, well defined and interesting, the storyline credible, and the historical detail of the time fascinating and well researched. This is just the kind of book I like to get lost in.
5 Justin Ambrose, dashing cavalier and close companion to Prince Rupert, was bored with life in the Royalist garrison in Banbury, until he met the sister of a local merchant.  Famous for his romantic conquests, Justin had never before let a woman touch his heart.But Abby was no ordinary woman.  She was beautiful and she was brave. She was also young and terrfied of her brother, a religious fanatic and self-sworn enemy of all Royalists.When the rebel army unleashed its might on the castle, Justin fought tirelessly to break the siege.  But even his closest friends did not know what tormented him.  And Abby, as she sat with the rebel commanders at her brother's table, dreamed of a man she could not, must not love...(this is from the book's back cover)
4 Stella Riley wrote this story in the mid 1980's. Most of her books are very hard to find. She recently started to release some of her books on Kindle and I read somewhere that the content of this story was extended. My review comes from reading the paperback.It is interesting to note that Ms. Riley was able to mix a time in history that actually occurred, some fictitious characters that felt true to the era and also included a romance. It is about a dark time during the English Civil War in the mid-1600's. Politics and religion go head-to-head. Everyone is affected from commoners to royalty and, needless-to-say, it split families and friends.First and foremost, the story is thick with documented scenes that actually happened. Miss Riley made this period of time mesmerizing and left you, the reader, to judge the characters. Lord Digby, Justin's dislikable foe, was very real and was the ancestor of Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York and Diana Spencer, Princess of Wales. Prince Rupert, Fiennes and Lilburne all had their pros and cons. And there were so many others.Ms. Riley is aka Juliet Blyth who wrote THE PARFIT KNIGHT. Though TPK was wonderful, ASD had more realism, texture and anguish filling the pages. Its scope was very different; Justin Ambrose and Abigail Radford spent much of their time away from each other not developing their relationship until months went by. For the first half of the story they are nothing more than acquaintances.But wait! There is a reason for the buildup. Justin and Abigail's story finally takes off and it soars. The apprehension, pressure, and anguish that Abigail went through! Justin, Justin, Justin....sometimes I just wanted to knock some sense into him! I was fretting while I read the last 100 pages. Fretting. Hmmmm, I haven't thought of that word in years.This is not a 'clean' romance but what actually happened is vanilla flavored. Abigail's older brother and sister-in-law are rotten to the core. They are the villains in the story more so than Justin's enemies that he was fighting.A SPENDID DEFIANCE is all about tidbits of reality saturated with fabricated and non-fictitious characters. The plot had a slow pace and Justin is not always likable even though he had good intentions. It is a complicated story with layers; Ms. Riley excelled at bring the medieval times to life. It earned a solid four stars.
5 This was a lovely book - the kind that draws you in and you find it impossible to put down. Well written with beautifully drawn characters, lots of action, and a terrific romantic love story.Enemies aren't supposed to fall in love. The chasm between a Royalist and a Puritan during England's civil war is nearly impossible to overcome - yet Justin and Abby do just that. Their path isn't easy or quick, but it is a wonderful story to read. I simply love Stella Riley's writings, and I'm just delighted to have stumbled upon them.The military setting of this book - a troop of Royalists holding a castle under siege in hostile territory - was reminiscent of Carla Kelly's books in that both authors convey the desperation and heartaches caused by war, but do it in a heartwarming style that is hopeful, not depressing. They both excel in creating believable romances that occur despite the hardships of war and if you like Kelly, you'll like Riley.I highly recommend this book - and anything Stella Riley has written.
4 It's 1644 and Royalist Cavalier Justin Ambrose has been relegated to duty at the soon-to-be-besieged Banbury Castle. While the Royalists hold the castle for the King the townspeople are solidly Puritan, including Abigail (Abby) Radford. Although Justin originally thinks of Abby in a sisterly fashion, their friendship eventually blossoms into something more as England's Civil War rages around them. Outside forces threaten to part them forever, including the religious fervor of Abby's brother to the dark secret from Justin's past. Will Justin be able to set aside his past and declare his love for Abby? Is Abby willing to be the wife of a mercenary soldier traveling from camp to camp?  Can Abby escape her zealot brother's attempts to marry her to a depraved monster?Inquiring minds want to know but I'm not telling. This was a very sweet tale (loved the ending!) of two fictional characters set into actual historical events, as they are caught up in the midst of a country and people at war with each other. There's plenty of action, treachery, passion, a Parliamentarian spy with a knack for poison and sparks flying between Justin and Abby (although it's very clean) and I had a hard time putting this one down - and oooh I want a Justin for my very own. What a man. The only caution I'd give if you're new to this period and not very familiar with the history I'd read a few other books first so you're more grounded on the period - Pamela Belle'sWintercombeseries is a great start.Riley's books are very rare and horrendously expensive, but I'm glad I was able to snatch up a copy reasonably cheap. I originally tried for an ILL and received a note that there was one library left to ask but they would be asking for a $15 service charge. I poked around the UK used sellers and got lucky so don't give up hope - keep scouring those used book stores and library sales. Four stars.
4 This short story collection contains 12 stories, most of them having to do with the supernatural in some way. The most famous entry, and one that has no supernatural elements to it, is "Witness for the Prosecution," which was later made into a well-received movie starring Charles Laughton. In it a young man is accused of murdering an elderly woman for her money; he has an air-tight alibi with his mistress, but on the witness stand she turns against him. His lawyer has his hands full, but finally finds a way to prove his innocence. Other good stories include "The Red Signal," about a death warning revealed in a s&eacute;ance; "S.O.S," about a dusty night table and a scrawled message for help; and "The Fourth Man," about a girl with four distinct personalities. Many of the stories were later re-published in a collection renamed after its most famous story, "Witness for the Prosecution." Fans of Agatha Christie's typical crime stories might be disappointed with this story collection, but there are still some interesting selections in it.
5 What's not to love about a story by this legendary author. It keeps the reader glued to the story. It adds to the large number of Christie works.
3 These stories are mainly of the supernatural, not Christie's usual mystery stories although 1 is the origin of her famous play "Witness for the Prosecution".Although some tales involve hoaxes and swindles of some kind the rest would not look out of place in "Weird Tales", the famous 30s magazine. Most of the stories are not well done (this genre is not Christie's forte) but are no worse than many stories by others in the same vein. The stand-out for me was "The Call of Wings" which was somewhat surreal and hallucinatory.
4 I suppose if Mrs. Christie had proceeded in tis direction, we might now think of her as the rival of HP Lovecraft instead of the rival of Dorothy L. Sayers.  Most of the stories in The Hound of Death involve the supernatural in one way or another, the nost striking of them solid entries of horror.And some of these are sufficiently gruesome to remind us of what fans of the contemporary Canadian film director David Cronenberg call "venereal horror."  I ws reminded of Cronenberg several times while reading this book and I wonder if he was a Christie fan.  Bibliophiles will remember that the present volume, and another The Listerdale Mystery, were not available in the USA until the mid 1970s, perhaps to prevent diluting the detection brand of Agatha Christie with harder sorts of writing.  And at that moment the addition of so much "new" gave many their first taste of a Christie whose mind went naturally to madness, possession, abjection and bodily agony, the claims of the body destroying the minds of the afflicted.  (Was she into Bram Stoker and Dracula?  Certainly a pervasive theme here is the exchange of energies--the sapping of one and the bloom of another.)The title story is like a blend of Lovecraft and Stoker; it's based on a goofy "legend of World War I" almost impossible to summarize,, but basically a French convent is protected from Germans raping the nuns by an invisible hound whose silhouette is burnt by lightning into the nunnery walls.  And a nun seems responsible, a rather "simple" nun--the least violent, and least sexual, creature on earth.  Christie was much taken by the Joan of Arc/Little Flower trope in which earth is saved by its apparently most insignificant inhabitant.  Later on this paradox flowers into Christie's insistence that one mustn't commit suicide, no matter how dire one's circumstances, because somewhere far down the road God may need you, not to do anything in particular but just to be in a particular place at a particular time, a tiny fulcrum to change the world, as in Towards Zero, Ordeal by Innocence, Destination Unknown--the existential 1950s.SPOILERS AHEAD.The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael might have baffled some innocents in 1920, but today it's sort of ludicrous, so patently obvious is the main situation that in my thrift store copy someone has impatiently scrawled the words, "He's a cat" upside the second page of the story.  Who was that ingenious Frenchman who argued that Christie was writing two novels in one in The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, that she very much wants you to know that the ostensible (and quite famous) Poirot solution is incorrect, that the real killer is someone else?  Well, I think something similar occurs in The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael.  It's clear at least to me that the doctors in charge are pinning the terror on the half-Asiatic victim, while ignoring the guilt of the actual cat controller, the English rose type who comes off quiet and innocent--to them, but to me she's Satan in a dress!  Thus the story ends with evil unpunished--with evil rewarded, in fact.  Mrs. Christie, you had a dark dark mind.The Fourth Man, The Lamp, The Call of Wings, Wireless, The Gipsy, The Last S&eacute;ance, gee, we could divide these up into the grim comedies (like Wireless) in which a killer's plans derail by a touch of the supernatural, and the dark romances in which, like Christie's own much later Taken at the Flood, a last-minute rescue stops an OK guy from meting a horrible death to the woman he loves.  The Mystery of the Blue Jar features a PG Wodehouse golfing nitwit getting his arse handed him by a gang of clever grifters.END SPOILERS.A few genuinely surprising and well structured plot twists appears here and there, most notably in the one famous story here, "Witness for the Prosecution," but others are just lame!  Christie kept up her flirtation with horror at least until "The Dressmaker's Doll" (and perhaps the Grand Guignol setups of the late novels The Pale Horse, Halloween Party, and By the Pricking of My Thumbs),  Horror remained a part of her arsenal, something to use when she wanted to introduce a red thread among the silver and gold.
4 Where I know the original magazine publication dates, I have given them. Each story has also appeared in either THE WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION AND OTHER STORIES or THE GOLDEN BALL AND OTHER STORIES."The Red Signal" (June 1924) Dermot and his uncle Sir Alington West (the famous psychologist) become involved in a discussion of premonitions at the Trents' dinner party. Dermot has had a few in his life - a 'red signal' for danger - while Sir Alington attributes them to subconscious observation. But tonight Dermot feels it again - although the only danger he can see is his love for Claire Trent, his best friend's wife."The Fourth Man" (December 1925) An Anglican canon, a psychologist, and a lawyer - all very distinguished representatives of the Church, Medicine, and the Law - fall to talking on a night train journey, ignoring the (apparently sleeping) man who also shares their compartment. While the viewpoint of the man in the street may have some merit, surely their own collective wisdom is good enough for the celebrated multiple personality case they're discussing..."S.O.S." (February 1926) The Dinsmead family - pompous father, worn-down mother, and their 3 grown children - moved to a lonely country home rather abruptly upon Mr. Dinsmead's retirement from the building trade. Johnnie is suffering a series of running battles with his father, since he prefers chemistry to building, while his sisters are unhappy at being isolated in a house they think is haunted. Then a stranger (parapsychologist Mortimer Cleveland), stranded for the night by a flat tire, finds a mysterious message written in the dust beside his bed..."Wireless", a.k.a. "Where There's a Will" (1926) Mary Harter's physician was careful to warn both his patient and her nephew, Charles Ridgeway, about her heart condition - that any shock could be fatal, but with care nothing would go wrong. When she then had a lift installed, thoughtful Charles persuaded her to get a radio as well. She enjoyed it at first, until it started giving messages from Beyond..."The Call of Wings" - Silas Hamer was rich and content, a self-made man who had wanted wealth for material comfort rather than power, who believed in nothing that he couldn't see and touch. Then the music of panpipes, played by a strange, legless beggar with a beautiful face, catches his imagination, and he feels a call of immense freedom and wildness - but his money has turned to chains and shackles."The Gipsy" - Macfarlane (a Celt with a touch of second sight) and his best friend Dickie Carpenter were engaged to two sisters, until Esther dumped Carpenter without warning. But when Carpenter, an inarticulate, unsubtle Navy man, unburdens himself to his friend, he keeps getting off track, talking about his fear of gypsies, and how several times in his life he's literally had a gypsy's warning and disregarded it, only to have disaster strike - as in the case of his breakup, in fact."The Hound of Death" - Really a science fiction story. Sister Marie Angelique once saved her convent from the Germans by calling down lightning on them, but not through prayer; she has visions of another life, whether future or past, where such powers were understood and disciplined. Alas, Dr. Rose at the sanitarium where she now lives in England not only takes her seriously, but with an eye to turning such powers to his own use..."The Lamp" - When Mr. Winburn, his widowed daughter Mrs. Lancaster, and his little grandson Geoff take #19 for a ridiculously low rent, she doesn't believe it's haunted, although a little boy starved there 30 years ago (having been ordered never to go out) after his father's arrest in another city. But her father hears the boy crying, and Geoff can see him and wants to help him. The title comes from Widburn's quotation of a poem, since he's convinced Geoff may indeed be able to help: "'What Lamp has Destiny to guide/Her little Children stumbling in the Dark?'/'A blind understanding,' Heaven replied.""The Last Seance", a.k.a. "The Stolen Ghost" - Raoul Daubreuil takes it for granted that his fiancee Simone will give up her work as a medium after they're married - for one thing, it's destroying her health. But will the work - and her clients - allow her to retire gracefully? Clients like Madame Exe, who is determined to make contact with her lost little girl at any price..."The Mystery of the Blue Jar" - Jack Hartington lives to reduce his golf handicap. Unfortunately, he's only 24 and far from retired, so he gets up at six every morning for an hour's practice before work. Then he starts hearing cries for help every morning near a small cottage near the course - cries nobody else seems to hear."The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael" - Sometimes titled 'Andrew' rather than 'Arthur' - one heck of a printer's error. The old baronet had 2 sons, and the pleasant Sir Arthur has been content to allow his middle-aged stepmother and little half-brother to go on living with him. She, for her part, is devoted to her own son, and has an uncanny air about her. Then, a month before young Sir Arthur's marriage, he's stricken with an extraordinary form of amnesia, and the narrator (a distinguished psychologist) is called in. Hmm. His stepmother certainly has a motive to see that he has no heir other than her son, but how could she have arranged *this*?"The Witness for the Prosecution" - See THE WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION AND OTHER STORIES.
5 This collection of short stories show that not only was Christie great at mysteries but was great at spooky stories
3 "The Hound of Death" is a change of pace for Agatha Christie and her fans. Unlike her typical Poirot and Miss Marple novels, "The Hound of Death" is a collection of twelve short-stories (previously published separately, many of which can be found in other Christie anthologies) that each have the supernatural as their central subject. Despite this unifying theme, the collected stories are still rather disparate, divided roughly into those that contain genuine paranormal phenomena, and those that are simply crime stories in which delinquents use fraudulent methods to make their victims believe the supernatural is at work.Despite supplying the title for the anthology, "The Hound of Death", along with "The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael" and "The Last S&eacute;ance" are atmospheric but rather ambiguous stories, to be expected considering these are the ones that deal directly with occultism. Touching upon past lives, mysticism and apparitions, they are rather vague and open-ended stories (at least for readers who are used to Christie supplying direct answers to her mysteries).To my mind, "The Fourth Sign" is the only story with an occult explanation that really works; a chilling story of three men who discuss the strange case of Felicie Bault and her multiple personalities, only to be joined by the testimony of an eyewitness who grew up with the girl in question. His story sheds new light on the case as he shares the tale of his childhood in a state orphanage with Felicie and another girl called Annette Ravel, the toxic friendship between the two girls, and Felicie's ambition and zest for life, even in the face of death.Christie seems on firmer ground when it comes to using her usual techniques of misdirection and red herrings in order to concoct crimes that may or may not be based in the paranormal. In "S.O.S", a doctor seeks out help in a country house after his car breaks down, only to find a strange family inside and a message drawn in the dust of his bedside table. In "Wireless" an elderly woman is astonished to find that her dead husband's voice is calling to her over her new radio, promising that he will come for her on the coming Friday. "The Mystery of the Blue Jar" involves a young golfer who can hear a terrible screaming coming from the vicinity of a nearby cottage - though no one else can.Defying categories are the remaining stories, in which the touches of supernatural are only tangential to the story itself, such as "The Red Light" and "The Gispy" which deal with premonitions of the future, and "The Call of Wings" and "The Lamp", which draw more on religious matters as Christie explores life after death and material worth.Finally, "The Witness for the Prosecution" deals with a case that is not only completely devoid of anything supernatural, but which never even pretends to. Mr Mayherne takes on the case of Leonard Vole, a man accused of murdering his elderly patron in order to inherit her fortune. He swears his innocence, and declares that his wife is able to provide an alibi, but Mayherne knows all too well that a devoted wife doesn't make for a reliable witness in the eyes of the jury. However, on visiting her, Mayherne is shocked to find that she is not as loyal to her husband as Mr Vole claims and insists that he is guilty of the crime. What's she really up to? This story feels a little out of place in this particular compilation, and can also be found inThe Witness for the Prosecutionand is of course the inspiration behind the filmWitness For the Prosecution."The Hound of Death" won't please everyone, but for Christie fans it serves as an interesting selection of stories which are quite different from her usual fare but still stylistically recognizable as hers.
3 Contents (and my rating from * to *****) --Hound of Death (**) - Silly story of a Belgian nun who causes an explosion at her convent when it is overrun by the German army and the doctor in England after the war that attempts to exploit her gift. Plot-line unworthy of Christie.The Red Signal (**) A discussion about premonitions at a small dinner party leads to one guest surmising another is at the dinner to assess one of them for possible inherited insanity. Maybe I've read too many Christie stories, but it was predictable and not that interesting.The Fourth Man (***) During a train ride three men who know each other are discussing a case of supposed multiple personalities when a fourth man in the compartment tells them that he actually knew the person and recounts his story. OK but not remarkable short story.The Gipsy (***) A young man tells a friend about his recurring nightmare and subsequent fear of gipsies, then meets a woman at a dinner party that reminds him of the gipsy in his dream -- and she warns him of something that comes to pass. OK story about second sight and coincidences.The Lamp (****) fairly straightforward ghost story, well told, about a woman who rents a long-vacant house where former tenants heard the pitiful sobbing of a child.Wireless (***) an elderly woman with heart problems takes in a nephew as a companion and he tries to lift her spirits by bringing in a new-fangled wireless set to help her pass the long evenings when he is away.Witness for the Prosecution (****) unless you have been on Mars or are under 30 (in which case you probably aren't about to read Agatha Christie) you must know the plot twist in this story about a young man accused of murdering an elderly woman for her money. If you don't know the twist, see the fantastically effective movie before reading the story.The Mystery of the Blue Jar (*****) a man obsessed with golf hears a cry of "murder!" at exactly the same time each morning on a golf course, but others in the vicinity don't. A professional man he meets agrees to help him unravel the mystery which may involve a nearby cottage reputed to be haunted. Nicely told and I didn't expect the twist at the end.The Strange Case of Sir Arthur Carmichael (*) a dead cat seems to haunt the home of a widow and her step-son, who seems to be particularly influenced by the feline's presence. Not well thought-out or executed story that made little sense.The Call of WIngs (**) - a millionaire is strangely affected by the music he hears played by a crippled street musician. Not very convincing story of mania.The Last Seance (***) drained from years of acting as a medium, a woman plans one last sitting to help a mother communicate with her dead child, but things don't go as expected. Nice little story that's not scary, but has an unexpected ending.SOS (**) - stranded out in the boonies when he car breaks down, a man seeks refuge in a cottage and discovers most of the family there acting strangely. He is determined to discover why after he finds the letters SOS in the dust on a desk in the room he is sleeping in. OK story that in the end doesn't make much sense.
2 Trying her hand at writing into occultism and supernatural subjects, Agatha Christie failed to provoke new insights nor deliver any entertainment value.Several stories were outrightly occultic, such as the Hound of Death.  These have got nothing to do with crimes.A couple of other stories such as the Blue Jar have some crime involved, and could be considered readable.What mystery and crime readers would normally expect from Agatha Christie was a thorough investigation of the paranormal, sifting the clues and evidence, and exhaust all possibilities before leaving it as ... unexplainable by known facts.  Had Agatha Christie done that, the stories would have been much much more readable.
4 What a wonderful collection of short stories. These are very different from Agatha Christie's normal fair! All the stories seem to revolve around the occult or other supernatural occurances! A nice change from what I am use to where Agatha Christie is concerned! My favorite story was Witness for the Prosecution!
5 I love it. Thomas Perry is a great author. No complaints so far. I should start buying his books on my Kindle.
5 Author-THOMAS PERRY--b-1947.** My favorites--Butcher Boy series and theJane series.**Perry is a master-----FISH is intricately plotted...A BIG TIME silky thriller.  Funny and snappy.ALTMEYER and RACHEL- the Nick and Nora CHARLESof gun smugling.A home with goats and a KOI pond.Three American scientists are murdered in a Londonfire.Uranium involved. Nuclear power. Japenese.THERE IS A nice surprise FOR AL/RACHEL AT THE END OFTHE BOOK.Readers say this is one of their favotire Perry books.IT IS HARD TO FIND at a decent price. I sat down andread it in one sitting the minute it came.bbp 63 okc ok  retired
5 The best summer reading imaginable.  Buy an old copy now and don't wait for the silly publishers to get off their butts and reissue it.  This is classic Thomas Perry -- odd, violent characters that you come to care about, tight plotting touched with wit and irony that make it more believable not less, and scenes you'll remember.  I have to say it; Thomas Perry has this trick about writing about &quot;bad&quot; people as if he were their guardian angel and could see how all their decisions and mistakes built up around them and yet left them human, not sweet, but somehow compassionate, and it balances the violence and the pratfalls. Oh well, take my word for it, there's a grace to his writing that lasts after the great entertainment is over.
5 ExcellentThis review requires that I write ten more words.  Word, word, word, word, word, word, word, word, word, word.
4 It took some searching to find this book on-line. I read it twice because it didn't 'stick' in my pea brain the first time through; too many distractions at the time. This story had a slow start but I liked the way it built and evolved. The characters were forgettable. I'm glad Perry didn't stick with them for subsequent storylines. The Big Fish tale is not up there with the Jane Whitefield series but a worthwhile read nevertheless. I passed it along on paperbackswap.com and I hope it is still making the rounds as it is out of print.
3 This is Perry's third novel and it's a bit of a disappointment after his first two. Altmeyer is a Los Angeles "businessman" -- if supplying mostly illegal weapons to almost any government, corporation, or individual with the money is a business -- and his lovely wife, Rachel, helps out wherever she can. Their friend, Bucky, is a big-deal Hollywood agent whom they help to escape from a dangerous drug deal by killing off the other side. The early parts of the narrative are rather disjointed and episodic; they don't seem to have much to do with each other, rather than to introduce the characters. Then a shipment of 9-millimeter automatics to Japan goes wrong and it doesn't look like Altmeyer is going to get paid, but that's not the half of it. The Really Bad Guys were interested not in Altmeyer's guns but in his international shipping methods, which they adopt for their own use. And what they're shipping from one country to another appear to be terrorist-sized nuclear devices. Here the story gets more interesting, the three main characters being joined by a legendary film producer with all the right contacts. The plot is still a bit fuzzy, though, and Perry should have spent more time tidying it up. Not up to his previous work.
4 Let me tell you a little about my week.  I've been working long hours, getting low pay and even less recognition.  In the evenings I worked out and ate poorly.  To relax, I tried to read Jane Smiley's &quot;Moo&quot;.Normally I read a book every couple of days.  I've been slogging through &quot;Moo&quot; for weeks.  I'm not sure whether it's exhaustion or lack of interest, but the fact is, I was bored and frustrated.But then I found &quot;Big Fish&quot; by Thomas Perry.  I'd known this novel existed for years, but have never been able to find a copy.  I loved the author's &quot;Metzger's Dog&quot; and &quot;The Butcher's Boy&quot; and was intrigued.  I opened to the first page, just to get an idea of the style, and the next thing I knew three hours had passed and I was done.&quot;Big Fish&quot; is the story of two charming, relatively small-time gunrunners who become embroiled in a plot to control the world.  I won't tell you how or why, because that's part of the fun, but I will tell you that along the way they collect a Hollywood agent and teach him to be a commando, and a Hollywood director and teach him to be a human being.The writing is crisp and clean, with no words wasted on unnecessary exposition or description.  Perry, in fact, is reminiscent of Gregory McDonald at his most terse and entertaining, but can be more goofy and relaxed.This book was just what I needed to get the taste of the week and Jane Smiley out of my mouth.  It's out of print, which is disappointing, but I bet you can find it used or at a library.  And, who knows, as Perry's recent books become more mainstream, &quot;Big Fish&quot; just might be republished.
3 An early Thomas Perry book - an easy read - worth the effort. You can see how in this early book he established his genre.
3 One of the longest VH's I've read. It's too long, meandering in fact, with too many locales and no big mystery to tie it all together. At least it doesn't dwell on the heroine's childhood. She's a young adult and soon married. (Clearly she didn't get my memo from an earlier VH review that when the heroine marries before page 50, hubby has the average life expectancy of a fruit fly).Sure enough, the marriage goes sour. At first all is magical in romantic Venice during their honeymoon. But one night hubby comes home and rips her bodice. The heroine is horrified by rough sex and falls out of love with hubby. Kind of. Seriously, VH's no-graphic-details writing style and first-person POV was a real disadvantage here. Without knowing what happened, we're left to scratch our heads as to what hubby actually did. With no info, the heroine comes across as an overwrought Victorian prude who's horrified at the notion of taking off her flannel nightie for sex.Hubby turns out be an opium addict and fulfills his destiny of an early death. I was surprisingly sad, at the waste I guess. Not as sad though as at ***spoilr*** the death of their child. Warning here if you're sensitive to reading about that! The stricken heroine develops a bizarre fixation with the doctor who she feels led her husband into drugs and neglected her child. She dwells and dwells on his guilt without the slightest proof, and calls him the Demon Doctor, endowing him in her mind with devil horns and cloven feet yet.Naturally he turns out to be the hero. Sans cloven feet (I assume). But before we get to that, there's a long section of the heroine training to be a nurse, interacting with way too many supporting characters that I couldn't care about, and finally traveling to the Crimea. All the while brooding on the Demon Doctor and her revenge. There are some nice historical touches about the Crimean war and the poor state of medical care, but this section just goes on way too long.Finally around the 250 page mark, the hero shows up. And I was ... underwhelmed. Seriously, he would have to have superman ability (or cloven feet) to live up to all the build up. But he just turns out to be a gruff but dedicated doctor, who happens to be interested in Eastern drugs and hypnotic techniques that might help the suffering men in his care. Of course heroine continues to rage against him in her fevered brain, while her body is mysteriously falling for him, natch. Of course the fool heroine is nearly caught by white slavers in the Mysterious Orient, and has to be rescued by the hero's sidekick. Giving her an opportunity to berate the hero for lounging around in Eastern clothes like some pasha with a harem (At this point I got the feeling the heroine needed to get laid. Fast.)So the Demon Doctor turned out to be rather a disappointment. I expected more charisma, more saturnalia (is that a word?), more something. But what really ticked me off was when (apparently not knowing the heroine's identity), he blames the wife of his young friend (hubby #1) for leaving him after their child's death and letting him fall prey to drugs, instead of staying and saving him. WTF? As if anyone can save a druggie from his drug! And he never apologizes for this gross accusation later. And the heroine never calls him on it later. Blargle!I was left with the feeling that all along this story was headed for an explosive confrontation between a revenge-seeking heroine and a possibly-evil hero. But sadly that never materialized after all the build up, leaving us the readers with a damp squib. And no climax. Blargle again.
5 When I red the synopsis for this book, I thought I shouldn't read it because I thought it would be too into the occult, and as a Christian, that wouldn't b something for me to read.  Some other Christians read it, and didn't say anything bad about it so I thought I would give it a try.  I'm glad I did!  Don't be frightened!  The occult is just mentioned, and is frowned upon.  It is all right for a Christian to read!Susanna grew up in India, but went to school in England.  On her return visit, she finds Aubrey St. Clare (It is a man!  I've known girls named Aubrey, but this one is a man!).  They fall in love and marry back in England.  Her marriage is all but shattered when she finds out Aubrey is into opium and the occult.  She tries to make the marriage work, but when Aubrey's way of life causes her son to die, she leaves forever.  Before she regrets it, Aubrey dies as well.She decides to leave England and become a nurse, but she never forgives Dr. Damien Adair, the man she blames for Aubrey's downfall and her son's death.  Much to her surprise, she meets up with Damien and, is it love?  Could she love the man that ruined her husband and son?This Victoria Holt book is different because the ending isn't very suspenseful, and the &quot;bad-guy&quot; isn't trying to hurt the heroine.  Still, it is very good, like her others.
3 I just could not get into this book, and as this is not the first V. Holt book I've read, I think I will just not like her writing style.It was just that I could not feel what the character was feeling. The story is told from the first person point of view, and instead of that making her emotions more vivid to the reader, the narrator seemed to take a detacted voice to everything. I did not feel her hatred for the &quot;Demon Doctor,&quot; though &quot;Anna&quot; said she hated him, there was never any real sense that it was true. When she fell for him I didn't feel the passion. I couldn't even feel her passion for nursing. I know they were all there, but just because she said they were, and her actions vaguely reinforced it. There was never any real action in the story either. There was never a confrontation or a real climax.The story wasn't written badly, and the idea of the story was good too. There just wasn't that something extra in the story to make it great.All in all, the story didn't make me cry, laugh, angry, passionate, or even content. I was just indifferent to the characters, and I would frankly prefer to hate a book or its chacaters, then at least I know it touched me somehow.
5 if you've never read a victoria holt book than this one you would love it  is the 12th victoria holt book i read
2 This is one the few books written by Victoria Holt that I've absolutely hated. Though Holt's writing is not formulaic, she does have a predictable pattern that I love: intelligent, but beleaguered heroine, an interesting backstory, a shadowy "hero" or two, and verbal wit, not to mention plenty of intrigue and lovely settings. Secret for a Nightingale is the story of Susanna, who grows up to become a nurse during the Crimean War after a horrible marriage. Holt's attention to detail is present, as is her usual intelligent and independent heroine; the mystery is somewhat interesting, but the so-called hero is not. Susanna's driving force to do good and succeed on her own is to get away from her bad marriage and the memory of her dead husband's opium addiction. However, the "hero" of this story is the man who led her husband astray, and horrifyingly enough, he spends most of the book convincing Susanna that her husband's weakness was all her fault! What's worse is that she believes it, and she is frequently overcome by her strong attraction to the "hero". I read on to the end because I hate not completing a book, but I closed the pages not with a sigh of enjoyment, but with a grimace filled with disgust.
4 This romance centers on the life of Susanna, the rather sheltered daughter of a widowed British colonel stationed in India.  After her education in England Susanna returned to her father in India but soon found romance with the charming, wealthy heir to a country estate 'back home'.  Soon after her marriage Susanna realized that her husband was addicted to drugs, and that a well known doctor and author was involved in his circle of drug taking friends.  When Susanna can endure no more of this life she leaves her husband - a shocking action in Victorian society - and becomes involved with the equally shocking Florence Nightingale.  Susanna's path leads her to Germany and then the Crimean War theater.  Along the way she learns not only nursing but to question long held beliefs about her society and herself.As is typical of Ms Holt's work romance abounds in exotic locations.  Although the plot is rather formulistic and the mysteries quite transparent and the happy ending obvious from the beginning it is an entertaining way to spend a few hours.
2 I adore Victoria Holt novels. I like the author in all her pen names. But the books attributed to Victoria Holt have always been superior to the rest. They are usually well constructed, with an engrossing plot full of mystery, strong lead characters, and a powerful sense of place. "Secret for a Nightingale" lacks all of the above. It is the first Holt book I've been utterly unhappy with.The plot is as thin as mountain air; thinner. It surrounds a young woman who quickly discovers her new husband is not only an opium addict but a proud, self-professed devil worshipper. Tragedy destroys her marriage and she forms a bizarre fixation on the man she's decided to blame: a well-respected doctor and author of several provocative books about his exotic travels. Without any real, legitimate, factual reason, she forms a personal vendetta against him.She is soon joined by not one but three random young girls she passively takes under her wing. The scenarios surrounding these friends are far-fetched in the extreme.The story meanders and plods along. Despite being tangentially important to the action, Florence Nightingale is only talked about; she has zero presence in the story. In fact, nursing in general has little presence. It's merely a vehicle for the heroine to enjoy, in coincidence after coincidence, the way-too-easy "hunt" for her sworn enemy, dubbed "The Demon Doctor."The love story is usually secondary to the mystery for me in Holt's Gothic novels. But there is no mystery here. Sharp readers will be shocked and annoyed at the transparency. Nor is there the classic house/castle/island/village full of unknowns.The setting jumps all over, and one never really gets a good grasp on any one place.The most far-fetched and badly fleshed out feature of the mess is the love story. Even as you see it coming from chapters away, the narrative fails to deliver a plausible development.The more I think about it, the more ludicrous this novel becomes. From start to finish, it lurches and sways like a drug addict, ending abruptly, but not leaving the reader craving more.Instead of this junk I highly recommend "Night of the Seventh Moon", "The Judas Kiss", "The Secret Woman", and "The Shivering Sands." Holt can be masterful with the Gothic romance genre. Here she faltered.
5 This book is my second favorite of Victoria Holt's, my first being &quot;The Demon Lover&quot;. Her books are quality romance/mystery/history,  which are hard to find these days. This book realistically portrays the  struggle of a nurse durring WWI, not just with her nursing duties but with  her immense personal struggles as well.
4 I love Sydney Sheldon his books keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout the reading.The intrigue will surprise you at every turn.
5 Sidney Sheldon is one of my favorite authors, and you won't be disappointed. This is a great book and one you shouldn't miss.
5 It is a great read! It was hard to put it down I recommend it I love Sidney Sheldon's books
5 Sidney Sheldon is always a good read. This is probably the 2nd time I have read this book Most of his I have read 2 ormore times.
1 This was the first novel I've read by Sydney Sheldon.  The character development, plot development and prose is drivel compared to books by Greg Iles, Joseph Finder, Nelson DeMille, Richard Crais, Michael Connelly, Sheldon Siegel, and Richard North Patterson.  Its so bad, I'm throwing the book out so I won't make the mistake of rereading it.  Raise your standards people!
4 Sidney Sheldon remains as one of the few writers who really know how to move a story, keep his readers absorbed and root for a protagonist. He was skillful at constructing a complicated plot, and had the main storyline intertwined with the numerous side stories. I also like how the author was comfortable with writing about any time, place, or setting. He adapted to them all very well, as any good writer would.He also knew when to throw a twist at a reader. Sometimes it's comes as a pleasant surprise; sometimes you could hear yourself say "oh, this was totally unnecessary."Sidney Sheldon's books are soap operas wrapped in the paperback (or hardcover). He adroitly strikes chords and rattles reader's nerves. His novels are what critics typically call an "absorbing, fast-paced page-turner." However, if you read more than one of his novels you will notice couple things.First, he never bothered with complex descriptions of physical appearances. His characters are all good-looking, men have "arresting and sharp" glance and a "determined chin." Women are all with "soft", "silk", "sensual" bodies, "voluptuous", "provocative", "seductive" looks, "stunning" eyes and "shrewd" personalities. Sometimes, Sidney Sheldon got a tinge of inspiration and an "arresting look" became an "arresting intelligent look." But you get the point? Many writers label this "lazy writing". Lazy or not, Sidney Sheldon still sold his novels.Second, frequently, his female characters have a bad first sexual experience. I don't know what the fascination Sidney Sheldon had with that, but their virginity was lost in "oh-how-I-wish-it-was-different" kind of way.And, of course, here and there Sidney Sheldon gets carried away with complicating a story and inadvertently leaves some holes in the plot. But, hey, who doesn't?So, what does all this have to do with "Bloodline"? Well, a lot. If everything I wrote above appeals to you, then it does not matter if I talk about this book or any other of his books. The review applies to them all. It's a formula.... the book, not this review  ;-).
5 The history behind the book , the character descriptions, the whole book was a wonderful suspense filled page-turner.  One of Sidney Sheldon's best books. You fall in love with the main characters.
4 Interesting and exciting mystery with well-developed characters.  It's hard to believe that this is a second career for this author.
4 great book, story terrific, the typists should have used spell check. there were so many spelling errors thatI found, some one is going to loose their job. I paid for this book, the pace of the reading was interrupted, for multiple typing errors.
2 Not  Sidney Sheldon's best, could not get in to it, will try another later!All the other books he wrote were great!
5 Sidney Sheldon wrote another book that captivated me. It was hard to put it down. Good reading. I was sorry when it ended.
1 The main characters are, with two exceptions, despicable.  The heroine alone is redeemable.  Even the hero, her choice, is shallow and unbelievable.  The highly improbable, but effective detective is the only other character worth a fig.  I am thoroughly disgusted with Sheldon.
5 Reading Sheldon's most recent book "Are You Afraid of the Dark" reminded me of this, the first book of his I read, "Bloodline."  I still consider Bloodline to be his best work, definitely in the first order of all thrillers written.  It has it all -- beautiful heroine, exotic locales, all sort of deviancy to satisfy my prurient and adolescent mind, great plot that keeps you guessing, great characters, great psychology, and interesting insights into lifestyles of the rich and famous.Also, Bloodline was, strangely enough, my first great motivational book.  I read it not long after it came out, in 1979 or 1980, when I was a young teenager.  It had an effect on me as a 14-year-old that "Atlas Shrugged" or "The Fountainhead" might have on a 20-year old.  The book made me think of what *my* future would be, and whether I would be up to the task of meeting that future head-on.  That is the book's greatest strength: it describes people facing adversity and succeeding despite myriad obstacles.There is one part of the plot that I must comment on, however.  A good capital markets attorney, even in the 1970s, could have resolved the Roffe family's cash flow problems quite easily.  Further bank loans would have been entirely unnecessary.  All that was required was to make an offering of common stock to the general public to raise the needed money, simultaneously giving the Roffe family shares of preferred stock, with the preferred stock tradeable only within the Roffe family.  The preferred stock would give the collective holders thereof majority control over the board of directors of the company, say four out of seven seats, and preference rights to receive dividends.  Presto -- the Roffe family remains in control, cash flow problems are solved, and the Roffe family taps into some big bucks.  The New York Times Company actually has something similar to this, allowing the Sulzbergers to retain control while holding only a small proportion of the outstanding stock.  See Note 15 of the financial statements to the New York Times Company's most recent Form 10-K.  Simple, no?  Sir Alec could get the money to pay off the gangsters, Ivo could pay off Donatella, Walther could afford a nice cushy asylum for Anna, and Helene could...well, do something mean and nasty I guess, and everyone would be happy, no murder or mayhem necessary.  But I digress.  Read and enjoy the book.  It amply deserves a five-star rating.
4 Call it a craze of a Die hard Fan of Sid - I find Sid's Books, Interesting Reads that glues to start to finish read. His novels are royal touch that walks one mentally through the series of events that are emotional, sensational, touchy, investigative, gripping. Till the end, Sid keeps mystery and thats the charm of his novels. Elizabeth, the main character of the book, inherits her Dad's Company worth millions of dollars and becomes indecisive what to do. Her emotional character is twined with many other characters in the book like a thriller movie. She has to outwit the unknown assassin who wants her life as Sid passes the reader through betrayal, greed, danger and killing phase. Sid portrays Elizabeth as intelligent, tough, daring and beautiful lady. A nice read on a Hot summer day to stay chilled in the comforts of the Reading room with the book.
4 This is one of Sheldon's earlier books and while it's good I prefer later novels Master of the Game & Doomsday Conspiracy. Apparently this was made into a movie which flopped starring the lovely Audrey Hepburn. I'd still like to see it.This whodunnit story revolves around Elizabeth who is in control of a hugely powerful international family owned company where someone high up is sabotaging the company & trying to kill Elizabeth (they have already killed her father) to force the company to release shares to the public. Just about everyone is a suspect & has a motive.Just for the record I was unable to correctly guess whodunnit. Will you be able to guess correctly?
5 It was a very exciting and a fast read! I've fast become a fan of Sidney Sheldon. All of these intricate plot points and you weren't sure who the killer was until the very end. I've read a lot of books and nobody has stumped me quite like Sheldon has done with this one.
5 This is one of the best sheldon books ever.love hate murder and mystery.this will keep you up late.recommend to all of your friends.pageturner
5 This wonderful thriller is the story of Elizabeth Roffe, whose father has just died (or was he murdered?), leaving her heiress to a multi-billion dollar pharmaceutical maker.  She takes over the reins of the company with the help of Rhys Williams, a handsome but mysterious self-made man.  Elizabeth's four quirky cousins and co-owners of the company each have shady pasts and need money, badly.  They are pressuring her to allow the company to go public; she refuses, and becomes the target of an unknown assassin.This is a book you will not be able to put down.  The story is full of fascinating flashbacks, detailing the often bizarre lives of all the Roffes:  Alec from London, Helene from Paris, Anna from Berlin, and Ivo from Rome.  Each one has a reason to want Elizabeth out of the way, and as the attempts on her life increase, the tension mounts until the killer is revealed in a truly frightening conclusion.  Highly recommended for Sidney Sheldon fans and everyone who enjoys fast-paced stories full of action and memorable characters.  This book was made into an all-star movie with Audrey Hepburn, Omar Sharif, and James Mason.Kona
5 This is master storyteller SIDNEY SHELDON at his best!  The plot is breath-taking.  The characters are rich and well described.  Unputdownable.  Finished the book in 2 days
5 Another amazing read by Sheldon. Just fantastic. I could not put it down. He put the right amount of characters and their so demanding personalities smack in the middle of mayhem. It kept me guessing all along.This is again an absolutely thrill seeking, keep you guessing on your toes type of drama you just get stuck in. Loved it!
5 As per Sidney Sheldon lots of twists and turns.  He does a great job of developing characters and plenty of intrigue.  As usual a hard to put down book.  One of my favorite authors.
5 The good stuff about any Sidney Sheldon novels are:1) Good Story, writing which has lot involved a lot of research. This makes the story intelligent.2) Strong characters.3) Nicely paced story4) Unique background, like some have finance, other law etc.All these and others make the reader's come back to his novels, without any doubt.
5 Very gripping classic Sidney Sheldon, hard to put down.  Keeps you guessing until the very end, so many bad guys to chose from.  With even a little love story thrown in.
5 What a terrific "Who Done It" book!!  I just had to keep reading to find out who it was that wreaked havoc in this fantastic Sydney Sheldon book.  This is a non-stop read that will surely please all Sydney Sheldon fans.  And if you haven't read any of his books, you absolutely must!!!
2 this is my 4th Sheldon novel and probably the worst after the other side of midnight.  It doesn't compare to his other works like &quot;rage of agels&quot; and &quot;master of the game&quot;
5 This was the 3rd of the books I have read by Sidney Sheldon. I have only one complaint: the beginning could use some work. It took me a while to get into the book, but once I got into it I could NOT put it down! I was up 'til 1:30 reading it, and considering I'm 14, that's quite late on a school night.  I have read 5 books by Sheldon now and I plan to read even more. I have really enjoyed all 5. &quot;The Doomsday Conspiracy,&quot; &quot;Nothing Lasts Forever,&quot; &quot;Bloodline,&quot; &quot;Morning, Noon, &amp; Night,&quot; and &quot;The Best Laid Plans&quot; were all great books, from an excellent author.
4 Another fantastic, mind-gripping read, holding its audience from page one. Bloodline spins the tale of a family-run pharmaceutical conglomerate.  Roffe and Sons has been passed down to the heirs of Samuel Roffe's family, Sam Roffe, the only male descendant and holder of the controlling interest of the company, Anna Roffe married to Walther Gassner, Ivo Palazzi, married to Simonetta Roffe, Charles Martel married to Helene Roffe and Sir Alec Nichols' mother had been a Roffe. Samuel Roffe, founder of the company, had decided from the beginning that his company never go public.  His theory, "Never let a friendly fox into your hen house.  One day he's going to get hungry."  When Sam Roffe (an experienced climber) dies in a mysterious mountain climbing accident, Elizabeth inherits his controlling interest in the company.  Suddenly, life-threatening events begin to happen to her as she holds onto her great-great grandfather's wishes after finding a book telling the story of Samuel Roffe's life and the tense, emotional and physical struggle he endured to build the company from the ground up.  In her great-great grandfather's memory and approach, she is determined to keep the company private and uncover the person responsible for the evil doings within the upper echelon (that being one of four of her cousins) or possibly her father's right-hand man, Rhys Williams.  Rhys, not being a member of the family, was brought into the company by Elizabeth's father, however, unless he married a Roffe, in this case, Elizabeth (since she was the only female left), would be unable to sit on the Board of Directors.  Williams was always kind to Liz (is it merely business or personal?) who grew up without a father's presence in her life (just the comforts of his money).  Liz felt, even though she harbored strong feelings for Rhys, she could not afford to trust him or anyone until she uncovered the person out to destroy all that Samuel Roffe had built.  Each cousin has their own issues; Anna Roffe's husband is out to destroy their children, Ivo Palazzi is leading a double life with two families, Charles is being lead around by Helene as a boy toy, Sir Alec has married Vivian, a wild, crazy party girl and Rhys has worked long and hard his adult life for Sam without the benefit of even a share of stock in the multimillion dollar business.  Each one has their own agenda for forcing first Sam and now Elizabeth to have the company go public and thereby attaining the financial means to destroy the "fly in the ointment" of their respective lives.  I could not put this book down until the last page was turned.  Sheldon is the "master of storytelling."
3 Evil, greed, manipulation...Bloodline fills the prescription.
4 Elizabeth Roffe (a beautiful 20-something woman) becomes owner of a huge corporation when her father Sam dies in an accident (or was it a murder?).  She quickly finds out that someone is trying to ruin the whole corpration and it's up to her to find out who.Despite the length the book reads VERY fast and is never dull.  There's so much happening that keeping track of it all can be confusing but u get up to speed quickly.  The characterizations are paper-thin, the plot has HUGE loopholes and reality totally disappears a few times (especially at the end).  Still I'd be lying if I said I wasn't entertained and kept reading.  This is not a good book at all but it's perfect for the beach or to read when you're in the mood for something trashy and fun.  Be warned--there is plenty of sex and violence mixed together but it's hard to take this seriously.  Very much a guilty pleasure.
5 The story was very exciting from the beginning to the end.I could not came up the killer's name until he showed up.
5 'McAuslan in the Rough', a collection of seven short stories, recounts tales of service in a Scottish Highland regiment after WW II in North Africa and later back home awaiting demobilization.The narrator is a young subaltern by the name of Dand MacNeill who has the dread luck to suffer McAuslan's presence in his platoon. To explain the extent of this misfortune, I can do no better than offer three short excerpts that paint the picture. Turning up to caddy in a match against a set of English officers, McAuslan's "grey-white shirt was open to the waist, revealing what was either his skin or an old vest, you couldn't tell which. His hair was tangled and his mouth hung open; altogether he looked as though he'd just completed a bell-ringing stint at Notre dame." (McAuslan in the Rough).Later McAuslan "demonstrated yet again his carelessness, negligence, and indiscipline, and at the same time his fine adherence to principle." (His Majesty says good-day)."Not that he was a bad sort, in his leprous way, but he was sure disaster in any enterprise to which he set his grimy hand." (Bo Geesty).The McAuslan stories appear to be at least semi-autobiographical both with regard to MacNeill and McAuslan. According to Wikipedia, Fraser was busted back to private from Lance Corporal on three occasions, once for losing a tea urn, but later achieved a commission and served as a lieutenant in the Gordon Highlanders. Fraser also wrote an actual autobiography,Quartered Safe Out Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma.Fans of Flashman (Flashman: A Novel (Flashman)) will be thrilled to learn that there are more Fraser's works to be read. Mawe no mistake, McAuslan is no Harry Flashman. Nonetheless, McAuslan does grow on the reader, but MacNeill would probably say it's a fungus that may not be easily cured and should be looked after right away.Highly recommended.
3 I enjoyed this book for what it is, a light read based on GMF's military days.  As a former military officer, I could see the events occurring and unfolding just as GMF described them.  Every platoon or company has a soldier in the mould of PTE McAuslin.  I think that's why I enjoyed the book.  I suspect that a non-military person would not get the same benefit out of reading it as an ex military.
5 MCAUSLAN IN THE ROUGH is George MacDonald Fraser's 1974 sequel to THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN. In the former, Dand MacNeill continues to reminisce about his time spent as a subaltern commanding a platoon of tartan-kilted Scottish Highlanders during the period 1945-1947 while the battalion is posted to both Libya and Edinburgh. One of MacNeill's Jocks is Pvt. John McAuslan, by consensus the filthiest, most unkempt soldier in the British Army. As Dand records:"... (his) grey-white shirt was open to the waist, revealing what was either his skin or an old vest, you couldn't tell which. His hair was tangled and his mouth hung open; altogether he looked as though he'd just completed a bell-ringing stint at Notre Dame."Each of Fraser's books is a collection of short stories relating to events experienced by Dand and his battalion, and particularly his platoon, and which are based on Fraser's own service in the Gordon Highlanders during the same time period. So, in this volume, the lieutenant and his comrades-in-arms garrison an isolated desert outpost for a month, face the controversial inclusion of a black piper in the regimental band (it is, after all, 1946), compete in a general knowledge quiz contest with the Fusiliers regiment, contemplate McAuslan's dubious success with the ladies, mount a nighttime raid on the local Souk to apprehend two deserters, and engage the Royals regiment in a golf tournament. And, lastly, what happens when Dand and McAuslan are released from active duty ("demobbed") on the same day. Whereas in GENERAL McAuslan's contribution to events was erratic and usually of brief duration, in ROUGH his role is expanded to the point where he's a key player in four of the seven chapters.  As always, MacNeill's first person narration, both witty and good-natured, ties it all together.Note: MCAUSLAN IN THE ROUGH is currently out of print in the US. However, it and Fraser's two other books in the McAuslan series, THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN and THE SHEIKH AND THE DUSTBIN, are all contained in THE COMPLETE MCAUSLAN. I found this to be a captivating and entertaining volume, which I heartily recommend to anyone who is a student of the British military's former role in establishing and policing the Empire. One notable characteristic of Fraser's writing is his ability to quote Dand's Jocks, and put their heavily accented Scottish dialect on paper. By the end of the book, I could actually understand what was being "said".
5 This collection of semi-autobiographical stories shows Fraser at his best, freed from the need to construct fiction around his Flashman character and hence allowed to bring on a rich cast of well-remembered characters from his youth. The camaraderie of an Army regiment is beautifully drawn, as are the tensions which exist inside any closely-knit group of people.But the stories dominate this book, from the tense inter-regimental quiz to the chaotic attempts to prevent a smallpox outbreak and the tour-de-force in which all of the main characters find themselves involved in a golf match, the tension increased by the smallness of the stakes for which they are playing.All the characters, from mystical-thinking padres from the Western Isles, to Glaswegian ruffians and Sandhurst-trained exquisites, play their part in one of the most enjoyable and amusing collections of short stories it is possible to imagine.
5 It is time that you hear &quot;the sub-muckin', the whole cheese, the hail clanjamfry, the lot' about the Scottish Highland Regiment that served in Africa after World War II.George MacDonald Fraser has written the stories of this regiment and its most infamous soldier, Private McAuslan, in three collections: The General Danced at Dawn, McAuslan in the Rough, and The Sheikh and the Dustbin.Through the narration by platoon commander Dand McNeil, McAuslan comes alive as the dirtiest soldier in the world, &quot;wan o' nature's blunders; he cannae help bein' horrible.  It's a gift.&quot;Yet McAuslan is one of the most loveable creatures in all of literature.  He may be grungy, filthy, clumsy, and disreputable, but he tries to do his best.  Through his many misadventures, McAuslan marches into the heart of the reader, right leg and right arm swinging in unison, of course.McAuslan, outcast that he is, experiences some infamous moments in his career: court martial defendant, ghost-catcher, star-crossed lover, golf caddie, expert map reader, and champion of the regimental quiz game (!).  His tales, and the tales of his comrades-in-arms, are poignant at times, hilarious at others.  These tales are so memorable because they are based on true stories.The reader basks in all things Scottish in the stories.  The language of the soldiers is written in Scottish brogue, although Fraser says in his introduction, &quot;Incidentally, most of this volume is, I hope, written in English.&quot; Don't fret - a glossary is provided.  (Reading the glossary alone causes some serious belly laughs.If you read only one book this year, read this one.  And if you know any veterans, give them a copy.  It's a volume that the reader will not soon forget.
4 Guilty of a good read. I've read of Eleanor of Aquitaine only in a non-fictional context and it was very, very, very long and boring. I was hoping that this was going to be better than my first introduction to her; I was very satisfied.This book is long. I will admit that, but it's not the sort of long that makes you wish you picked something shorter. Though is can be very repetitious(and I'm noticing that a lot with her books) the book goes through her life as a good pace to where you feel you know more of her than just what the history books say, or rather don't.It begins with her life at her grandfather's courts. A place filled with music, song and love. In fact her grandmother was abducted by her grandfather in a story that makes for a very romantic story in and of itself. She knows that she is supposed to be Duchess of Aquitaine when her father dies and her dreams are nearly dashed with the birth of her brother. As history tells us she does become Duchess. From almost the moment of her birth she is destined to be great. Eleanor knows it and does everything in her power to fulfill destiny.But her destiny is filled with hardship. She married Louis VII. A pious man who shouldn't have been king, but for a pig. He does love her, and she does love him, but they should never have been married. He's too pious for her, she too wordly for him. They do embark on the Second Crusade, which ends in near disaster, but for Eleanor tasting true love. Unfortunately it's her uncle and that would be totally unacceptable. She's forced to go back to France where she desperately wants a divorce from Louis.She is given her wish and falls in love with Henry Plantagenet, aka Henry II. Their marriage is truly interesting. They would have been happy together if he weren't a cheater and this breaks her heart. She resents him, but cannot resist him. She bears him many children. Her favourite being Richard, also known as Richard the Lionhearted, of Robin Hood fame, along with the evil Prince John. And he is just as awful in this book as you would expect. Though you sort of understand where he's coming from. Well at least she tries to convey her reasoning behind his sadistic nature.The book ends with her is a state you never would have thought she would be in.This gives a wonderful account of her life that's so much better than a history book. She finally gets to come alive from the dusty pages of a book.
4 I'm a big fan. This is a classic plaidy novel. Eleanor of Aquitaine is beautifully de eloped as a character. A rather interesting perspective of this very elusive woman.
4 This book was really long and tended to ramble a bit, but it was surprisingly insightful and a fun read.  Plaidy is so descriptive that you can't help but see the scenes before you and her characters are believable.  This book chronicles Eleanor's life as a young girl in France all the way until the end of her life when she's very old and reflecting upon her life and her children.
3 This is a well-written account of the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine. The character development is very good, and I found her to be an interesting character. She lived a very diverse lifestyle, and so this book is packed full of all the different and exotic places she went to. The account of the Crusade was particularly interesting to read.Just a note: I am pretty sure this book is the first three books of Jean Plaidy's Plantagenet serious in one book. The first book was about Eleanor, the second book about Eleanor, Henry II and Thomas Becket, and the third book about Eleanor and her son Richard the Lionheart. This one book covers all three aspects.
5 This is a fictional novel about Eleanor of Aquitaine written in "her" own words.From her childhood in France, her marriage to Louis, the Crusade, marriage to Henry, her sons, her imprisonment, release and her love of her son Richard and hatred of John, this book tells everything about Eleanor.
4 In this, the fifth volume in her Queens of England series of novels, the author, also known as Victoria Holt to her legion of fans, tackles the story of Eleanor of Aquitaine, a woman who led an incomparable life. Born in an age when women tended to be submissive and docile, Eleanor was anything but. She was an outspoken, well educated, independent, and beautiful woman. Hers is a story that, in the hands this author, an accomplished storyteller, captivates the reader.Eleanor, Duchess of Aquitaine, became Queen of France when she entered into a marriage of state with Louis VII of France, a somewhat weak and ineffectual, though pious, young ruler. Theirs was not a passionate affair of the heart but, rather, a mesalliance that would come to a somewhat abrupt end, when she met Henry II, the first Plantagenet King of England. Though she was eleven years his senior, theirs was to be a tempestuous and passionate love-hate relationship that would end in marriage and span a lifetime. She would give birth to their numerous sons and daughters, two of whom would go on to reign over England, Richard the Lionhearted and John Lackland.Narrated in the first person, as are all the books in this Queens of England series, Eleanor tells the reader of her adventurous and exciting life, set against a backdrop of medieval politics, intrigues, and strife. A woman who brooked little interference in her life, she decribes what it was like to have experienced and gone on a crusade. She tells of her long years as prisoner of her philandering husband, Henry II. She relates the triumphs and disappointments of her long and singular life. In doing so, she weaves a memorable tapestry of love, passion, betrayal, and heartbreak. It is an account that will keep the reader turning the pages of this unforgettable, though somewhat romanticized, account of a life lived to the fullest.
3 Eleanor of Aquitaine is one of the most fascinating women in all of history, and many books, both fiction and non-fiction, have been published about her.  Jean Plaidy's Courts of Love, came as something as a surprise, because curiously, it lacks the vitality of most of her other historicals. The facts and events of her remarkable life are accurately presented, but Eleanor, in reality a woman of action, here comes across as a judgmental, petty, rather selfish individual who is extraordinarily hard her husbands. Courts is also exceedingly repetitious. Eleanor makes the same points so often (ie, what a ninny Louis of France is, what a boorish oaf Henry is, how taxing her imprisonment is) that the narrative becomes tiresome at points. With judicious editing, this novel could have been much livelier, not to mention shorter.Plaidy is good with words, and that's what saves Courts of Love. Is it worth reading? Yes. But for a reading experience in which all of the indomitable Eleanor's amazing resilience, talents, and vitality are portrayed, try The Book of Eleanor, by Pamela Kaufman. Also give a look to The Lion in Winter, with Peter O'Toole as Henry and Katherine Hepburn (who else could play Eleanor?). A young Anthony Hopkins appears as one of the sons.
4 Eleanor of Aquitaine is the granddaughter of the Duke of Aquitaine, an extremely wealthy European province.  As an heiress, she is an excellent catch for a royal marriage, and so she was married to Louis VII of France.  However, the two were not well suited, and when Eleanor meets Henry II of England, she quickly falls in love.  She divorces Louis and moves to England to be with Henry.  Unfortunately, Eleanor seems not to be any better at picking her mates herself than she was when her marriage was arranged - the fire of love with Henry also fades, and Eleanor's new great love is that of her children.  Her favorite - Richard, who will one day earn the "Lionheart."Quote: "I was a woman who considered herself their equal - and in many ways their superior - but it seemed that I depended on them, while seeking to be the dominant partner - an attitude which could hardly be expected to bring about a harmonious existence."Eleanor of Aquitaine was cool.  This book will tell you why.  She is the queen of two countries, rules Aquitaine in her own right, goes on crusade, and is the mother of two English kings.  Many of her children are involved in various plots and schemes, which Eleanor tries to navigate through, often adding intrigue of her own.  I really enjoyed this look at Eleanor's life, particularly how the different relationships she had influenced so much of who she became, even as she worked hard to be in control of her own destiny.  The sections on the crusades was especially interesting, as you see the enthusiastic crusaders (including the king, queen, and noble men and women just going for the fun of it) learn the truth about war and hardship.
5 A thrilling account of the complicated life of Eleanor, the mother of Richard the Lion-Hearted and John I of England.  I should have looked up a map of Europe first to find Aquitaine.  It was a vassal country to France, located in the far southwest corner of France, near Spain.  Raised in The Courts of Love with some very sex-centered grandparents, Eleanor became the Duchess of Aquitaine, but at a young age she was married to the King of France.  She was a lusty girl, but Louis was not a lusty man.  As the second son, he was slated for the church and had to be recalled from his monastery when an accident with a pig caused the sudden death of his older brother.  As Louis preferred to spend the nights kneeling beside the bed in prayer, Eleanor was extremely frustrated alone in her cold bed, but the couple did manage to produce two daughter, the second was conceived when the Pope put the couple to bed in a specially prepared room and bed sprinkled with Holy Water.  Since girls could not inherit the French crown, a divorce was agreed upon on the grounds that Eleanor and Louis were too closely related.Next stage of the story:  Very soon thereafter, Eleanor and 17-yr-old Henry, son of Matilda, heir to the English crown, jumped into bed to start a torrid love affair. They were soon married, and Eleanor hit it off with Henry's mother, Matilda, a formidable woman who had led an army to take the English throne away from Stephen, a cousin who being male had usurped the Crown.  The civil war ended with a document naming Matilda's son Henry as the next king when Stephen died.  Soon Eleanor, former Queen of France, was Queen of England.  Male heirs were no problem for Eleanor and Henry:  William, Henry, Richard, Geoffrey, and years later John joined the family, interspersed with enough sisters to make marriage agreements with most of the monarchs of Europe.  As happened with so many royal children, William was born sickly and passed away in childhood.  Henry became the heir, and also became his father's favorite.  The marriage started to crumble when Henry, the King, brought a bastard son, Geoffrey, to the nursery and demanded that he be raised with the legitimate offspring.  Eleanor now realized by the age of the new Geoffrey that Henry had not been faithful to her from the beginning of the marriage.  She began to fall out of love.  As the father put all his pride and attention on Henry, even having him crowned as the young king during his childhood, Eleanor put all her love and hopes on the next son, Richard.  Richard was a strikingly handsome young man, tall, well built, with reddish blond hair. John was rejected by Eleanor at birth.  She was tired of having babies.  She was estranged from Henry.  She had made Richard her heir in Aquitane.  Henry had divided his possessions between Henry and Geoffrey.  There was nothing left for John, so Eleanor decided he should make the church his career.  She got a wet nurse and sent him off to a monastery, along with servants and Joanne, the sister closest to John in age.  The king called John John Lackland because there was nothing to give him.  John was a small baby with dark hair and was not appealing to his parents.This is a gripping tale, and I will not spoil it for the reader.  How does Richard, and then later John, receive the crown of King of England?  What happens to Henry and Geoffrey?  Is the depiction of Richard and John in Robin Hood correct?  Is Richard worthy of the name Richard, the Lion-Hearted?  What happens to Eleanor after she falls out of favor with Henry?  What became of Aquitaine?  How about Luis, did he ever have a son?  This story tells all in the vivid manner of Jean Plaidy.  This is truly a book you won't be able to put down.
5 Eleanor was indeed a woman born before her time, Pleady makes her come alive in a page turning book of historical fiction. From her early life at the court of the duke of Aquitane thru her marriages and afairs she comes to us as a very real modern woman who was loved by her subjects.
4 I really liked this historical novel; Jean Plaidy made the fascinating life of Eleanor of Aquitaine come to life.  From my own research, the novel is as accurate as it can be, and I loved the way Plaidy created motivations behind the actions of the historical figures.  It was well worth the read.
5 After reading the fine reviews already posted by others, one doubts whether another review will add much, but out of habit - near compulsion by now - here goes another - with an emphasis on reading connections.As did many, perhaps most readers of the McAuslan stories, I came to them by way of The Flashman series (My favorites so far:Flashman: A Novel (Flashman)andFlashman in the Great Game: A Novel (Flashman). I enjoyed the Flashman enough to give McAuslan a try. Both series are funny, relate to historical events, and display an ear for language and an eye for detail, but could otherwise be written by different authors. The McAuslan stories are told by the reasonable, sensible, compassionate voice of Lieut. Dand MacNeill and relate the trials of life in a Highland regiment immediately after WW II. In other words, MacNeill could hardly be more different from Harry Flashman. The stakes are lower than in Flashman. The McAuslan tales deal with the mundane life of a soldier waiting for demobe and not imperial crises. These stories read just like tales that actually happened - and something pretty close to them probably did.McAuslan plays less of a role in the The General Danced at Dawn thanMcAuslan in the Rough, but the stories are still a delight to read.The McAuslan stories lie at the outreaches of contemporary humor; pretty obscure stuff and the more fun because of it. A great kick in finding works like these is stumbling upon other works of equal merit and obscurity. It's sort of guided serendipity, if you will. Flashman led not only to McAuslan, but also to John Biggins'A Sailor of Austria: In Which, Without Really Intending to, Otto Prohaska Becomes Official War Hero No. 27 of the Habsburg Empire (The Otto Prohaska Novels)and toArtemus Ward, his book. With many comic illustrations.(not sure how the Ward connection occurred. Mark Twain called Ward the greatest American humorist of his day.).Highest recommendation and climb out on these other branches.
5 As a young Lieutenant in a highland regiment posted to North Africa, Fraser recounts his adventures, the characters and the essence of the army life he encountered.It is so accurate it took me back to when I was a young 19 year old Lieutenant.  I showed it to my father who had been in the army in the 1930s and he spent the whole day laughing.Next to Quartered Safe Out Here, Fraser's book on the Burma Campaign,  these books are second to none for anyone who wants to understand the rhythms of army life, the humor of the barracks and the traditions of soldiering.I can't recommend these books more highly!
5 George MacDonald Fraser served in the "other ranks" of the British Army in Burma late in WWII. Commissioned as a subaltern (2nd lieutenant) following the Japanese surrender, he served as a platoon leader in a Gordon Highlander battalion posted to the Middle East before being "demobbed", i.e. released from active duty. His experiences serve as the basis for THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN, initially published in 1970, a first person account by the fictional Dand MacNeill, subaltern of a platoon in an unspecified Highland battalion posted first to Libya, then to Edinburgh, during the period 1945-1947.THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN is a work of wry humor, inasmuch as Lt. MacNeill describes the unintentionally comic situations encountered with his Jocks (men) during garrison life both in Scotland and abroad, mostly the latter. The book is actually a series of short stories, in which a common thread tying all together, besides Dand himself, is Pvt. McAuslan, the dirtiest, most slovenly soldier in His Majesty's service. As described by MacNeill:" ... he lurched into my office (even in his best tunic and tartan he looked like a fugitive from Culloden who had been hiding in a peat bog) ..."McAuslan may be the focus of a particular chapter, as when he is court-martialed for refusing an order to enter a pillow fight contest to be held during a gathering of the various Highland regiments. Or, he may  make nothing more than a brief cameo appearance, as when he is upbraided by MacNeill for fighting one of the crewman aboard the coastal steamer ferrying the battalion's soccer team on a road-trip against the teams of neighboring British commands - a fight brought on by the sailor's comments regarding McAuslan's unsanitary appearance.The squalid presence of McAuslan notwithstanding, the central character of the book is Dand MacNeill, whether he's coping with the unfathomable questions of the officer selection board, pressed into command of an overnight troop train from Cairo to Jerusalem through unruly Palestine, mounting the ceremonial guard at Edinburgh Castle, or taking lessons in regimental piping history from the god-like Regimental Sergeant Major. Dand's narrative of military service is of such good humor and wit that it's evident his alter ego, Fraser, remembers his own time in uniform as an enriching life experience, despite the hardships of WWII combat. This positive slant on the book's theme, and Fraser's/MacNeill's fine sense of the ludicrous, make the volume one that I couldn't put down. (I've encountered so-called "thrillers" that were less absorbing.)Note: THE GENERAL DANCED AT DAWN is currently out of print in the US. However, it and Fraser's two sequels in the McAuslan series, MCAUSLAN IN THE ROUGH and THE SHEIKH AND THE DUSTBIN, are all contained in THE COMPLETE MCAUSLAN, available from Amazon.co.uk. This is a superb volume, worth to an Anglophile every pence spent in postage to deliver it across The Pond to The Colonies.
5 This collection of fictionalised wartime reminiscences shows a truly great writer firing on all cylinders. With a draining six-year war just finished, the regiment is winding down in North Africa, and such is the way of the military that the men must be kept busy on a variety of more-or-less useless tasks. These they tackle in a hilariously bumbling way, aided to no small extent by the inexperience of their officer, who serves as the book's narrator.They play football well, but let the side down with off-field brawls and gambling, cause havoc on a night exercise and have trouble with their kilts when presenting to royalty. The title story is a tour-de-force, when a crusty, whisky-mellowed General thinks he can redefine the Scottish dancing tradition by turning an eightsome into a hundred and twenty-eightsome, with the assistance of Arab cooks and drivers.Fraser proves enormously clever in melding fiction with reminiscence and delivers a book that is essential reading matter for anyone with a sense of humour.
5 It is time that you hear &quot;the sub-muckin', the whole cheese, the hail clanjamfry, the lot' about the Scottish Highland Regiment that served in Africa after World War II.George MacDonald Fraser has written the stories of this regiment and its most infamous soldier, Private McAuslan, in three collections: &quot;The General Danced at Dawn&quot;, &quot;McAuslan in the Rough&quot;, and &quot;The Sheikh and the Dustbin&quot;.Through the narration by platoon commander Dand McNeil, McAuslan comes alive as the dirtiest soldier in the world, &quot;wan o' nature's blunders; he cannae help bein' horrible.  It's a gift.&quot;Yet McAuslan is one of the most loveable creatures in all of literature.  He may be grungy, filthy, clumsy, and disreputable, but he tries to do his best.  Through his many misadventures, McAuslan marches into the heart of the reader, right leg and right arm swinging in unison, of course.McAuslan, outcast that he is, experiences some infamous moments in his career: court martial defendant, ghost-catcher, star-crossed lover, golf caddie, expert map reader, and champion of the regimental quiz game (!).  His tales, and the tales of his comrades-in-arms, are poignant at times, hilarious at others.  These tales are so memorable because they are based on true stories.The reader basks in all things Scottish in the stories.  The language of the soldiers is written in Scottish brogue, although Fraser says in his introduction, &quot;Incidentally, most of this volume is, I hope, written in English.&quot; Don't fret - a glossary is provided.  (Reading the glossary alone causes some serious belly laughs.If you read only one book this year, read this one.  And if you know any veterans, give them a copy.  It's a volume that the reader will not soon forget.
5 These wonderful stories, written by Fraser when he was an officer in the Gordon Highlanders at the end of the Second World War are priceless. There is much sardonic humor and wit here. The characters come and go throughout the book. Each chapter is a self contained story in itself almost. By far the one character who appears most often is the unhygenic pvt. McAuslan. He seems to do for the Scots what some of the WW2 comic characters like Sad Sack did for the GI's. The author, who speaks through the voice of his nom-de-guerre relates many amusing episodes. Some are a little silly at times, and the constant unwashed antics of "Peking Man" McAuslan gets a bit tiring, but this does not take away from the quality or humor of the work.I like best when Fraser talks about the regimental history and lore of the Gordons when he's taking a break from McAuslan. There are some truly wonderful characters and events related here, all factual enough and displaying the honors and traditions which existed in old Highland regiments like the Gordons. Fraser is at his best when he talks of these traditions and one can see that he relished his hectic years with this famous Highland regiment.The downsizing of the British Empire and the changes this would wrought in the army as well as the world are the backdrop against which these stories are told. This is not a book about war, but about a time when national service was apart of nearly everyone's life. Some of Fraser's opinions may not be considered PC for today, but this in my opinion adds to the charm of these stories. The war and its aftermath left lasting impressions on those who took part. The Gordon Highlanders are sadly no more, having been downsized in 1994.  In this book you will find many funny and amusing tales which made them the fine regiment they once were.  Those who have followed Fraser in his Flashman series will find a different style here, but equally entertaining in its own right. The McAuslan stories form part of a number of works that were written about the post war years in Britain.  "Tunes of Glory" is another more serious example by Kenneth Kennaway.The McAuslan stories have been recently gathered together into a triology which is not available from Amazon.com in the States.  The book can be ordered from Amazon.com.co.uk and is well worth the extra pennies to do so.Here's to the Gordons!  Long may their memory live!
2 an okay read.  Plot was not very exciting nor suspenseful.  Characters were not well developed nor likeable. The TV series was 1000 times better...and I usually prefer a book.
4 I never saw the new series but recalled that my father watched the original, so I figured I should get around to this series. Wow! I must say that I very much enjoyed this novel & Francis Urquhart is captivating and seriously petrifying. I was all over the place with Mattie but ended up simply pitying her because she wanted to believe up to the very end. Roger was hapless and pathetic but I still hoped he&#8217;d make it but I knew he couldn&#8217;t. Mrs Urquhart gets total points for being just about as chilling a person as her husband. They&#8217;re perfect for one another. I very much enjoyed this one & have to admit that it&#8217;s not often one runs across so memorable a character. I wholly see what all the chatter was about & why an American version of the UK series was done.This was a fascinating & absorbing read. I wish it were available on Kindle but I&#8217;m glad that a raid of the bookshelves at my parent&#8217;s had a copy. There was also a copy of To Play the King, so I&#8217;ll have to read that soon. I&#8217;d recommend this one, definitely.
5 The storyline is as relevant today as it was when originally published 25 years ago. Can't wait to read the next book.
5 Loved the intrigue but I was shocked by how strong the lust for power can be and the lengths Francis goes to to get it.
4 I would give the book a 3.5 rating.  I like the first part of the book where Francis Urquhart sets up the British Prime Minister to fail so he could become Prime Minister.  The second part of the book where Urquhart obtains victory over his political opponents by exposing their scandals was more ordinary and predictable.I have not seen either the British or American TV series by that name.  I did not find the British political system hard to follow.  In fact some parts of the book which describe the British system were interesting.  In Britain, the Prime Minister every week has to go to Parliament and take hostile questions from the opposition party which is something the American president does not have to do.  The relationship between the press and politicians seems both friendlier and more hostile in Great Britain than in the US.Some qualities of the book which I liked I don&#8217;t think could directly applied to the US politics.  If I were to do an American adaption of the book I would set it in a powerful institution where the players are trying to manipulate to become the head of the organization.  In the US we can&#8217;t get the US president fired so we can get his/her position which is what Francis Urquhart does to the British Prime Minister.When the book starts out Francis Urquhart is the Chief Whip which gives him access to information but he is not seen as a major cabinet official.  The British Prime slights him and then Francis Urquhart goes after the Prime Minister&#8217;s job.  That Urquhart is not perceived as a major player irritates Urquhart but he uses it to his advantage because everyone trusts him.For a while Francis Urquhart in the book is what I might call a likeable bad guy.  While condoning what he did, it was interesting seeing his manipulations and one felt he was going after people who had slighted him.  However, at some point in the book Urquhart turned pure evil and lost whatever likeability he had.However, that Urquhart becomes a total villain would not stop me from reading the sequels to the book if they were easily available.Also the part of the book after the Prime Minister gets ousted gets to be more conventional/boring/dull.  I found it hard to believe that all of Urquhart&#8217;s opponents for leadership had such serious personal weaknesses that they would just crumble when these issues were revealed.  Some politicians are very successful at surviving incredible obstacles.
5 After watching the American version of &#34;House of Cards&#34; I HAD to read the book that was the beginning of it all.  Michael Dobbs' writing is fast-paced and interesting.  I couldn't put the book down but hated arriving at the last chapter knowing the book would be coming to an end.  I've ordered two more books by Michael Dobbs from Amazon and can't wait for them to arrive.
3 I had read Michael Dobbs series on Winston Churchill and enjoyed them very much. Coincidentally, I had recently watched the US remake of 'House of Cards'. Perhaps it was time to read the original story now that my memory of the much earlier BBC version constituted only Urquhart's face and the climactic scene on the rooftop.About half way through the book I realised how much the art of novel writing has matured, along with TV screenwriting, in the last few decades. The idea of the book remains clever, even brilliant, but the contrast between the original plot and the re-interpreting of it in the American series reveals the plot weaknesses of the original. Some measure of suspended belief is required. Rather too much in the case of the original. Could he really get away with it? Surely not.But, for a while, it us fun to believe he did.
4 It is far more cynical and brutal than the old &#34;First among equals&#34; which I loved. I think that Dobbs has caught the climate of modern politics but where does this takes us.
5 &#8220;Why waste a life in search of an epitaph? &#8216;Fondly Remembered&#8217;. Who other than a halfwit has that chiselled above his head?&#8221;This book caught my eye because I have heard so much about the TV series, though I have never seen it.Collecting and trading secrets is s dangerous game and calculating game and no one plays it better than Francis Urquhart. He set his sights on the Prime Minister position and will stop at nothing to have it. Can anything be more formidable than am man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants?Truth and honor are what drive Mattie Storin every day and what drove her politics and becoming a correspondent. Her conviction is tested to its limits when she stumbles into the web of Urquhart&#8217;s deceit and games.&#8220;Politics requires sacrifice. The sacrifice of others, of course.&#8221;As far as political thrillers go, it is probably one of the best I have ever read. The book starts a bit slowly for my taste, but the writing is solid and I easily connected with the characters. It is a smart book. The plot was fun and dangerous and full of twists and turns. Once I settled in, I was captivated until the very end&#8230; OH! And the end??? WOW!!! Now that is how you end a book!Gripping, exciting and dangerously devious!I give this British tale of deception and power 5 stars and pair it with what other than Beefeater Gin!This book was generously offered in exchange for an honest review.Read our other Book & Drink Pairings at [...]
5 A really great Kindle read.  Non-intellectual that I am, I assumed the original BBC series was a pure TV plot.  Only when the American version showed up did I learn that Michael Dobbs was not only a real life person, but also an honest to goodness inner member of the Thatcher government.The BBC series was an almost page for page retelling of the three books so, if you have seen the series, there are not to many surprises in the book.  Despite that, the sheer beauty of the text makes it a page turner.  The only true difference is that in the BBC version, after each piece of villainy, Ian Richardson would turn sweetly to the camera and in that great oily voice calmly explain exactly what he did and why.  These lectures are missing from the book.  All is not lost, however.  Each chapter starts with a pure political reality quote, presumably by Francis,  that takes your breath away."Politics comes from the Greek word "Politico" which means the mass of people.  A Tick is a small bloodsucking creature.""The Bible says many times you must forgive your enemies.  Nowhere does it ever mention that you must forgive your friends."A true bummer, however, is that only the first book of the trilogy is available on kindle.  This might be explained by the author's notes that this version of "House of Cards" is a new edition that has been largely rewritten and reissued in conjunction with the American Netflix version.  All was not lost.  After a search I was able to find the two remaining parts as used books from Amazon.As an aside, if you have not started into the Kevin Spacey remake on Netflix, I would recommend you start with the BBC original, also available from Netflix.  Kevin Spacey is good in his quest for power, but Ian Richardson was incredible.  You think Walter White is a villain whom you have cheer?  He isn't fit to be in the same room with Francis Uquhart.
4 Yes, you will enjoy the book.  Actually the series was quite close to the book.  Anyway it's a good read and I plan to try another of his books.
4 Michael Dobbs has written a wonderful book on politicians and this was on the BBC. House of Cards shows you the behind the scenes of daily manipulations,corruption, and greed that goes on.
3 This introductory book in the Francis Urquhart trilogy is extremely well written, evenly paced and the plot is extremely engaging. . Though it is set in the English political arena, I was easily able to understand the terms and hierarchy. It is a tightly woven mystery wrapped in political intrigue. I could liken it to a Shakespearean drama. It is my understanding that the series has been updated from it's original publication, with added characters and topical references. Fans of the American Television version of the story will not be disappointed - it is different enough as to be a new story. I will definitely read the next books in the series, as I found the characters and story compelling and enjoyable.*I received my copy from NetGalley.com in exchange for an honest review.
4 No way one can put the book down intrigue scheming and fast paced Dobbs keeps you riveted in every chapter every page every para
2 Did not hold my interest. Bought it because the Netflix series is a favorite, but I couldn't get into this book.
2 I have come to the conclusion that political dramas are best for me on screen.  Having this original story have a lot to do with a government that I am not as familiar with most likely made this a 2 instead of a 3 and that is not the authors fault at all.  The story was written well, and there were some interesting scenes but I struggled through this book and at times felt it more of a chore to read.
4 Michael Dobbs, aka Baron Dobbs of the Conservative Party, is a member of the British House of Lords. In his various roles in government, extending over many years and in many roles (including advisor to former PM Margaret Thatcher; Conservative MP speechwriter; Government "Special Advisor"; and Conservative Party Chief of Staff) he is presumably well-placed to probe the dark corners of British politics. He also worked in advertising, lending another interesting perspective to his worldview. His fictional accounting of a Machiavellian series of maneuvers, undertaken in an effort to undermine and discredit the serving Prime Minister, is the basis for this interesting story.Much of the book revolves around various situations that are peculiar to parliamentary government systems (and likely are unique to the UK). In it, the cynical and devious maneuvering of Chief Whip Frances Urquhart of "the Party" destroy politicians, devastate lives and ruin careers. There are also a couple of murders. One can infer that the parochial nature of the tale has been transcended: there are larger lessons to be learned (and a good story to be told).Urquhart's malevolent nature and cunning political ambitions were apparently catalyzed into action (creating a modern day "I, Claudius" tale) by an offhand and offensive remark by PM Collingridge to "FU" in the presence of a senior party official. Revenge was relentless and remorseless. The book concludes with FU's election as PM and sets the stage for the two book sequels and the two TV series it spawned. Revenge and ruthless cynicism are universal themes. The truth and power of the axiom, "Knowledge is power" is nicely illustrated in this story.The novel is both interesting and well-written, although the plot is oftentimes predictable and character development occasionally mundane. Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright present a much more interesting and nuanced team than do Francis and his wife, Mortima. The Netflix series is also better at dramatic presentation and features more plot intricacies.In Francis Urquhart, Dobbs has re-established and updated the political archetype of the cunning, emotionless, crafty and manipulative politician, one whose prowess was acknowledged by President Obama who  (supposedly) remarked,  "At least he gets something done", to which FU might have replied, "You might very well think that; I couldn't possibly comment".
5 The people in this story of British politics are almost all just awful folks, all tearing away at each other, with no love, no kindiness, nothing to relieve the reader of the idea that these politicians are a sorry lot.  As are their relationships.  The in-depth knowledge of the workings of British Politics, and also British newspapers is all too perfect in complete details.  This was a real experience to read, because I know very little of English politics in modern times, but it seems to me the Brits have not changed since the Green Dragoon, Ban Tarleton, was the rep from Liverpool, defending slavery, and trying to find another war to fight.  This is a real and seemingly accurate image of the harshest side of political intrigue in which anyone can be exposed as a sinner for the sake of one man's need to conquer all.  Very absorbing, very well written.  It was was good for me as the first time I read it back when it was a really great series on tv.
3 This book is drier than the wonderful BBC series starring Ian Richardson. But because Michael Dobbs spent years as a journalist covering British politics, plot points that are simplified or glossed over in the series are explained in more detail. So I feel like I understand what went on in the TV series more, but it's not as much fun. The book went through some significant changes on the way to the teleplay adaptation.
4 This is a great read - every page holds your attention.  You know Francis is a sleeze, however still acknowledge cleverness.
2 House of Cards is the first book in the Francis Urquhart series by Michael Dobbs. Francis is the Chief Whip. He must know the vote at all times, which gives him reason to know every secret in politics. The thrilling part is Francis will betray them all to become Prime Minister. Mattie is a young reporter with a knack for finding out the real story behind headlines. Mattie stumbles across a web of deceit and financial corruption, risking her life to reveal the truth.House of Cards is a harsh dark tale of the corruption, manipulation and greed in politics, no matter the country. Just look at the book cover. The characters in House of Cards are puppets and Francis holds the strings. His unapologetic ambition is unmatched. His initials are FU for a reason.The author, Michael Dobbs, is a member of the British House of Lords. He is Britain's leading political novelist and is a senior adviser to Prime Ministers. I'd say he is a credible source in knowing the sacrifices made and discipline shown in politics. Perhaps this is why most of the content in the novel went over my head. I struggled through the lingo and Parliament references. I stifled many yawns while reading.The international bestseller is too wordy and politic-y for my taste. But the Netflix original series show inspired by the novel is a must-see! You'll never view Scandal or The White House the same. I will not read the other books in the series but cannot wait to watch the third season. Kevin Spacey is the perfect actor for the role of Francis Underwood (still initials FU).Literary Marie of Precision Reviews
4 A little on the boring side if you are following the character but somewhat an up when unexpected issues arise.  Movie with Spacey the best.
5 This book arrived in a timely fashion and it is an exciting read with lots of twists and turns. I bought it to read the original story upon which both the British and merican TV series was based. I ams og lad to know how the original was set up and how well it was written. Thank you for a great read!
4 I picked this up after having watched the first two seasons of the Netflix drama. Well written, neatly plotted. Just different enough from the series to keep it interesting. I'm looking forward to reading the next two.
5 The book was enjoyable - more so than the PBS broadcast, which was also excellent.  Great characters and very well written.  In case you don't know, this is the basis for the popular HBO series.  I'm anxiously awaiting the second book.
4 This supplemented and made more enjoyable my viewing of the BBC TV series (set of 4 DVDs) based on the three books.  House of Cards is the first book of the trilogy.
5 Always a great read - there is lots to learn about politicians but of course these ones are drawn with a very wide brush.
5 Begins slow but quickly speeds up. Soon it grabs you and it is very hard to put it aside for the night
5 This, being the first of Dobbs' trilogy, is about as fine of a book of the genre that you could hope for.  It's no wonder that it went onto to become a very successful BBC series and an pale attempt by Netflix of the same.  The language is rich but down to earth, the charters deep but easy to embrace and the plot line perhaps a tad all too real.  Read it!!Sprague TheobaldThe Other Side of the Ice: One Family's Treacherous Journey Negotiating the Northwest Passage
5 An outstanding work told with suspense and political intrigue. No wonder they made a movie  based on it. A must read for all grownups.
5 I recently read the authors four novels on Churchill and was bowled over. As a result I looked for additional works by Mr. Dobbs and came across this novel which I think is absolutely brilliant ! We are introduced to a devious, ruthless, and very dangerous protagonist with the most appropriate initials, F.U..Francis Urquhart, an unknown politicians politician knows the ins and outs of Her Majesty's Government like no one else, and because he serves as Chief Whip of the party knows the foibles, vices, and secrets of his colleagues. Plans are set in motion to destroy his competition while he makes his move to become Prime Minister while the sitting Prime Minister falls to F.U.This is a great read.
5 I just finished watching the first season and the first two episodes of season two when I started reading this book. I don't think I would have liked this book as much as I do if I haven't been watching the series on Netflix but now I am so hooked that I just downloaded Netflix on my Kindle Fire so I can watch the rest of season two and hope the next book comes out very very soon! You have to love that the new Prime Ministers initials are "F.U." LOL
5 Great pace - great characters - great flick, hope they do a second season.  Something about a continuation may be problematic,however, it would be great theater - if this is the Spacey/Wright version.
5 The second in a series of books about the Queens of England, this tells the story of Katherine of Valois, the wife of Henry V. The story, told from Katherine's perspective, starts with her dreary existence in a remote house with her brothers, sisters and her father, the insane King of France. It follows her through her marriage to Henry V, the birth of Henry VI, the death of the King and her secret marriage to Owen Tudor, which becomes the foundation of the future Tudor dynasty. Jean Plaidy writes wonderful stories, with great detail. Her research is impeccable, and she depicts the lives of these historical figures in a way that makes them accessible to modern audiences. This story, in particular, shows the lives these nobles had to leave- children raised away from mothers, marriage without love and constant warfare.
4 I've been watching Showtime's The Tudors and I absolutely love that show. So when I was given the chance to find out about how they were started I was excited. This book is also the second, in historical order, of Plaidy's Queens of England series.This is a really romantic story that I'm glad to say didn't make me scream. It wasn't sappy and that made me happy.But let's start from the beginning. Katherine of Valois is a daughter of France, of Charles the Mad and Isabeau of Bavaria. Her father being insane scared her when she was younger, but she got used to it and even grew to love her father when he was in his sane moment. He truly loved his family and his condition made me feel for him. Her mother, however, was uncaring and truly unlovable through this whole story. She had other siblings, two of which die, and that's truly unfortunate. I do wish I could have found out what happened to her other siblings, specifically her sisters. I felt like that was a weird loose end.But as she grows up she is involved with one of the great Kings of England, Henry V, the victor at Agincourt. She is to marry him and is more than willing to do so to leave behind her most dismal life in the Hotel St. Paul. She truly believes that she's happy with Henry, even though he's gone much of the time. She gives birth to Henry VI and everyone is happy because she birthed him quickly and he was healthy enough to live past the untimely death of his father.Unfortunately being so young means that he was used by those who wished they could have power themselves, his uncle the Duke of Gloucester comes to mind. This, eventually, leads to civil war for the English nation. This book also contains a prophecy, which is fulfilled if you know English history or read her next book, The Reluctant Queen.Being that Katherine is French she is viewed with suspicion when Joan of Arc challenges English authority and proclaims Charles VII the rightful King of France and soundly beats the English is a number of battles. She is sent away, but from my understanding she also decides to go because she cannot raise her son and it's just easier that way, and live in the country. She takes along the Welshman, Owen Tudor.The romance starts. They fall in love and decide to marry. This isn't a problem until a law is passed that makes it illegal to marry the Dowager Queen, and this law is retroactive apparently. They decide to keep their marriage a secret and do so through about 5 children.Eventually they're caught and separated, eventually leading to Katherine's death by a "broken heart."I loved how she faced adversity with some cunning and skill. Her love for Owen was pure, even though she was very repetitive with how much she would hate it if they were caught, it was about evern 10-12 page it seemed. I also was pleasantly surprised by the way she made Joan of Arc and Henry V seem as if they're just normal people and normal events. We know of them in greatness, but then they were just doing what came naturally.Everyone knows of Henry VIII and Elizabeth I, but they don't know of their honestly wonderful beginnings. This is a story that should be told more often.
5 First of all, I hate being required to write remarks when I rate something.  Secondly,  as I said ... you can't go wrong reading Jean Plaidy.  I have nearly all her books in hardcover and am now collecting them on Kindle.
3 The beginning of the book was pretty good, but once you reach the middle it is the same thoughts and feeling over and over again.
4 If you've ever wondered what happened after Henry V, this tale is an interesting take on history - told from a woman's point of view.  The author does a wonderful job of recasting history from the vantage point of the supporting cast, exploring motives and actions that changed history through another's eyes.
5 Reading books on the theme of following the English dynasty from the Norman conquest to present this book covered the time after The Agincourt Bride (birth and rise of Catherine of Valois) and Joan of Ark by Mark Twain.  It was very informative about the birth of Henry VI of England and how the Tudor dynasty began in England.  Very well written, easy to read and very interesting.  It is a story of a Queen that does find love and happiness for a time.
4 Very interesting perspective. This book sheds light on how the Tudors made claim to the throne. I have always wondered.
5 Grandmother of the Tudor dynasty. Katherine of Valois grew up with a mentally unstable father and a lusty sinful mother who did nothing to help her husband or children though hard times. She was a terrible evil woman. Katherine never knowing a mothers love was seeking stability in any form. It is only logical to me that she married "the conquer" of her fathers own land, desperate to escape the strife of France and her mothers ill fated choices. She was not a ambitious woman because she saw first hand what it means to be a king, and how much of a burden it could easily become. Life had not kind to her father or her brothers, they paid a high price for being the blood royal.When Katherine went to England she devoted herself fully to her husband the warrior king. Sadly within two years her blessed son was born, whom she loved very deeply, and her husband was dead and buried. Leaving her all alone in England. Katherine's childhood affected her deeply. Much more than she ever let on to. She never expected anything in life, especially not true love. I do not even think she knew what unconditional love was until she met Owen Tudor the welsh soldier who had served her late husband the king. She found comfort with Owen when her sweet son was taken from her as a little child "to be raised by the high born English nobles, who knew how to raise a child by a kings standards". Withering under the strain of loosing her son she begins to blossom with love for Owen. They say we never choose love it finds us and this is the case with Katherine.She did not choose to fall in love with him. Life has a way of finding it's own path. When the path became visible she went for it. Knowing that she was putting herself in harms way of her brother in laws. She still sought her happiness, and the consequences would put her into dire straights. I own this one, bought at my local bookstore.
5 This book tells of the story of Catherine of Valois, daughter of King Charles VI of France, a gentle man, though one who suffered from periodic bouts of insanity, and Isabella of Bavaria-Ingolstadt, an evil, scheming, selfish and self-indulgent women, who placed her children in the grim conditions of the Hotel De St Paul where Catherine describes her bleak childhood, together with her siblings.She later describes the improvement in the life of the children after having been moved to the Abbey at Poissey where she met her older sister Isabelle who was the widow of England's King Richard II.After her two older brothers die mysteriously (poisoned on the orders of their mother?) and her third brother Charles is made crown prince and after  France is conquered by English King Henry V, Catherine become Henry's bride in a politically advantageous marriage.She bears him the son who is to be Henry VI,but Henry is removed from her.She finds love again and  secretly marries Welsh soldier Owen Tudor, who was  one  of Henry V's generals.After the  death of the  young king Henry's uncle Duke of Bedford the scheming and ruthless Earl of Gloucester takes control over Henry VI.Owen Tudor is arrested and imprisoned in the Tower of London, and Catherine's children by Owen are removed from her. She is incarcerated in Bermondsy Abbey where she dies of a broken heart.But her son Edmund will  marry Margaret of Beaufort out of which will be born the founder of the Tudor dynasty, and King Henry VII of England.This is finely written, engaging and with romantic interest and a strong incentive to discover more about the historical figure written about.Jean Plaidy was a master of historical fiction.
4 For someone interested in historical fiction from tudor and earlier times, Plaidy has a lot of offerings.  I like historical fiction from the perspective of women, and her books do just that.  Reading this book, started me on several others of her offerings.
4 Jean Plaidy is such a good historical fiction writer.  I have read most of her works and I enjoy each one.  They tend to blur together a little bit but still, they are imaginative, rich in history and character, and you almost get a history lesson while reading a novel.  I recommend all of her books.
3 This was an enjoyable read, and it is packed full of all the goings-on of the period. Not only does the reader learn of the life of Katherine of Valois, but also figures such as Joan of Arc.However, what is most fascinating is learning about how Katherine's relationship with Owen Tudor occured. It really is a very interesting story.I love reading Plaidy's books, especially those in her Queens of England series, as I love to learn about historical figures. Plaidy is a wonderful teacher. The only downside is that the books can read too much like a timeline, and not a carefully narrated story. But then again, when dealing with the story of a person's life, I do realize that it is much better to be accurate than fastastical.Recommended for those who like their historical fiction to be factually spot-on.
2 This was the first Plaidy book I'd read in years, ever since high school actually. I remembered loving her stuff back then, but as I read this one & The Sun in Splendour, I had the sense that the books were copiously cribbed histories with a minimal effort at dramatizing the whole thing. (No doubt a reason why she was so prolific.) The dialogue shows no real spark and is absurdly simplistic, and the pace is about as brief and deep as an encyclopedia article! From scene to scene, the same phrases and thoughts were repeated, as though we could have forgotten! Katherine of Valois is just a woman talking, not a friend or a confidante or even a real person, and this reader eventually didn't care. The reader is told who are the characters are, not shown.So it was disappointing to realize that Plaidy's style isn't all that good, after years of nostalgia, but that's the way of so many childhood authors, I guess! I suppose that Plaidy is a good author to start with for a time period/royal personage, and then read a novel that is more focused and has more depth & narrative skill. IE, read Plaidy's Sun in Splendour and then Sharon Kay Penman's novel on Richard III. Do NOT read them in the reverse order, as I did, else you'll also be stabbing your eyes at Plaidy's dry, uninspired prose with the memories of Penman making it all the more excruciating. Better yet, save lots of time and read a Wikipedia entry and then grab Penman.
2 I have read a lot of Jean Plaidy's books and this one is definitely the least of my favorites. The story itself has too much repetition and the ending is too abrupt. Plus I was hoping for an epilogue, that explained properly the demise of Queen Katherine and the fate of her children and husband. I had to look up in another source to find all those facts. I will continue to read more of Plaidy's novels, but I'm hoping the rest are better than this one.
5 This is the seventh book in the Queens of England series by the author, a masterful storyteller, who is also known as Victoria Holt to her fans. It is a well written novel of historical fiction that tells the little known story of Katherine of Valois.She was a French Princess, daughter of King Charles VI, the gentle, but mad, King of France, and Queen Isabeau, an evil, self-absorbed libertine, who cared little for her children. After the famous battle of Agincourt in which King Henry V of England vanquished France, Katherine found herself married to this warrior king and living in England. She was to become the mother of King Henry VI of England.Shortly after their son's birth, King Henry V died a premature death. Young Queen Katherine saw their son Henry taken from her to be raised by others. Retiring to the countryside, she fell in love with a Welsh squire, Owen Tudor, who had faithfully served King Henry V, and now served Katherine as part of her household. Theirs was to be an illicit love, carried out in secret, as the alternative was to be the recipient of charges of treason.Try as they might, no amount of secrecy could prevent the vicissitudes of life from raining down upon their happiness. Political intrigue would serve to bring their illicit love to light. It would act as the catalyst for a turning point in history. What happened to Katherine and Owen would give rise in the future to the house of Tudor, one of the greatest dynasties ever to rule England.The book grounds their love story in the context of the period, which saw England as the conqueror of France. It covers that turbulent time in history that saw Joan of Arc rise from the remote French countryside to ensure the crowning of the Dauphin of France as its rightful King. It is a spellbinding account of the struggles between England and France and those who would rule these two countries. It is a book that will be enjoyed by all those with a fondness for well written, historical fiction.
3 Jean Plaidy is well known for her lengthy and ambitious histfic series about the queens of England, by dynasty. The Queen's Secret depicts the life of Katherine of Valois, daughter to the mentally unstable Charles VI of France, and queen of both England and France after her marriage to British King Henry V. Katherine has had a sheltered, somewhat impoverished upbringing, as a younger child receiving little attention from her scheming, powerful, and dissolute mother. Love of any sort has been notably absent from her young life. She thinks she has found it in Henry, and is sorely grieved when he dies a short time after the death of their first child. She is also subject to the whims and directives of her brothers-in-law, particularly those of the jealous Gloucester.Katherine, now Queen Mother, experiences a wondrous, joyful surprise when she and Welsh soldier Owen Tudor fall in love - the real thing this time. And that is the Queen's secret, for Gloucester has pushed a bill through parliament forbidding the remarriage of the queen.Within this plot, Jean Plaidy follows Katherine, from the queen's own perspective, from childhood to almost middle age. This is a relatively quiet novel, with momentous events, such as the mission and death of Joan of Arc, described from afar. Katherine directly participates in few of the whirlwind of changes that swirl around her and determine the course of her life, so it is also a "talky" book, sometimes too repetitive as Katherine mulls over her situation. But along the way, Plaidy makes some pertinent observations about the nature of power and its influence on those who do and do not wield it, most tellingly in her portrayal of Henry's brothers and Katherine's mother.  She also clarifies the numerous personal and political complications that ultimately prepare the ground for the rise of the Tudor dynasty. What The Queen's Secret lacks in excitement it makes up for in its well researched detail.
4 Katherine is the daughter of the king of France known as "Charles the Mad."  In his lucid moments the royal children are well cared for, but during his long bouts of madness the often live in hunger, darkness, and uncertainty.  At nineteen, however, Katherine leaves this life to become the wife of the king of England.  For a while she has found happiness, however just after the birth of her first child her husband dies, leaving England in a period of turmoil, part way through the Hundred Years' War.  To keep her from becoming too powerful as the mother of a child king, it is determined that Katherine will have to live alone, far from the seat of power.  She is even forbidden from marrying again.  Katherine, however, falls in love with one of her guardians, Owen Tudor.  Their relationship will be the foundation of the Tudor dynasty two generations later.Quote: "Then he turned to us and said, 'I, Henry, born at Monmouth, shall small time reign and much get; but Henry of Windsor shall long reign and lose all.'  It was strange, my lady, and as though someone spoke through him."Katherine is lucky enough to be in two happy marriages - unfortunately, one is very brief and the other necessarily secret and dangerous.  This is particularly sad because Katherine has no great ambition beyond being allowed to live in peace with a husband and children.  It is very interesting work about a queen of England I previously did not know much about.  Her marriage is the foundation for conflict and problems in England in later years, and the reader is invested in the characters enough to want to do some research after the novel ends to find out what becomes of the principal players.  That's always a good sign in a work of historical fiction.
4 For many fans of historical fiction, Jean Plaidy's books are a treasure. For me, they are like a favorite blanket: perhaps a little dated and not on the cutting edge of a fad, but something familiar and comfortable.The Queen's Secret, originally published in 1990 by G.P. Putnam's Sons and then reissued by Three Rivers Press in 2007, was one of Plaidy's later works and tells the story of Katherine of Valois, wife of Henry V, mother to Henry VII and by virtue of her second marriage to Owen Tudor, the founder of the Tudor kings of England.The story is told in Katherine's voice and begins with her childhood in France as the daughter of King Charles VI, known to history as King Charles the Mad. Unable to maintain his lucidity or authority, France deteriorated into civil war in the early 15th century and the English, led by King Henry V, were able to divide, invade and conquer.In the aftermath of the infamous Battle of Agincourt (remember? Shakespeare, anyone?), a tenative peace treaty was negotiated which acknowledged Henry to be the successor to the French crown once mad King Charles kicked the proverbial bucket and also threw in poor Katherine to sweeten the pot for Henry. They were married soon after and she bore him one child who would later become King Henry VI, although her new husband croaked soon after.Being a widow turned out to be a good thing for Katherine. She fell in love with a Welsh commoner named Owen Tudor. They married in secret and went on to have four children, through which the Tudor line of kings would emerge. For those unfamiliar with this part of English history, I won't give away the ending, but it is a compelling tale.Plaidy is, as usual, very true to her characters and historical facts. The voice of Katherine is almost child-like, which helps Plaidy disseminate the convoluted politics of the day in a manner readers can easily keep up with, but also likely reflects Katherine's actual knowledge of events. Despite being Queen of England, there seems to be little historical evidence that Katherine had anything to do with political intrigue. The dialog is beautifully simple, as well. Think Anna Sewell and Black Beauty.The only complaint I had was a slight mix-up in the author's own timeline: in the story, Katherine and Owen, we are told, become lovers on the night that Katherine's young son, Henry VI, is taken from her at the age of two to be raised in another household. Later, we skip ahead in time and young Henry is now five years old when Katherine discovers she is pregnant by Owen. Plaidy writes"Why I should have been so surprised, I cannot imagine. Owen and I  had been passionate lovers for some months."Katherine in The Queen's SecretWell, I suppose three years can be considered "some months," but the inconsistency leaped out at me. This, coupled with the constant foreshadowing of doom and gloom, were my only bugaboos about the story.But these small flaws should be overlooked in the face of such a wonderful tale. This is a time period not often covered by historical fiction authors. Katherine and her contemporaries, such as Joan of Arc, were to change the fate both England and France. I highly recommend this read to any historical fiction fan as it makes accessible a time period too often overlooked.I mentioned at the beginning of this review that Three Rivers Press reissued this novel in 2007. They have done so with a handful of Jean Plaidy books. If you enjoy her work and would like to see more (since many of her older books are quite difficult to find these days), please contact Three Rivers Press (a division of Random House) and express your interest in order to keep them coming!
2 Jean Plaidy was a very good author although she did tend to make up her "facts" as she went along - which makes it very hard to read if you are at all familiar with the what's, who's, and such.  This book is exceptionally tedious.  I found it very disappointing.
5 I had read many of Jean Plaidy's books years ago and had really enjoyed them since they fed my love of Medieval Romance Novels.  But with Ms. Plaidy's books you actual get a History lesson that is very enjoyable and she brings Historical characters to life.  I had lost all of my Jean Plaidy books in a house fire 6 years ago and had never gotten around to replacing them and I had all but forgotten them.  Then I found out through our Family Genealogist that we were decendents of Owen Tudor.  I decided to do a "Google Book Search" and this particular book popped up in the Search Results.  Sure enough the book chronicals Katherines marriage to both Henry V and Owen Tudor.  To be honest I was really excited after pouring over all the clinical reseach about them and was looking forward to reading something with a bit more romance in it.  I had completely forgotten about this Plaidy book so it has been like reading it fresh for the first time (again) but this time reading it with a new understanding.  A sincere Thanks to Ms. Plaidy for bringing Katherine & Owen's love story to print and making Katherine & Owen's life & romance come alive.
5 I found this to be a well-written story of a little-known part of English history.  Katherine becomes a likable, believable character, and her secret is incredible but true.  An obscure grandson plays another important part in the complicated English history of these times.
1 I consider myself an amateur historian at this point.  I have read everything by Anya Seyton (the master) and Philipa Gregory(Other Boleyn Girl and Queen's Fool great, others are fading into 3 stars), watched every Hollywood and BBC rendition of anything referencing historical England and spend every spare dime on historical trips to England to see every castle and every pile of rocks that is ancient.I heard about Jean Plaidy's Plantagenet Series out of print from the 70's and Ebay'd the entire collection (over a dozen novels) out of excitement.  I read the first one and cannot bring myself to read the second, even though all sit on my shelf collecting dust.Then a friend bought 'the new book on Katherine Valois'.  I pick it up and start reading, not realizing it is Jean Plaidy.  I'm on page 20 and cannot get past this 3rd grade writing, lack of historical references.  It reads like a children's book!  There is no fact, no rich historical detail, making it feel like a supermarket novel and short choppy sentences make it annoying to read!  It's been by my bedside for 3 months, and cannot pick it up.Dissappointingly I say that this is a waste of time, because no one appreciates and loves an England/historical novel more than me.I honestly think this author is on autopilot, pushing out books one after the other, and sacrificing good, enticing reading in exchange for big bucks.  I honestly feel this author is insulting our intelligence.Highly NOT recommended.
1 The Queen's Secret is about Katherine of Valois who married Henry V and was the mother of Henry VI. When Henry V dies, Katherine is at first devastated. Her one year old son is now King of England and she fears that he will be taken away and raised by others. Her fears are well-founded and, in despair, she turns to Owen Tudor, her Clerk of the Wardrobe, for comfort. Eventually they fall in love but a queen isn't allowed to love where she will. They marry in secret and the rest of the book is about them trying to keep their relationship a secret.This book is so repetitive and badly written. Katherine will narrate that something has happened. Then she will go and tell Owen that it happened. Then twenty pages later, they will repeat their conversation. Seriously. I was on page 264 and Owen and Katherine had a conversation that rehashed everything that had previously happened in the book. And, if Katherine is worried about something, you get to read about it again and again and again and again. She worries about her son getting taken away. So she talks to her nurse, then Owen, then a random person. There isn't any new information in these conversations either. You just get beaten over the head with her feelings. I thought she would be an interesting character. Instead Plaidy makes her seem like a whiny, helpless, creature who magically forgets the world when pregnant (this isn't an unfounded accusation, she is pregnant five times in the book and mentions at least twice that, while pregnant, the world's events don't seem very important to her). This really may be attributing too much characterization to her because I cared about none of the people in this book. The dialogue is like a bad romance novel. I think the average sentence is about five words long. Is is all so awkward and stilted. This is a fascinating time in history. Henry V actually conquers France, then suddenly dies before he fully consolidates power. He leaves his two brothers in charge while his infant son grows up. Joan of Arc then rises up to save France from the English. And yet, reading this book I was either bored to tears or frustrated enough to throw it against a wall.One final complaint. Ellipses are not substitutes for commas! Jean Plaidy apparently never learned that. In a random sampling of four pages, I counted 14 ellipses. It is...ridiculous...and distracting...and completely inappropriate punctuation.Really I recommend reading anything other than this book. Save your money and your time and get something different. Edith Pargeter wrote a novel called A Bloody Field by Shrewsbury that is about Henry IV and Henry V when he is young. It is an excellent book. Read that instead.
4 The Queen's Secret is about Katherine of Valois, queen to Henry V and secret wife of Owen Tudor.Katherine tells her story in the first person, beginning with her miserable, insecure childhood in France with her mentally ill father and her corrupt mother and ending with her forcible separation from the love of her life, Owen Tudor.Plaidy's depiction of Katherine's childhood and its effects on her as a woman gives her a certain psychological depth, and though Katherine is ultimately helpless to prevent her fate, she preserves a certain dignity and strength about her that keeps her in the reader's sympathies. Plaidy also is good at conveying the mixed feelings that Katherine has as a French princess married to an English king, a situation that makes her position in both countries difficult.I did find the structure here--it's one of those novels where the narrator looks back upon her life as she prepares for death--a bit limiting. Although we know from history what was to become of Owen Tudor and Katherine's children after her death, the novel leaves their stories unresolved, so there's still a sense of being left hanging when the novel ends.From what I've read after reading this novel, little is known about how the relationship of Owen Tudor and Katherine came about. I thought that Plaidy's version of it was plausible and that Katherine's willingness to risk all for love showed an appealing, and believable, reckless streak in her character.All in all, a worthy addition to your Plaidy shelf, either in this spanking new version or in one of the older ones.
4 If you are interested in the kings and queens of England over the years, this is a delightful and very informative book.  The characters remain true throughout and the book, although fiction has been well researched.  You will enjoy it -
3 This is a story of Katherine of Valois, the daughter of Charles VI, whose grandson was the first King of Tudor dynasty.Katherine certainly had her share of unhappiness. Living in squalor with her brothers and sisters, while her mother, ignored her children and spend her time with her lovers instead. Her father appeared to have been a kind man but given to fits of madness which essentially took him out of picture as well. Despite all, Katherine grows up to be an educated and attractive woman. It was arranged that she marries King Henry V of England and surprisingly theirs was a love match(or as much love as Henry could give). Henry died suddenly and once again, Katherine is alone, with only her son to keep her company. After a few years, her advisers take over her son Henry upbringing and Katherine is only allowed to see him for short visits.Lonely and desolate, Katherine forms a friendship with Owen Tudor, one of the Welsh knights. Eventually, they fall in love and marry in secret.Overall, this is good historical book. There is couple of things that i want to comment on, however-Jean Plaidy's style of writing is really kind of like non-fiction historical book. Its a pretty easy read and i went through the whole book in couple of days. However, characters are really one dimentional, there is hardly any depth to them at all. Also, any details of everyday life, food, dress, customs are missing altogether which in my mind makes it more of a nonfiction historical narrative rather than a novel. Don't get me wrong-I liked the book but if you want richness of historical details you won't find it here.
5 The Live Program "Wake Up to Life" is Powerful and Profound, the only complete Conference de Mello allowed to be recorded. This book is the written-transcript for the Live Conference, "Wake Up to Life." It is the only full-length de Mello Conference available -- and the only one he allowed to be recorded. It is even more powerful because you hear de Mello Live with an audience.De Mello also has three films, one is "A Way to God for Today". These are excellent.Many have wondered how a man from India could speak so pointedly to one's personal experience and background.One reviewer has described this quality, "In his words and in his person there naturally flow the best currents of East and West in a holistic approach which incorporates theology, psychology, literature, and popular culture. He is an international man whose planetary perspective provides the ingredients for a newly emerging human spirituality."Another said, "In one day he unburdened me of years of guilt and wrong thinking. I am now living with fresh eyes and a new heart.""He provided an atmosphere for me to experience God .  .  .  ""He has broken . . . a mystical sound barrier in our spiritual growth, that has elevated our capacities to be more loving and introspective."
5 Written as if he were talking to you, this book is full of gems of insight.  If you are on a spiritual path, this book is an essential. Anthony DeMello makes the case for awareness as the basis for spiritual awakening.  This book should appeal to both Buddhists and Christians.
5 This is an excellent book. De Mello went far beyond the orthodox catholic dogma by addressing what (to me) is one of the most important practical and existential issues facing us: how does one learn to live one's life with the bittersweet delightfulness that accompanies us when we manage to be present and aware. In other words, how do we learn to become a free person.  Typically, our awareness is clouded by others' expectations and by our desires to escape the perceived unpleasantness of the present moment. In order to free ourselves from the desires and escapism we need to be aware; de Mello's book is a classic (and still unsurpassed) manual that guides us into the conscious universe where we can finally heave a sigh of relief and start enjoying this great gift of life.
5 This was the first book from the self help/new age genre that I read and I have since gone back and reread it several times. Some of the information in this book was difficult for me to accept, nonetheless, the wisdom contained on these pages will truly open your mind. At first your beliefs may take quite a beating as DeMello really challenges the readers belief systems and ideas of reality, but he does mellow out after the first few chapters (pun intended). This is a book you will want to own and you will most likely continue to learn from it every time you read it. Just to give you an idea of how much I liked this book, after reading it I immediately went out and bought a half dozen copies to give away.
3 This is not an easy book to read.Which is exactly why I love it so much.It tantalises the reader to question what is being said, and very few books in the same genre out there manage to do that. The first time I read this book, I couldn't put it down.I found it exciting and alot of what De Mello said, refreshing. I decided to re-read the book again after having it for a year or two and I found it just as exciting, but by the time I had finished the book was thoroughly tired of the De Mello condescending  and patronising tone, which at times was unnecessarily over the top.Nevertheless it doesn't spoil the content of the book, which is brilliant.If you crave a book that will put you on the path to questioning your own reality and sense of being, then this book is a great starting point.
3 Awareness by Anthony De Mello is useful, parts do not conform with Church teachings.  Good to read, but read carefully!
4 My only disappointment -- and it wasn't the fault of the book or the author -- was that it was not about the U.S., although there certainly are connections. If you have doubts about satanic ritual/cult abuse, this book is a baseline for any kind of awareness. And there ARE connections between satanic ritual abuse and government mind control experimentation, sad as that may be. I read this book a while ago, but was not going to review it because it is out of print and I got it somewhere else...until I saw it reviewed here by somebody else. Let me add my voice to those who are also in the trenches digging this stuff up. Don't allow the voices to be silenced! Don't allow the secrets to be buried! As long as we do that, our children, future children, will remain at risk.
1 This book is only " informative" about the subject of " satanic ritual abuse" if you are totally unaware of better books about the subject such as "Satanic Panic" by Jeffrey Victor. As it is, even considering it's focusing mainly in the UK and that the publishing date is just before this whole hysteria was exposed fully, Boyd makes a few good points but obscures it with piling on claims of people who assert this stuff exists on an underground global scale. I found it painful intellectually to read as Boyd refers to highly biased sources, some since been discredited and when he does mention sources such as FBI profiler Ken Lanning, he neglects to mention anything by these sources that would discount the claims made by SRA proponents.One of the many claims is that people of high influence such as police, doctors, lawyers and so forth are behind the "satanic abuse" and that even with the claims of breeders and human sacrifice these " satanists" are so clever that they hide all the evidence every time. I find that highly unlikely. Supposed there is " generational satanism" yet none of this was made public until after " Michele Remembers" and " Satan's Underground". Amd of course the legal "proof" he uses includes the Richard Ramirez and the other alleged satanic murders, usually carried out by indivduals. If this exists in the scale they claim, where are the child porn, where are the altars and the books, where are the pelvic exams of the alleged "brood mares" to prove they gave birth? None are provided. It's all stories and claims, nothing to confirm the details. No physical evidence at all, in fact.Now that we know how this hysteria came about and was perpetuated, how urban legends were thought of as fact, how children have been coerced to believe something is true when in fact it wasn't, and how Lauren Stratford lied and in all these alleged accounts, NONE of them have shown physical evidence of " Satanic" cults, a book like this is more akin to fueling the hysteria and sell books rather than actually examining the subject openly.Boyd makes a few errors in his references, maybe not realizing that some of what he used were from sources of dubious credibility. " File 18"  and " Jeremiah Films" are two examples of bad sources who are highly biased.If you want to find ONE book that deals with this subject extensively, "Satanic Panic" does a good job of it. For thsoe who have a copy of this book, may I suggest you note the various names cited as " experts" and cross check them online, or better yet, get a copy of the book " Witch Hunts" by Kerr Cuhulain.Yes pedophiles use " cult ritual" to scare their victims. And yes there are cases of people whio claim to be satanists ( usually from rock music or something) committing murder. We have proof of child porn, of pedophiles abd so forth. But we have no proof oif this underground organized satanic ritual abuse claim. And yet we are to believe the victims at their word. Not unlike the "afflicted girls' at the Salem Witch trials witch their " spectral" evidence. This is the same criteria of " proof" that we see about the worldwide cabal of " Zionists" and the "New World Order" and so forth.I am open for objective empirical proof. If you claim your car was changed from a Buick to an elephant, I need to see you owned a Buick and how the elephant appeared in your possession. I also need to examine your account. I need proof other than your story and claims of people with THEIR stories.For the record I am not a Satanist. I am a Wiccan and I highly do NOT like pedophiles nor blood sacrifice. Also may I point out that there have been a number of crimes committed by supposedly devout Christians, even ministers, and credible people do NOT associate the crime with the religion. By the " proof" in this book, for example, with all the acocunts of Catholic priests being pedophiles, the assumption ( using the same arguments used in this book) is that the Catholic Church is behind child porn and whatever else claims one wishes to make.I would not consider this an autoritative source. There are too many things wrong with it and of Boyd's dancing around the obvious problems for me to recomend this to anyone other than a knowledgable expert, and that only to point out how bad research and relying upon the wrong sources can lead to more harm than good.
5 Best book on satanic ritual abuse and Masonic cults... I have no idea why it's unavailable... It was published by Fount the UK subsidiary of HarperCollins... I found it in a discount bin for one dollar... I read the book twice and it's very creepy... I go to a lot of used book stores and when I  was in Boise Idaho I traded it in for beer money and it was still on the  shelf a year later so I bought it back... I guess it's just too unbelievably  dark for some people to handle... The author does not proselytize... Well  documented and it lists sources... Most satanic books try to shove the  Christian agenda down your throat... This book just states the facts and it  becomes completely believable... Do not read this book alone at night...  There's some great eye witness accounts of human sacrifice, mind control,  death threats, blackmail... drugs used to produce submission and buy loyalty  from the addicted victims... This is an excerpt from the back cover...  "Opinion is divided on the truth of the matter, and the divisions are  acrimonious. Skeptics argue vehemently that ritual abuse is an imported  myth, believed by the gullible and propagated by the hysterical... For his  investigation, Andrew Boyd has stepped beyond the current cases to  interview professional psychiatrists across Britain. Between them they  claim to be counseling some 900 victims of ritual abuse. Their detailed  accounts, coupled with in-depth statements by alleged survivors, are  shocking in the extreme. Just as shocking is the remarkable coherence  between them. Is it fact or fantasy that lies behind these blasphemous  rumors?"  Excellent book if you can find it... I bought it about five years  ago and I've never seen another copy... Maybe the publishers got a late night  phone call from one of Satan's minions...
5 Having worked with children involved in ritual abuse cases I found this book of particular interest.  In 1994/95 I worked directly with several children who had been ritually abused.  At the time I was more concerned with giving them sound, day-to-day care than examining the particulars of their abuse histories.  I was very shocked when, years later, ritual abuse came up in conversation and there seemed to be doubt as to whether or not such abuse even existed.  Having worked with the direct result of that abuse I found this skepticism on par with disbelief in a round earth.I searched amazon for relative literature and found "Blasphemous Rumors".  It is not good reading, it is horrifying reading.  I would recommend this book to anyone who doubts the veracity of ritual abuse or DID (dissociative identity disorder) claims.  "Rumors" outlines several cases and survivor stories from the UK. Some of the material is incredible and very difficult to comprehend as it is so far outside of what most of the public believes.  The material here is evidence of some of the worst human depravity immaginable.Read this book and ask yourself why there appears to be such a coordinated effort to discredit ritual abuse survivors.This is a "must read" for any one in the social work field or anyone interested in DID or other trauma induced disorders.
5 If you are unsure if ritual abuse is fact or fantasy, this is the book to read. Andrew Boyd is very objective in covering his research findings. Most of the alleged abuse in this book took place in the U.K..However, there is information on alleged abuse that took place in other countries (such as the U.S). At the time that I write this review, Blasphemous Rumors is out of print. Nevertheless, I suggest getting your hands on this book if you have any questions on this topic.
4 Reaching Out was written by a mystic, Catholic priest who was born in Holland but spent most of his life in the United States.  The author, Henri Nouwen, gained an impressive following during his teaching years at Notre Dame, Yale and Harvard Universities and wrote 40 books on spirituality ([...]).  In 1975, while teaching at Yale, Nouwen wrote Reaching Out which included a special edition inclusion of Beyond the Mirror - an account of Nouwen's perceived near-death experience and the spiritual enlightenment which resulted in some of the views expressed in Reaching Out.According to Nouwen (1975), the path of spirituality is a journey between polarities in three separate areas.  The first area includes the distance between solitude and loneliness; this encompasses reaching toward self.  The second area involved reaching toward others and is described as the polarity between hospitality and hostility.  Finally, Nouwen discusses the third area, prayer verses illusion, the reaching toward God.  The author explains that each individual finds himself somewhere between the extreme poles at different times of his life but that our goal, as Christians, is to remain on the side of solitude, hospitality, and prayer.Nouwen (1975) posited that loneliness is the sad condition of the fallen human heart which causes us to react to others in selfish ways.  He explains that we feel lonely no matter how many people we have around us because it is a condition of the heart and attitude rather than a lack of fellowship.  Solitude, on the other hand, is described by Nouwen as a place where we are comfortable with our selves and are therefore able to be comfortable with others.  In a place of solitude we are no longer desperately reaching out for others to meet our needs, rather our focus is turned inward and looks to God as our source.The goal of living a victorious Christian life requires that we have a hospitable attitude toward mankind and nature, rather than approaching it with hostility (Nouwen, 1975).  When we begin seeing our friends, employers, children and acquaintances as travelers who are passing through this life with us, we are more able to treat them with hospitality.  This attitude self-corrects the hostile attitudes of ownership and debt toward one another.  For example, rather than seeing children as your possessions, which will in turn cause pride when they do well, and shame when they do poorly, we should see them as fellow travelers whom we have been given the task of caring for and raising.  Nouwen explains that this helps us correctly discipline them when they are young as well as let them go when they are adults.Lastly, Nouwen (1975) speaks about the importance of the last polarity:  illusion verses prayer.  Not only was this the most important area to discuss, according to Nouwen, it was the area he was the most familiar with since he worked with the Trappist Monks in the Abby of Genesse in New York ([...]  Nouwen had a great deal of experience seeking expertise in the art of prayer and stated that it was the most basic task of our lives and yet the most illusive one.  He wrote:  "...it is very hard to come in touch with it, to get a grasp on it, to get hold of it, or even - to put a finger on it."  (p. 84)
5 Nouween explains there are three transition states of spirituality comprised of the following:1.) From loneliness to solitude,2.) From hostility to hospitality, and3.) From illusion to prayer.The book itself is refreshing in the sense human loneliness is taken to  its bottom components leading to the acceptance of solitude.  By seeking out others for console people do not directly deal with hurt themselves or seek prayer in God."Often we go to good men and women with our problems in the secret hope that they will take our burden away from us and free us from our loneliness," (Nouwen, 35).Overall, according to Nouwen, we seek attention and connection unfulfilled in social situations influenced by culture, however, Nouwen expresses loneliness as a normal encounter.  By dwelling in solitude we are able to understand our loneliness as a component of understanding our inner-self.  Secondly Nouwen expresses how hostility interferes with our ability to truly be hospitable, "When we have become sensitive to the painful contours of our hostility we can start identifying the lines of its opposite toward which we are called to move: hospitality," (Nouwen, 71).Interestingly Nouwen expresses true hospitality as the ability to give people options rather than limitations.  Instead of cornering a stranger- giving the ability of freedom and befriending a person with no ulterior motives is truly warranted of the title of hospitality in its various forms.Accordingly by not keeping in touch with prayer we loose what we have worked hard to grow, (Nouwen, 116), by creating an illusion of our own mortality and meaning.  Nouwen says sentiment can manifest false expectations however I must question whether it is really a technique of human comfort.  As there are many ways to be hospitable there are as many ways to pray.  Sometimes it is necessary to realize the variations of how to pray in order to pray with heart.Although Nouwen explains how spirituality changes through steps it is necessary to recognize the importance of desperation.  About a year and a half ago I suffered an unusual injury to my knee, I injured the saphenous nerve and had a 30 percent muscle loss within 6 weeks, not only that I also suffered from problematic gait and knee tracking problems.  It wasn't until I reached out to God after five chemical nerve blocks that I decided to go for one alternative medical procedure, a heat treated nerve block where burning the myelin sheath prevents pain signals from traveling to the brain.  I questioned what God wanted from me, and what he wanted me to learn from this experience, and whether I should put myself under another painful procedure.  I was at the end of understanding as it had affected every aspect of my life including the ability to even grocery shop on my own.  Up until then I had never experienced a situation where I felt I had no control. At the bottom of feeling desperate my only choice was to reach out to God for help, as difficult as that was he answered my prayers as simple as that.  I virtually had no pain with the last procedure as I am now working on building muscle.  At that moment I did feel lonely, hostility, and had the illusion modern medical science was all I needed.  "Being the expression of our greatest love, it does not keep pain away from us (Nouwen,107)."Until then I believed I was spiritual however the experience alone not only strengthened my spirituality but also understanding of God and of people in debilitating situations.As Nouwen believes solitude is necessary: Is there such a thing as too much solitary?  At what point do people cross into the understanding solitude can produce positive results?  With that in mind, is solitude too much to handle for some people?  Nouwen makes a good point that interaction with God and the Holy Spirit opens paths of understanding the self.  I found the book enlightening in opening my eyes to themes around me and those used to control.As Nouwen questions the legitimacy of prayer in forms of illusion I do not think prayer is ever meant to portray illusions of grandour, immortality, or selfishness but rather many pray for positive meaning in themselves and others.  I can understand if Nouwen's point referred to non-Christians and Christians alike letting prayer fall to the wayside of illusions however prayer itself is generally heartfelt.This book aligned at the right time coming out of a personal crisis which allowed me to question my own meaning of spirituality and sanctity.  It is interesting this book happened to be required when it did.  It is inspiring to step back and look closer at the necessary steps to produce meaningful prayer and understanding.  Going forward I will continue to question myself and my ability to counsel effectively and will continue to give up my control to God.(By Lisa Marie Statler)Final Note: Telephone Counseling and Online Counseling can be very good ways of helping someone get through a hard time. If you're interested in learning more about this, try this clinical guide:The Therapist's Clinical Guide to Online Counseling and Telephone Counseling: The Definitive Training Guide for Clinical Practice
5 A book I came across while in school, because it was a suggested read. Fell in love with the book and fell in love with Nouwen, still one of my favorite Nouwen reads. If you haven't read any of his work, he's similar to Merton in the search for the true self langauge.
2 In light of almost unanimous praise for this book among other reviewers, I hate to be "that guy."  I'm taking a seminary course on Nouwen, so this was the first of five of his books that we were assigned.  And I really wanted to like it.  But I'm not sure that I've ever fallen asleep so frequently while reading a book as I did with this one.  I just didn't connect with it at all.His main thesis is that the Christian life consists of movement along three trajectories, from loneliness to solitude, from hostility to hospitality, and from illusion to prayer (connected to our relationships with ourselves, other people, and God, respectively).  My problem with the book is that my experience don't even remotely align with what Nouwen describes and seemingly assumes as normative.  Quite frankly, I have felt a lot of deficiency in my life, but I don't think that I have ever felt lonely (and I don't just think that's merely an indication of a lack of serious personal reflection and honest self-appraisal).  But without that shared experience, the first movement is meaningless to me.The second movement, from hostility to hospitality, was the one that resonated most with me, as I understand my natural inclination towards hostility (though more covert than overt) and see God's different intention for my interaction with others.  But the final movement was where he totally lost me.  The sort of spiritual reality that he describes as prayer is so far removed from my own experience and so unappealing to me that it didn't connect with me at all.It's worth noting that I found one particular point to be extremely powerful.  In the middle of Chapter 8, I love Nouwen's words about the need to learn from church history and from the saints throughout the ages.  "The really great saints of history don't ask for imitation.  Their way was unique and cannot be repeated.  But they invite us into their lives and offer a hospitable space for our own search..."  This is great stuff.Yet, overall, I can say that reading this book was a strangely unnerving experience for me.  Having heard rave reviews about Nouwen and his work from seemingly countless people whom I respect, I want to love his books.  It's not that I found "Reaching Out" to be utterly disagreeable but rather, that it is just totally unintelligible to me.  I just don't know what he's talking about, from an experiential standpoint.  It's as if his experiences are completely foreign and his perspectives are totally unknown to me.  On one level, I'm disappointed in my inability to gain more from the book, and on another level, I'm wondering if I need to just acknowledge that Nouwen simply isn't a writer who connects with me, and that might not be a reflection on him or on me but simply an observation of reality.In light of the other positive reviews, I won't be so arrogant as to suggest that "Reaching Out" is somehow a lousy book.  I will instead suggest that it's not for everyone, and it certainly wasn't very helpful for me.
5 Next to the Bible, this book has changed my life more than any other book.  I use it constantly in my counseling career and have probably ready it 14 times myself.  When you get it don't just read it and put it down.  Read it again and again.  It is amazing.
5 Being a Christian in today's society is  often a scary thing.  People love to bad-mouth our faith in something invisible.  This book gives us the tools to strengthen our own selves before we get brave enough to talk to others, to offer them hospitality and then to help them know God themselves.  It's a 'read more than once' book.
5 Henri Nouwen again in REACHING OUT inspires and provides a mental vacation from  the cares of life.  A great read over and over again.
5 Someone once quipped that Henri Nouwen was such a gifted writer that anything he scribbled out even on a discarded bus ticket deserved to get published! Having read many of his published works, I would nod heartily at that hyperbolic statement! There is in Nouwen's simple and beautiful literary expressions a profound grasp of life in the Spirit with all its odd tensions and paradoxes. This shows in the schema he uses in this book which sees the progress in the spiritual life not so much as a ladder one climbs unabated to the end goal (visio dei!) that traditional authors deigned to employ. It is more like the polarity that one shuttles back and forth between the Spirit and the flesh (in the language of St Paul). But here he creatively uses the idea of "Reaching Out'- to self, to others and to God. In these three movements of outreach, one finds himself experiencing the deepening of the life of faith when he moves from the false self of loneliness to the true self of solitude, from hostility towards others to hospitality and finally from the illusions of hubris to prayer.These concepts are not new but Nouwen has a refreshing way of weaving together the ancient Scriptures and the time-tested wisdom of the spiritual fathers and mothers with the modern struggles of contemporary men as well as his own existential issues. He writes in such a way that those with eyes to see could recognize the images and stirrings of their own hearts in them and perhaps discover for themselves the way out of the maze one often finds himself. I particularly love the way he retells the ancient stories of the Zen masters as well as those of the Eastern Orthodox teachers. No one tells them like he does within the larger reflections of what it means to live the spiritual life ie. 'to live a life in the Spirit of Jesus Christ'. In this he shows his ecumenical spirit and his clear discernment of truths within the diversity of faith traditions, while remaining deeply anchored in the gospel.One small complaint that some readers make of Nouwen is that his prolific writings often lack the systematic character that would have helped believers construct a more comprehensive and well thought out understanding of what it means to follow Jesus. I think this critique has some merits because many of his writings are done in the forms of letters (You are my Beloved), spiritual journals (Genesee Diary), case studies (Wounded Healer) and biographical reflections (Adam) which carry a plethora of gems here and there, which some feel need to be pieced together into a beautiful chalice! Then again, perhaps these genres are a more accurate reflection of life itself with all its messy bits and mysteries that do not yield to neat systematization. Having said that, if anyone must have a book that sets out the thoughts of Nouwen in his systematic best, this might well be the book he is looking for as Nouwen answers in three movements the book's central thesis: 'What does it mean to live in the Spirit of Jesus Christ?'. Savour this book slowly and meditatively and be nourished by this deep well of inspiring truths that move the heart as well as the mind.
5 I have read some of Nouwen's work before, and this is one of his best.  My daughter spoke of this book as she was reading it for a study she was doing at the Christian school where she works, and I bought a copy as she was using hers.  In the middle section, while speaking to everyone, he addresses parents, teachers, and professionals.  I'd say more, but you really need to read it yourself.  This is a book that, read carefully, has the potential to change how you function as a result of your faith.
5 For anyone who is looking for the existential version or spiritual side of their Christianity, this book has much to say.  Nouwen's theme of hospitality needs to be reviewed by most older Christians to see what they may be overlooking.  The first chapter is slow reading but important to the theme.  Enjoy!
4 This book stimulated discussion and growth in our weekly spirit group.  The three movements are:  from loneliness to solitude, from hostility to hospitality, and from illusion to prayer.  Key is this quote: "We do not have to deny or avoid our loneliness, our hostilities, and our illusions.  To the contrary: When we have the courage to let these realities come to our full attention, understand them and confess them, then they can slowly be converted into solitude, hospitality and prayer."  Discussing this book helped our group develop the author's habit of owning up to our weaknesses, and helped us to realize more deeply that spiritual maturity is not a life without weaknesses but an ability to acknowledge them and be open to their healing.
5 This is my second taste of Nouwen, and it has been even better than the first (&quot;The Inner Voice of Love&quot;).  This book is a valuable component of the amazing turnaround of my depression.Some Christians say that when you find yourself burnt out and needy, you should go back to the basics.  They offer no new solutions, and point you back to daily quiet times and church attendance and service.  But here is a book that offers a completely new and refreshing look at God and life.  It offers a chance to slow down, to deal with your own heart and soul before rushing to &quot;perform&quot; as a Christian should.  Nouwen shows that only when we take time to love and hear ourselves, to become comfortable with who we are and be content with solitute, only after those steps are taken can we reach out to others in true love.  We simply must love ourselves and deal with our hurts and needs before we can help and learn from others.We often reach out to others when we are hurting.  We are afraid to deal alone with our needs.  We are desperately seeking someone or something to drown out our own voice, to give us new answers.  We watch television, listen to music, read books, socialize.  This book points us back into ourselves.  For we are indeed God's children, and the Spirit is in us.  When we learn to be still, we can offer that very stillness and peace to others.  We can commune with God in prayer.  We can break the illusions of business, of our circumstance ruling us.  And we can once again be in touch with ourselves, others, and our God.This is a life-changing, pain-shattering book.  In these pages, we meet the Healer, the God who loves us infinitely and takes the time to fill us up and heal our wounds.  We meet the God who gives us the peace to live a centered life, not a chaotic one.
5 Reaching Out: The Three Movements of the Spiritual Life  - Henri J. M. Nouwen - This is a great resource for anyone studying this kind of material
5 In a culture of distraction, agitation, and surfeit, Nouwen's classic work on the dynamics of spiritual development offers wise, gentle and welcome guidance along the way of simplicity, peace, and mindfulness... truly countercultural.
5 For anyone starting or exploring their spirituality, this is a great book to get you headed in the correct direction.As a novice in my spiritual development, I have found this book to be a very useful guide.
5 Nouwen is so powerful in his use of words to describe our life journey.  I find this specific book to be extremely useful in presenting the Threshold program I present at several Oregon Department of Corrections.  Higly recommend it for any who are working in the Corrections/Re-entry field
5 For many years, I wondered why some people abruptly shifted their eyes away from my eyes.  I also wondered how it would be possible for me to acquire the charisma that I admire in many public people.This book is the answer.People who shift their eyes from my eyes fear that if I notice who they are, and if I don't like who they are, they won't be accepted, because, to them, that is all that they have.  I learned that those people have a self-concept that is based upon anticipating what others will think of them.And to become as charismatic as those I most admire, I've learned that by first accepting everything about myself, I am free to emulate them, without losing myself.This little book has so much information for anyone who desires to be their best.Read this book to become more than comfortable in your own skin.
1 I have been reading through this book and while it says some true things, it seems very judgmental, especially in the section about games people play.  I also thought it was meant to be written by a Christian, but in the section on Rationalization, it says "Choosing evil as evil is also a psychological impossibility, because the will can only choose the good".  I believe that is entirely untrue.
4 This is a very technical read. It is taking me some time to read it because of all the technical ways the author wrote it. I do plan at some point to be able to read it all the way to the last page. Will just take me longer than most books. This is one that I want to take notes as I read for future referrence.
4 This book is good for those who are looking to understand themselves, and in some instances understand others and how they respond or think...  Can be a bit technical in some sections but still good source for understanding and learning the human mind.
5 This is a very perceptive book, in which John Powell looks at healthy and unhealthy ways of relating. He starts off with an excerpt from an actual conversation in which someone told him, &#8220;I am afraid to tell you who I am, because if I tell you who I am, you may not like who I am, and it&#8217;s all that I have.&#8221; He says this reflects &#8220;the imprisoning fears and self-doubt which cripple most of us, and keep us from forward movement on the road to maturity, happiness and true love.&#8221;Because of these fears and because of the risks of self revelation, people seek refuge in roles, masks and games, and these are examined in detail in this book. They are ways of relating without true communication. However, as Powell puts it &#8220;A relationship will be only as good as its communication.&#8221;Powell says it is helpful to learn about the games people play, in order to have honest communication in true interpersonal relationships. He states that it is only when we are able to express ourselves and relate to others that we are &#8220;fully human.&#8221;He talks of the importance of &#8220;Interiority,&#8221; in which people accept their emotions, impulses, thoughts and desires. &#8220;This kind of self-acceptance empowers people to live fully and confidently with all that goes on inside them.&#8221;On the other side of the balance is &#8220;exteriority,&#8221; which involves an openness to meaningful contact with the world outside. &#8220;Fully human beings go out to others,&#8230; not by a kind of compulsive-obsessive neurosis, but actively and freely, and simply because they have chosen to do so.&#8221;Powell talks about the five levels of communication, which range from Clich&eacute; conversation such as the small talk used at cocktail parties, to Peak Conversation which is based on absolute openness and honesty. As Powell affirms, &#8220;Anyone who builds a relationship on less than openness and honesty is building on sand.&#8221;Of great interest is the chapter on Ego-defense mechanisms, in which various methods are examined. One of these is &#8220;Reaction Formation&#8221; which is an over-compensation by exaggeration. Powell explains that exaggerated behavior usually means the opposite of what it seems to imply. Another ego-defense mechanism is Projection, in which we attribute our own faults to others, and &#8220;dislike in others what we cannot accept in ourselves.&#8221;Powell advocates honesty at all times. &#8220;Even if my thoughts and emotions are not pleasing to you, it remains the greatest kindness to reveal myself openly and honestly.&#8221;However Powell is careful to clarify that the honesty he is talking about is self-revelation, not judgement of other people. He says that when one person is honest about themselves, it will empower the other to do the same.The final section of the book is a catalogue of games and roles that people play. Powell introduces the section by saying that all the games and roles have one thing in common, &#8220;they mask and distort the truth about the one most important thing that I could share with you: myself.&#8221; They are all ways of avoiding reality, and they are played in order to gain acceptance by others. Powell reflects, &#8220;No one wants to admit to playing any one of these games, but it is the first step to real emotional growth when we admit the tendency, in order to hold it in some kind of check.&#8221;For anyone who wishes to learn how to relate and what pitfalls to steer away from, this is essential reading. Definitely to be added to your reading list.
4 If I expose my nakedness as a person to you, do not make me feel shame.  I am afraid to tell you who I am because if I tell you who I am, you may not like who I am and it's all I have.I read this book in 1991 (not knowing then that the author was just another priestly perv) and came away from reading it with the idea that if you are seeking a real and authentic relationship, you need to put into practice gut-level communication.  Who am I?  I am what I think, what I judge, and what I feel.  If I have communicated these things freely and openly, as clearly and as honestly as I can, I will find a noticeable growth in my own sense of identity.Displacement is the indirect expression of an impulse; that is, scapegoating.  Reaction-formation is extreme dogmatism, prudishness, overcompensation by overdevelopment or exaggeration out of fear and demoralizing self-doubt.  Introjection is where we attribute to ourselves the good qualities of others.  Rationalization is the attempt to reconcile our ideal selves with our real selves.  Displacement, reaction-formation, introjection and rationalization are obstacles to being honest and open in our communications.
1 A settlement has been reached in connection this Roman Catholic priest accused of sexual abuse. At least six adults claimed father John Powell abused them in the late 60's and 70's. No criminal charges were filed against Powell but the priest has admitted to the abuse.
5 This is a great book.  I recommend this to all of my clients in my mental health practice, and to all of my friends.  I've read it several times, and each time I learn something new.
4 I have found it helpful to give this book to some of my clients who struggle with fear of what others think.  I like to have several copies on hand so I can give them away.
5 If anyone is intereted in a book on Human Behaviour, this is one of those "must read" books. The book goes through step by step why we do what we do, or why we are the way we are. Some serious introspective of the human mind and soul.One of he most entertaining parts of the book was the section of the personality types. By way of explanation, the writer describes people who like, the Clown, the Life-of-the -party, the dictator, the sex kitten, the stud, the authoritarian etc, etc. It is very extensive and you may even find yourself on one of the pages.In a nutshell, recommended reading.
5 This is a good book for young people trying to sort out the angst in their lives.  It's tough growing up these days and this book will help your family immensely.Jeffrey McAndrewauthor of &quot;Our Brown-Eyed Boy&quot;
3 I like the subject matter, it is the way the book is written that I do notcare for.  I feel like the author is not talking to me rather he is talkingat me.
3 This book does have some worthy insights, however the author tends to pigeonhole people into oversimplified categories according to the "games" they play to get their needs met.  In real life however, I think people are more likely to fall into various roles, or games, at different times in their lives. Something about the presentation seemed just a little pretentious, too. The author sometimes appeared to think he was giving away some secret bits of information, heretofore known only by him or a few select others.  This left a bad taste in my mouth.  Nonetheless, some of the information presented was very valid, and at the very least the book serves as an excellent reminder that we are all afraid of rejection, no matter who we are.  But we are not all "losers", in spite of the games we play; I don't think the author gives enough emphasis to this fact.  In addition, I think that sometimes life is just what it is, and looking at it like it is some kind of game is of no useful value whatsoever.  Watch out if you think you are having some kind of "aha!" experience, as it will be short-lived.
5 I purchased this book for personal reasons and It was easy to read and understand. I would suggest this book for anyone who has struggles in their life
5 Any person who desires to understand himself in regard to personal growth and relationship with others must read this book. I have read and reread this book and use it to counsel others. Powell deals with the topic of human growth and development with acute precision and accuracy that informs a picture of the well-integrated, whole individual. He communicates this person in the honor of the image of God, not in a preachy tone but such as to reflect the dignity of humankind and his own vast understanding in religion and classical studies. He also touches at the nerve of why individuals mask themselves from others and the care and caution that we as counselors need to take in dealing with these people. His catalog of games and roles is so descriptive that even emotionally healthy persons can identify the weakend emotional tendencies that characterize their life. The principles in this book can be communicated to adolescent and adult alike. Simply indispensable.
5 I am had and still suffer from a career disillusionment. This helped me understnad my lack of identity and the attribution of my mother's NPD on me.  It was an eye opener, and quick read for anyone suffering from NPD parents.
5 I have read this book several times over the years and needed a copy to give as a gift.  I would highly recommend the book for anyone who wants insight into understanding personal growth.
5 I have always loved to read C.S. Lewis and these readings are well done in that they contain great ideas that 'work' for a daily reading.
5 I enjoy C.S. Lewis in general but these early writing from his Christian walk are truly poetic and picturesque.  He transcends base knowledge and seems to be able to convey in words concepts that dig deeply to the core of the nature of God.  Beautiful!!
4 Of course, in an ideal world, where we all had tons of free time to read, a book of C.S. Lewis excerpts like this would be useless. But, in the actual world, where sometimes reading has to come next to things like  working, grocery shopping, and sleeping, a book like this one is quite  helpful. It doesn't compare to reading each of his great works in their  entirety, but the excerpts are organized very well, often by theme and/or  work taken from, so there's a feeling of continuity and thoroughness.  Another great thing about this book is that often with C.S. Lewis' works,  the density of things to think about within the pages is so great that a  lot of the cool thoughts and ideas get missed in a normal read-through. But  generally in this book, each daily reading expresses a singular idea, so  there is more time to really let the weight of the thought sink in, and to  spend some time intellectually and emotionally digesting his words. So if  you're a C.S. Lewis fan, or even just a fan of filling your brain with  interesting concepts and insightful analogies, this is a must-have.
5 I bought this book in 2001 and have read it more or less every night before bed. These one- or two-paragraph tidbits are great for something spiritual to ponder before bed. It also inspired me to read the books that these snippets are taken from. If you're looking for an organized, progressive devotional, there are better books out there, but if you're new to C.S. Lewis and would like to see some of the width and breadth of his writing, this might be a good place to start.
5 Lewis does a masterful job of leading you to ponder much of life and how it will affect your enjoyment of heaven. He doesn't want you to just read words, but to think as you read in a way that will affect you life and help you affect your world you presently live in.
5 I have tried assorted &quot;devotional&quot; books before, but I have never been satisfied. All too often, commentaries on specific Bible passages seem to conflict with the very passage they are trying to explain or illustrate, and devotional works which are intended to stand on their own tend to be too sickly-sweet for me, or have questionable theology from time to time.But of course, this is C.S. Lewis. Walter Hooper has arranged some of Lewis' pithier passages into a series roughly paralleling the Church Year as observed by Anglicans. I read it in parallel with my own Bible reading, and was somewhat bemused to find how often what Lewis wrote meshed with what I was reading in the Bible, even though I made no attempt to coordinate or harmonise the two. This is a &quot;devotional book&quot; with which I can be satisfied.
5 As part of my time with God each day, I have a spiritual diet of Bible reading, memorization, and then books on theology/sermons/biographies of men of God, etc. I also like to do small daily snippets of devotionals, quotes, readings, so on and so forth.The book that I have used for this section of my devotionals the past year is The Business of Heaven, by C. S. Lewis. Now, to be clear on this, Lewis never wrote this book as such. The book is a collection of the man's writings, one for each day of the year, plus a small separate group of selections for the special "movable feasts and fasts" of the Episcopal Calendar. This way, every day and most special religious observances, have such a reading to commemorate them.Really, these selections are more like "thoughts of the day" that are taken from Lewis' writings. To their credit, the editors put real work into the book. Each reading really does encapsulate a thought or an idea that is Scripturally-based. While it is true that I found myself disagreeing once or twice with Lewis' perspective, it was on an issue that pertained to doctrinal or historical interpretation. In other words, an issue that Christians have debated for the past two millennia, and will debate until Our Lord returns, in all likelihood.Lewis was known for some more wacky views upon salvation, though they became increasingly orthodox as he studied the Scriptures more. None of the more wacky ones are here. This is not a "study" in Lewis, or a book drawing attention to Lewis, but a book of Lewis' quotes designed to do what he himself wanted done with his works, to draw attention to Our Wondrous God.Highly Recommended.
5 I JUST LOVE CS LEWIS. IN THIS BOOK I HAVE FOUND A VERITABLE FEAST OF INTELLECTUAL CHALLENGES THAT SHAKE MY PRE-DISPOSED ATTITUDES AND HANG-UPS TOWARD GOD AND MAN. THIS BOOK OFFERS THE READER A CHALLENGE TO SEE MY RELATIONSHIP TO GOD IN A CLEAR LIGHT. IF YOU WANT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT LIFE CAN BRING, AND DON'T MIND YOUR PREDILECTIONS TOWARD THE ETERNAL BEING DISTURBED, CHALLENGED, AND CHANGED, THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU.
3 Let me be up front with my feelings about this book...I have a serious lack of trust for the editor.After reading Kathryn Lindskoog's book &quot;Light in the Shadowlands, Protecting the Real C.S. Lewis" (see my review on October 30, 2000), I have deep concerns about Mr. Hooper. My consequent suggestion is that you skip the introduction if you use this book.The real attraction here is the ability to read short excerpts from C.S. Lewis' works every day. As a whole this book is great for fulfilling that purpose.I believe that I have lamented elsewhere that Christianity suffers from a plague of superficial and shallow &quot;devotionals.&quot; In spite of Mr. Hooper having had a hand in its creation (and the lion's share of its profits no doubt) &quot;The Business of Heaven&quot; suffers from neither malady.These passages are excellent to reflect upon. Sometimes they stand alone. Sometimes several days reflect upon the same subject. They follow the Anglican Church Calendar for the year (Mr. Lewis was himself a member of the Church of England.)As a person who is unfamiliar with the &quot;Church Year,&quot; I found this collection an education of sorts. The book contains charts for folks like me who need to figure out where the movable feasts fall on the calendar (They have their own readings in the back.)&quot;The Business of Heaven&quot; is an interesting volume. I give it my recommendation in spite of my reservations...there are clearly better devotionals out there. I would suggest Brennan Manning's &quot;Reflections for Ragamuffins&quot; as a more worthy first choice.
3 This is a very good sampling of C.S. Lewis' writings on many different topics, from various previously published sources, broken up into digestible pieces.  If you've read most of Lewis' work and want to refresh your memory and meditate variously on their insights, this book might be helpful.  It might also be helpful for those who have very little exposure to Lewis and want to start with a shallow sampling before deciding where to dive in deeper.  Each selection has its source listed in the back. Please do go on to read some of the original sources.  A sampling like this doesn't really do them justice.The only criticism I have of this book is about its format.  It's intended to be a devotional calendar with a reading for each specific date of a year with appropriate readings for special days in the church year.  I don't think it succeeds very well in this format.  For one thing the selections for the special days don't always seem relevant.  The feast of St. Andrew, for example, on November 30 doesn't have anything to do with that particular Apostle.  But the main reason it doesn't seem to work well as a devotional calendar is that long passages are often broken up into a sequence of separate sequential readings that span several days.  If you stick to reading each selection one day at a time, you could easily lose the train of thought and have to pick it up again each day.  There is no hint as to where one broken up passage ends and another begins unless you look at the list of sources in the back. I think the book would work much better if it were simply organized by topic into series of passages of varying lengths without trying to fit them in a daily calendar template.
5 Your daily dose of cognizant reason will be found in these pages.  Good and relevant stuff about life.  The amazing work of a mind like very few to have ever lived!  And he bothers to try to bring these things to my level of thinking!
5 Fair warning: Every bite of Lewis' writing makes you long for more. Addictive, yes! Each of these daily readings will grab you and keep you thinking (and looking to God) long after you've put the book down. That is a perfect example of what every Christian writer hopes for: That God's Spirit will inhabit your words and bring them to life in the hearts and minds of readers. Lewis is the one writer who always leaves me stunned and awed and whispering thanks to the God who is The Word.
4 This is a nice collection of readings from C.S. Lewis, edited by Walter Hooper. However, it suffer from the same &quot;illness&quot; that most, if not all, daily readings text suffer - lack of total context.The topics of the readings range from 'Aquinas' to 'When the World Drama Ends.' As he always, Lewis writes with precision clarity; most Latin scholars do.As far as merely a readings text, it is hard to go wrong with Lewis: he is one of the greatest thinkers from the 20th century. However, if you purchase this text with the intention of having a devotional work, then you might be disappointed. Don't misunderstand me, Lewis' writings are quite devotional in one sense, but are quite rigorous, which runs contrary to most if not all devotional work. This would be more of a serious food for thought work.However, if you are wanting a broad spectrum of Lewis' thought wrapped up in small 'tidbits' then you will love this work - but keep the lack of context in mind (it is always best to read the whole and not just a part to gain a full grasp of what any writer is trying to say). I would also recommend Lewis' &quot;Of Other Worlds: Essays and Stories.&quot;
5 CS Lewis is a very interesting and profound theologian and writer. His very deep writings are hard for me to absorb in big chunks so these daily &#34;bites&#34; are great. Good way to start the day!
5 This book hits the mark as interesting and easy to read. The pictures are a bonus for any Christie fan.
4 Very good book describing private life with very interesting background historical descriptions. Agatha Christe must have had an excellect memory, it seems, to remember so may things from her childhood and all adult life. However, Agatha Christie did not reveal many things from her life. This is not a book through which you will know her. But it is very interesting to read it.
4 Some of Agatha Christie's fans may complain that this autobiography does not tell them the things they really want to know, such as why Christie briefly disappeared after her first husband confessed his infidelity, or how one can write successful mystery stories.But near the conclusion of this book, Christie herself says, "I have remembered, I suppose, what I wanted to remember; many ridiculous things for no reason that makes sense." (548)  It is better, then, to take this work not as autobiography per se but as a long memoir, touching in turn on those aspects of Christie's life that most interested her. Christie's life had its disappointments, even tragedies, but from the first sentence in which she boasts of a "happy childhood," Christie revels in emphasizing those aspects of the past she enjoyed in the interest of engaging and amusing her readers as well.  Some of her anecdotes are laugh-aloud funny.There are no profound ideas here and only the most superficial touch on philosophy and religion.  (Her hobby was collecting houses.) True, Christie doesn't tell all and doesn't tell deeply, but what she does tell is expressed with that wonderful eye for detail that made her a master storyteller, the best-selling fiction writer of all time.
4 Sure reading Agatha Christie is a bit of escapism; to see if you can guess the killer, solve the puzzle, but I think she's a bit better than that. Let's ask another question.  Why read books at all?  "...I liked him very much.  He was gentle and polite---and he knew a lot really.  Things out of books, I mean."  That's one reason why we may read, but what about novels, why read those?  Those are not "books" in the sense of learning things.  OK, maybe you can fudge the category and point and include novels (at least classic novels that seem to have lessons or wisdom in them), but detective stories?  It's hard to include those herein too.  But, at least in Miss Christie's case, I'd make an exception here even though on the surface detective stories, mysteries don't merit inclusion in the books the likes of Dickens and Dostoyesky wrote.  Sherlock Holmes and many other detective stories, I'd suggest, are a lot more escapism in the simple sense of that phrase.  And while many good books have nuggets of insight and interest in them I think Agatha Christie consistently has more than several in most of her books.  Man in the Brown suit: A diary is useful for recording the idiosyncrasies of other people---but not one's own." Mrs. McGinty's Dead: "What a wonderful dispensation it is of Nature's," though Hercule Poirot, "that every man, however superficially unattractive, should be some woman's choice." Murder of Roger Ackroyd: "Les femmes," generalized Poirot, "they are marvelous! They invent haphazard---and by miracle they are right.  Not that it is that, really.  Women observe subconsciously a thousand little details, without knowing that they are doing so.  Their subconscious mind adds these little things together---and they call the result intuition."Take this from Mrs. McGinty's Dead:"I don't see what you mean."Poirot: "Perhaps I do not see myself---not yet.  One works through darkness towards light."Poirot: "You look forwards, not back?'Deidre: "I don't know that I look anywhere...I mean, today's usually enough, isn't it?"Lines that these make passing international flights more bearable. That's why I like to read Christie on long flights.  You read things like this and put your finger between the pages you have just read, cast a glance out the window 35,000 feet above daily life and contemplate it for a few minutes.  Hmm, interesting; she is, Agatha Christie's take on things. It's not deep philosophy, but food for casual thought...if you pause long enough when reading her to savor these gems.  As in travel, the journey is often more interesting than the d&eacute;nouement of the trip.  So, Agatha Chrisite is a great writer? I'm not saying that and Agatha Christie never pretended to be: "I will confess here and now that of the two things that have excited me most in my life the first was my car: my grey bottle-nosed Morris Cowley. The second was dining with the Queen at Buckingham Palace about forty years later.  Both of these happenings, you see, had something of a fairy-tale quality about them.  They were things that I thought could never happen to me: to have a car of my own, and to dine with the Queen of England." Agatha Christie, in other words, was rather "normal." And it was interesting to read this autobiography to see just how normal she was (even though she once did have a doctor called Stabb---how apropo). I rather just enjoy reading Christie and enjoy the way she characterizes people and life, normal life. Normal is good...as long as a person at least tries to look at things a bit differently sometimes. Agatha Christie always had a fresh way of looking at things. Too bad other "normal" people often have nothing to "say."
4 I was a bit hesitant to read this at first. Knowing that it didn;t cover her eleven missing days made me think it was essentially dishonest. But instead, I found it really enjoyable. It's better written than most of her novels. It's a string of loosely related anecdotes that are really quite entertaining. Most interesting is her remembrance of her Victorian childhood and Edwardian young adulthood, and her ability to contrast it with the mid-twentieth century. For example, she mentions that when she first married, everyone thought it extremely extravagant to have a car, but it was unthinkable for her class not to have servants. Interesting how fashions come and go about what it considered a necessity!
4 There are really 3 autobiographical works that Agatha Christie wrote:  there's this one, of course, which, if I remember right, covers her childhood and the early years of her first marriage, including how she began writing.  Then there's &quot;Come, Tell Me How You Live,&quot; about the 2nd part of her life, during her marriage to the archeologist Max Mallowan.Then there's the novel (written under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott), &quot;Unfinished Portrait.&quot;  Although many things in &quot;Unfinished Portrait&quot; were clearly changed around for the sake of the story and don't pertain to her life at all, it is very frank emotionally about what was probably the hardest time of her life -- her divorce from her 2nd husband.  It also tells a little more about her writing, since the heroine of the story is also a writer.All 3 of the books are good reading.
3 Interesting to read of her life.  I found it a bit repetitive and that it dwelt too long on details of her childhood.
5 Agatha Christie is still the only true Queen of Crime. Her creations of Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot are still as fresh and popular as when she was alive. Her immense popularity is in still contrast to the shyness she showed when in contact with the media. She kept her personal life very much hidden from the general public and mostly avoided giving interviews.It is then even more refreshing that her autobiography, published in 1977 the year after her death, shares so many intimate thoughts and ponderings. Although it does not reveal all the mysteries behind the enigmatic author, she fails for instance to mention her sudden disappearance in 1926, it shows what a wonderfully strange life she has lived. The years of the war are covered in great detail and it is clear that that period was a big turning point in her life. In comparison Agatha does not spend a lot of time on how her writings came about, a lack she mentions in the introduction as being a conscience decision. More focus has been put on how she sees the world around here evolve. As such this work is very much like a historical, impressionistic painting of the world of Agatha Christie. The humor she interweaves through her narrative makes clear that she was always very aware of how relative her success and position in live has been. Something that is completely in line with her humble and shy character.Agatha Christie, An Autobiography is a very personal and touching book that should be on the shelve of every Christie fan and is a real joy to read.
5 I have read just about every one of Agatha Christie's books  and so I thought I would probably enjoy this too. Miss Christie led a very interesting life and I am so glad that I decided on this book. It was amazing to read of the times that she came up in and she was so descriptive you almost feel you are there. Naturally she is able to weave a very readable story and she keeps it interesting all the way through. I also enjoyed the pictures that are included. I hate that she did not have more books because I only have two or three more of them to go. If you like Miss Christie's work you will enjoy discovering how she became the world's best crime writer.
5 This is a reprint of Agatha Christie's autobiography over a period between 1950 and 1965.  Out of print for over three decades, this new edition includes a CD in which Agatha Christie talks about being a writer.  Note that the famous eleven-day disappearance in 1926 (see the movie Agatha for speculation) is not explained which in turn is disappointing yet adds an aura of mystery to Ms. Christie.  Born in 1890, her late Victorian childhood in Ashfield comes across as idyllic (but somewhat boring) except for her vivid description of her caring indolent dad and the Agatha's Husband game played with her sister.  The action picks up in the second act with her first marriage to Archibald Christie, their child Rosalind and her first novel.  Her second marriage to younger Max Mallowan during the Depression also provides insight into what made Ms. Christie tick while her characters like Poirot and Marple almost seem real.  Ironically readers know of her novels, but few have seen her plays (like Witness for the Prosecution) on the stage.  At times in her works, Ms. Christie sympathizes with murderers as their cause was just (see Murder on the Orient Express) which is intriguing.  Filled with pathos and humor; and enhanced by photos and the CD, An Autobiography by Agatha Christie is a wonderful look at the life of the Grand Dame of mystery.Harriet Klausner
5 This is a must have for any Agatha Christie lover.  While I am not yet finished reading I am finding it quite intriguing and finding her personal life just as adventureous as her novels.  I was delighted to find this comes with a CD of her voice recordings from over the years.
5 If you're a fan of Ms. Christie--and even if you aren't--this book is a gem for writers of the mystery genre.  Many of the feelings she expresses are ones we all feel.  For example, she didn't consider herself a professional writer until she'd published several books, and realized she could pay for her roof repairs.  I have a new respect for the woman and her body of work.  Starting to read more of her books, after reading this.
5 Often times autobiographies are dull things of interest only to the author or those who may be mentioned in the book, others are glowing brag fests relating how marvelous the subject is, or are filled with juicy gossip about other celebrities.  This one is completely different in that Christie did not attempt to write a complete chronicle of her life, or to focus on what the public might want to hear (in fact she deliberately left out the very episode - her disappearance - that most would want to know more about) but instead told about those parts of her life that she was interested in remembering.  For example most autobiographies rush through the subject's childhood and focus on the parts of their adult life that made them famous, not so here.  Instead Christie takes the first third of her tale to describe her life before she ever thought of Hercule Poirot.What the reader gets instead of stories about the great and famous is a charming glimpse into the life of a middle-class child born at the end of the Victorian era, her perceptions of a society that was rapidly changing as she grew to young adulthood.  She tells about her life as a child in a comfortable household filled with servants, her teenage years with her widowed mother, as a young woman caring for wounded soldiers, as a bride then a single mother through her later years as a successful author and  her second, happier marriage to an archaeologist and their travels to the Middle East.  She glosses over meeting the Queen but tells at length about various nannies and secretaries that were part of her everyday life.For fans of Christie it is particularly interesting to learn what inspired certain of her characters or plots, what was occuring in her life while writing some of the novels, to see people or situations that one can recognize in a favorite novel.  For anyone interested in life in the early twentieth century this book also gives an insight into that time that is rarely seen.
5 Wonderful book for mystery writers and non-fans alike.  Agatha Christie could have held her own with any of the British intelligentsia of her day if she had chosen to write anything but puzzlers.  By turns funny,  poignant,  and practical,  she had a girlhood almost impossible to imagine in this century.  Becoming rich  and famous while remaining so unassuming she couldn't speak in public ,  she must have been a great dinner guest.  I've read it three times and will probably read it again.
5 This is the second time I've read it. Extremely readable and pleasant book. Fascinating description of life in her times. You get to know the Queen of Crime on a personal level and it makes you like Her even more. A must!
2 I just downloaded this ebook offered by HarperCollins and was dismayed to find that there were absolutely NO pictures included!!!!!!!! I was extremely disappointed that in this day and age a complete version of this work would not be offered by a major publisher. I checked a copy of the original book published by Dodd, Mead in 1977 and available for FREE from my public library - and found that it included 26 photos . . . sooooo . . . where's the pics??? Just another example of the greed by major publishers to rush a product in an e-format and think that no one would notice . . . what a ripoff!!!!!!!! Beware of what is offered in ebooks . . I do love having the accessibility . . . but not at the cost of content.
4 I am actually amazed that I never read Agatha Christie's autobiography before now, since I have loved her books and re-read them many times over the years.She was born in 1890 in Devon, England and died in 1976 in Oxfordshire, England.  She started this autobiography when she was 60 and finished it when she was 75.  And, just to make sure people don't get disappointed right away, her publishers state flatly in the preface (of the edition that I own) that she does not, EVER, mention the infamous disappearance the year her mother died and Archie Christie asked her for a divorce.  That will be a mystery never solved.  You get the sense that she left quite a bit of her emotions and feelings out of the book.  She mentioned frequently in the book that bad times were to be got through so that one could enjoy the good times.The book does ramble on delightfully, as she herself would probably put it.  "What I want is to plunge my hand into a lucky dip and come up with a handful of assorted memories."  (from the Foreward).  Here's a critical paragraph about how one should view her autobiography:"We never know the whole man, though sometimes, in quick flashes, we know the true mam.  I think, myself, that one's memories represent those moments which, insignificant as they may seem, nevertheless represent the inner self and oneself as most really oneself." (also from the Forward).There is an amazing amount of detail regarding Victorian and Edwardian England.  Her ability to describe things minutely and interestingly was one of the things I always loved about her books.The main outlines of her life are there, as are quite a few details about her family.  She loved her family immensely and it shows.  She discusses her father's lack of business skills that wasted away the fortune he inherited and her brother Monty's wholly unsatisfactory life in the straightforward way that she wrote her books.  She was an extremely practical person, I think.Her interest in archaeology because of her (2nd)  husband Max Mallowan manifested itself in quite a few of her books, and I think that perhaps some of my interest in archaeology was because of her interest.  She had one daughter, Rosalind, who died in 2004, and a grandson, Mathew Prichard, who runs "the family business" as it were.There are a few preachy parts and I would like to have had more dates, but she warns you in the Foreward, and you must simply sit back and let her tell her story and understand her the way she wanted to be understood.The book ends before her husband, Max Mallowan was knighted for his distinguished archaeological career in 1968 and before she herself was appointed a dame of the British Empire in 1971.  Truly an interesting woman, truly an interesting autobiography.
5 Curious about AC, this book taught a lot.  A bit disappointing to find how much she really did not like writing about Poirot after a while, but had heard of that and not a huge surprise.  Her life as a child through to her second (and final) marriage and her children.  Interesting to find out about her great imagination even as a child, how her family traveled for safety, money, fun - the family challenges.
5 For anyone who has ever read and enjoyed Agatha Christie and wondered about the author, this is a must.  You get an in-depth look at her younger years and her parents.  What a pair they must have been!  You also get a strong sense of the times just prior to World War I.  You meet many of the people she met along the way and which ones had a strong impact on her.  She does not got into any depth as to her ideas for stories and book nor does she go in for how she writes them.  That is for other authors.  I literally sometimes could not close the book for wanting to know what came next.  I still go back to parts of the book to reread them.  The story unfolds just as easily as any of her books.
5 Although I generally believe that the one story a writer shouldn't write is their own, Agatha Christie's autobiography is the happy exception to this rule.The famous mystery writer takes much of the mystery out of how she became a writer telling a straightforward story of a fairy-tale childhood that abruptly changed into a grown-up existence of uncertainty, hard-work, determination, pluck and verve. She admits to less ambition than necessity dictated by money and marriage woes.Christie is a natural storyteller but she is far too polite to admit it outright. Instead, she brings the same hands-off style to her own story as she does to the main characters in her mystery books: that of being caught up in the circumstances of events rather than being driven by them.Her life story gently unfolds complemented by a dry and self-effacing wit. Christie blends in tidbits of her writing life, including her early efforts, story and character inspirations, why her books are so short, her writing style and routine and her dealings with editors and publishing houses, into the mostly personal narrative.While it may be a mystery as to whether Christie created or responded to opportunities, there's no mystery that once those opportunities presented themselves Christie seized them and rode them spectacularly to fame and fortune.
5 For me, this book is rated 5 stars, and the only other book that I rate this much is the Autobiography of Nelson Mandela!Even if Nelson Mandela was extrovert and I feel usually more inspired by extrovert people than by introvert one (Agatha Christie), this book is amazingly beautiful and for me is a full source of positive inspiration for life.I have never read her novels, or any crimi, but her life story is just very inspiring!Thanks for the book, Agatha!
3 I first encountered Agatha Christie's book when I was in high school (back in the early 1980s). They were the first &#34;mystery&#34; novels I'd ever read, and I've been a mystery fan ever since.I bought my copy of &#34;An Autobiography&#34; in a used book shop, off a clearance table. I think I paid a quarter for it. I knew that she had written an autobiography, but wasn't sure that I wanted to read it. But, hey, for a quarter? Count me in.Christie's memoir reads much like any of her mystery novels: simply written in plain language. Christie was never a writer who wrote with wordy, flourishing literary pretensions. She wrote to tell a story. Her memoir is very much the same.As I think other's have pointed out, there's little mention of Christie's famous disappearance; it's briefly mentioned. She has little recall of the details. I think that she was a person going though a bad time (a divorce, and all the publicity that went with it -- being famous makes your private life very public). I think she was just emotionally exhausted, and needed some time to be on her own. Of course, the fact that she was a famous mystery writer who disappeared has given rise to all sorts of theories over the years.I'd not call this the best autobiography I've ever read. It's rather slow in parts. However, reading about her process of writing, and how she came up with some of the ideas for her stories makes for interesting reading. Also interesting is her tales of traveling to Egypt with her archeologist husband (her second husband).Overall, the book gives us a glimpse into the life and mind of the best-selling mystery writer of all time.
4 When I found out this one existed, I had to scoop it up. To read about the infamous Agatha Christie's life in her own words? Priceless.A hefty length at 560 pages, Christie took her time writing this one at leisure, and a year after her death her daughter published it posthumously. The style is her traditional formal tone,  but she also tells her tale as one would having conversations with friends. It's clear from the beginning that she highly valued her childhood home, Ashfield. In fact, a great bulk of the book is spent discussing details of her childhood and growing up. It's clear she remembers these times fondly and places much emphasis on the value of family and experiences as one ages. She recounts the smallest of details that I personally wouldn't be able to remember. It's clear she loved having imagination and playing make believe games with her miniature house designs and dolls.She begins the book with her love of Ashfield and ends it with a last visit to where Ashfield once stood. It's gone and she still was missing it, seeing all the differences and changes, while finding a small familiar spot she could still recognize. She placed a lot of value on locations, travel, and houses. None spoke to her like her childhood home it doesn't seem. She was a collector of houses, in fact, at one time owning seven at once!She speaks in detail of her parents, her sister, her nannies and the maid, her first travels and dances, the fashions of the Victorian time, and her interests and loves for music and singing, art and beauty, learning French and the trials and experiences of various schooling. Her parents financial burden only strengthened after her father passed away. She spent time recalled a lot of miniscule details for over a hundred pages during all this, but also injecting a lot of philosophy about several things.Interesting how Christie sees servants of her days versus of today and how important they were. She said she couldn't imagine her childhood being so full without her nanny and kitchen maid. Apparently they added much warmth and experience to her life, and she feels they were highly respected and even controlling of the household.Also interesting to note her feeling of approval for how the Victorian era viewed their children's capabilities, versus today where parents automatically feel their children should be able to shine at everything because of opportunity (which she does not agree with.) She basically says in that day parents would recognize what their children would be good at and not find it limiting, but instead realistic.Here's a quote from the book I liked:"I suppose it is because nearly all children go to school nowadays and have things arranged for them that they seem so forlornly unable to produce their own ideas."If you want to read this one to see how she came up with ideas for her stories, or even much details about writing, you will likely be disappointed. I'm not sure when closing this book whether Christie  even enjoyed writing that much. It definitely wasn't her first choice of career - she felt she was not good enough to be a professional musician but says it's best to be realistic with yourself and not do something mediocre if you can't shine at it.  She doesn't even start talking about writing and books until much later on  - she finally starts writing and sells her first book at page 283!Even when starts publishing, she mainly discusses other things such as travel and friends. She mentions Miss Marple maybe twice in the book, Hercule Poirot rarely. I was hoping for perhaps a word of two about her apparent dislike of having to depend so much on that detective, but it wasn't really there. Every time she returned to writing it was only to try and make extra money from the way she makes it sound. Later on she said she was writing for money still, and wanting to concentrate more on plays for enjoyment after finishing her obligatory novel of the year. She did say she was proud of herself for Ten Little Indians and how she considers it her most complex work.Since she went into so much detail with your youth, she tells of each man she almost married or cared for, and finally for her fiance and eventual husband Archie Christie. It's clear she loved him dearly and they had a good relationship for quite awhile. The big controversy of her disappearance for fourteen days where some people thinks she faked her own death was not mentioned AT ALL. Where it would be in a timetable, she makes a point to say she is writing about what she wants to write about and not dwell on unpleasantries.One of the best things about this book was an honest inspection of the times, lifestyles, and thought processes of the Victorian Age. It's clear Agatha loved being a part of all that. Her travel stories were intriguing some of the time, but honestly grew a bit dull as she spent hundreds of pages just talking about locations, travel, the plants of the area, and her enthusiasm for it.When it came closer to mid life she stopped being personal and took a distant approach with the rest of the autobiography. The reason could be her dislike of media and desiring privacy, or else because travels was the most important thing in her life (which it seemed to be) and she thought the best thing to do was write about her wonderful experiences.Overall some great moments and insights. It took me awhile, however, as some parts of it are a little dull. I also feel she left a lot of her personal life out and kept herself distant in the second half. It would have been great to read more about her writing and characters and the individual books as well. Overall a must for Christie fans and autobiography enthusiasts.
2 I want to say, up front, that I'm a HUGE Christie fan -- I've read everything that she wrote, over 80 mysteries, plays and her Mary Westmacott pseudonym stuff. However, I was very disappointed in this, her autobiography for multiple reasons which I will elaborate upon here in detail.First, she utterly fails to discuss her famous 11-day "disappearance" in 1926 (to the Harrogate Spa), which is probably the most intriguing thing that ever happened in her lifetime! Here, I'll cite a website ([...]"But Norman, a former doctor, believes the novelist was in a fugue state, or, more technically, a psychogenic trance, a rare, deluded condition brought on by trauma or depression, which may also have led the writer and actor Stephen Fry to travel to Bruges in 1995 without leaving word with his friends or family."Okay, I'm Hoyle with that (there was a Hollywood movie that implied that she was having an affair, which I did not necessarily accept as truth) -- but why leave such an important event out of an autobiography that is certain to be of huge interest to fans?My second criticism is more pointed. Over the years, Christie issued MANY racist comments in her various works. I won't repeat them here as all fans will know what I'm talking about. Now, this was COMMON for writers to do throughout the 20th Century so, on it's face, taking into account that this was "an acceptable practice" for the era, I don't condemn Christie for this initial act of making such comments, even though many did not benefit or lend real support to the dialogue.However, Christie died in 1976 and this autobiography was published in '77. By this time, racist commentary was being very much looked down upon (as it should have been), and Christie could have made some sort of positive overture, however minor, to say that she wished that she had not used certain words that were hurtful to people. No such apology, however minor, is found in this autobiography, that I could find, and I feel certain that by 1976, Christie had received many letters which pointed out these anachronistic racial comments, probably seeking some sort of reaction. Based upon the absence of such thoughts in her autobiography, I seriously doubt that any response was issued. I find that a sad omission.Finally, as I read this book, I got the distinct impression that her heart was not at all in writing it, that it was a drudgery of sorts. I don't blame her for not wanting to write it but, if she didn't want to do it, she should have simply not done it, rather than issue something that reflects a sort of sideways contempt for her millions of fans.Here's what I DID like about the work: I learned a great deal about little things that ended up in her mysteries (such as "Truelove"). I learned something of her family (not enough about her trials and tribulations in marriage, though), and I went away sort of feeling sorry for Christie's father. Beyond these things, she came off as pretty drab to me -- my expectations were so much higher as she had been a world-traveler and COULD have said so much more. I found that the whole thing lacked a sense of history.So, I'll no doubt take some hits for my review and, if I'm in error about my facts, I'll come back and make corrections -- but I just think it could have been a super work and, compared to other autobiographies that I've read, I found this one dull and lacking in honesty.I have a tendency to over-rate the media which I review but I can't go along with the crowd on this one. Perhaps I'm wrong in that they say you should review what's IN a book and not what is absent. I'm not certain about that but I welcome your sincere feedback and comments.
5 Regardless of whether you are a lover of mystery fiction, you will love this autobiography by arguably the most successful mystery writer of all time.  Agatha Christie led a fascinating life during an enormously eventful time in history.  Born during the reign of Queen Victoria, she lived, served and worked through two World Wars and through the major events of the 20th century, and all of her experiences are captured in her novels and in this wonderful autobiography.  Mrs. Christie tells her story vividly and with great emotion, and truly captures in this eminently readable and humorous work, a feeling for the events that shaped and the people who populated her world.This is a new edition of a long-time favorite book that I re-read and share with others on a regular basis.  I am always inspired by Mrs. Christie's indomitable spirit and courage, and her positive outlook, even during dark times of war, illness, financial worry and grief, all of which she handles with great dignity in her work.The great bonus in this new edition is the CD of Dame Agatha dictating portions of her work.  It is absolutely fascinating to hear her clear and lovely voice at work, and provides additional insight into her writing process and, indeed, to her personality.
3 First, let me say that Agatha Christie's autobiography is one of my all-time favorite books. That's why I purchased the Kindle version when I already own a hard copy.Imagine my disappointment, then, as I read along, the narrative suddenly makes no sense. I'm not talking about the occasional misprint, those are to be expected. No, whole paragraphs and sections are simply gone. Is this an abridged version? Sometimes the text is neatly excised, and unless you knew what should have been there, you'd never miss it. Other times it is jarring. For example, Mrs. Christie is reflecting on the pleasures of the suqs in Bagdhad, and the next page drops into the middle of a conversation about metaphysics with some unnamed person. (Whom frantic searches of my hard copy revealed to be Maurice Vickers.) Now, I don't know about most, but I need context before I can face a discussion of metaphysics on my good days - and to find myself suddenly confronted with the meaty middle of a treatise on the philosophical implications of Time and Infinity, without a fair warning or time to prepare myself, was a terrible shock to the system. Referencing the hard copy, and filling in the missing paragraphs, made the discussion not only palatable, but deeply interesting and even profound.I don't how many other such errors there are. I do know that as I read a book with which I am fairly familiar, I often felt that some things were missing, and a superficial comparison of the Kindle and hard copies confirmed that.Agatha Christie's autobiography is an engrossing journey into the mind of an original and entertaining woman. Its little forays into Victoriana, such as the proper books for children to read, or suitable names for cooks, house maids and parlourmaids, (and why they weren't the same), are charming and fascinating. Her reminiscences of her times on archaeological digs in the middle east are compelling. It's more than worth reading - just not in the Kindle version.
5 Agatha Christie, perhaps the best known mystery writer of all time, did not ever plan on becoming a writer.  And when she did become one, it took her years to accept this as her profession and to believe that there was something other than money to be gained by writing books.  Her autobiography is a pleasant ramble through the fascinating live lived by the creator of those master sleuths, Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple.  Her life was no mystery but most definitely an adventure.Agatha Christie began writing her life story from her second husband's archaelogical dig in Iraq.  It is set up in a rather rambling manner, starting from a brief family history to her earliest childhood memories and on through her life.  Throughout these memories are punctuated by various tangents, often involving her writings, other times not.  It is not a straightforward chrononlogical telling of her life, but rather like having a pleasant conversation or reading a leader that she has written to her readers.  It allows fans of her writing to get to know the woman behind those characters.While not as detalied as some fans might wish for - as author and editor, Christie has left out some events - and rather long, it is a pleasing read for any fan of Christie's stories.  I learned much about her life that I did not know, including novels she wrote using pseudonyms, and took joy in reading her views on social concerns.  While the time period she lived in and wrote about may seem long gone, Christie's words prove again and again to be timeless.
5 I read this for a book club I'm in and at first, I enjoyed the chatty style.  Then for a time, I got a little tired of it...In the second half, I just loved the story and could hardly wait for "what comes next."  I read it on the Kindle and it seemed like, as a book, it would be very long.  For me, the length was worth it.  Very entertaining.
5 Agatha Christie's works have always been my favorites, and it was interesting to read her life story (or the stories she chose to include).  Christie's enchanting writing style and descriptive narratives drew me in right away.  Her self awareness is profound.  Great book.
4 Agatha Christie chooses to write her autobiography in her own way. She remembers those parts of life she wants to, usually those most pleasant. She describes her family and childhood with good feeling and love. She had a very happy childhood and one of the best passages in the book is when she speaks about the happiness she had in small things in everyday life, one of the most pleasant being her mother's reading to her."What has one enjoyed most in life? I daresay it varies with different people. For my own part, remembering and reflecting. It seems that it is almost always the quiet moments of everyday life. Those are the times, certainly, when I have been happiest. Adorning Nursie's old grey head with blue bows, playing with Tony, making a parting with a comb down his broad back, alloping on what I feel to be real horses across the river  my fancy has set in the garden. Following my hoop through the stations of the Tubular Railway. Happy games withmy mother. My mother later, reading Dickens to me, gradually getting sleepy her spectactles half falling off her nose and her head dropping forward and myself saying in an agonized voice." Mother you're going to sleep' to which my mother with great dignity replies' Nothing of the kind darling. I am not in the least sleepy!' A few minutes later she would be asleep. I remember feeling how ridiculous she looked at her spectacles slipping off her nose and how much I loved her at that moment'.This autobiography is filled with detailed and interesting perceptions of people . It is however a bit marred by her social preaching.One gets from it however a sense of worlds different from our own. Perhaps most memorable is that of her own family home, with her whist playing father and her more imaginative mother, with the many servants whose perspective on life she understands.She in her own judgment had a very pleasant and happy life, despite the hard times especially when her first husband betrayed her in the same year her beloved mother passed away. But the long successful second marriage and the success as a writer perhaps above all the financial success were elements she was much grateful for. She closes most appropriately by thanking God 'for my good life and the love that has been given me' She concluded the work at the age of seventy - five but went on to live for another eleven years.
5 I had tried to read the authorized biography of Mrs. Christie written by Janet Morgan but found it too difficult to wend a way through all the facts thrown in.  This biography was a welcome change and a book I couldn't put down.  I'm sure this will be a book I'll read again and again.  Mrs. Christie's account of her life is not meant to be all encompassing, but rather, the things that came to mind as she wrote.  She is very honest about her shortcomings and especially wonderful were her thoughts as to her state of mind and thoughts as to why one does certain things.  She was very modest about her writing talent.Unlike one reviewer, I didn't find it a fault that she didn't address the disappearance event as she clearly writes about her problems after her mother's death which occurred just previous to her disappearance in which she describes her lack of memory and mental breakdown, implying she was going through a nervous breakdown before her husband asked for a divorce and that event must have furthered that condition.  I don't find it difficult to believe that she has little to no memories of that time, but in any event, I appreciate so much that she took the time to share her thoughts about her life with us and I would have it no other way than the way she chose to write the book.  Her writing almost feels as though she is sitting right beside me talking....she is one talented writer.I would recommend this book for anyone interested in Mrs. Christie.  For other views of her life, i would recommend Richard Hack's "The Unauthorized Biography...." as it is well written and will keep one's attention.  Not recommended is Morgan's "Authorized biography..." as the writer relies so heavily on what Mrs. Christie herself wrote and presenting facts and facts and facts.  It isn't a "reading" book but a book of gathered facts.  The best of the lot by far is the biography in Mrs. Christie's own words.
5 Excellent seller service....have no completed read but so far very good read....it is not the usual bio ...gives you insight into her writing style and topics...If you have noy read any of her works read this one first...
5 Reading Agatha Christie's autobiography was like a long visit with a treasured friend.  She lived through very interesting times, and her descriptions and remembrances are absolutely priceless!  Her sense of humor is delightful.  When I finished it, I was sad because it was over.  How I wish I had known her when she lived!  I highly recommend this book, and not only to those who have enjoyed her novels and plays.  This is more than a good read.
5 When one of the world's most eminent historians takes on the single most amazing phenomenon of the century, the Holocaust, it gives one pause for thought. So here we have Sir Martin Gilbert, a noted Holocaust authority, writing masterfully about the events leading up to and including the systematic persecution, deportation and murder of the Jews of Europe. His stirring and singular narrative is regularly punctuated by a number of poignant and shocking eyewitness accounts of many who lived through those numbing events. The test is extremely approachable and easy to read, so that the non-historian can appreciate the breadth and scope of his recounting of the events during the 12-year reign of terror levied by the National Socialists in Nazi Germany.His approach is chronological, much like that employed in his best-selling three volume series on the 20th century. While he relies heavily on established secondary sources for his documentation, the power of his prose and his well-organized approach makes this an entertaining and educational tome to venture into. Although nowhere near as comprehensive as some other tomes such as Klaus Fischer's "History Of An Obsession", he does trace the centuries' long tradition of anti-Semitism culminating in the official state sanctioned approach codified in the institutionalized Nuremberg laws. In all this, Gilbert brilliantly employs survivor's recollections to paint the atrocities in the hues and colors of real human beings, ordinary and identifiable individuals caught in the insanity of the Third Reich. Furthermore, he pursues their individual identities and humanity by giving the reader information on the postwar futures of these people.So much has been written about the Holocaust that it is difficult to imagine much new or novel to arise some fifty years after the end of the war. Yet the stage always remains open for the unusual display of finely crafted historical perspectives and brilliantly executed prose. The brilliance in this dazzling book is, as Oscar Schindler would have said, in the presentation. Although I have read a number of other books about these times and events that were more detailed, more graphic, or more comprehensive, this is without a doubt the single most impressive, cohesive, and authoritative volume I have read to date regarding the Holocaust in its enormity, and placed in an understandable and comprehensible context. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in owning the single best one-volume book summarizing and explaining the realities of the Holocaust.
3 I feel callous giving this book only 3 stars, but I attribute this to it not being what I expected. What I was hoping for was something akin to Anne Applebaum's "Gulag": a one-volume history of what happened, how it happened, why it happened, and how it was dealt with when it was over. This book is certainly not that.Instead, Gilbert has taken an enormous amount of first-hand experiences and arranged them chronologically to tell an almost day-by-day account of the unfathomable brutality experienced by European Jewry. To weave this all together in such a way is masterful, but it only tells a part of the story. I assume that was his goal, but it leaves me wanting more.Every paragraph has some episode that is unforgettable. It easy to lose sight of the fact that the 6 million murders took place, as Judith Miller says, "one by one by one." This book makes sure you'll never think of the Holocaust that way again. What Gilbert neglects to cover in much detail is the Nazi part of the story. Of course they are front and center as the perpetrators, but little is covered about what ordinary Germans knew. Or how the German culture was ripe ground for this evil to blossom. Or what the millions of valuables stolen were used for. Or how the manpower and resources expended in this psychopathic venture affected the overall war effort. Or what role, outside of Eichmann, those at the top of the Nazi command played. Again, Gilbert obviously wasn't trying to tell that part of the story, but I still can't say I have a true understanding of the Holocaust beside the unbelievable cruelty so many suffered.And, this makes me angry at myself, at 828 pages, after a while, you become numb to it all. I stopped being shocked by what I read. I think this is unfortunate, but natural. A topic like this is so ghastly that, the further we get from WWII, the less people will know about it. In our comfortable American lives, people don't want to remember these awful events of the past.Two quotes sum it all up for the book: one tells the utter desperation of an entire culture, the other the unyielding faith that so many held until the very end:"There is no strength left to cry, steady and continued weeping leads finally to silence. At first there is screaming; then wailing; and at last a bottomless sigh that does not leave even an echo." - Chaim Kaplan, p. 105"I have seen them, the dregs of human misery, and I know that through mankind flows a stream of eternity greater and more powerful than individual deaths." - Lena Berg, p. 622
5 While reading Shirer's Third Reich book, I wanted to learn more about the Holocaust, obviously like most people I know something about it, but I wanted more detail so I picked up this book.  This book starts off with a very brief history of some antisemitism in Germany, starting with some vicious quotes from the hateful Luther, I think Luther's work titled 'On the Jews and their Lies' should be enough for anyone to question his integrity (although granted I've only read snippets not the entire thing).  Then it goes into a massive 900ish pages of event after event of the atrocities committed against the Jews during WWII (I find much of it hard to take, how could anyone treat a race / people like this, this reminds me of the worst stories of serial killers yet this wasn't a single demented individual but thousands).First I have a few minor complaints, I wish the book did a little more background information on WWII and what lead to this, secondly the book often gets into a numbers game where it spends many pages giving facts such as x number of people were hauled away this day and murdered, I would have preferred less of this numbers presentation.  This book gave tons of information for the horrors of the holocaust, the mentioning of statistics is countered with lots of personal stories from people who survived or their diaries were later found.  Overall I'd give this book a perfect five stars, the few things I'd change seem minor compared to the stuff that was presented.  With that being said, I'm really glad that I'm done with this book, I was in a minor depression for the three weeks I read this.  I like to hope that deep down people are better / more moral than this systematic slaughter of millions, but obviously I'm wrong.  I guess this is what you get when you let hatred take over your common decency.
5 Simply the most disturbing book I have ever read in my entire 62 years on this planet. Can only be read in small doses. I thought I knew about the Holocaust before I read this book. I knew nothing. And neither do you if you haven't read this book. My God what horror. No wonder they Jews say "NEVER AGAIN!" Now I know why.
5 Every country in the world has crime cases that rock the very fabric of their society, their values, their very humanness.  "The Holocaust" covers a period of many years before, during and after WW2 when a "civilized" nation undertook deeds of humiliation, degradation, terror, torture and murder of European Jewry with such impunity that totally defies human comprehension.  This is not an easy book to read, the horrors that spring from virtually every paragraph will challenge every notion of the human race been filled with kindness and goodwill.  Of the many thousands that shed blood in the villages of Poland and Russia, there were millions that looked away as their neighbors and former friends were taken into killing fields or bundled into trucks and trains to death camps.  One and a half million children ... what mind can wrap itself around swinging a baby and smashing its head against a wall, or putting a bullet through a child, or in fun compete in contests of how many people one bullet could kill?  In the killing fields or burning snynagues of Russia, the ghettos of Poland, the days of cattle-cart transports to the camps of Treblinka and Auschwitz-Birkenau, survival required miracles.  Be warned you are going to require frequent respites from reading the horror of a culture and religion under commissioned terrorization, torture, enforced abject starvation and blatant murder.  Most likely this was humanities darkest years; it makes the Spanish Inquisition read like a teddy-bears' picnic.
5 While I have read a few books written by Holocaust survivors, I wanted to read a comprehensive history of the Holocaust which was written by a respected historian.  I achieved that goal by reading Martin Gilbert's, "The Holocaust: A History of the Jews of Europe During the Second World War."He starts the book by showing that hatred of the Jewish people has a long history in Europe.  The idea of the Jews as "Christ killers" has been around for centuries.  He quotes some ugly words penned by Martin Luther, which certainly fostered a hatred of the Jews.  In fact, if I didn't know it was Luther who wrote those words, I would have assumed it was Hitler.  After this first chapter of background information, he puts the year at the top of each page so the reader understands the order of events.Every imaginable evil that the mind of a human being can conceive is listed in this book: confiscation of wealth, herding individuals in trains and depriving them of water and sanitation, gassing, torturing, cruel jokes, keeping people in  various ghettos, killing babies in front of their mothers, throwing babies out of hospital windows, starvation, shootings, whippings, beatings, to name a few.  Understandably, the entire book is one horrendous story after another.  However, it also shows some acts of bravery and compassion performed by Jew and Gentile alike.When various camps were liberated, the liberators could hardly believe their eyes.  Concerning one such camp outside Orhdruf, Gilbert says of General Eisenhower that he "...was so shocked that he at once telephoned Churchill to describe what he had seen, and then sent photographs of the dead prisoners to Churchill, who circulated them to each member of the British Cabinet."  Liberation did not mean the Jews were free of molestation.  On the contrary, in Poland in 1945, over 350 Jews were killed by Jew-hating Poles after the Germans were defeated.Finally, here are a few more things I liked about the book.  First, Martin Gilbert's writing is easy to follow.  He is an excellent writer.  Second, there is a comprehensive list of sources at the back of the book, along with a very good index.  Third, there are some black and white photos, as well as black and white maps in the book.  In short, if you want to read a comprehensive history of the Holocaust, then this book will fulfill that desire.
5 The Holocaust A History of the Jews of Europe During the Second World War , by prolific historian Martin Gilbert , is the most comprehensive one volume work on the Holocaust out there.It begins with describing Hitler's rise to power and the history of anti-Semitism in Europe during the 20th century.It goes on to describe the pogroms against Jews in Germany during the 1930's and the stripping away of their basic human rights.Gilbert describes Kristallknacht and the destruction of Jewish homes, businesses and synagogues.Gilbert describes how during the Holocaust , Hungary , Italy , Bulgaria and German occupied Denmark attempted to protect their Jews from Nazi genocide. No Jews were deported from Italy to death camps  until after the fall of Mussolini and the German occupation of northern Italy in the autumn of 1943.The main theme of this book is hundreds of eyewitness accounts of the unbelievable horrors  perpetrated against Jewish men , women and children by the Nazis and their subordinates during the Second World War , which resulted in the destruction of six million Jews , including 1 and a half million Jewish children. One is numbed by the sheer horror and bestiality of it all, as page after page is filled with graphic inhuman cruelty and bloodshed.Particularly heartrending is the way children were treated by the Nazis.It is from eyewitness accounts that we discover how the SS used to amuse themselves by swinging Jewish children by their legs and then flinging them to their deaths. Another eyewitness Maria Hochberg-Marianska desribed the fate of Jewish children during the mass deportations in Cracow in March 1943 :"At Midday cars drove up before the institution. The Gestapo men flung themselves upon the children. Little ones , three years of age , were flung into baskets and placed on platforms or hoisted on to carts. The older children were driven off to Plac Zgody , flanked by armed soldiers. There they joined the grown ups. The baskets with the little ones were emptied behind the city like so much rubbish. There they were thrown into a ditch , most of them alive. Some were killed with a blow by a rifle butt before burial."During the liquidation of the Cracow ghetto several hundred small children were shot in the entrance to one of the houses , and several hundred old people were killed in the street. So we continue to read of the mass executions and torures and horrors inflicted on the Jews of Europe in these times.We read accounts of Mengele's horrific experiments on adults and children , and of Jews of all ages being thrown into furnaces ,and of course the mass executions of millions of men , women and children in gas chambers and by shooting and then throwing the bodies and half-alive survivors into pits...It is simply impossible to document how one feels reading page after page , these accounts of the scope of inhumane monstrosityAlso disturbing is the section on how after Nazi Germany was defeated , hundreds of Jews were slaughtered by anti-Semitic Poles , and how Soviet soldiers enaged in the rape of Jewish girls who had survived the concentration camps.One of the photos in the photograph panels is a heartbreaking picture of a four year old little Jewish orphan girl , shot to death with six other Jews by an anti-Semitic Pole , just after the war.As well as the six million Jews murdered , another ten million non-combatants were killed by the Nazis , including a quarter of a million gypsies and millions of Poles , Czechs , Serbs , Russians , French , Italians and Greeks.Poles , Czechs , Serbs were to become subject people of the Germans in the New Order but only the Jews were singled out to be destroyed in their entirety .  Every single Jewish man , women and child was to disappear so that there would be no Jewish life in Europe.Some of the parallels with early Nazi anti-Semitism and the new anti-Semitism of the 20th century , are chilling.For example the boycott of all Jewish shops , cafes and businesses in the 1930's in Germany is echoed by the calls for sanctions and divestment  against Israel and for boycotts of Israeli products and businesses , by academics , far-left politicians and trade unions , around the world today.Also ,  the cultural , professional and academic boycotts of Jews in Europe then , are echoed by the  cultural , professional and academic boycotts of Israel and Israelis , including the banning of Israeli scholars and research today in various universities across the world , including North America and Europe.70 years ago the cry of the anti-Semites in Europe was 'Jew , go to Palestine!' . Today the cry of anti-Semites (Yes-anti-Semites!) around the world is 'Jew-Out of Palestine'. The book documents how  between 1929 and 1939, with the rise of Nazism in Germany , a new wave of 250,000 immigrants went to the Land of  Israel (Palestine) , the majority of these, 174,000, arrived in Palestine between 1933-1936, after which increasing restrictions on immigration by the British made immigration clandestine and illegal.In 1933 in reaction to the arrival of Jewish refugees in Palestine , Arab attacks on Jews were launched , and continued unabated until 1939.Nazi broadcasts beamed to Palestine , Syria and Egypt helped ensure Arab hostility helped ensure that Arab hostility towards the Jewish refugees from Nazism would be kept as high as possible. In response to Arab terror , and afraid of alienating Arab support , the British blocked hundreds of thousands of Jews , attempting to flee Nazi terror , to enter Palestine.History has shown that when anti-Semitism is allowed to spread beyond the cesspool of the mind that contains it, slaughter of innocents and the destruction of entire nations seem inevitably to follow. Today, Israel is about the size of the state of New Jersey, with a Jewish population of less than 1% of the world's population. Yet, Iran's president says the Holocaust is a "myth" and Israel "must be wiped off the map."-which would mean the genocide of another 5 million Jews , nearly half of the world's Jewish population . Over half of all Holocaust survivors today live in Israel (as do many descendants of Holocaust survivors), and it would be a hideous twist of history for these too to perish in the flames of anti-Jew hatred, as they would do if Israel was destroyed by forces of evil (God forbid that this should ever be allowed to happen!)And Venezuela's Stalinist President  , Hugo Chavez , states that "descendants of those who crucified Christ...have grabbed all the world's riches for themselves."
5 Everyone with any interest in the 20th century soon has to come to grips with the Holocaust. Whether you believe that the SS who murdered civilians were automatons acting under orders, or were psychotics, or were brainwashed by Nazi ideology, one has to come to some conclusion.Martin Gilbert's book is an inside view of the Holocaust. There is very little theoretical material here, but only a narrative history of the genocides. Because he appears to cover as many massacres and shootings as possible, it is quite numbing to read this book. At first massacres are relatively sparse, though still horrific. As time goes on, the Einsatzgruppen step up the tempo, until sometimes it seems that every paragraph of the book describes a different massacre. There might be a shooting of ten thousand Jews at a small ghetto in Poland, or the extermination of an entire village community in Lithuania, or a shipment of Jews from Paris to Auschwitz.The sheer number of massacres is really disturbing, and really forces one to consider how anyone could go from massacre to massacre like that, every couple of days, shooting innocent civilians, even children. Surely they cannot all have been psychotics? Many of these killers appear to have had normal backgrounds and certainly did not come from asylums.Read this book with a strong stomach, and make your own conclusions on how such a horror could have happened.
3 Good read, bought it for some history on the holocaust. Very detailed. Very interesting. Will recommend to anyone needing a book on this topic.
5 One needs a cast-iron stomach, and maybe something stronger than a glass of wine, to get one through this nearly 1,000 page study of true-life horror on an inconceivable level.And for a decade, Germany was the place that gleefully descended into hell in its quest to murder and torture every Jew it could get its hands on. Infants, grandparents, teenagers, it didnt matter. If they had a drop of Jewish blood, they should be exterminated--and they were, by the millions.That the Nazi nighmare occurred less than 70 years ago still makes your skin crawl. And as Sir Martin Gilbert points out, nearly everyone of the tens of thousands of true human monsters in Germany and Poland never spent a day in prison for their msss murdering orgies and tortures of nearly 10 million Jews. Only a handful of Nazi monsters were given show trials and even those couldn't understand the world's outrage of what they had done.The thousands of killers and torturers merely returned back to their private lives and glibly protested that they never knew of what had happened to the Jews. Why, it was so shocking, surely they would have heard something! As the author points out, ALL Germans knew exactly what was happening in the death camps and the ghastly massacres out in the countrysides and in plain sight on city and village streets.Description of the many massacres of tens of tousands of Jews can become numbing but it was the separate incidents of Nazi horror that stood out for this reader:1. Many of the younger Death Squad members pleaded with their senior officers to be allowed to specialize in  murder of infants. Sometimes these baby killers would discuss far into the night the best and easiest way to slaughter babies and some of them finally came up with a new method. Instead of crushing the babies skulls with the heels of their boots and instead of using bayonets when the child was on the ground, it was discovered to be much easier if one killer could toss the infants out of upper windows--and the waiting cohorts could catch the bodies on their bayonets.2. A second method was to hold the infant by his feet and then--like a telephone directory--rip him in two.3. A group of young Jewish scouts were rounded up as they were heading home through a busy village square by one zealous Nazi goon. In a crowded village square, he lined the youngster against a wall nnd mowed them down with a rifle--with his efforts elicting wild applause from the crowd of German shoppers and passing German school kids.4. A beautiful young Jewish school girl was hung in the city square by a lone German soldier. Her offense: a gust of wind blew a strand of her hair over the Yellow Star she wore and which was noted by the killer. He accused her of deliberately covering up the Yellow Star. As she swung back and forth in the wind, dressed in her pretty school clothes, her goon-like killer, typically, cavorted around comically, happy to elict laughs and cheers from the delighted passersby.The author proves once and for all, that it wasn't just a "few good Germans" who eagerly participated in this national nightmare. Sir Gilbert names priests, judges, bankers, professors, farmers, tycoons, housewives, school chldren and espeially farmers. Some of the latter decided to ignore their farms so they could go out and hunt down Jews.  These good farmers were expert at ferreting out hidden Jews and eagerly murdered them all, especially the children. Forcing them into burning barns was a favorite method.  They would celebrate with other mudering cohorts in taverns and Nazi military men would congratulate them, while urging them to hund down and kill more,more, more!Descriptions of life in the death camps are even more horrific. In one camp, to pass the time, some guards came up with a new way to murder. They would stand above the victims in a courtyard and bounce balloons down on the prisoners. Everytime the balloon touched one of the heads, a death camp guard would shoot the innocent, to great gales of laughter. Some of the guards let their visiting chidren do the honors.After the war, most of the worst German monsters managed to escape to other countries, often with help from the Vatican. This religious complex actually developed a Nazi secret railway to secretly transfer the Nazi monsters into safer climes. In fact, the Vatican was a key element in the United States decision to refuse to prosecute some of the worst offenders because, as the Vatican stressed, "it's time to move on."The world can move on, but history will always record the time in recent history when it really was like a time when Satan visited a country called Germany. The devil must be proud of all the horror that he left in his shadow.
5 Martin Gilbert has written an excellent book on the Holocaust.Using testimony from survivors,diaries of those who perished,German documents,and the words of the perpatrators themselves,Gilbert exposes, for all to see,an era of evil.The book is tough to read at times because it is so heartbreaking.The unspeakable cruelty,the sadistic acts,and the scope of crimes committed by the Nazi regime are laid out in this book.With anti-semetism once again on the rise in many parts of the world,this book should be required reading for all who think unchecked hatred is harmless
5 Reading this book is like being buried under a mountain of ashes, one shovelful at a time.Gilbert's strategy is simple and effective. He provides a matter-of-fact outline of daily events, in chronological order, beginning in the early 1930s with the rise of the Third Reich and ending in 1946 with the persecution of post-war Jews in Poland. Places, numbers and (when known) key names are provided, along with hundreds of quotations from letters and journals. After dozens and dozens of increasingly repulsive and nearly-unbelievable chapters, the cumulative effect is simply devastating.It's impossible to read this book and not view the behavior of modern Israel in a new light.The treatment the Jews of Europe endured under the Nazis and their enablers has cast a shadow over human history that will endure for centuries. As the remaining survivors pass away, it is clearly the duty of thoughtful people everywhere to study and contemplate this heartbreaking calamity.I am forever changed by reading this book.
5 Martin Gilbert's the Holocaust is the most comprehinsive and in depth work I have read on this subject, and why it gets 5 stars is because of the very personal nature of this book.  Mr. Gilbert reverts the numbers back into real people.  When reading other books on the Holocaust I found myself being deluged with these massive numbers of atrocities until they began to become abstracted and unreal, but Mr. Gilbert's account is so detailed and filled with personal accounts that every page fills you with a greater sense of the reality and the scope of this tragedy.  Instead of a clinical account of numbers, this book has personal and eyewitness accounts throughout.  He never lets you forget that these were real people with families, friends and real lives.  This is a gut-wrenching read that forces you to look into the darkest reaches of human nature and see just how vicious human biengs can be to one another.  A Diary of Anne Frank on a grand scale.
5 This is likely to be the standard history of the holocaust. It is meticulously researched and documented.A study of the systematic destruction of European Jewry. A masterpiece chronicling an attempt at modern day genocide.Jews were subjected to horrific, inhumane suffering and murder in ghettoes, slave labour camps, concentration camps and forced marches. Atrocities that were well documented by the Nazi murder-machine.A chilling but essential possession and reference that needs to be read and re-read.I have visited many of the sites referred to, indeed most of the still remaining concentration camps in Poland.With the alarming increase in anti-Semitism now prevalent worldwide, especially again in Europe, books such as this are crucial, indispensable tools that must prevent us from allowing society to follow this path again.
5 This is a tour-de-force of history. Martin Gilbert had an ambitious project -- cover the whole Holocaust from the pre-Hitler days to after the war, all over Europe -- but he was able to accomplish his ends without either glossing over anything or making it too long. I was dizzied by the number of sources he quoted. The guy really knows how to write, too, and put his sources together into one coherent narrative.Two caveats: Gilbert transliterates proper names strangely. For example, Tuvia Bielsky is called "Tobias Belsky." Also, the book was written over 25 years ago and is a little dated as a result; a lot of research has been done since then. Has he put out a second edition? In the meantime, Martin Gilbert is my new superhero.
5 For those with a self hurting desire to know the whole horrible truth about the bloody act of social engineering known to history as The Holocaust, this book is one of the best eye opening and stomach churning works on the subject.Having such a desire, this was one of the first books on the subject I purchased and read from beginning to end.It was very painful to read. Every horrible event well described without being graphic or  overdone. Better than  diet pills for killing one's appetite. All the horrible things that happened.How did something as this happen?Read this book and learn.
5 I got this book to learn more about the Holocaust, and it was recommended by a author of a book which i just finished
5 I don't even know how to begin a review about such a book, which in turn is about such a terrifying horror in world History. The Nazi's "Final Solution" is one of the very rare "first's" in history (if I'm not mistaken); there is no precedent to it. Martin Gilbert's monumental book (over 800 painful pages) covers the whole history of Jews under Nazi rule from the first segregating laws to the death marches, and even beyond the end of the war. I had a book by Gilbert before - on the first World War - and I was not disappointed to find the same qualities in this book: a meticulous work of research and a precision that shows the author's concern about the exact truth of the matters at hand.Among those things I like with this author is that he shares the floor, literally. He constantly give others room, by means of quotes and else, and thus he carries those voices over to us; and that way we get to read the testimonies of direct witnesses and victims of the Holocaust. Because of that the book brings you very close to the events in that it comes directly from the sufferers. I especially appreciate the mix of anecdotes and details from direct witnesses combined with a general narration of the overall situation. You get points of view from different scales; you get to know what happened on an individual level, and also on the general situation. The author always emphasises on the human level and that is a strong point of this author.On the whole, I think this book made me learn about everything I wanted to know on the Shoah, as far as the historical basics are concerned; but what makes this work stand out is the effectiveness with which it portrays the Holocaust. It is a very difficult book to read because of that: it is hard to truly seize the reality of what happened and digest it. There are numerous stories in this book that are horrifyingly shocking. Literally every page is oozing blood. For instance, it never occured to me that you could "tear" a baby apart. Another shocking thing is the treatment of children. You will find out in this book that the most "effective" way to kill a child (while sparing a bullet) is to take him or her by the legs and to smash him or her against a wall or the ground. This happened over and over, and if my memory does not fail me, this method was also used on South Americans by the conquistadores. There are countless such stories gathered in this book, and before you get to read it, be sure that you can take it. One thing that may help you is that so much of all of what happened seems so unreal that sometimes you just find yourself unable to seize the reality of it, and you have to think twice to just truly see what you're reading.That is another strong point of Gilbert: he does not back off before any atrocity. I think the worst things I ever heard of are in this book. From the systematic shootings to the gas-chambers; every step is exposed and with it are a number of stories told by witnesses - those also include Nazis occasionally.I find it difficult to write a review on this book given that it is hard to dissociate the book from the events; I mean, as far as the book per se is concerned, it is a major work. If you want a book about the Holocaust, this definitely will be it. This will take you through the Shoah from beginning to end, through the ghettos to the gas-chambers.Since I don't know exactly how to structure my poor review, and that I don't make plans beforehand, here is a short unexhaustive list of some of the things you will find in the book:- A detailed exposing of Nazi methods of mass murder (most details are usually provided by witnesses, except for things they could not know); those methods are:- Shootings. (Death, or at least injury, by bullet, followed by burial in large pits; often people were not dead after the first shot, many were buried alive, while others were shot again as SS saw them moving among the heap of corpses.)- The Gas-vans. Those were the ancestors of the gas-chambers; they were the first means to attempt mass murder more effectively and more economically. Exhaust gas was used first and then they switched to zyklon B.- The Gas-chambers. The ultimate mass-killing machines. People were then buried in similar mass graves as those who died from the shootings; this changed when the Nazis realised they would not win the war, so in order to erase traces, the Nazis began to unearth those corpses and burn them to ashes in crematoriums, where all subsequent victims were to be burned to ashes too. The bones were then ground so nothing would remain.- The Ghettos were also a means to kill, though more "subtly" since people died mostly of starvation, except when Nazis killed Jews randomly or as reprisals for the smallest of offenses.- The condition of Jews during WW2 is made very clear by Gilbert. You come to understand that it wasn't the Nazis only who wanted Jews to die; the surrounding antisemitism is brilliantly put forward by the author, and I say brilliantly because it is very painful to read.I stop my list here but there is a lot more that I could mention. In conclusion I would say that this book is likely the standard reference to the history of the Holocaust, not that I have any particular knowledge in History, but I found this work thorough and painstakingly meticulous. You are given all the numbers, dates, sources, and names you could ask for. However difficult it is to convey the horrors of these events, I think Martin Gilbert does the best job one could do.The mass of information given is enormous but you're never lost; the year is printed on top of each page and Gilbert thoroughly follows the chronology of the events in the telling of the Holocaust. Almost day by day you move further into this dark episode of our History. I don't know what I could say to make this review a little bit better. If you want to learn about the Holocaust, and are unafraid of the truth, however horrific, then I strongly recommend this monument of History. It is a painful read and you won't finish it without emotional cost, but I believe such a read to be important, not only to remember, but also to prevent. I know this is the clich&eacute; about it, but it's true: people were equally incredule of the systemica elimination of a people back then as we are today. Germany was a peak of civilisation back then, and it prevented nothing; no one, not even the very victims, could believe it, until there could be no doubts left. The constant deception of the Nazis is exposed very well by the author and you can see it and how it works throughout the accounts given to us by witnesses. That is a system I like in Gilbert's work: you have both the view from outside and that from inside, and from insiders.A terrible book that should be read by everyone.
5 Sometimes you ask yourself about a book: is it the author who is so good OR the actual past events that are shocking! In &quot;The Holocaust&quot; you will find both.  This is a VERY DETAILED book on the fate of the Jews  during the second world war: the events as they unfolded, the dates of  extermination; the methods of killing; the marches; the ghettos; the  numbers massacred.The author uses a lot of eyewitness accounts from all  sides, and provides excellent facts. The book is MOST UNBIAS: it deals also  with the early retaliations by Jews which intesified the already exisiting  autrocities (against Jews) that were to follow!For me: it was the first  time I came &quot;face to face&quot; with the detailed HORRORS and  AUTROCITIES of the holocaust! The book is most depressing because it  relates one of the most evil periods of humankind when indeed the forces of  evil truimphed over matter. I have learned a lot from this book: as much as  we are different in many aspects, we are all humans, and mostly, we possess  that survival SPIRIT which is as hard as iron - this is the spirit that  kept the Jews going. I am most glad I read this book. Indeed it must be  reread, for those who have the heart to go through it again.
3 The book is over 800 pages and while the research seems through it is a hard read as one experience after another with many similarities described.  I found myself skipping parts to get to the meat of the book.  Seems very well documented.
5 There are no words to describe the Evils written about in this book. But the words Martin Gilbert has do describe with historical precision the destruction of the Jews of Europe by the Nazis and their various allies. The book is difficult and painful to read because of the horrible stories it tells. And as one reviewer on Amazon has said this is a record not of one crime but of thousands of crimes done every day, not of one cruelty but of millions of cruelties. One of the features of this historical accounting which may seem to some to disturb the flow of the overall historical narrative but which to me seemed to give tremendous weight and power of the book is the account of individual lives, the stories of those people who actually suffered and went through the Shoah. Naming of names in this way, and telling the stories of the ' little people' seems to me to give the account a human strength that more general accounts lack.This work is as I said very difficult to read because of its painful subject matter. Reading it one certainly learns about ' man's inhumanity to man' the cruelty Mankind is capable of. One learns to know how certain specific peoples seem to display special tendencies for that cruelty. One learns about the worst chapter in all of Jewish history , and of the surviving remnant of it.Who wishes to know and understand the full character of human history must read this book, or one like it.G-d help us all.
5 Excellent writing, historical value, touches the soul.  Does not read like a compilation of horrible facts but a very personal, individual story for people in the Holocaust.Made me question man's capability for true evil which is beyond understanding here.  A timeless massage we dare not forget.
4 This book tells the story of those that have been forgotten by so many in history. Gilbert uses a massive amount of primary and secondary sources to tell of the horrific things that happened to the Jews, Poles, Gypsies, etc, during World War II and the Holocaust. Again and again Gilbert's primary sources speak of the horrifying stories of what went on in the ghettos, concentration camps, and other places. And these sources should know, they were witness to these atrocities and miraculously lived to tell about them.This book is a great read. The only reason I give it a 4/5 is mainly due the poor condition the book came in, as it is struggling to stay together as I read through it a second time. I guess I brought this on myself by ordering a used book under the "acceptable" category...NEVER AGAIN. Go with good or better on used if you want one that will stay together over time. The other small gripe is that I think the book is a little long at 800 pages and might get repetitive for some readers just wanting an overview of the Holocaust...this book focuses again and again on specific people's stories. I enjoyed this, but after the 187th story of a massacre at a ghetto or in the woods somewhere, I began to feel overwhelmed. That said, it needs to be told, and Gilbert does a fine job at conveying the horrible times of the Jews and others to the reader. Great Book.
5 One of the best accounts of the jews of the Europe during the second world war that I have ever read. A intensely distrubing story of the one worst crimes of the 20th century. A must read for anyone interested in the history of last century.
5 This is one of those very FEW books that I have actually read more than half a dozen times (yes, call me crazy)!  A good book is difficult to put down, but a great book is difficult to not re-read!I have always had an interest in Physics, particularly cosmology, black holes, and the Big Bang theory.  This is one of the first books I've ever read on such topics.  Boslough has a way of presenting his material in a concise, enjoyable, interesting way.  This is one of the best science/physics books (for the layperons) I've ever read!  This is THE book that got me hooked on further and continued readings about physics, cosmology, the Big Bang, quantum theory, and so on.  Were it not for this book, I'd still be dreading the physics classes I took in college more than 15 years ago!This book also laid a lot of the foundation work for my research into black holes in preparation for the writing of my science fiction novel "Temporal Armageddon".
4 I had read Stephen Hawking's Universe years ago, but when it was brought to my attention again recently I decided to reread it, something I rarely do.  I have to admit, it fares well despite the passing of time ( it was written in the mid-80s).  This is in part because it is one of the better and simpler introductions to cosmology and the history of the Big Bang Theory.  It is also due to the charming personal details woven through the book by its author and relating to Stephen Hawking the man.As most of those who follow cosmology probably already know, Stephen Hawking is afflicted with a serious neuromuscular disease.  Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease (after the baseball player who died of the disorder) had confined Hawking to a wheelchair by the writing of the book and has since put him on a portable ventilator.  Having worked with people suffering with this disorder earlier in my career, I can attest both to the seriousness of the malady and to my surprise that the gentleman has survived as long as he has.  Both facts make his intellectual achievements, the dedication of his caretakers, and his own personal tenacity for life very real to me and very impressive.John Boslough, the author, is a scientific journalist.  He appears to understand  physics at least well enough to describe it for the layperson, and does so in a readable style.  He also creates a biography that is flattering to the subject without diminishing the contributions of others to the field.  The book is, however, extremely simple, more of a history of the development of the theory of the big bang and black holes than a thorough explanation of them, and the interested reader would do well to look at Hawking's own popular writings on the subject for a more thorough and professional point of view. My only complaint about the book would be that it does not contain any form of bibliography, a resource I always consider one of a book's most valuable assets.  It helps the reader to find material for further study, and it also provides a measure of the preparedness of the author on his topic!I'd recommend the book to any beginner who is curious about the Big Bang Theory, about black holes, the Theory of Relativity, the Theory of Quantum Mechanics, or about Stephen Hawking.  I would also say that any person from junior high level or above would be able to understand the material.
4 I've always be fascinated with Stephen Hawking, for everything that he has overcome and for all that he has achieved, which would be remarkable in and of itself.  While is book, a brief history of the universe looks interesting, it's size I feel is a bit daunting.  So I thought this would be a good intro book, and it was very well written by John Boslough.  In such a short book he shows not only many of Stephen's early work, but showed a bit of the man behind the theories, including little stories of his sense of humor.
5 Stephen Hawking is one of my several intellectual heros.  I own all of the books Hawking has authored and probably all of the multimedia he has participated in.  I think this one book by Boslough gives an excellent overview of Hawking's work with no simplification that would mislead the reader.  I bought this book to give as a gift.  After looking over its content, I ordered a second copy for my own library.  John Boslough delivers the essence of Hawking's work.
5 This small book, originally written in 1984, was and is still revealing.Firstly, on a personal level, Hawking admitted already at that time that &quot;As far as theoretical physics are concerned, I'm already ... quite far over the hill'.Secondly, it gives an excellent explanation of Hawking's contribution to theoretical physics (black holes and their similarities to the beginning of time).Thirdly, Hawking has outspoken opinions about the anthropic principle (against), the universe of Eastern mysticism (an illusion), the many universes theory (not meaningful) or determinism ('Even if we do achieve a complete unified theory, we shall not be able to make detailed predictions in any but the simplest situations').This booklet offers also excellent examples for the theories of relativity and quantum mechanics and contains Hawking's Inaugural Lecture 'Is the End in Sight for Theoretical Physics?'Although this book is, from a theoretical point of view, out of date (no superstrings), it should not be missed.
5 In this present-day world, it seems impossible that there could someone who has not heard of Stephen Hawking, even if it is only from his appearances on Star Trek: The Next Generation or the Simpsons. And yet within this frail, tiny man lies one of the most potent minds mankind has ever borne forth, yet I am given to wonder if he would have achieved his current level of notoriety if he was not crippled by ALS. Or if his powerful mind would be less so were it not trapped within the body of an invalid. I cannot answer these questions, but instead I read mainstream publications and like so many others, stand in awe at the feet of a man who carries Einstein's legacy further toward a final answer. A unified field theory.It started ten of fifteen billion years ago during the Big Bang -that explosion that had blown out all of the matter in the universe. The Big Bang didn't simply occur in the void of space, it created space as well. But what Hawking is looking for, partially, is knowledge as to whether the fundamental forces of physics existed or not within the first few billionths of a second after the explosion or whether or not time existed either. Hawking, and others in his field, like Roger Penrose, are trying to find a correlation between cosmology and quantum mechanics, which is the study of the internal workings of atoms and the movement of subatomic particles. Indeed, it is a journey through space-time and one that if found will teach us a little more about the universe.From the dust of stars we came and to the stars we return. Much like "A Brief History of Time", we are given truly intimate glimpses into the intricacies of both the universe and Hawking himself. He is a man with a great sense of humor coupled with an almost child-like enthusiasm for new things. His bet over the origins of Cygnus X-1 with physicist Kip Thorne certainly bears this out: "If it turns out that the binary system does not contain a black hole -breaking many a physicist's hear- Hawking will win a four-year subscription to the British humor magazine Private Eye. If it is a Black Hole, Thorne will win a one-year subscription to Penthouse." In effect Hawking bet against himself, since he believes that one of the objects is in fact a black hole.Indeed, no other object of stellar phenomena has so captured the public's imagination and superstition than the prospect of a black hole. These once-massive stars of 10 to 15 solar masses that have collapsed down to mere fractions of their previous size and emit fields of intense gravitation. And those that get so small-to the point of a singularity, may yet reveal more information on the origins of the universe, since Hawking theorizes that what was before the Big Bang may indeed be imitated by what is within a black hole. As with so many things, others have asked why is it so important? And like Sir Edmund Hillary replied when asked why he wished to climb Mount Everest, "Because it is there."What is also remarkable is that ALS usually kills individuals much sooner and by all rights Hawking should have died years ago. But somehow he keeps going, (he turned 59 in January), and perhaps it is that drive to explore with his mind if not his body, that keeps him going. But I for one am very grateful that Mr. Hawking is still with us, because the world needs great explorers.
4 How does one become an elder of the tribe?A first at Cambridge is a long way toward making one an elder.Being abused for discovering a fact like evaporating black holes also seems to help. Where there is a limit to eldering Hawking reached it in 1980 when he said the end of science was in sight. In my own cosmology research I have found indications of seven layers of self-similar quantum uncertainty based on odd powers of the velocity of light. Hawking's limited physics is based on only two of these layers. In terms of observation we have only Levy jumpstructure in distributions of galaxy clusters , dark matter and the observation by Dr. Parker of a very small particle in supernova spectra to indicate that these unknown theoretical layers actually exist.Like terrorism which kills it's own best and brightest, a doctrine of limits on science is self defeating and probably wrong philosophically as well. An elder of the tribe can be mistaken and so mislead others.We appear as a tribe to be at a plateau of learning, but not at an end to it.
5 I consider Cronin's biography of Napoleon to be the best ever written on the great man. It is detailed without being boring. The amount of research is astounding. This is the first book to buy for any study of Napoleon. You may want to check out the books by J. David Markham also.
2 Several reviewers have cited Mr. Cronin's readability - which is definitely a plus for this volume.  However, I didn't find his tone as neutral as did others.  It seemed a virtual panegyric of Napoleon, when compared with Frank McLynn's dispassionate tome.  I found Mr. Cronin's willingness to buy into much of Napoleonic apocrypha off-putting.  Impressive in its personal tone - it's obvious Mr. Cronin is interested & approves of the subject, however, I prefer a bit of objectivity to my history, as far as that is possible.
5 Napoleon is reported to have said this, and it is true. In this magnificent biography of the Corsican, Cronin has written the life of Napoleon from the inside: who the man really was. It is not only circunscribed to battles and politics, but especially the intimate life and anecdotes of Napoleon. It changed my vision about this man. The information and research are exhaustive, yet the book reads like a novel. That is the true art of biography.Napoleon has been one of the most controversial characters in History, and deservedly so. Cronin does not take sides, but he clearly rejects the portrait of Napoleon as an overambitious monster, always trying to get more and more territories for France. Undoubtedly, ambition was the driving force for this man, but we have to consider that he was constantly harassed by other powers who feared that his influence would destroy the old European regimes. Undoubtedly, his coronation as Emperor was a big disappointment to all those who believed he would be the leader of Republicanism. Beethoven, for instance, dedicated his Third Symphony to him, but after the coronation he erased the dedicatory, writing instead: &quot;To the memory of a great man&quot;. However, we have to judge historical figures by the standards of their times, not ours.All in all, this is probably the best biography of Napoleon. At least it is the best among the three or four I have read. It is a shame that it is out of print.
3 I was taking a three-week course on Napoleon's life so was using this as a reference along with some others.  I think the book is very dated, especially based on more recent facts.  Book itself was in good condition and arrived promptly.
5 Simply put, Vincent Cronin's Napoleon is the best biography of Napoleon I have ever read. As a student of Napoleonic history, I have read many biographies of the great man, but none has struck home like this one. Cronin presents Napoleon as the man he was, not the myth, not the legend, not the "Anti-Christ." Napoleon's fascinating life from birth to death reads like a novel. It is hard to put down.Unlike other authors, Cronin does not appear to take sides. He presents Napoleon's accomplishments as well as his faults. If you were to chose one biography of Napoleon, this should be the one!
5 I got this book at a second hand stall in Thailand, because there was  nothing better there (all romances etc.) and I was unable to put it down!  It's fascinating, and the characters are so vibrant and real that you can  almost smell them.  There is a lot of talk in the introduction about how  Napolean is treated as a villain in England, and how this book runs counter  to that.  I have never been exposed to that bias, so it didn't affect me.  What was interesting, though, was how Napolean's early success set him up  for his later, spectacular defeats.  The book covers the events from  Napolean's birth to his death, and even if you end up not entirely in  sympathy with his actions during his life, you still can maintain sympathy  for him as a person, and for France at that crazy time in its history.  The  best thing about this book, though, is its readability.  You can swap it  for some popular adventure/romance/light reading novel, and actually learn  something without your brain hurting at all.
5 This is an excellent biography of Napoleon. It is written in such a way that you feel as if you're reading a novel, rather than a dry biography, this a good thing as it makes it exceptionally easy to read. It doesn't really look at Napoleons more negative attributes, but does show how innovative and what a great leader he was. An engaging and enjoyable read.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
5 This book reads very smoothly. For me, it was a revelation on the life of a truly great man. The intrigue and parrying between Napoleon, his loves, and his adversaries seems more amazing than any novel you could read or movie you could see. It IS a long book. Nevertheless, it is divided into manageable chapters that allow you to take a breather here and then.
5 It wasn't too long ago that it could be said that "the sun never sets on the British Empire."  Much of the credit for this truism goes to The English East India Company--a huge commercial enterprise that grew from a small group of Elizabethan tradesmen into the "grandest society of merchants in all history." The expansion and colonization that made England great was for the most part due to the efforts of that Honourable Company.It is to John Keay's credit that he is able to tell the story of the early beginnings and subsequent growth of the this group of merchants and administrators in such a lively and anecdotal manner while keeping strictly to historical accuracy.Whether you are a writer of historical fiction or an avid history buff, this is a great addition to your library.
3 I was interested in learning about the UK's earliest travels to India and beyond and this book certainly was informative. I thought the author went into an overly exhaustive explanation of some things and he seemed to re-visit certain periods over and over but all in all it was interesting and I'm glad I bought the book. If you're looking for more of a brief overview of this era this is not the book for you.
3 Has faithfully laboured,to bring alive this remarkable enterprise with colours flying.Be warned, Keay crams his story with extensive quotes from the archives, and that in italics, so bring a magnifying glass,and be prepared to do a little re-reading. My copy refers to a paperback.The hardcover may be kinder to the eye.This book assumes you are familiar with Indian geography.As such to me who does not the book simply goes begging for accompanying topographic maps,and I would advise anyone considering giving it a read to get some.
5 The East India Company, which described itself as "the Grandest Society of Merchants in the Universe," controlled half the world's trade at its height.  This grand book, obviously the subject of many years of research, often reads more like an adventure yarn than a book about a business, even the grandest in the universe.  The Company, which received its Royal Charter on the last day of 1600, moved through a series of fits and starts, disasters and triumphs, as it moved through a turbulent 220 years of history.  From its initial fumbling start on the obscure nutmeg island of Run, it eventually turned into a quasi-government ruling vast parts of India and the most important enterprise in the China trade.  It outlasted absolute monarchy in Britain, and saw the rise of the modern corporation.John Keay has done a masterful job of telling this story, but look at the material he has had to work with!  The Honourable Company often seems to have been pretty dishonourable, characterized by ferocious infighting, both in the headquarters in London and overseas.  The characters who set up trading operations in far-flung corners of the world appear to have been either indolent drunks or superhumans burning with ambition.  There are enough pirates and battles and exotic names to please any reader.  And the leitmotiv of British salesmen anxiously trying to unload tweed cloth to unidentifiable buyers in the tropics.The East India Company, although a monopoly, had competition.  It came from many sources, including the Dutch, the French and particularly from "interlopers," traders working on their own account.  The Company also had to compete with its own employees who, paid a pittance, conducted business on their own accounts as well.  The strength of this book is that it gives the impression of boundless activity, even when things went badly.  Given the different locations the company operated in, and different local conditions, it is remarkable that the narrative flows as smoothly as it does.The writing is often superb.  No Imperial apologist, Mr. Keay often makes the point that historians have tended to look to the Company as a harbinger, almost the organizing idea, for the British Empire.  This foreshadowing is strained.  The Company men, to judge from those described in the book, were motivated primarily by greed and self-interest.  Some, such as Warren Hastings, who became Governor-General in India and held the position for thirteen years,  were genuinely fond of India.  Hastings is a fascinating character and Keay's writing does him, and his colleagues, honour:""The Great Moghul," as Hastings was called in Calcutta's first newspaper, stood alone, a sad and self-righteous Caesar, embattled but unbowed, solicitous but ruthless, fastidious but careless, lofty yet devious-a man, in short, crying out to be misunderstood.  Contemporaries duly obliged; so has posterity."With this kind of writing, I must recommend this book highly.  Just have a bookmark available because it is necessary to keep flipping back and forth to the maps.  Just where is Benkulen  anyway?
3 It seemed to lack the human motivations. Not much on the Opium War, too much on India and not enough on China.
5 From the author of the impressive _India: A History_ comes this compact but consistently informative study of the English East India Company, from its origins in the last days of the sixteenth century to the first decades of the nineteenth. This is narrative history at its best, packed with detail, incident and striking characters. Keay fills his pages with entertaining curios and arresting anecdotes, ensuring that the human elements are never lost amid the sweep of history. The geographical and historical sweep is broad, and the focus does not remain unwaveringly upon the Company's servants, but takes in details of societies ranging from London to Japan.For the student of the period, there is enough sharp analysis here to provide a useful overview/introduction to the issues of the period. For the general reader, there's a wonderful tale encompassing everything from early modern finance to a harem in Sumatra. Wonderful.
4 Recording 200+ years of East India Company history is no small feat for, in such a work, this far-flung commercial enterprise produces a litany of ships, ports, merchandise, employees, currencies, costs, indigenous rulers, company directors, parliamentarians, military men, privateers, and scalawags.  That John Keay kept it straight is admirable.  That the reader can is even more so.The Honourable Company is a witty, insightful and, at times, painstakingly detailed account of the East India Company's cyclical expansion, retraction, retrenchment, and re-expansion over the course of three centuries.  From the island of St. Helena to Canton, China, Keay patiently plots the monopoly's course.  Ever eager to highlight the irony, inanity, and ignominy characteristic of such an enterprise, Keay provides several humorous asides in addition to those moments when the reader can't but shake his head at these haughty, ill-informed, greedy and grasping monopolists.Well-researched, well-written, and a delight to consume, The Honourable Company suffers only when the blander details of global trade begin to inhibit it's otherwise excellent pace.  The sheer volume of material required to catalog an endeavor of this magnitude makes it difficult to entice the reader page after page.  Yet, John Keay pulls it off smartly and for this The Honourable Company merits a rating of 4+ stars.
4 The book is an excellent introduction to the partition of India.  It appears biased, as Lord Mountbatten is a primary source, and receives little criticism.  The book is easy to read, and has many brief personal stories to provide a sense of what the events were like for those participating (suffering) in the events.  I did not give it five stars because I felt that there was not enough critical review of the actions by both British and India leaders that lead to horrible suffering by hundreds of thousands of people.
5 Lapierre writes this as if it were a novel.  I found it was a real page-turner and also educational. It is the story of what happened after India won its independence from Great Britain and decided to divide into India (for the Hindus) and Pakistan (for the Muslims).  It is hair-raising.  Gandhi played a major role.  Learning more about him was very interesting.  It is a bit too long, but well worth reading.
5 This is an excellent book about nations, states, people, ethnic and religious tensions, and violence versus non-violence.  Anyone seeking not only to understand modern India but indeed the post modern post colonial world must read this long and detailed book.The insights reflect the over three years of research and incredible access that the authors had to both primary sources and participants in the process of dissolving Britain's Indian Empire.The book starts with a violent prequel to Britain's decision to leave India.  Two events collided--Britain, the exhausted and spent `victor' of World War II could no longer afford the Empire, and India, may of its men having fought and died for liberty elsewhere in the Commonwealth, wanted their own domestic freedom.  Events, tensions and bloodshed started to spiral out of control until Churchill was forced to admit "It is with deep grief that I watch the clattering down of the British Empire with all of its glories and services that it has rendered to mankind.  Many have defended Britain against her foes, but none can defend her against herself." (p. 53)  The challenge for the British, Indian and would be Pakistani leaders and planners was to fix a date and a process that would not be perfect, but would somehow be better than Gandhi's incantation to "leave India to God."Mountbatten and Jinnah--the lead Brit and lead Pakistani--held a series of meetings that were crucial to the carving up of Empire.  At the same time Mountbatten had to deal with Nehru and Gandhi on the other side of the equation--a prequel to `shuttle diplomacy' if ever there was one.  Despite the fact the most prudent planers wanted no partition, Jinnah--secretly being consumed by a tuberculosis he knew would kill him soon--drove himself and everyone else to achieve the dream of a independent and separate Pakistan.  Knowing that you will not long live to inherit the consequences provides a freedom of thought and action that is liberating in the present, but holds dire results for the later generations. (pp 102-111)While everyone was trying not to let the emotions and dogs run loose and wild, more and more ethnic and religious incited violence continued to leave hundred and indeed thousands of dead in wide swaths across India (Kahuta, Peshawar, Punjab, Kashmir).  Seeking to calm the tempers and stay the killings, instead the British were left with almost no choice but to draw an almost arbitrary set of map lines that guaranteed the violence would accelerate before it would abate.  Mountbatten traveled tirelessly, his perceptive wife at his side, from refugee camps to destroyed towns and burnt bodies--and ever more frantically realized that he had to set a date soon and then drive everyone remorselessly to achieve it as perfect as it could be, not as perfect as it should be.Ironically, it was the Armies--Pakistani, Indian and British--that had to be brought back into to instill discipline and restore some semblance of order, although in many cases they were simply too few, too late.  As the Chapter 13 "our people have gone mad' displays in poignant writing, once the lid was off the pot, it simply began to boil over even faster.  Gandhi, in the last great act of his life before being assassinated by a Hindu group of radicals, was able to instill some peace and order--but only in the isolated spots were he could personally be present.  As the multitude of 20, 30 and 50 mile long columns of refugees wound their way past each other, the unspeakable was done over and over again.  Trains were halted and all butchered.  The scope was simply too vast even for Mountbatten and Gandhi.In many ways, this book foretells of Africa, the Balkans and Iraq today in a great many painful  parallels.  It is a hard read, but read it you must if you want to try to understand how groups that have lived more or less at peace and in co-existence, can over a few short months and years, become bitterly polarized antagonists for generations to come.
3 I'll keep this short: its a fascinating historical story and is worth telling and worth reading. But it's simply too long of a book. And somewhat repetitive. I'm well aware that India is a very populous country...no need to hammer it into my head continuously.  Otherwise I found myself interested but had a hard time getting through it by the end.
5 The crown of the British Empire was always India, yet ruling it was a very complex task due to the enormous number of different religious and ethnic groups. When it became clear after the end of the Second World War that Britain would be forced to grant independence to her Indian colony, Lord Mountbatten was appointed to the post of the final British Viceroy to the colony. Once the British flag was lowered for the last time at midnight, hence the title, it was up to the people of India to govern themselves, a task that seemed impossible at the time.This book is the best account of a short, yet climactic event of history that I have ever read. It is spellbinding to read this account of how the entire subcontinent seemed to degenerate into anarchy. I recently watched the remake of "War of the Worlds" where the train signal goes off and the burning train moves through the town. Something similar actually happened in India during the transition to independence and self-government. Trains would pull up to stations and blood would be dripping from the passenger cars, all of the people on board had been killed by rampaging members of other groups. Even the Indian military fractured on ethnic and religious lines, Hindu units massacred Muslims and Muslim units massacred Hindus. The only reliable military units that the government had were the Ghurka units, where they existed, they provided the only reliable protection for the people.There have been other instances where a society suddenly collapses into ethnic and religious hatreds, with a slaughter of one or both groups taking place. Recently, we have seen it again in Bosnia and Rwanda. However, nobody has ever captured these events in such detail and clarity as Collins and Lapierre have, it is one of the hardest books to put down that I have ever read. It should be required reading in any course dealing with the history of the British Empire, India or even the twentieth century.
5 i picked up this book cuz i was curious about the event of the end of the British Raj.  in countless other books, this subject came up over and over.  now i see why.  it is not only about the breakup of England's control over India, and the formation of Pakistan and India.  the interplay of events, personalities, religion, politics, the intense discrimination between Indians themselves, all had a part to play in the awful way things played out. it is very very easy to say religion caused everything that went wrong, or that England totally screwed up the separation when they knew better, but these authors make sure we see the big picture.  this book does not describe a morality play of conquerors vs. natives, or the good religion vs. the bad ones. the book really describes all too human motives and fallabilities that in this case, caused India's woes, but it could have happened wherever humans live and create societies that rub up against each other.
5 This is a detailed and well informed description of the events and the people that brought forth the independence of the great country that is India.  It is a story of perseverance during difficult times and there is much in it of the life of Gandhi and his love for his country and its people.It is a story of a great mind, a great soul, diplomacy and humanity.I highly recommend this classic.
5 I grew up in India being taught in schools about the god-like characteristics of leaders like Nehru. But this book offers a very thought provoking viewpoint on the people who played the major roles in the historic drama that ended the British Raj. This book is co-authored by an American and a French and it is definitely a result of a lot of research. It is written as a fiction rather than a historic documentary. The authors have gone to great lengths in describing each character and scene in great depth.There are still some limitations that I see about this book. This book was published in 1975. The only major character alive when the authors were doing research for the book was Lord Mountbatten and he is the one they have extensively interviewed. I suspect the authors might have been unintentionally (or otherwise) influenced by a lot of Mountbatten's views. Mountbatten has been portrayed as the perfect human being who became the saviour of India. Gandhi whom Mountbatten apparently held in high regards is portrayed as a saint. And, Jinnah whom Mountbatten evidently disliked is a villain of sort (This book was banned in Pakistan because of that). I am not disputing these views. They sound accurate from what we know about these people now. But, I am just wondering if the authors had gotten an opportunity to interview Jinnah at length (provided the "cold" Jinnah would have opened up), would the story look different ?But, since this is not written as a documentary, but as a fiction, I guess the authors have the freedom to wander a bit. Because of the same reason, I would recommend against treating this book as a historical guide. I have heard many people arguing about Indian independence basing their argument on what they read in this book. I am not sure if this book is reliable enough to form opinions based on.And, one word for the over-patriotic Indians who would argue that this book is biased and who keep blaming the British for everything (Jalian Wal Bagh is their favorite topic), this book's story focuses on India's independence from British, not India's occupation by British. The story begins in beginning of 1947 when Mountbatten was assigned to be India's last viceroy and ends at the death of Gandhi in Jan 1948. The story of occupation is another story. For a few days, unremember everything you learned in school and read this from a neutral point of view. For average reader who wouldn't have the patience to dwell into history books, this is as neutral as it can be. The more history-oriented folks should read some real history books.
5 Beautifully written, meticulously researched history of the tumultuous times surrounding Indian independence.  I was not very familiar with this time in history, or this region, and the authors did an excellent job of providing all the background and previous history necessary to to understand the events described in the book.  Highly recommended for history buffs or anybody interested in understanding this area of the world a little better.  I look forward to exploring other titles by these authors.
3 I would recommend this book to someone who has only a limited knowledge of the history of the British Indian Empire and the subsequent partition which created the modern nations of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The book gives an overview of the history of the British Raj and the subsequent partition but lacks balance. As other reviewers have pointed out, the book tends to idealize Gandhi (although it does point out how many of his followers ended up distancing themselves from him due to his various personal quirks and bizarre utopian economic and industrial schemes), as well as Nehru and the Congress Party and, on the other hand, demonizes Jinnah and the Muslim League. This book repeats the claim that the demand from Jinnah for partition was only a personal crusade of his and had people known he was dying of lung disease they would have waited for him to leave the scene and other, more "moderate" Muslim leaders would have stepped forward and agreed to remain in a united India. Another book I have read, "End of Empire", points out that in a conference held after the end of World War II, Jinnah agreed to accept loosely federated united Indian state but the Congress party rejected the proposal so it is incorrect to say the the "blame" for partition is solely Jinnah's. Jinnah was a totally unreligious Muslim who was an early member of the Congress party and believed in Hindu-Muslim cooperation but he opposed Gandhi's religiously-based civil disobedience campaign, fearing correctly that it would lead to violence and sectarianism. In the provinicial governments set up after the Indian elections held in 1937 the Congress party often refused to share power with Muslims in provinces where Hindus were the majority. This led Jinnah to the conclusion that Indian must be partitioned, a policy he opposed when it was first proposed in the early 1930's. In any event, the rise of Muslim conciousness around the world in the post-War era and its increasing rejection of secular politcs would have almost certainly lead to turmoil in the heavily Muslim parts of a united India as we see happening in Kashmir.Similarly, the hypocrisy of Gandhi and Nehru are glossed over in the book. Gandhi, who demanded from his people that they make sacrifices in order to push the British out of India, turns around and tells the Jews who were being murdered by the Nazis and the Ethiopians being invaded by the Italians to passively accept their fate. Gandhi had the good fortune to confront the basically civilized and democratic British but he had no antidote to genocidal Fascism. Similarly Nehru, who preached passive resistance to the British had no problem sending the Indian Army into Portuguese-controlled Goa when he saw that Gandhi's way was not working fast enough.Still, fairness requires stating that when all is said and done, when we compare modern India with the other giant nations, China and Russia, India, with all its flaws, has more or less remained a democracy and did not end up carrying out mass terror against its population as the other two did, so this speaks well for the country that Gandhi inspired and Nehru lead for so many years. This book gives the reader much of the background needed to understand this.
5 Really a very good book ... lots of history
5 Very well researched and written like a historical novel. It portrays the significant characters of those times in detail without being boring and allows the reader to understand events in their historical context. Must-read for anyone interested in the region
5 I am reading this book now.  I can not put it down.  It is wonderfully written.  Truly a must read for anyone interested, or visiting India.  Amazing read.
5 IT IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO CONDENSE OR OTHERWISE PARAPHRASE THIS  MASTERFUL ACCOUNT  OF THE EVENTSLEADING UP TO THE BRITISH RAJ'S ABDICATION FROM A DIVIDING INDIA.  THE PERSONAL ACCOUNTS OF (ABOVE  ALL)MAHA (GREAT) ATMAH (SOUL)  GHANDI, THEN NEHRU, JIDDAH AND MOUNTBATTEN ARE WORTH BUYING THIS BOOK.  BUT THERE IS SO MUCH MORE.FOR EXAMPLE, THE  ACCOUNT OF GHANDI'S ARRIVING IN CALCUTTA (ON THE BRINK OF  CIVIL WAR)  ONLY TO ASK THE HIGHEST MUSLEM LEADER TO FAST AND PRAY WITH HIM FOR PEACE AND LOVE FOR AS LONG  AS REQUIRED TO EXTINGUISH  THE FIRES OF HATRED.  THE VIOLENCE IN THE CITY  GRADUALLY SUBSIDED, PLACE BY  PLACE,  NEVER TO ERUPT AGAIN  - NOT EVEN DURING  THE WORST  OF HINDU - MUSLEM CLASHES DURING THE ENSUING CIVIL WAR.  THIS BOOK  IN ITS SCOPE AND SPIRIT IS BEYOND ANY  ADEQUATE SUMMARY.
5 Anyone wanting to learn about India has to read this book.  It gives a superb accounting of the events leading up to the emergence of India and Pakistan.If you are planning a trip to India, it's a must read.Delighted I was able to find it as it is out of print.
5 Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre have managed to capture one of the most important years (1947) of world history in their book.  Freedom at Midnight is possibly  one of the most outrageously enthralling works of writing based on real events that I have ever read.This book is an account of the year 1947 in context to the freedom of India from the British Raj.  It opens on New Year's Day, 1947, London and takes the reader on a journey of significant events that lead to the independence of India.  On the way, the reader is introduced to many brilliant characters who shaped up the history in that part of the world and have since left their mark that is still evident.  The decisions made by these people defined the future of millions of people.Freedom at Midnight is an intimate account of the reasoning of these historical figures that lead to the independence and division of India.  Why did Prime Minister Clement Atlee who took office dedicated to break the Empire apart choose Louis Mountbatten, a member of the royal family to be the last viceroy of India?  Why was he the man to administer India's freedom operation?This book is one of the most intimate accounts of the most venerated figures in the world's history, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi aka Mahatma Gandhi.  His approach, position, attitude towards the British Raj, the Indian Congress, the political and social blueprint that he dreamed of the Independent India.  And vice-versa.  As the book flows like an epic, it gives detailed account of final days of Gandhi and who, why and how of the assassination of this revered leader.  The reader is also introduced to Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Mohammad Ali Jinnah.What happened to the Maharajas, the palaces, the tigers, the jewels and the harems?  What lead to the demise of fantastic royalty in India?  The authors have devoted a whole chapter to recounting the opulence enjoyed by the Maharajas and their magnificent indulgences.How was the line drawn that divided the nation?  Who initiated the idea and why was the idea initiated?  Collins and Lapierre show poignant picture of the greatest migration in history.  The religious division left an estimated 250,000-500,000 people dead.One of the unsolved matter since than that still afflicts both nations (India and Pakistan) and have since lead to three wars, Kashmir, is devoted a whole chapter.  The valley that was once described as "heaven on earth" by the last Mogul Emperor of India today is contradicting the emperor's statement in every way possible.  This book discloses the history behind the conflict.One of the most appealing qualities in the writing of the authors was their effort into giving some personal accounts into the lives of the common people.  I recommend this book to anyone who is a student of world history and precisely history of India.  This book takes the reader through the year that lead to the birth of three nations, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.
5 One for the most amazing books on the independence of Pakistan and India. This gives all the intriguing details of the main characters.  Tragic, uplifting.  A GREAT read!
5 I am not an expert on the subcontinent, and I found this book to be well written and gripping. It ties together events occurring at nearly the same time, so the reader gets a feeling for the huge tragedy that overtook India. I had read Paul Scott's The Raj Quartet and Staying On, which are fictional accounts of the Partition. This book filled in many of the historical details that serve as backdrop for the Scott novels. I like that this book does not glamourize the English Raj, many of whom were clerks elevated to masters in the British India. It does seem more negative toward Jinnah and the Muslims than the Hindus, but I do not yet know whether this is a fair depiction. The Sikhs come off very badly. It succeeds in inspiring the reader to seek out more facts about India and Pakistan.
5 I read this book a decade or so ago, but it has been coming back to my mind recently -- apparently simply because it made such an impact and I now have a medium (Amazon) in which to express my appreciation of it. It is an impressive book in every way: an epic story, with gripping narrative, about extraordinary events and characters. I had had no conception of the monstrous tragedy of the partition of India from Pakistan. This book not only describes its true dimensions, but also makes clear how circumstances can force such absurd things to occur. Much of the book is a biography of Gandhi, and here I could only marvel at the power and authority of this man, and -- on top of everything else -- be riveted by the assassination story in all its detail that I had not known about. Whether there are more accurate accounts of these matters, I am not in a position to say. I can only report that I found this book completely satisfying in multiple respects: as history, as biography, as narrative. At least for a non-expert I can't imagine how it could disappoint as a book, however distressing (and, alas also, timely) its subject matter may be.
4 I enjoyed this book.  Freedom at Midnight is about the transition of India  from a British Colony to an independent nation on midnight of 15 August  1947.  I learned about the history and background of that event, however,  the stongest attribute of this book is the description of the characters  and personalities involved.  The key players are Mountbatten, Ghandi, Nehru  and Jinnah.  I developed a high regard and respect for Ghandi and his work.  I did not feel that the authors presented one viewpoint at the expense of  others.  If there is a fault with this splendid book it is in its  over-reliance on Mountbatten.  Even that is minor and forgiveable.  What  does come through is how the lives of the people at an individual level  were and are still affected by this historic political change.  If you are  interested in the history of India, this book will be interesting to you.
5 This is a great read for those interested in the history of the Third World.  India and Pakistan are countries with huge populations and their independence in 1947 was one of turning points in the decolonization of the Third World.  Collins and Lapierre detail this story in this book.  Also detailed are the four people most important in the independence:  Montbatten, Gandhi, Nehru, and Jinnah.  Millions may have lost their life in the Punjab, but it would have been a far bloodier story if these people were not around.  Focus is given on Gandhi who was a most unselfish person, in recognizing the rights of all faiths.  The book details how Gandhi's struggles lead to the independence of India, and how the leaders of the different faiths broke the country up into Pakistan and India.  The last part of the book is the story of the assassination of Gandhi by Hindu fanatics.This is a great read.  At a little over 500 pages, this book will take some time to digest, but it is one of the best books about the independence struggle of Pakistan and India.  This book also sheds some light on the current problems with Kashmir.A great read.
3 A strange book which projects a bit player in Indian history as a great Hero. The authors gushingly portray Mountbatten as a great man, who's superior negotiating skills, charm and decisiveness found a solution to the Indian 'problem', when the reality was Jinnah's obstinacy won the day and rivers of blood flowed post-Imdependence. Considering most of it is based on stuff recounted by Mountbatten himself, this book shows up Mountbatten as a braggart. If you can ignore this aspect, the book makes for a racy interesting read, which is unusual for a book which purports to be history. Read it as a historical romance (the Mountbatten stuff) cum tragedy, and you will not be disappointed.
5 This is just an amazing read in the same tradition as O Jerusalem written by these same two authors.  Very engaging and makes you feel like you were right there.  I like the author's attempt at neutrality in telling this amazing story.  If you want to understand the history of this era this is a great way to get it!  It seems researched well and well documented.barb
5 I read Burmese Translation during my high school days around 11 years ago. It is a great book..I am even sure how many times i read it. Recommended to Anyone..!
5 Reads like a novel, with the detail required to feel the action, but with the sweep of history to put it in perspective for readers.  Collins and Lapierre are a great writing team and this is one of their best works.  Invaluable for those beginning to read about the subcontinent as well as long-time students.  I give it my highest recommendation.
5 It is  not a history book; it is a book about the aftermath of Britain's departure from India. Very readable book on contemporary Indian History'
4 This book inspired Miguel Sousa Tavares own book,Equador, apparently, but only conceptually (I didn'tread the latter.)There's a new edition, from India VIKAS PUBLISHING HOUSE,based in Jangpura, New Delhi, 1997. Found mine in usedbook store, in mint condition.
4 The book starts at Jan 1947 and covers the period till early 1948. Somehow I missed history of Indian freedom. Even though I had it during my schooling. I was too young to be interested in dry history books.This book is for anyone who is interested in Indian freedom. Probably the best book I have ever read on Indian freedom.Written by two persons neither British nor Indian, this book gives an outsiders view.The books main protagonists are Mount Batten and Gandhi. The pages about Gandhi are extremely well written. Utmost care has been taken to each sentence uttered by Gandhi. Passages about Gandhi are so good that those pages give the pace of a page turner.Two things I had missed are Mount batten and Nathuram Godse. Lot of information on both these subjects you will find in the book. Mount battens personal life and Godse's plot to kill Gandhi has been written in detail.I got interested in Indian freedom only after seeing movie - GANDHI. The screen play writer of this movie was clearly influenced by Freedom at Midnight.Opening scene where Gandhi is thrown out the train is from the book. Movie Gandhi concentrates solely on Gandhi and some how less focused on other freedom fighters.What I liked in the book,* This book doesn't have the dry pages of a history book. There is a good pace* This book gives a 360 degree view of Indian freedom. Not only the freedom, but also the British and Mount Battens are well covered.* The details about the Maharaja's are very niceWhat I would have loved to have in this book is,* Information on rest of the freedom fighters. The book speaks only about Gandhi, Nehru and Patel. I would have loved to read about Shubash Chandra Bose, shashtri etc.* More on Gandhi/Nehru family. No importance has been given to their wives and children.* Since the book starts from Jan 47, earlier days of Gandhi and the things which lead to become a Mahatma are missing.Einstein once said that,"Generations to come will find it difficult to believe that a man such as Gandhi ever walked the face of this earth".There is a justification for this in the book. I am amazed by Gandhi's simple ideas like salt march, quit India, non cooperation etc. worked so well on those days. But also some of his ideas like non-industrialization after freedom and non violence solutions for the Sikhs when they were getting killed in Punjab are utopian.I am surprised by Gandhi's experiments to test his oath of Brahmcharya. Clearly I had missed this.Over all I feel that this one is a great book. Any one who is interested in Indian freedom history should read this book. I Also suggest CITY OF JOY from the same authors.
4 As an Indian American I figured it was about time I learned some of the basics of India's struggle for independence and the partitioning of the country. Freedom at Midnight describes the 1947 through early 1948 time period, when a couple decades of revolutionary efforts by Gandhi et al finally resulted in Britain's decision to leave India. Alas, the parting wasn't as quick and easy as hoped for. While the struggle for independence had unified the Hindus and Moslems of India to some extent, when it was won their ancient animosity for each other led to tensions that caused the leaders to partition the country and later erupted into some of the most appalling and senseless slaughter of the century.Although the book begins with a few flashbacks into the backgrounds of the major characters, the focus is on 1947. So you won't learn more than the essential history of Gandhi's peaceful revolution or details of the growing distrust between the Hindu and Moslem segments of the population that the British in the 1940s were barely able to keep from exploding into bloodshed. What you will get is a very well-written and moving account of India's final viceroyalty under Lord Mountbatten, the fall of the maharajas, the helplessness of Nehru and Patel in the chaos of late 1947, the agony of the Punjab during the mass migrations between the two countries, Gandhi's assassination, and a few other topics. From the acknowledgments and chapter notes at the end of the book it's evident that the subject matter was thoroughly researched, mostly from primary sources. Certainly, many of the conversations and descriptions must be fictional but the general historical accuracy of the material is highly credible.Freedom at Midnight is a long book considering the relatively short time period covered. Weighing in at around 520 pages (not including the ending notes), I feel that it was a bit much. About 250 pages would have been adequate for solid and well-written coverage of the material. The authors chose to add a lot of "color" to the story, as in dramatization. Lord Mountbatten is certainly made out to be a superman who can do it all. We are treated to in-depth coverage of the maharajas' excesses. Probably too much is made of Gandhi's Spartan habits. Numerous case studies of unfortunate Hindus and Moslems caught in the bloodshed are interesting but largely unnecessary to the account. Finally, the plot against Gandhi's life is very interesting but, again, told in more detail with more drama than was strictly necessary for enjoyable yet informative reading. I'll say this though: it never gets boring.Overall, recommended to all readers who enjoy history but don't a mind a bit of drama added into the mix! Make sure you get a copy that has photographic plates in it; the photos are well-selected and augment the story well.
5 i read this book when i was 18 as part of supplementary reading for my high school special paper on contemporary indian history (i am not indian and studied indian history purely as personal interest).  unlike my indian history text books, Freedom at Midnight was easy to read and so much more interesting.  The writers adopted a story telling style such that readers can appreciate the story without the academic jargon.  even if you have no interest in history, i highly recommend this book as the story is engaging and complex.on a sidebar.  i found it so sad that, india, pakistan and bangladesh were all one country, all brothers and sisters.  however, as events unfolded, india and pakistan became sworn enemies as if two blood brothers became strangers focused on annihilating the other.  even as a non indian (non pakistan), i feel the sadness.  i hope these two peoples would eventually find the reconciliation to become friends if not brothers/sisters again.....
5 I can only say that this book is really splendid. It is like all history books should be: it describes historical events and portrays the personality of the persons that played a role in it, but it also concentrates on the common people that lived in that time, on their dreams, on their beliefs...And this last part is surely what makes of this book a great book: the fascinating diversity of the indian religions, the manifold of colours and scents of India are depicted vividly.And also very vivid are the personalities who appear in this book, the &quot;little&quot; ones as good as the &quot;big&quot; ones.For example the figure of Gandhi is depicted in all his greatness and spiritual authority, but also the strange parts of his character are shown. The same for Nehru or for Mountbatten. And in this way all the meetings of this persons become like the scenes in a thrilling novel.If you read this book you'll learn to love India like I do!
5 I was required to read this book in high school world history.  I have since read it several more times and hope one day to visit Pakistan and India.  It is a true story most Westerns do not know anything about.  Awesome and brilliantly written !!
5 Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre also wroteO JerusalemandIs Paris Burning.They note that once while Gandhi and his wife were making love, "a rap on the door interrupted their lovemaking. It was a servant. Gandhi's father, he announced, had just died. Gandhi was horrified. He was devoted to his father. Moments before, he had been by the bed on which his father lay dying... As a result of this trauma teh joy of sex began to fade for Gandhi. An indelible stamp had been left on his psyche." (Pg. 50)They also record, "[Gandhi] believed in nature cures and he also believed administering medicine by hypodermic needle contravened his dogma of nonviolence... Aware that his wife was dying from acute bronchitis, the British flew a supply of rare and precious penicillin to the prison. But at the last minute, when Gandhi learned that the drug which could have saved his dying wife would have to be administered intravenously, he had refused her doctors permission to give it to her. After her death, Gandhi's own death failed rapidly." (Pg. 73)They observe, "As his confidence in his mastery of his desires came back, he gradually extended the range of physical contact that he allowed himself with women. He nursed them when they were ill, and he allowed them to nurse him... He had his daily massage virtually naked with young girls frequently serving as his masseuses... the naked state represented the true innocence for which he was striving... In the twilight of his life, Gandhi was a lonely man. He had lost his wife and closest friend in a wartime prison." (Pg. 80-81)Of his famous fast to stop Hindu/Muslim violence, they note, "No spectacle could better justify the suffering that Mahatma Gandhi endured during his fast than the one awaiting him around Quwwat-ul-Islam... Even he, however, could not have imagined a success as complete as the one that his fast had achieved. Hindus and Sikhs who a fortnight before would have welcomed Moslems to Mehrauli with daggers and kirpans, stood at the entrance to the mosque decorating the arriving pilgrims wiht garlands... Gandhi was moved almost to tears. As the ultimate expression of their gratitude, the mosque's [leaders] invited Gandhi to address the faithful from the heart of their shrine." (Pg. 489-490)They add in conclusion, "Not a few of Gandhi's ideas which once appeared an old man's quirks have become, almost three decades after his death, strangely relevant in a world of dwindling resources and expanding poopulations. Cutting up old envelopes to make notepads rather then wasting paper, consuming only the food necessary to nourish one's frame, eschewing the heedless production of unneeded goods, began to appear by the seventies not so much as a set of charming eccentricities as perhaps a prescription for man's uncertain future on his exhausted planet." (Pg. 533)This is an unflinching, insightful biography of Gandhi's role in the liberation of India, and will be of great interest to anyone studying Gandhi and Indian history.
3 Collins and Lapierre are among the most overrated historical writers of all time. The writing of "Freedom at Midnight" is good and the text is interesting, and in my opinion they would do quite well writing fiction. One would think given the pages and pages of references at the back that this is a thoroughly researched book, but this is a good instance of how statistics can lie.Here are some of the big errors I found in the book:1. The biggest whopper is that Messrs. Godse and Sawarkar enjoyed a homosexual relationship. Nobody who knows even an iota of the facts from any other sources will believe this -- all I could do was shake my head and smile at this preposterous claim, which incidentally does not even provide a reference.2. The life of the maharajas chapter - all lies. The reference for this whole chapter is a book written by an Englishman who wanted to impress people back home. It is akin to claiming a "Wild West" account as fact.3. There is no RSSS. The organization is RSS, Swayamsevak is one word. This just smacks of poor research. I doubt the writers have even looked at the covers of some of the books they have claimed as references.4. Many place and people names are badly misspelled. There is no Pavel in Bombay for instance. The place name is Parel, and it is not a high income locality. In fact, it has a huge factory workers' colony.I found several more, and am sure still many more exist in the book -- I am just a typical Indian, no historian or anything like that. Although this book is very interesting, I wish I had not read it and would not recommend it to anyone who wants genuine knowledge about India. Whatever I knew of the book's subject is now mixed up with the book's lies, so I don't even know what is true or not anymore. Surely, false information is worse than no information at all.
4 History has never been so intriguing. Being an Indian I read the book from an Indian standpoint and for me it was an incredible experience. Having grown up in India I have been exposed to a lot of material about  Independence but none have aroused such thought as &quot;Freedom at  Midnight&quot;. A masterfully written, superbly researched and above all a  very human account of what happenned in that period of Indian History.  Mountbatten comes across as the hero of India and though Gandhi is shown to  be more human than saint his actions were definitely that of a Mahatma.  This book gave me a better understanding of my own country. A must read for  every Indian or anyone who is interested in India.
5 I found this book captivating. Since I work with more than 20 Indians and one Pakistani, I was able to discuss the events in the book at length with them. One of my friends' father barely escaped death on one of the trains fleeing Pakistan. He and his brother have bullet wounds to show. The Pakistani's father also narrowly escaped death while leaving India for Pakistan. Two of the Indians decided to read the book with me. All agree that the book is accurate. It was very emotional for me to read of the atrocities and understand the personalities involved. My Indian friends experienced even more intense emotion as the read of the experiences of their parents.One of the other customer reviews stated that the book made Montbatten look too good. My Indian friends disagree. Montbatten was a great man. The book might have underrated him, if anything.The book also shows several sides of Gandi that most Westerners are not exposed to. He is still a great soul, though.This book will change you. At least read the first 100 pages before you make a decision -- it'll draw you in.
5 This book is about the struggle for freedom in the modern Indian subcontinent and its consequences. India largely attained its freedom through satyagraha. The entire subcontinent opted for struggle for freedom through peaceful demonstrations, while at the same time the rest of the world was killing each other with newly invented bombs,tankers and planes.Ofcourse, the subcontinent paid a premium price for the peaceful struggle. What motivated these people towards this experiment? What happened to these people? To their leader? What troubles did they face? How did the dynamics of a revolted society of billion people, so mind numbingly divergent, play? The authors did a brilliant job of reconstructing the precursors, the movement and the consequences. The British, thier attitude, the Indians, their philosophy, the Maharajas, the comman man, religion, religious heads, politicians and the blood thirsty, all play their role.Here is the synopsis: The last viceroy to India was sent on a mission to finally end the British rule in the Indian subcontinent. The British wanted it to be done as painlessly as possible, even if it means, dividing the land before leaving it. India then (and now) was a supremely complex society. British managed it by 'divide and rule' practice. Meanwhile , a small brown naked phakir named 'Gandhi' started uniting the voice of India through simple and peaceful methods.(Salt satyagraha is one of them). Gandhi managed to lead the struggle for the freedom into a national movement. Finally when India was getting its freedom, muslims demanded for a seperate country for themselves called 'Pakistan'. The muslim movement became a parallel movement and boiled down to two nations. This set the stage for partition. The hindus who have been living in the would be Pakistan had to migrate to India. Also the muslims who have been living in the would be India who opted to leave to Pakistan started migrating. This is the largest human migration in the history. A drama that is very disturbing, emerged out of this.This book is the about the story of these people. There are numorous sub plots or mini stories in this book that are testimonials to the human nature and will stand the test of time.
3 The cover blurb intrigued me:  Big city attorney Bartholomew Crane goes to tiny Murdoch to defend a murder suspect.  But something is awry in small-town Canada, and weirdness abounds.What the cover blurb doesn't mention is Barth brought some demons to Murdoch with him, including a nasty cocaine habit and terminal ennui.Andrew Pyper gives us a fine view into Barth's disintegrating personality and his increasing obsession with the town legend. Some very nice atmospheric touches -- I could see the trees and feel the cold, smell the dank of Barth's moldering hotel room.The Canadian locale seemed exotic to this American, and the unfamiliar setting made the plot a little more creepy.A good story, well-written. Recommended.
5 "Lost Girls" by Andrew Pyper is set in aforgotten, dirty and desolate Canadian town,called Murdoch, not too far from Toronto. Thebook is about--everything human I can think of. Anarrative recorded by a coke addicted lawyer,Bartholomew Crane, who is sent by his firm tothis town to defend a school teacher accused ofmurdering two girls, though the bodies have notbeen found. The town is as gritty and numb toitself as Crane is to himself and the world aroundhim. Crane, who has a need to hide from a veryreal and melancholy  innocence where the eye ofthe tiger of lives for him as well as many of theother characters. The novel, the writer's first, isabout so many things, so many layers that itdenies any juggling act of specificity. Though it isvery specific in what it does, it would be likepinning down a snow storm. Impossible. Justobserve at first, from the outside. Then step insideand be engulfed in its beauty. It is darkly,artistically, intelligently written in a kind ofpoetry that is purely Pyper's own.To make Crane likable from the verybeginning, even though he is cynical as hell andseemingly so smart and savvy and untouched,(much as we, in other words), doesn't care abouttruth, uses dishonesty when it suits him (much aswe in other words) and doesn't give much of adamn particularly about those little girls, whomight still be alive, is the mark of a writer whosees into sadness and comes up somehow withdiamonds. Crane is acerbic and funny as well. Heis a marvelous observer. There is somethingmirrored of him in the accused killer, ThomTripp, and in the legend of the Lady of the Lake,which is a childhood horror that grows likeserpents out of  that dark body of water, and hasin one respect, to do with, not where Crane'sinnocence stopped, but added new accidentaldimension to itself.The book is bleak, but invigorating. Ifthere are the fabric threads connecting all of thistogether--Thom's pictures of girls from teenmagazines papering his apartment walls--for thatway they cannot leave; if Crane has to hate allpeople because it is like making them and himselfvanish, to guard against "casual cruelty"; if thecruel killing of a war refugee from Poland, in thatmurky lake that is like the dark center of theworld in this place, from which she calls forretribution, and made into a legend to disguisereality; if Thom persuades two girls into a dreamworldd that they so love, till it starts being real,and maybe still they love it, even--It's best not to become what one wishes,because it may be at odds with the lies ofnormalcy that make lives fit into tight carefullydrawn straight lines of roads in thewilderness...then the pattern conceivably is  aboutinnocence.  And what a malign, raw wound it is.What monsters hide just beneath the skin, not tohurt, as much as to keep from hurting. Still thoughthere is this relentless return to what causes toomuch anguish to even contemplate. To coverinnocence, with horror, because even that is easierto take than the pure blast of its source. There isthe need to deny while pursuing so doggedly thesolvings. But, though Crane burns many pages ofhis father's books in the lake house Crane neverknew existed, he is powerless to resist the sirencall.Innocence, the book says, can includemany dark deadly things--Crane's deepmelancholy love for Caroline, and her fate. Themissing girls who were trapped in witches'dreams that becomes too real.  It is Tripp'sdesperate attempt to get back to his own boyhood,such a close fit, he hopes between the school boyone day and school teacher the next, that surely hecould make the jump back. As well as to a happymarriage. And to his daughter. The bookabsolutely pulses with energy and, by the way, isquite terrifying. It is incredibly believable, andheart rending.  It is also about redpmption, tocome out of the coke haze. To say good-bye andrush upward to the surface of that dark lake.The light that comes is grim, butilluminating. It works like a great deep terrifyingultimately refreshing dream that takes the ruinedthreads, stitching them together. It names theweavers of the tapestry are. In unexpectedrevelations.  It is, at center, about the ascent ofBartholomew Crane. He is transformed from aman in hiding to a man who can feel again.When Crane comforts a dying deer, hit bya car apparently, there is such a warmth, such acompassion from Crane as he feels the lifeleaving the animal, as Crane comforts the animal.With cars passing by, not stopping, just occupantslooking at the man on the side of the road,cradling the deer's head in his lap, it seems thatinnocence comes with acknowledging that livingthings do move and that living things do die. Andsometimes it is our fault that they die. We have toaccept it. Ask grace for it. The most we can do isto comfort each other. And in doing that, be ofuse, be of full measure.The starkness, the somberness of thenovel, in its brave search for answers propelledme forward, in the grip of the thing itself. There issuch integrity to the writing. Such a cleanness ofpurpose. This is not just another forgettableentertainment of murders in our hands, safe in ourhomes, reading. It is entertaining, very much so,but far more, it is makes one feel as thoughsomething truly good has been accomplished hereby a wondrous writer.  It is of a piece. "LostGirls" can be no other than what it is. This book isfor treasuring.the end.
2 The opening chapters promised much, from the genuinely chilling prologue to the delightful introduction of Barth Crane - the junior associate of the far from reputable lawyers known cynically as "Lie and Get 'em off".My anticipation grew as Crane arrives at the vaguely unsettling location of Murdoch and meets some bizarre (and well depicted) characters. But then, by about a third of the way through, I found this book really began to drag. What revelations there were felt decidedly underwhelming. The supernatural sub-plot was very understated - almost as if it could be put down to Crane's sleep deprevation and drugs abuse. Whilst this ambiguity could have been a major advantage if handled subtly, in Pyper's hands however it merely comes over as a rather wishy-washy loss of direction.  The courtroom scenes are adequately, if uninspiringly, described, and the twist, if indeed it were intended as such, is eminently guessable and left me feeling rather unfulfilled.Lost Girls falls uncomfortably between two stools. It probably has insufficient gritty authenticity to satisfy readers of legal dramas and whodunnits, and certainly contains not enough shocks and chills for devotees of the ghost/horror genre.I'm sorry I cannot be more generous about Lost Girls. The author clearly has considerable talent and often employs startling and delightful imagery, but the overall impact of the novel on me was rather akin to a wet grey mush (which perhaps was Pyper's intention?)....
1 ...This is not a good book. ...Simply because its not well written, was a least 100 pages too long for the story, contained no characters about which anyone could be reasonably sympathetic and had no focus.Part courtroom drama, part ghost story, the plot of Lost Girls never really finds a focus.  It shifts from a murder trial, in which the main character is the defense attorney, to ghost story to urban legend.  The main character himself is sleazy, unlikable and incompetent and I gave up on finding anything redeeming about him after the first 50 pages.  That said, its difficult to care what happens to him.  The "lady in the lake" legend is an element that never pans out for Pyper and shouldn't have made it past the editor.  It merely adds static to an already precarious plot.Overall, its obvious that this was a first novel and it makes a good case for the use of editors.  Sentence fragments and passive voice abound.  If the story itself was better, it would be easier to forgive these things but, alas, its not.Leave it sitting on the shelf.  There are better things to read out there.
4 Slip into the murky depths of a town with dark secrets.  Secrets no one seems to want to talk about and secrets most would completely deny the exixtence of...that is, until two of the town's favorite daughters go  missing.  In the ensuing uproar over their disappearance, a battle cry  erupts from one of the girls' father--a wealthy and influential member of  the town.  His vengeance is aimed squarely at the head of Thomas Tripp,  former local English teacher and recent confidant of the two &quot;Lost  Girls&quot;.The resulting search of Tripp's apartment (and his recent  past) reveal a defeated, haunted man with secrets of his own.  The walls of  his modest teachers apartment are heavily adorned with thousands of cut-out  pictures of young girls in various stages of undress--gleaned from teen  girl magazines and catalogues.  Muddy clothing found in his clothes hamper,  and a bloodstained rear seat in his car seem to point to his unequivocal  guilt.  The fact that he recently experienced a painful divorce and  subsequent loss of visitation rights to his only daughter (because of very  questionable behaviour) only increase the appearance of his involvment.  Tripp is arrested and held in the disappearance of the two girls.Enter  Bartholomew Christian Crane, a still wet-behind-the-ears young attorney  from a neighboring city--and newest member of &quot;Lie, Gettemoff, and  Associates&quot;, a not-too-prestigious law firm known for defending some  of the country's more despicable criminals.  Crane, accompanied by the  diparaging comments of the senior partners of the firm and a cocaine  addiction larger than his rented Lincoln Continental, appears reluctantly  in the town of Murdoch, where the story takes place.  He is fully prepared  to do whatever it takes to procure Tripp's freedom...even withhold  evidence.  What Crane doesn't realize is that he's headed directly into the  nightmare of his own past--long repressed and thought forgotten.  As  the insidious secrets that hide in the town of Murdoch slowly seep into  him, Crane begins to realize that those very secrets are his secrets as  well.  As he loses control of the case and his own mind, we witness the  inevitable destruction of two men, a town, and the results of what secrets  can do to the very fabric of life.Ghosts come in many forms.  Andrew  Pyper creates a disturbing, ominous, and wholly memorable ghost story in  &quot;Lost Girls&quot;.  Painting this dark mystery as a bleak landscape of  self-destruction and courtroom drama, he draws an eerie portrait of man's  vastly troubled soul, using faulted human canvasses.  His depiction of a  town and its people caught in the undertow of the past is incredibly vivid  and nightmarish at the same time.  This is one book you won't soon forget.
4 LOST GIRLS begins with a prologue describing cousins in a canoe having sex. The canoe overturns and the girl is pulled into the depths, apparently by some monster.The next chapter is rather confusing because, suddenly, there are two girls missing and their teacher is a suspect. We are introduced to the protagonist, attorney Bartholomew Christian Crane. Crane works for Lyle, Gederov & Associate, often referred to as Lie, Get `Em Off & Associate. It will be Crane's job to defend the teacher. Graham Lyle is, according to Crane, a raving queen. Gederov is a "second-generation Russian immigrant who has somehow retained a threatening hint of his ancestor's accent." He's also, "cruel, misogynistic, racist, flatulent, and nauseating dining company." The key word here is "misogynistic." So now we have incest and misogyny and a partner who's homosexual...  "Crane is sent to his home town of Murdock, Ontario. Crane's client doesn't seem to care if Crane gets him off or not. Crane doesn't care; all he wants to do is win, but as he begins to piece together a case, blaming someone else, of course, the bizarre legend of the place begins to pull him down. There's a story about the Lady of the Lake and suddenly the prologue begins to make sense.If you assume the book is going to be about how Crane gets the teacher off, you'll be wrong. Crane begins a search for the Lady of the Lake, apparently an actual person, who fits in well with the misogynistic elements at the beginning.Too much of a downer for you? Surprise, surprise. Get ready for an O'Henry twist at the end, that cloaks Crane with redemption.
4 Bart Crane is a criminal defense attorney with moral values equvialent to the average serial killer. Cocaine addicted and having an unseemly attraction to teenage girls, this character is the embodiment of a thousand  lawyer jokes.  He is sent to a burnt out little town in Northern Ontario to  defend a man accused of killing two teenage girls.  Then the atmosphere  grows eerie as the bad dreams and hallucinations begin.This novel owes as  much to Dicken's 'A Christmas Carol' as it does to the works of Stephen  King.  The lead character at first seems to be an anti-hero, but by the  novels end the reader believes he has transformed into a halfway decent  human being.I would recommend this horror legal thriller hybird to fans of  John Grisham, Stephen King, or Ruth Rendell.Also Recommmended:  'Julian's  House' by Judith Hawkes and 'Something Dangerous' by Patrick Redmond
5 Barth Crane is a high powered Toronto attorney who relishes the rush he receives when he wins a case. Ethics are not a problem, as Barth will do anything to triumph, including lying under oath, cheating, and tampering  with witnesses.The tightly focused lawyer travels to Murdoch, Ontario  on his first murder case. Local high school teacher Thomas Tripp is accused  of killing two students. Barth expects an easy victory because the bodies  of the victims were never recovered nor are there any witnesses that Tripp  committed a crime. Circumstantial evidence links the suspect to the murder.  The barrister settles in at the local hotel and begins to immerse himself  in the life of the town in an effort to gain an edge for his client.  Gradually, the legend of the Lady in the Lake begins to haunt him; changing  him and making him take actions that will effect Barth for the rest of his  life.LOST GIRLS is an atmospheric work that seems gothic in tone. The  story line gradually builds up the tension level until the reader feels,  like Barth, overwhelmed and anxious. Barth is a loathsome person, yet the  audience will feel drawn to him, especially as he travels down a road  nobody could have foreseen he would take. Andrew Pyper's ability to bring  his story to life is brilliant and will leave readers clamoring for more  works as soon as possible. Don't be surprised if this book hits the  charts.Harriet Klausner
3 I am on the fence about this one.  It was a good read, and the writing was not bad.  That said, it was not as "terrifying" or "compelling" as the blurbs stated. Of course, that is a matter of opinion, and we all know what they say about opinions. ;)As you can see from my other reviews, I read a *lot* of horror, and I may just be immune to the subtler forms of suspense and thrillers.
3 I totally enjoyed the wit and sarcasm that Bartholomew Crane displayed throughout the book.  The characters of Graham and Bert were unique and well drawn.  The plot was a good one with shades of Stephen King  throughout.  The descriptions of northern Ontario and the people that  inhabit it were very good reading.  Over all I really liked this book,  however I had to give this one a three star due to the length of the book.  I felt as though the story line had become redundant.  The reader should  probably wait for the paperback on this one in order to make it worth  while.
3 Ashley and Krystal were best friends and one day never returned home.  Both teenagers, they disappear in a small town by a lake in Ontario, Canada.  One of their school teachers, Thomas Tripp, is accused of murdering them after some evidence turns up.  However, no bodies are found.  Defence lawyer Bartholomew Crane is summoned for the court case and reaches the small town from Toronto, assuming this to be quite a straight forward case, an easy-win.  However, his client (Tripp) is very uncooperative and seemingly unstable and this, combined with an old ghost story surrounding the lake, a story known in fact by all the locals, and with his own personal problems to deal with, make him realise that the case is much more complicated than what it appeared in the beginning.  The impact of what Crane learns as the days go by trying to put all the pieces of the puzzle together is quite strong.  He starts having nightmares and being haunted by visions.And the question keeps lingering: where are the girls? Why haven't their bodies turned up yet?In my opinion this book is well written but lacks in connection with character development, meaning that a part from Crane, who is the leading figure and is accurately described in all of his feelings and circumstances, the other characters fade into the background too lightly despite bearing relevance to the story and deserving more space. Suspense is quite high in parts, but in the long run, and because it is almost always connected with Crane, it becomes a bit... trite.  While it is true that I have never liked `ghost stories' much, this is not exactly one of them, or not entirely.  This fact alone may have made me depreciate the book a bit, but I still feel that a certain je-ne-se-quoi should have been added or changed to make the story more compelling.  As it stands, it is a bit too implausible (and that includes its end).
5 It seems that this gorgeous book has been marketed totally incorrectly.  The cover makes it look like a cheesy thriller, so people who want a fast, mindless read pick it up and get bogged down by the psychological depth, mythical dimension, and gothic aesthetic.  Andrew Pyper's book is a portayal of the darkness within a man's soul and man's connection between darkness and feminity, both holding fascination as well as horror.  It is about the female aspect of a man's psyche coming up to haunt him because it was repressed for too long, taking on the form of ghosts, teenage girls, and strippers.  It is about females in society also, and the way they are percieved and treated by the males who desire and fear them.  Women represent certain psychological aspects of men, and in the book they take on mythical, archetypal roles.  The symbolism of the lake around which the book revolves, of evil lurking beneath the surface of the water, is another representation of the murky, dark, psychological depths of man, which also correlates to women's sexuality.  The main character is impotent and obsessed with young girls, and has a boyhood secret he has never been able to get over or deal with.  The town he goes to in order to defend a man accused of killing two teenage girls also has a dark secret in its past: the townsmen got together and purposefully drowned a woods-dwelling prostitute they all had slept with, because they became afraid of and disgusted by her.  It is a very timeless theme of literature and Andrew Pyper has a fresh, eerie take on it.  Please do not underestimate this book, and do not read it if you want a formulaic, whodunit type thriller.  &quot;Whodunit&quot; is not remotely the point in this book.
5 I glanced through the pages of this book in a supermarket about nine years ago and instantly was hooked, had to buy it.  I never do that.  I never read books from the shelves of the supermarket, first of all, because, I admit it, I'm a literary snob.  But this one I couldn't put down.  I couldn't put it down from the moment I picked it up.  I had to read it late into the wee hours of the morning, and even though I was terrified to turn every page I had to see what happened next, and got more and more terrified.  I remember at one point thinking, I have to put this down and stop thinking about it, or I'll be too afraid to sleep.It meanders through the mind of a madman, and it becomes more and more obvious that the "detective" must be the killer.  I love the vagueness of it, the fact that you're never quite sure.  I don't mind that you are left wondering if what you think happened, is what really happened.  I don't mind at all, it left me thinking, and wondering, and haunted.  I loved this book, and was very sad to see that it is no longer in print.
1 I first read &#34;The Demonologist&#34; fron Pyper and LOVED IT!!  So I bought &#34;The Guardians&#34; and &#34;Lost Girls&#34; with high expectations.  I first read &#34;The Guardians&#34; and really enjoyed that as well.  So I had high expectation for &#34;Lost Girls&#34;.  I struggled to finish the book.  Just a let down after reading Pyper's other two books.  The main character's personality was a turn off.  I didn't like the flow of the story.  I just found the storyline slow.  I might have had a different opinion had I read this book BEFORE the other two.  I just expected more.
4 I actually read THE KILLING CIRLCE before unearthing Pyper's first book. I loved this suspense novel because it's so different.  As a writer, I admire anyone who breaks out of the cookie-cutter mold and has the courage to fashion their own style.  Mr. Crane is a protagonist worthy of the best literary detectives in the tradition of Sherlock Holmes onward.
4 I'm a bit disappointed in the other reader reviews I've seen here. After all, this is a FIRST novel by the author and I was amazed by the great writing in so much of this book, leaving me with a desire to read more books by Mr. Pyper, who I expect to get better and better as time goes on.  To be honest, this book has some of the flaws of a first book written by an author who needs more practice tightening and sharpening his sense of pacing and drama but even so, there is much to recommend here. The first chapter, where a young girl is dragged to the bottom of a lake by an inexplicable force, is truly gripping.  After that first chapter, there was some lack of tension here and there and things dragged a bit at time, but I still could NOT put this book down. There is an original voice at work here, one that deserves to be heard again and I, for one, am looking forward to reading another of this author's books in the future.
2 There's an interesting premise, a potentially fascinating set of characters, and a grisly set of deaths all based in an atmospheric town.  It should have been a good read.  And, it almost was.  But...The  atmosphere and foreshadowing overwhelm the characters and the story.  The  tension and the mood is laid in so heavy-handed a manner that it's  distracting.  It became a chore to plow through this novel to make it to  the end (though I did, for whatever reason...).  The few 'mysteries' were  incredibly predictable.  The descriptions were so dense that it was tough  to remember what happening in the story, and the caricaturization was so  distracting that it was impossible to care at all for the characters.
4 This book has a border-line personality. Nothing about it is full blown. The hero,the setting,the plot and the secondary characters are all vaguely creepy.Suggestions of the existence of Evil are hinted at but there is no  proof of anything save for life's pitiful relentlessness and its ability to  drown you under unless you can outlast, outwit,outdo or simply bow out. The  writing is wonderful,but dont expect any easy or neat answers. Read it on a  hot and humid day, and then think a long time before you go in for a swim.
3 I enjoyed this book in the beginning but then grew increasingly weary of it as it went along.  This book was not overly-long, page-wise, but it felt that way to me.  As a matter of fact, towards the end of the book, I  actually started skimming which is something that I *never* do.The main  character was extremely unlikeable and I didn't like him any better after  he betrayed his client by giving locks of the dead girls' hair to the old  woman for her to turn into the police.  (Sorry, I am a lawyer and have no  tolerance for such things.  I am not a criminal lawyer, and never could be  because I wouldn't want to defend people I believed to be guilty.  But,  once undertaking their representation, however, I would not betray them as  it is professionally unethical).I also had no feeling whatsoever for the  accused killer.  He didn't inspire fear, or loathing, or sympathy, or much  of anything.  I kept waiting for something to happen with his character,  and nothing ever did.The author's style reminded me a little bit of  Nelson DeMille.  That is - the somewhat-unsympathetic main male character  with a sarcastic sense of humor.  But I have enjoyed DeMille's works far  more than this.I don't recommend this book and I doubt I will read this  author's works again.
2 I found this book to be fairly uninteresting. It was a very quick read, but I figured out who was whom early on and then just found it to be rather dull to get through the book.
5 This is a wonderful thriller.  The plot is unique and the dialogue and characterization scintillating and witty!  American writers, with the exception of Anne Lamott and Tom Robbins, bore me; I generally stick with the English ones.  Pyper, from Canada, is in the latter arena. Lots to think about in this one, but, more importantly, lots of laughs, too. Read it!
3 Whenever I read mysteries I never read the dust-jacket of the hardcover or back of the paperback because it ruins the plot for me.  I like to be surprised.  The beginning of the book would have been ruined if I had read the jacket, so thank goodness I didn't.  This is an entertaining mystery novel, set in Canada.  It has murder, a trial, and a gothic ending.  My fave mystery writer is Laurie King, but this was a refreshing change of pace.  I don't want to give anything away, but if you want a good mystery in a gothic-inspired setting, this book is for you.
1 But that is not to say there is nothing good about this book.  The epilogue was simply brilliant and unfortunately the story line got worse from then on.  I bought a book being told that I was going to be reading a courtroom thriller/drama with elements of the supernatural.  To a small extent this is true, however &quot;Lost Girls&quot; is far more about the main character's cocaine addiction than a supernatural tale.  Written in the first person but in an intensely irritating passive tense (&quot;I walk across the street.  Rain splashes on my face&quot; and so on) &quot;Lost Girls&quot; actually becomes very slow reading the more you go on.  Compared with the excellent  epilogue this is a let down indeed.The rest of the time that Crane is not discussing whether to have &quot;one line of snow or two&quot;, we are treated to the other characters in the book.  Most are so stereotypically bland as to be of no interest at all. Thomas Tripp, the accused, is by far and away the most cardinal of character sinners as Pyper tries desperately to portray a horrific fiend of mental imbalance when the effect is somewhat nearer to a sad old man who has simply had enough. Then there is McConnell, the filibustering parent of one of the missing girls and Crane's associates, Pyper's caricatures rather than characterisation of one excessively camp, gay man and one excessively large, unpleasant and rude man.  I doubt very much if Pyper has met the like of either.So in total we are talking about a book initially brilliant which overplods to a totally unsatisfactory ending which takes far, far too many pages to get to.  And that does not even touch on the disappointment of the central supernatural legend that comes straight out of the &quot;Blair Witch Project.&quot;No.  My only advice is do not waste your money and your time.
4 I've just finished reading this book and after reading some of the reviews, I have to say that this book doesn't get the credit that it deserves. At first, the book was a little confusing. Not in the storyline, but in the way the author wrote. But this confusion quickly disappeared very early into the book, and afterwards, the story was thoroughly enjoyable. The way the author portrays the main character in the story is fascinating!  It's like he slowly breaks down as the book progresses. And the ending is not one that you would expect. All in all, I think this book is an interesting look into the world of law from a lawyers point of view as well as a look into how a crime takes over a small town. Ignore the bad reviews and just give this book a chance!  It can't hurt.
3 Anybody else notice that there is no Part Two, only Prologue, Part One and Part Three?
4 Incorporating the best of Scott Turow and Stephen King, Andrew Pyper has created an unusual and compulsively readable novel in LOST GIRLS.  Attorney Batholomew Crane is a young, coke addicted attorney assigned his first murder case.  It's Barth's job to get a teacher accused of killing two of his female students off.  No matter what the cost, Barth intends to get his client an acquittal. As Crane digs deeper into the case, pieces of which may be tied to the town's history and to a long forgotten, shameful episode in his own past, Barth spirals further and further away from reality. With prose so beautiful it brings to life the desperation of Bartholomew Crane as he slowly suffers a personal breakdown and redemption, and the cold, white desolation of Northern Canada, LOST GIRLS has a creepy atmosphere that compels you to keep turning pages.
4 Lost Girls exists at a curious intersection of genres: a Scott Turow courtroom drama twisted about a Martin Amis comic amorality play, a Stephen King ghost story messing with a Thomas Harris psycho thriller. This conjunction of story types is mostly compelling -- to Pyper's credit there are few moments where the disparate elements collide rather than collude.Despite the solid sense of place (Canada certainly an underutilized thriller locale) and dank, gothic atmosphere, the ghost story elements are the least effective (and I'm a big fan of ghosts popping up in genres where the don't belong) because its awfully tough to credit Pyper's amoral, cokefiend, stripclubbing protagonist having such a freakout at a few odds and ends going bump in the night -- and because the book has to decelerate its cocaine-driven prose and pacing to to whip up the requisite dark and stormy lake atmosphere.So after an appallingly funny kick off the book drags a bit in the middle -- stay with it. The story takes an obvious twist I didn't see coming and stays particular and curious all the way to the end. The only caveat for genre-only readers -- despite the thriller drag Pyper's concerns are more those of Turow &amp; Amis than King &amp; Harris -- is a plus for everyone else.
5 Imagine Stephen King, but with subtlety...Okay, I can't imagine that either. A better comparison is Donna Tartt's cult novel, "The Secret History." In both cases, I found the book by accident, never having heard of the author; became entirely immersed from Page One; and felt a sense of loss when it ended, like finishing the last morsel of a favorite dessert.  Pyper's Lost Girls is eerie, witty, richly atmospheric, and keenly suspenseful -- though the suspense is less a result of wondering whodunnit (or whatdunnit!) than it is an eagerness to see how the answers will effect the book's protagonist. And what a protagonist. Pyper's antihero narrator is a proudly immoral, self-absorbed lawyer, whose determination to free a likely murderer is exceeded only by his concern that he might run out of cocaine. Entirely against your will, you find yourself feeling empathy for the guy and yearning for his redemption. A fabulously diverting book.
4 I picked up a copy of Andrew Pyper's LOST GIRLS at a yard sale, for the unbelievably low price of a dollar.  The book jacket was covered with praise and accolades for Pyper's tale of murder and madness in northern Ontario, and I faintly remembered there being some buzz on the literary scene following its publication a few years ago. But I have had some bad experiences with book jacket blurbs as of late, and was cautious.So, steeled against disappointment, I plunged ahead, and was fortunate to discover that my dollar had not gone to waste.  LOST GIRLS is a dark and moody thriller, a compulsive page-turner of high caliber.  But for a novel that presents itself as more of a John Grisham-type foray into shallowly-drawn characters and legal machinations, LOST GIRLS is almost the opposite, a heavily character-driven story that has far more to do with acceptance of one's own past actions than it does the courtroom.  LOST GIRLS is less a legal suspense story than it is a ghost story, where buried secrets threaten to overcome those unable to reconcile the past and the present.LOST GIRLS follows the first murder case of Bartholomew Crane, a criminal defense attorney with few qualms about what needs to be done to successfully defend his clients.  He is summoned up to the remote northern Ontario town of Murdoch, where Thom Tripp has been charged with the murder of two young girls.  The drawback is, there are no bodies with which to confirm the murders, and anything that points to his client as a killer is circumstantial at best.  But despite this clearly winnable situation, Crane slowly finds himself doubting his reasons for wanting to defend Tripp.  Local superstition points towards the involvement of an angry spirit in the lake, and Crane begins to have sightings of things he cannot easily explain away.Pyper has set himself a daunting task to perform, and has only added to the pressure by manufacturing his antagonist as an extremely unlikable character.  Crane is an impotent, cocaine-snorting mess of a man, a man not above outright lying in the pursuit of winning a case.  Any moral qualms he may have about what his clients have done pales in comparison to his almost fanatical devotion to winning.  But Pyper is careful not to judge his character; very often in criminal defence work, a moral qualm can only get in the way of providing the best possible defence as required by law.  Pyper understands this dichotomy, and it may be one of the reasons a reader might be displeased with the novel.  It is much easier to get behind a crusading warrior for good than a determined lawyer who understands that everyone is entitled to be thought innocent until proven guilty.  That is the law, and the way our society functions.  Pyper appreciates the stress this can put on a person, and acknowledges that sometimes the job can be arduous.Pyper's strength in creating a story comes from his refusal to take the easy way out.  Instead of cheapening the plot by having a more crowd-pleasing conclusion (i.e., evil lawyer recognizes the serious vocational error he has made, and travels back from the dark side), Pyper gives us an inner journey of self-discovery.  What Crane slowly evolves into has nothing to do with a laypersons one-sided view of morality and the law, and everything to do with atoning for the sins and regrets of past exploits.Pyper's addition of a ghost story to the mix is one of his only missteps.  While it does much to establish an atmosphere of dread, it never seems fully resolved.  Crane's frequent forays to the lakeside become increasingly bizarre, and loaded with coincidence.  It serves to fuel the plot, but it's incomplete, unfocused.  And Crane and Tripp's final meeting is presented in such a way as to drain any tension from the story.  It's an ending, but it feels rushed.  And Crane's legal superiors, Lyle and Gederov, are caricatures of the worst sort; one-dimensional criminal lawyers who represent the most basic stereotype of the immoral lawyer.  They allow Crane to see what he may become, but they don't belong in the same story, and do disservice to Pyper's obvious talents.But minor quibbles aside, LOST GIRLS is a fine, unpredictable thriller. And in that small sub-genre of novels set in northern Ontario, this surely must rank as one of the best.
4 Pyper has a way with a narrator. He is as capable of writing sarcastic one-liners as he is drawing an evocative picture of a person or place. I enjoyed this book and he's an author I'll look for again.
2 I enjoyed the creepiness of it and must admit there were times I actually felt my heart pounding a bit...and I was jumpy around the house for a little while...but it still can't be classified as "horror", it isn't really satisfying as a mystery, it's more than just a story.  I guess, for me, it just left a whole lot to be desired.The main characters were very one-dimensional.  In fact, ALL of the characters were one-dimensional and needed a lot of development.I can't say I'd never read another Pyper book again but I can say I'm not rushing out to see if there are any more.
5 Having lived in small-town Ontario (cottage country) for 15 years of my life, Pyper's depiction of Murdoch is bang-on, particularly the hotel (where he spends most of his time), from his description of the bar right  down to the telephone ringing in the middle of the night.  As he rightly  puts it, every Ontario town has a Queen's Hotel or an Arlington.  His  accurate descriptiveness aside, Pyper's interaction with his two law  partners is  side-splitting in its own right and, as such, it is easy to  see where our Bartholomew comes by his cynical attitudes towards both his  profession, his clients and practically everyone else he comes in contact  with.The plot (sometimes) stretches, but on balance is a fine mystery  and more than deserves the awards it has won in Canada.  If I'm not  mistaken, it's the authors first novel.  A brilliant start.
2 I'm not sure what to make of this book.  The juxtaposition of the northern  Ontario locals and the "summer folk" rings true enough - but all in a  vacuous, ethereal setting and tone.  Is it Erle Stanley Gardner?  Stephen  King?  Mary Higgins Clark?  Dashiell Hammett? Hunter S. Thompson?  It's all  that and less.  (I hate it when reviewers divulge plots - and I won't  burden you with it here.)I'm going back to the more solid "meat and  potatoes" (or is that corned beef &amp; cabbage) of Father Greeley's  Chicago.
2 Sorry, folks, didn't find any O"Henry ending at the close of this book.  In fact, not quite sure what the ending is.  I kept expecting something more.  What happened to the teacher?  What was the point of the final hiding the shirt near a school playground?  What was the narrator's turn of events?  Nice description of events in a small northern Canada town, but as for plot, very disappointing.
3 This book turned out to be not at all what I was expecting. Shelved in with the mystery/thrillers, and boasting a creepy title, it sounded like it would be an exciting, suspenseful story with a strong focus on plot. Instead, the book really focused on character redemption. The narrator was quite likable, and some of his interior monologue actually made me laugh out loud. And while Pyper created an eerie atmosphere, his over-use of nightmares to create that spooky tone became quite frustrating after a while. The role of "villain" was very loosely applied here, and none of the characters really fulfilled that part. I enjoyed Pyper's writing style, and though it did not meet my expectations, it was certainly a unique sort of novel. It started out very strongly, and unfortunately, that strength did not carry through the entire novel. It had some definite high points though, so I would not be averse to reading another one of his books, but I won't be rushing out to purchase more either.
4 I read this book because I saw very good reviews and because I liked the previous books by GGK tha I've read (i.e. The Lions of Al-Rassan and the Sarantine Mosaic duology). Because this is one dealt more explicitly with magic I was resignated not to see the delicious paralels with our own history that you see in the other books. What I was surprised to find is that there is a paralel, but this time it is with another work of fiction, namely the whole history of Tolkien's Middle-earth. He did to it what he did to the history books of Byzantium and Spain. I wouldn't restrict it only to Lord of the Rings, because he seems to have drawn inspiration from The Silmarillion as well.The elements derived from LotR are obvious: the Dalrei=the Riders of Rohan, Brennin=Gondor, Loren Silvercloak=Gandalf, svart alfar=orcs, urgath=trolls, lios alfar=elfs, dwarves, Daniloth=Lorien/Rivendell. On the other hand I think that the villain is not based on Sauron, but on Morgoth from the Silmarillion, and that the character of Galadan is the one based on Sauron. Firstly, both the Unraveller and Morgoth are the original god of darkness, who hates the Children of Light, and wants to rule the mortal world. Rakoth Maugrim (the chief bad guy) is a more venal version of Melkor. On the other hand Galadan and the Sauron of the Silmarillion are very similar too. They both were originally noble lords but for one reason or another they both "turned to the dark side"; and they both can turn themselves into really big wolves.One detail that bothered me was that the main characters from Earth accepted the existance of other worlds and magic to fast and to easily. the only one who reacted like a normal person would have was Dave Martyniuk.These things make the book less interesting, but if you see past that you'll find a lot of original stuff, that will make reading this book worth it. The rest of the charaters are very realistic and human, and the places shown are beautifull.  I recomend this book to anyone who wants to spend a good time and fantisize a little bit about being in a place of magic.
5 When I first read Book One of the Fionavar Tapestry, I learned very quickly to keep a box of Kleenex close by. He makes me cry.
5 As a fan of fantasy, this is one of the best trilogies I have read. I love that it's written by a Canadian author too! The characters are compelling. I couldn't put it down!
5 This is so much better than A Song for Arbonne.It has more magic ,less pointless stuff,and it's much more interesting.The first say ,one hundred and sixty pages are world development,but as soon as things get exciting,you're in for a treat.I can not wait till my order for The Wandering Fire and The Darkest Road come in.The ending really left me out on a limb.Anyone who likes detail is sure to like this.There is detail not only on the plot,but on the races,the history,the characters.This has every creature a fantasy lover can ask for.Lios alfar(light elves),Svart alfar(dark elves),dwarves,wolves that stand on their hind feet,a hand of fire that splits a mountain apart,seers,mages,urgachs,eltors,just about everything.In case you hate books that are poorly edited,this book is considerably more well edited than most Roc books.Kimberly,Kevin,Jeniffer,Paul,and Dave are transported by the mage Loren Sivercloak and his source Matt Soren to the world of Fionavar.Things are beginning well,Kimberly is learning to be a seer,Kevin and Paul are traveling with Prince Diarmuid ,but as soon as Jennifer is captured,Rakoth Maugrim becomes free from the mountain in which he was chained.Danger is ahead.
4 I've had this author recommended to me, but I can't remember by whom. When I first started the book I was a little wary. The characters initially came across a little bit, um, flat. But as the story progressed, they became more and more colorful and gained depth. At that point I fell right into it. Immediately upon finishing it I drove out to the book store and picked up the next two.There are things about it that I'd call very classic fantasy. Things that could be seen as very like Tolkien or C.S. Lewis. They have their dwarves, and the lios alfar... well, if those aren't elves by another name, I'll never believe it. And the evil is as evil as evil gets. But if you enjoy good old-fashioned epic fantasy, I think this is an excellent read. And unlike SOME epic fantasy authors (Goodkind and Jordan, I'm looking at YOU!), this author doesn't get overly wordy and drag the series out indefinitely.
1 This is really a classic fantasy trilogy?  This is really the guy who wrote Tigana, A Song for Arbonne, and The Lions of Al Rassan?  I must be missing something.  I know that millions of people should  not be able to be this wrong, but in this case they most certainly are.This is probably one of the worst fantasy novels I have ever read.  Nothing that happens seems to be natural, but happens because the author wants it to happen.  No characters seem to be alive, but only exist because the author needs them to exist.  The conversations are stilted and dull.  Nothing works in this novel.In the reviews, there seems to be a consensus that things get better later in the series, but I say so what?  This book stinks and the fact is there are better starts to better series.  The sad thing is that I was / am a big Kay fan.If you like the standard, derivative, sub par, fantasy, then eat your heart out.  If you are like me and read Tigana, read the Lions of Al Rassan, A Song for Arbonne, read the Sarantine Mosaic, heard that Kay's first work was a trilogy and got real excited to see what he could do with traditional fantasy, then do not bother.  Trust me, you will be very disappointed.
3 Strictly speaking, fantasy is never believable, but I do appreciate an internally consistent world that "makes sense" if one accepts certain premises. With The Finovar Tapestry trilogy, I didn't find that. I simply can't believe that just the right five people were assembled on just the right evening to get transported to an alternate reality where they *all* have mythic roles to fulfill and are *all* relatively happy to do so.Worse, the tone and narrative voice of these novels alternates between the mythic (like The Silmarillion, in which Kay had a hand) and the pedestrian in an uncomfortable and somewhat bewildering way.Still, I didn't give up until a little into Book 3, so these books do have something--certainly they have legions of fans other than me. But if you want to read this author, I would more highly recommend "Ysabel," which combines the modern and the mythic much more successfully--with an emphasis on the modern rather than the mythic--or the entirely fantastic Tigana.
4 This is what I finished yesterday whilst lying about in bed pretending to be sleepy.  Which I was whenever I got up to do anything, but immediately wasn't as soon as I lay down to read.  Make of that what you will.  Re-reading this, I can hear the objections of my writer's group pals complaining about overwriting, too much description, unbelievable circumstances, not enough explanation of magic (like magic can ever be adequately explained), why do the characters do this, that or the other thing, too this, too that.  But you know what?  I think most of them would get hooked anyway.  I always do.
2 I knew that this book was GGK's first, and I also knew it concerned the cliched fantasy theme of downtrodden Good guys must somehow defeat the powerful Bad guys. But I was really hoping that with Kay's superior writing evident in Tigana, the Summer Tree would also be similar in enjoyability. Alas... it was not not. I only got halfway thru it, before I had to set it aside, unable to get interested in it. Mundane names like Kevin and Kim and Paul and Dave mixed in with fantasy names like Loren Silvercloak and Diarmuid and Eilathen and Ailell just didn't work for me. I think the part that really did me in though, was during a scene where somebody explains about how ...&quot;the wolves have been coming down from the North. And these are BIG wolves...&quot; C'mon, how many times have we all read that scene during years of reading fantasy?I will definitely give Kay credit though, since these are his first published books. And of course he was influenced by JRR via the Silmarillon that he helped re-construct. Not a bad book I guess, but after reading Tigana, I expect much more than this re-canned plot. I will probably read A Song for Arbonne or The Lions of Al-Rassan next.
4 A Canadian academic tells a small group of students that is a bit more than they thought he is. He lets them know he is a mage from another world, and offers them the chance to journey with him back to this place, for a celebration.Dave, one of their number, is a little suspicious and breaks away, ending up being transported to another place, and learning to be an axe-wielding warrior type.There is a bit of a Wounded Land thing going on, because their king, clinging to power, doesn't want to present himself as the usual ritual sacrifice to keep things going.Paul, one of the students, does the whole tree ordeal thing in his place.
4 "The Summer Tree" bears many similarities to "Lord of the Rings", perhaps not surprising, since Kay apparently helped Christopher Tolkien to edit "The Silmarillion". Still, Kay chooses the right aspects of Tolkien to imitate."The Summer Tree" is in a category apart from most epic fantasy, because Kay manages to maintain a lofty style similar to Tolkien's, while only occasionally becoming awkward. Kay also creates sympathetic characters, whose fates the reader really cares about.Nothing about "The Summer Tree" is cliche. It successfully uses many common elements of fantasy in ways that are meaningful rather than laughable. Any reader of fantasy should read "The Summer Tree". Hopefully they will be convinced that high fantasy after the style of Tolkien is not dead, but rather can still be written and enjoyed.Just be prepared to suspend your disbelief and accept the epic nature of the tale.
5 I love the Fionavar Tapestry. In these books Kay has woven a beautiful, complex story. The setting is Fionavar, a gorgeous and enchanted world filled with magic and history--a world which reminds me of Narnia or Middle Earth. The story is filled with strong, compelling characters, both male and female, who sometimes have to make difficult choices. At times the story is sad but Kay's writing is so graceful that I enjoyed even the sad parts.The Summer Tree, the first book in the trilogy, begins the story very nicely and draws the reader into the deep magic of Fionavar. The part of the story with Paul hanging on the Summer Tree was very beautifully written, and at many points reached the magestic feeling of an ancient myth or legend.I would highly recommend The Fionavar Tapestry to anyone who enjoys epic fantasy with powerful magic and attractive settings.
4 I need to say upfront that this is a hard novel to get into and begin to feel a connection to its characters. More times than enough the reader will be overcome by the feeling that the contents are all too familiar, and they would be right as it gives more than a passing nod to some of the better known epic fantasy novels out there; it fully embraces themes, countries and characters, but this isn&#8217;t a bad mark that I can hold against this book.In the beginning all the characters are portrayed as being rather one-dimensional, their conversation is stilted and they almost appear to be awkward appearing on the pages of the book, but as the storyline progresses and the reader begins to learn more about these people they visibly develop and grow into true three-dimensional characters before the readers eyes, and a connection is made. With a skilful hand the Author is able to turn trite and shallow characters into fascinating, enigmatic people the reader takes a real interest in.The book itself is full of the modern and classic, the mystic and mysterious, tragedy and victory all set in the flowing and expansive locations of a fantasy world that weaves its spell and stretches the imagination with each page. It doesn&#8217;t matter if the locales seem familiar; it is the way the Author takes the familiar and turns it into something new that makes this book wondrous.So why only four thumbs; it just wasn&#8217;t long enough and this will mean I will definitely be picking up other books in this series to continue the adventure. Yes, I would definitely recommend this book to lovers of the fantasy genre, and those who are looking for a new, but at the same time oddly familiar read.Originally reviewed on:[...]...
4 Kay certainly creates his own world in Fionavar; and he has the writing skills to back it up.  I was a bit reticent to buy this book as it starts out in modern times and there was world travel, but as a fantasy enthusiast I was glad that I gave this book a read.  It has been some time since I read it, but I remember book 1 and 3, being the better ones.The trilogy has a dream-like quality, as the author creates a past for the characters that emerges in a somewhat unique fashion.  The climaxes throughout the books are really hit and miss.  One of best written battles I've ever read was in book 3, yet in book 2 I felt an entire adventure that spans half the book was a complete waste of my time.The rules for magic appear arbitrary from a systematic viewpoint.
1 Sorry to all those people that seemingly loved this book, but i am afraid that i found it just woeful.  It was the sort of book that gives fantasy a bad name.  Indeed it is so inferior to such "B" grade fantasy as the Belgariad series that it would need a catergory all of its own.  As so many other reviewers have said it is an amalgam, a "hash" of Tolkien, Narnia, Arthurian myths and a myriad of other borrowed themes.  Surprisingly, upon acknowledgement of these borrowings, most reviewers go on to say this it was still a fine book?  The characterisation was stereotypical and superficial with little or no exploration of the potential for culture shock that C21st americans might experience in what would be their technological equivalent of a third world country.  There is so little to recommend this book that i am truly surprised that it has such a strong following.
5 I bought this book in Ireland, finished it in one day, and spent the next day scouring every bookshop in Dublin looking for the rest of the series.  The plot is engaging and combines elements of Arthurian legends and Tolkien to great effect, but the real attraction for me is the prose.  This book is beautifully written- each sentence seems to have been crafted and honed to perfection.  I have since purchased all of GKK's books and each one has been a masterpiece.  Although each of his books has been a joy to read, the three books of the Fionavar Tapestry remain my favorites.  I have read the books countless times and yet they still have the power to move me to tears.  This trilogy is without a doubt one of my most rewarding book purchases ever.
2 Very soon into this work I began to feel a sense of amateurishness that I never felt with the Lions of Al Rassan or A Song For Arbonne.  The language was nowhere nearly as polished, the characters flatter, the plot more contrived and imitative.  So I looked at the copyrights.  Sure enough, this  was the first of Kay's published writings.  My, has he come a long way!!  I  didn't even finish the summer tree.  As soon as I found out it would be  just another of those &quot;Dark Lord&quot; books--where the good guys  battle a persona of ultimate evil--I just yawned and chucked it aside.  The  writing is really kind of corny sometimes, I didn't care much about any of  the characters--except perhaps Peter--and the idea is, well, how shall we  say, a tad old?  This book is basically a poorer rendition of LOTR mixed  with Narnia.  Kay matured magnificently in the books that came after,  peaking, I think, in The Lions of Al-Rassan.  Given the great stuff he's  written since the Fionavar Tapestry, I think we can forgive him his  youthful flailing.
5 I read all three books and wish they would put them on kindle.  I love a fantasy and this is the best, hands down, poetic, a wonderful tale, and good all the way through.
2 I've read worse stories than The Fionavar Tapestry. And, to be fair, its first book "The Summer Tree" isn't utterly bad. There actually are moments when the story holds your interest. The problem is, there aren't many of them, and for long stretches this book, like its sequel "The Wandering Fire," suffer from long passages that alternate between floridly contrived and floridly maudlin.Guy Gavriel Kay even panders to the purient interest of juveniles with a character (Kevin) who has a strangely mystical reaction to sex. "The Summer Tree" has a lot of exaggerated emotionalism, college-age young adults who act melodramatically as if they were fourteen-year-olds. And it has more than its share of pseudo-intellectualizing -- "deep" thoughts spun out of thin air and presented as if they were profound, which they are not. Maybe Kay was targeting a 14-year-old audience with this book.Kay pilfers from the Jesus-on-the-Cross story, using another of his characters (Paul) as a sacrifice tied to a tree (for three days, of course).Be warned readers: this is no "Ring of the Nibelung" here. Despite what some have said about the book, it is nowhere near the same league with The Hobbit, and although you can tell that Kay is trying hard, his descriptive powers aren't on a level with Tolkien's. The Fionavar Tapestry is a story, but it is barely a story.  Calling it literature would be going too far, and let's not mention art.Despite its serious flaws (from an adult point of view), the story is readable, and, some of the time, even enjoyable.  That being said, there's just no way the story is good enough to deserve the glowing endorsements given it by such luminous writers as Andre Norton, Charles de Lint, and Marion Zimmer Bradley, all of whom, if they are still alive, should be ashamed of themselves for giving The Fionavar Tapestry excessively high praise.
5 This book is the most haunting work of fantasy that I've ever read.  The premise of the story--five university students get taken to a fantastic world--is a nice spin on children's fiction (like Eagar's Half Magic) and  updates that classic genre for adults.  I spent most of the book wishing  that I was one of the five students!The plot is brilliant, taking many  twists and turns and it takes the reader on emotional highs, emotional  lows, and adds a fair bit of dread into the story, as well.I am  haunted, however, by Kay's voice:  haunting, lyrical, and otherworldly.  The Summer Tree will make you want to read his other books, as well
3 Guy Gavriel Kay first made his mark on fantasy by working with Christopher Tolkien on the legendary "Silmarillion." His SECOND mark was the Fionavar Tapestry, a flawed but prettily written fantasy trilogy. First book "The Summer Tree" is an entertaining read, but Kay was clearly still getting into the idea of writing an original book.Five college students are chatting with a visiting professor, Lorenzo Marcus, who is accompanied by a peculiar dwarf. Suddenly the mysterious man reveals that he is a mage, Loren Silvercloak, and whisks them all into the world of Fionavar. He asks them to come stay awhile -- but none of the students know the strange destinies that bind them to Fionavar. Worse, one of them -- Dave -- vanishes during the crossing.The four friends soon learn of the sinister political and supernatural problems in Fionavar. An evil wolf is lurking around, and the evil svart alfar are killing the beautiful lios alfar (elves). Suddenly sweet-natured Jennifer is kidnapped and tortured by the evil god, the Unraveller. And Paul offers his own life for the sake of Fionavar -- to be hung on the Summer Tree as a human sacrifice.Take the world-crossings of Narnia, and the mythic qualities of Tolkien. That pretty much describes "Summer Tree." It's not terribly original, and the plot doesn't really work until about halfway through the book. But it hints at future grandeur, and makes good use of its old Celtic legends and customs in a typical fantasy setting.The biggest flaw of "Summer Tree" is unoriginality -- Kay lifts ideas from Robert Zelazny and J.R.R. Tolkien, and combines them with a heavy dose of Celtic mysticism and a bit of Arthurian legend. Sure, these are hardly unusual -- but it's hard not to flinch at a lios alfar describing his people to Jennifer. It's an exact description of Tolkien's elves, down to a copy of the Undying Lands.Kay's writing is exceptional, however -- lush, detailed, and rich. He can enspell you, or horrify you. Most compelling is Jennifer's rape -- Kay doesn't get graphic with the details, but her horror and violation are ghastly. At the same time, descriptions of the lios alfar, visions, spells and the strange creatures that populate Fionavar are almost intoxicating. The scenes were Paul hangs on the tree are stunning and powerful.One small problem is that Kay seems to have a little trouble with his lead characters -- he's a little too eager to get them into their respective places. None of them seem very disturbed over being snatched into another world, and expected to become a part of it. And the college students are actually the flattest people in the whole book -- the kindly king, womanizing prince, stern wizard and vindictive priestess come across as much more real.There are deep flaws in "The Summer Tree," but its luxuriant prose makes it a worthwhile read. But hopefully the second and third books can reach beyond the limitations of the first.
5 I read this trilogy when it first came out.  The Fionavar world immediately became part of my personal universe, a place I revisit every couple of years just to remind myself of its incredible richness.  Don't miss it.
2 While the three books that form the &quot;Fionavar Tapestry&quot; are engaging, they all suffer, to varying degrees, from a loosely scripted, and at times, implausible plot, as well as the inclusion of Arthurian elements  that remain contrived and unnecessary except as a &quot;hook&quot;  pandering to the appeal the Camelot legend holds for many readers, and that  has already elsewhere been overworked.  Further, I question the plot  device of characters that are transported by varying means from  &quot;our&quot; world into parallel fantasy realms that appear popular with  many fantasy writers: Effectively used to inform the story in Donaldson's  &quot;Covenant&quot; series, other writers turn to its use solely as a  clever artifice by which to move characters around.Though better than  most of the fantasy fiction about, this trilogy lacks the focus of Kay's  later, more mature and individual works, such as &quot;Tigana&quot; or  &quot;Song for Arbonne.&quot;  Read these if you are seeking serious and  original fantasy tales.  Save the &quot;Fionavar Trilogy&quot; for moments  of simple, unexamined diversion.(As &quot;The Summer Tree&quot; is the  weakest book in the trilogy, I have only rated it individually two stars,  whereas I have rated the series three stars overall in my review of  &quot;The Darkest Road.&quot;)
3 After reading TIGANA, I decided to read the first book in this acclaimed series. I did manage to read the whole book, which is one good thing, because the really bad books I stop reading as soon as they get boring. In short, the book does keep your attention. I think most of this is due to the book's originality. Sure, the OTHER WORLD apart from OUR WORLD may not be so original--Zelazny's Chronicles of Amber comes to mind--but there are other parts that ARE original. The hunter in the wild fields. The overall storyline about five young ones going to a world they don't understand. The summer tree itself. One thing that I noticed was that Kay used FAR too many commas in this book. Some sentences, sorta look, like this. In the end, this is only a mediocre fantasy novel, especially when compared to the works being cranked out by such heavy-hitters as Robert Jordan, Terry Goodkind, and George R. R. Martin.
5 Guy Gavriel Kay's "The Summer Tree," the first in his Fionavar Tapestry trilogy, is a satisfying trip into classical fantasy that sometimes moves slowly, but rewards readers willing to become emotionally attached to the story and characters.The Fionavar Tapestry tells the tale of five young people who find themselves pulled into a fantasy world. At first, just experiencing the strange land is enough to keep them busy, but soon they discover that they are at the center of something bigger. Great evil has awakened and seeks to spread itself across the lands. Epic storytelling ensues.Mixing post-Tolkien influences with Arthurian legends and time-honored fantasy standards, "The Summer Tree" manages to stand up well on its own despite its clear influences, largely based on the author's strong writing. You'll see plenty of familiar characters with changed names - elves, orcs and the like - but it never feels like More Of The Same.Kay's prose is rich throughout, written with a cadence that almost begs for reading aloud. It is, admittedly, sometimes a bit much. At times he ramps up the weepiness almost to the point of pretension in a way not unlike Stephen Spielberg does in his films - yet it never drags the story down because he is such a fine writer, his characters are well-realized, and the story itself is interesting.Action buffs will find the story slow and are encouraged to look elsewhere for reading satisfaction, but readers who like the written word and who enjoy character-based fantasy written in the "high" style are encouraged to take a look at the first book in Kay's beloved series. This is epic, emotional stuff that is likely to stand the test of time with the best the genre has to offer.
5 The Fionavar Tapestry trilogy is wonderful! I've re-read it several times.  Even though this is a fantasy, the characters are very real and very human in the midst of all the magic. Parts of it are very tragic, but overall a  beautiful story with a lot to impart to anyone who reads it.
4 I enjoyed this book because it describes a fascinating world, but I agree with the other reviewers: there was no need to bring in the characters from Earth. Kay would have done well enough just talking about Fionavar. Also, I found it odd that the characters from Earth adjusted to life on Fionavar so easily, as if they hadn't lived their entire lives in a completely different dimension. Before the start of the action in the book, they are just like you and me, and they've certainly never imagined that there are any worlds other than Earth. But when Loren Silvercloak comes for them, they take him at his word and go with him with barely a murmur. When they're on Fionavar, there's hardly a hint that they were ever anything else. Kim, especially, who must have slaved for years to become a doctor, abandons her hard-earned skills completely to embrace her new calling as a wizard. But these are rookie mistakes. As Kay's masterpiece "Tigana" proves, he only got better with time, and even in this, his first book, he shows the promise of story-telling mastery that would later be realized.
5 I was first introduced to GGK and this book when a visiting Australian friend left it for me when I was in University. I read the first book (The Summer Tree) and nearly went mad because I couldn't find the next. I have read and re-read this book enough times to fill a small library-- and recommended it to more people than I can count.This is smart, literate fantasy that takes the fantasies and myths you know from other sources and weaves them into a dark and complicated cloth. GGK takes the very idea of fantasy cliche and comes up with Fionvar, the original world which contains the true version of all the stories ever told.Five college students are brought, almost by accident, to Fionvar to a celebration in honor of an aging king. But they learn that in Fionvar there are no accidents and that they all have talents and destinies which will give them a role in the troubled land.Read this book, and all the others in the series!
5 I found this book in a package of the Fionavar Tapestry on the &quot;for sale&quot; shelf of my fantasy bookstore Nebula. I picked it up, read the first page, and the next, and the third, and the next, and would have kept  going if the clerk hadn't come by and told me &quot;Look, you can read it  all in here, but you'd be more comfortable at home!&quot;So I bought it.  And devoured it.I love the fact that there are not only two sides:  darkness and light, good and evil, but three: darkness, gray, light, good,  unknown, evil. I find Guy Kay's writing quite poetic, and I enjoyed every  line and every character.
3 ...yet surprisingly captivating at the same time.  Something about The Summer Tree held a sort of addicting quality and despite every reservation in my mind telling me not to like this book, I found myself quite entertained as I read it.  While it is among countless other fantasy novels that follows a Tolkien-style storyline, I thought that it did a better job of it most other such stories that I have read, yet it is certainly not comparable in quality to Kay's later works.My first introduction to Kay was the stand-alone novel, Tigana.  It took me a while to really get into Tigana, but I really started to appreciate Kay's eloquent style, fleshed out characters and whit in dialogue and plot development.  It wasn't until after I finished Tigana and thought about it that I realized how great of a book it is.  I decided that before going on to read the rest of his works, I had better read Fianovar.  I didn't quite find the same reading experience here.While the characters in Tigana are well thought and believable, those in the Summer Tree are quite the opposite.  The reader is given the names of our five heroes right from the get go but Kay doesn't feel that it's necessary to really introduce any of them.  He goes on about these five as if you should already know them.  Soon comes the mage, Loren, who will take them into Fianovar.  This part I found laughable, as only one of the characters really seems to question the sense of this mage appearing out of nowhere and taking them to another world.  The other four follow Loren blissfully into Fianovar and seem to go on once they get there as if nothing had really happened.  Only on a few occasions do these four characters reference their own world, Earth, in comparison to this new fantastic world that they seem to accept so easily.  Dave, the one character who was the exception from the beginning, was the only character of the five whose story I really enjoyed.  Having been separated from the other four from the time they all entered Fianovar, Dave's story happens later in the book and almost feels like a completely separate tale.  His reactions to the events that follow his arrival are much more believable than his counterparts and I thought his part of the book with the tribal hunters was very refreshing.The book as a whole, as I mentioned, is definitely a clich&eacute;.  We have a dark lord imprisoned after a war long ago, struggling to break free.  This dark lord has insidious minions, sent out to foil the opposition and wreak havoc in preparation for his arrival.  There are also similar races to Tolkien, such as the lios alfar, who are essentially elves with a different name, and of course the stout and noble dwarves.  And one fact not to be forgotten: the fate of this world of course rests in the hands of the five protagonists that the mage has brought there.Despite these obvious discrepancies, Kay imbues this story with his talents as a writer and somehow spins a tale of clich&eacute; into a fairly enjoyable yarn.  He has the tendency to make you visualize his environments and settings with picturesque quality and towards the end, some of the characters do start to grow on you.  The dialogue between his characters is one strong points that Kay had even with this novel, which I find to be a weak point for many other fantasy authors.  Overall as I read this, I started thinking of the story as a legend being told.  You know how in fantasy novels there is always some great war or fantastic tale that happened hundreds of years before that story actually took place?  This story reads like one of those tales and in that sense, it does make the obsurdity of it all that more interesting.If you count yourself as an avid fan of fantasy, I would recommend that you pick this up, if not to take it seriously, than at least to read it for being counted as a classic.  If it is your first venture into Guy Gavriel Kay, then don't be too judgmental as the quality and consistency of his later books really does improve and I count Kay among the fantasy greats.
4 Okay, I just set this book down and I am dying to get my hands on the  second one!  Talk about a cliffhanger!  What happens next???  But perhaps I  shouldn't start at the end, I should go back to the beginning...I  decided to purchase this book because I am always interested in books about  ordinary people in extraordinary situations.  Fantasy is not my genre of  choice, although I've read some great fantasy novels, but the description  of this one caught my interest.  It begins with 5 people in our world who  are, in short, asked to take a journey to another world.  Both the best and  the most frustrating thing about this book is that throughout the novel I  had little to no idea of what was going to happen next, why these  characters were in this other world, and where the story was going.  You  truly feel as if you are along with Kevin, Paul, Dave, Jennifer and  Kimberly on this great adventure.  And slowly, over the course of the book  you begin to see the pattern Mr. Kay is weaving and things begin to make  sense. The last 50 pages rush you to a tumultuous ending.  I honestly  couldn't read them fast enough.Do yourself a favor and pick up a copy  of this book.  Oh, and while you're at it, get the second one too.  Trust  me on this one!
5 I mean that whole-heartedly.  This is one of those &quot;how can you call yourself a fantasy buff if you haven't read The Fionavar Tapestry?&quot; series. For those of you tired of the trite and specious plots in the fantasy great wanna-bes (Eddings, et al) these books ring with and plumb the depths of the true epic tone Tolkien first introduced. Kay uses traditional mythology--elves, the Wild Huntsman, etc--but adds his own perspective.  I loved his use of the Summer Tree (the tree of life/knowledge) as his own take on the crucixion. My only great is that he doesn't write new book faster than he does--but if that's what it takes for novels of this quality, so be it!
4 This is the first Kay book I've read, so I'm writing this review without a comparison of his other works.I have to say when I first started this book I was preparing myself for dissapointment. The writing seemed simple, the storytelling sparse, and I really just couldn't like the characters.After a few chapters though I really got drawn into the difference of the writing and I absolutely love the story. Reading this book requires you to pay complete attention because there is no extra "filler" that most fantasy authors throw in to plump up the story and articulate a bit of skill. Every sentence written is integral to the story.There are 5 characters the story follows and at first glance they seem kind of one-dimensional. No, they're not vivid tapestries of thoughts and feelings, but there are 5 OF THEM and I think the author did an excellent job juggling their different stories. Some of the characters have mysteries that take a while to pan out and some took the entire book to finally come to the surface.I absolutely loved the story. I have to say I loved every minute of it, every detail. The elements are extremely familiar yet it felt as though I was reading something entirely new.My biggest critism is one or two scenes felt noticably rushed and relationships bewtween people really could have used a bit of warming up a bit. There was a certain lack of realism from the characters at time, which is what made me intitially feel as though I wouldn't like the book to begin with.This is the first Guy Gavriel Kay book I've read and I look forward to reading more.
4 The Summer Tree leans on gleanings from Tolkien and Zelazny, its prose can be stilted at times, its beginning is clich&eacute; and rather dull, and its main characters are rather shallow. Fortunately some of the characters flesh out a bit over the course of the trilogy, the borrowed Celtic myth is inserted well enough to overcome much of the clich&eacute;, and the Arthurian legend is woven into the story so as to pull the course of the tale away from those told by Tolkien.  If anything, the use of the Arthur legend in the trilogy turned me off, since I had read enough of Arthur by the time I was thirteen years old to know that what could be done with the story had already been done.  However, I try not to fault Kay for using Arthur, especially since this is one of Kay's earliest works and the initial flexing of creative muscles was not yet complete.  I do disapprove of the near (...) of his Lios Alfar description from Tolkien, but if you are not a very critical person I think you could get past this without it interfering with your enjoyment of the book.On a positive note, the main characters, while very flat in the beginning were fleshed out a bit and performed some of the most novel self-destructive, self-sacrificial actions I have read in any fantasy novel, before or since.  These actions, and their feeding of the spirits or gods of nature, gave the book a very strong Celtic feel. This feeling diminished the negative aspects of the book and heightened my enjoyment of it until, by the end of this first volume, I was fully resolved to enjoy the rest of the trilogy.As to some of the other complaints concerning the main characters: who can't admit that many of the people currently walking around college campuses are relatively self-absorbed, often shallow, frequently narrow-minded, and sometimes overly imaginative? If one begins to read The Summer Tree with this in mind, the characters are, perhaps, a bit predictable, but are better developed than some people maintain.
2 If you have read some of Kay's later works--Tigana, the Last Light of the Sun--stop there!  You have seen what he has to offer.  Don't look here, back in 1984, when he wrote a book without really knowing what he wanted to say or how to say it.  Where do I begin?  OK, think of it this way: 5 Canadians in King Arthur's Court.  These grad students from Toronto are whisked away into a distant land, where they find themselves to be somehow 'chosen' to save the world.OK, OK, a bit cliche, but I can handle that as long as the plot is good, the characters worthwhile.  Well, they aren't.  They're not quite stock characters.  I wish they were, because then they would at least have the recognizability of the overly painted masked characters from a medieval morality play.  Instead, they're just basically anonymous.And then the magic starts.  Not the magic that great stories work on your brain, making you want to stay up all night just to get to the next chapter.  No, this is the magic of Fionavar.  Objects will just pop up out of nowhere and we're told that they have some great power.  OK, cool, I guess.  But could you at least tell me something why this thing got here?  Does it have a history?  A reason?  No.  And that's it.The plot stumbles along, seemingly skipping pages of very necessary explanation.  You can't tell if this is some sort of attempt at artistry and mystery, or if Mr. Kay just forgot about it.  It doesn't matter, though.  You're still forced to manually restart your suspension of disbelief and try to get back into the book, hoping that by page 321, it will have been worth it.  So you trudge along.And then a dark lord comes in with orcs to try and take over the world.And then a unicorn comes to save the day.  Wait a minute: Unicorns?  Yes.  Unicorns.  Really.  Well, one unicorn, actually, but it doesn't matter.  And it is written to be some sort of grand moment in the history of the world, and supposedly it is, but you don't really care, because this is a tiny, fake world about which we know nothing, and one which we haven't seen enough to care about at all!On the tinyness: don't let the map fool you.  This is not some grand work of imagination.  The entirety of Fionavar is about the size of Lithuania.  Not ancient pagan Lithuania; Modern, Russia-dominated, Cold-War shrunken Lithuania.  You can ride across this imaginary world in about 3 days--on horseback!  He says so himself.As it happens, most all of the important scenes of the book are just like the unicorn stunt.  Some ridiculous, probably avoidable dilemma is resolved by the sudden appearance of a predictable, cliche stroke of good luck.  Ugh.To his credit, Mr. Kay does have some skill at describing places and feelings.  It appears in his later works.  All in all, however, this is a frantic, sloppy thing.  Don't bother reading it, and do not DARE call it a "classic."
3 If I hadn't read the later works by Kay (the Sarantine Mosaic, the Song for Arbonne, Tigana etc) I would be tempted to dismiss ST as a semi-successful attempt to force together Tolkien, Narnia and Cinderella. A group of 5 Canadian students are tranported into a magical land (Fionavar), discover they possess magical powers and proceed at once to perform all kinds of heroic deeds. Unfortunately, there was no real, or convincing, character development in the book and the eventual transformation is unconvincing and  falls flat.The book gives a taste of Kay's imagination, ingenuity and his ability to rip facts and fiction from various sources (historical, tribal, spiritual) and to work them into his own narative. Nonetheless, the final result is still raw, clumsy and disjointed.  The rip-offs from Tolkien appear especially blatant, and the Arthurian elements didn't work for me. Still, if I look at how well this strategy succeeds in the later  Tigana, or Sarantium books I can definitely see Kay has discovered something that works.Thea above comments notwithstanding  the Trilogy is not unenjoyable.  its main significance however is that of a portent of the emergence of Kay as one of the great fantasy writers of our time.
3 I absolutely loved everything about Guy Gavriel Kay's stand-alone novels Tigana and A Song for Arbonne, so it was with great excitement that I downloaded the newly released audio version of The Summer Tree, the first novel in his famous The Fionavar Tapestry.In The Summer Tree we meet Loren Silvercloak, a wizard who has traveled from the world of Fionavar to Toronto to fetch five university students (three guys and two girls) who are needed to help fight an ancient evil force that has been bound under a mountain for centuries. It is awakening, has adversely affected the weather, and threatens the future of Fionavar. The students are transported to the capital city of Caer Paravel -- no wait, wrong book -- Paras Derval and each discovers that (s)he has an important role to play in this strange land's upcoming upheaval.If I had read The Summer Tree when it was first published in 1984, perhaps I would have enjoyed it more. Or at least I would have been more forgiving back then, but at this point in my life, with many years of reading fantasy epics behind me, I just had a hard time mustering up much enthusiasm for this story.Besides the parallels to Tolkien and Lewis which you will have already noticed, we've got dwarves who live under mountains, elf-like creatures who live in the forests, names which require hyphens, apostrophes, or other funny symbols (Na-Brendel , M&ouml;rnir, Ra-Termaine, T'Varen), names of evil things which sound Russian (Rakoth, Starkadh, svart alfar, Rangat, Bl&ouml;d, Khath Meigol, urgach), nasty creatures who are minions of the bad guy, a girl who finds out she's the next seer, a hero who must sacrifice himself to save the blighted land.... etc. Much of it is derived from ancient myth and legend and it's presented in Kay's eloquent and slightly overwrought style. This will likely please those who are looking for that sort of weighty epic, but to me it just felt heavy. I have no doubt that this is caused by reading this too late in my fantasy vita -- I was looking for something new -- so if you're not relating to me here, I encourage you to give The Summer Tree a try. Every fantasy fan should read Guy Gavriel Kay.Kay's use of the five modern-day characters is a bit perplexing. Their reactions to being brought to a parallel world with an ancient culture were unconvincing as they immediately adapt to the customs of Fionavar without much trepidation or wonder. They didn't seem concerned about how or when they'd get back to their world, what their family and friends might be thinking, or what might happen if they (very likely) died in Fionavar. They never talk about modern conveniences like cars, guns, and telephones. They go along with the patriarchic culture and, though they are well-educated, they don't use their modern knowledge to any advantage. Perhaps they will in the sequels, but there is so far no indication that they are thinking that way, which baffles me. I'm wondering why Kay used modern-day heroes at all.As for the audio production, it's produced by Penguin Audio and read by Simon Vance (one of my favorites) so it's well told. However, Vance's Canadian accent makes me cringe and, since our five heroes are all Canadian, that's a lot of cringing.I expected to love The Summer Tree, so I had purchased the second book in The Fionavar Tapestry, too, and I will probably read it at some point. But I greatly prefer Guy Gavriel Kay's more recent fiction, which is really wonderful stuff.
4 I loved this book.  I only really have one complaint.  Kay's writing style is a little difficult to get into.  He is writing in a high fantasy style for a high fantasy world.  I really did appreaciate that, but it does make the book a little less accessable to the reader.The characters are interesting and engaging.  There are some true personalities in these books and they beg to be written about more and more.  It's a great start to this series.
5 This is without a doubt one of my top five fantasy epics of all time. Beautifully written and highly imaginative. I enjoyed watching the characters come to terms with their demons throughout. The novel. Exciting battles too. I highly recommend you read it.
4 The Summer Tree, and indeed all of The Fionavar Tapestry, is a delightful fantasy, full of strange worlds, important events and vivid characters.One gets the impression that Kay chose every word with care, rather than ripping through the story as quickly as he could write. A friend who recommended this series to me said, "It's kind of like Tolkien, but without the throw away Boromir characters."Obviously, Kay and Tolkien will be compared and contrasted, since Kay helped compile The Silmarilion. Also, any writer who attempts a fantasy trilogy is bound to be compared to Tolkien at some point. I find his writing style remarkably dissimilar and enjoy both authors immensely.What Kay does exceedingly well, is allow me to care greatly about his characters. I don't have to work at it, like I do with some writers. They have depth and unique personalities all their own.Comparisons with Tolkien aside, I think The Summer Tree and its sequels are excellent reads for folks who want more from their fantasy than a rip-roaring hack and slash dungeon in literary form. These are GOOD books and they deserve to be enjoyed, savored and pondered.The occasional overly romanticized situation between a couple of the characters, as well as an annoying writing tick (I won't give it away as it's most likely a pet peeve of my own) prevents me from giving this series five stars, but I'd give it 4.5 if I could.
2 Guy Gavriel Kay is one of my favorite authors and as such, I had very high hopes for this novel. Unfortunately, his Tolkien influence not only shows here, but it overwhelms the book entirely.The plot is relatively straight-forward: five young people are led through a portal into another world by a mysterious mage and his sidekick. They're told they're only there for a celebration, a few days at the most, and then they can go home. But things go wrong from the very beginning. One of them doesn't make it through with the other four, and the plot just gets jumbled from there.It sounds like standard fantasy fodder - and it should be. Unfortunately, the language is almost archaic, and the dialogue stilted. Sometimes entire pages are devoted to scenery. It may have worked well when Tolkien wrote, but in today's society, I expect a fast-paced story, full of intrigue and adventure.At times, Kay offers glimpses of his talent by creating a character so wonderful (Sharra), and a culture so rich (the Dalrei), it takes my breath away. Unfortunately, those glimpses were few and far between. The main characters are bland and uninteresting, with the possible exception of Kim Ford, and they're all much too quick to accept this strange new world they've been thrown in (if a mage came up to you and plunged you through a portal, wouldn't you be a little more resistant to that kind of change?).If you're a Tolkien fan, chances are good you'll enjoy THE SUMMER TREE. For the rest of us, this book is best left on the shelves.
5 My sister insists that Tigana is a better read that Fionavar Tapestry. Somehow, even though I have read both and loved Tigana, I cant bring myself to judge Tigana over the Fionavar tapestry. The magic in FT is that you can bond to the central characters. You see them react and embrace their experiences thats literally out of their world. There is a bit of everything in FT, arthurian legend, romance, philosophical concepts, all meshed into a very human experience. I also loved the central struggle between light and dark, though I have read reviews that remark that it was modeled on JRR Tolkien's works. I feel that this is a jewel in the crown of Kay's works. His first, His warmest.
4 Nice story, a little too much like Donaldson in the sense of world traveling, but overall, a great little story that starts to pick up steam towards the later half of the book and into Wandering Fire, the sequel. Builds a nice little set of worlds, and uses the &quot;overpowered evil entity&quot; plot device pretty nicely. Again, it was 1984 when he wrote it, so it wasn't so overused then. You've really should read this series, however--a fantasy must read. Sometimes Kay can be a little pretentious, but overall, this is a great read and very accessible. There is one thing that Kay probably does better than anybody, and that is character development.  This series is no exception
3 Book lacks something that keeps it from being a great read.  It seems rushed, or forced.
5 The first two hundred pages of this book are such a jumbled mess, I stopped reading it several times.  But my husband promised me it gets better, and, thankfully, he was right.  If you can get past the first half of the book, with its shifting point-of-views, poorly realized characterizations, and the "epic" presumption, a gem lies in wait.  In the latter pages of the book, Guy Gavriel Kay's mastery comes to light.  It's worth it!That being said,Tiganais still my favorite... start there if you've never read anything by Kay.  HisSailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)books are wonderful too.  Then you'll be able to trust that this series will indeed live up to the recommendations.Enjoy!
1 This book was one of the most uninteresting books that I have ever read.  I am not a fantasy book reader but I saw the reviews so I thought I would give this book a try.  I really thought that there were way too many characters in this book.I will admit that it was really helpful that the author did put together a listing of who is who.  Maybe it is because I am not an avid fantasy reader but I just found myself extremely bored reading this book.  The 5 main characters did not interest me along with the storyline.  After reading this book I will not read another fantasy book for a long time.
5 This was the first Guy Gavriel Kay book I read and at the time I picked it up I was having a hard time finding any fantasy novels I liked (Kept reading Mckinley over and over).  This book introduced me to the Fionavar  Tapestry that is key to understanding his other books such as Tigana.  I  have since read the Tapestry trilogy, Tigana and Song for Arbonne.  This  book is about a group of college students who are taken to a world where  each discovers their true identity.  In finding that identity, they also  learn more about the new world they are now woven into.  There is, of  course, an impending war, gruesome creatures, deaths, deceptions and deep  romance.  If you are looking for a new author to read (as I was), I would  suggest starting with the Fionavar tapestry and try Kay out!  I look  forward to and hope to enjoy all his works.
5 The first thing I would say about this book is that it is a slow burner. For probably the first third of the book, you are wondering about whether to carry on or not (the first time you read it at least!) but if you can stick with it, it does become worth your while.The history and mythology that GGK has put into the Fionavar Tapestry are things that dreams are made of - certainly for every Fantasy fan.One of the common complaints about this book seems to be that the five friends adjust too well to their 'new' world. My reply is that it's amazing how normal things can seem to be when you're with friends :o)This book is an excellent introduction to the series and also sets the second book up very nicely.This trilogy, along with Tigana by the same author, firmly remains on my Favourites shelf!
4 'The Summer Tree' is the first book of Guy Gavriel Kay's 'Fionavar Tapestry' trilogy. It is a cross world fantasy, where five college students from Toronto (booooo!) are invited by the mage Loren Silvercloak to travel to Fionavar, 'the first of all worlds'. It is a world of gods, elves, dwarves and a dark lord imprisoned under a mountain. The book owes something to Tolkien, but also has Norse, Celtic and Greek mythological influences. I enjoyed it very much, but I am not blind to its faults. As many reviewers have noted, the five visitors from our world seem to adapt to the new world almost seamlessly, so much so, that it seems unnecessary as a plot device, since it really adds little to the story. Secondly the idea of Fionavar being 'first of all worlds' just doesn't make much sense. Fionavar seems too small geographically (everything seems to one or two days away by horse from anywhere else) and historically (Rakoth Maugrim being defeated just 1000 years ago and not much happens in between it seems) to be as important as it supposed to be. It is stated several times that if Rakoth Maugrim is not defeated he will rule in all worlds not just in Fionavar- does that mean if he is defeated in Fionavar that our world will be free of evil? Doesn't seem likely. Anyway these are minor annoyances, Kay is a gifted writer and 'The Summer Tree' is well worth reading for fantasy enthusiasts.
5 It is not often that you come across a book so breathtakingly good, that it instantly takes a place of honor among the best books you've ever read. This (and the entire Fionavar tapestry) is such a book. Written in beautiful prose in the style of the Silmarillion, this book proves that Kay has emerged as a worthy successor to JRRT in the fantasy genre.
3 I  was looking for a story where the characters move back and forth between the mundane world and a fantasy world.  I picked this one up, intrigued by the idea of five Canadian college students being transported to another world called Fionavar.  (Although I was warned that this book was Kay's first, and not one of  his best.)A lot of elements in the story are derivative of Tolkien.  Kay has his own version of Tolkien's creatures (orcs, elves, dwarves), characters (Gandalf, Sauron, Saruman), and plot elements (the return of the king, the war against Mordor, the riders of Rohan).  If I let that bother me too much, I would really be limiting my enjoyment of fantasy literature in general.  Besides, there was a good bit of originality here, too.I found the characters and their situation to be somewhat unbelievable right from the beginning.  They unquestioningly accept the existence of this other world, and, once there, fit right into their roles.  They have an immediate grasp of the the mythology and politics of the place.  Even though they are referred to as the &quot;strangers&quot;, they might as well have been from Fionavar to begin with for all the difference it made that they were from Toronto.  The female characters are especially weak - I had no feeling at all for their personalities, motivation, or relationship to the other characters.  (I had trouble getting past their cutesy names, too.  Spoils the mood.)  I did like Dave, though.  I understood what he was all about, and he was a very believable regular guy from the beginning of the book to the end.  Those were the parts I liked best.Some of the writing, especially the dialogue, is a little bit awkward.  I sometimes found it hard to follow the frequently changing point of view.  Although it is mostly delineated into separate sections, sometimes the point of view seemingly changes in the middle of a paragraph, making it difficult to understand whose thought you are reading now.Based on recommendations, I do plan to read some of Kay's other books (maybe &quot;Tigana&quot; next), but I don't think I will finish the Fionavar series.
3 Please accept my humble apologies.  I did not like this book.  I know that it is considered a fantasy classic, that thousands of fans adore it, and that Kay is one of the genre's all-time greats.  But &quot;The Summer Tree&quot; just doesn't have it.  Oh sure the writing is competent and the characters are above average but the overall work doesn't add up to anything.  It's a hodepodge of elements collected from elsewhere that never justifies its own existence.Just look at the fight scenes.  Bad guy sends thousands of incompetent minions into battle.  Good guys fearlessly march out to meet them.  Despite being pompous fools who are vastly outnumbered, good guys somehow win without getting a scratch.  Sound familiar?  Maybe that's because we've already seen this happen thousands of times in countless other fantasy novels.  Any good guy who's ever in danger gets rescued by a last-second magic trick.  And some claim that the dialogue in this book is special.  Not so.  For instance, head villain Rakoth sounds so much like a comic book cliche bad guy that I almost laughed out loud.Which isn't to say that the book is entirely bad.  Some scenes, such as a character's internal reflections on a past incident during a moment of self-sacrifice do strike a genuine emotional chord.  It's interesting to note that Kay's better works are the ones that focus on smaller personal stories rather than grandiose struggles between good and evil.  Perhaps he should have skipped this trilogy entirely and gone straight to his later novels.  Certainly Tolkien and Donaldson, among others, have done far better at classical fantasy than this freshman effort.
2 Well, I read the Sarantium series and on the strength of those very good books plus the strong reviews on here I picked up the 'Summer Tree' for a...well summer read (ok, sorry)! Anyway I struggled and struggled through it. NOT a page-turner, but I hate not finishing what I start (and pay full price for!). The Summer Tree just seems so random and unconvincing. Obviously it is fantasy but there is absolutely no explanation or even much hint as to why these five Canucks are somehow chosen to save Fionavar. Maybe it is explained in later books. The dialogue lacks any humor whatsoever which might have made the story more tolerable. There are just these heavily oppressed characters who suddenly become great fighters or seers or whatever. How a graduate student rides a horse for 5 days and fights from horseback is just too ludicrous. I am a little sad I won't know the end of the story but just a very little. There are just too many good books out there to justify finishing the series and that pains me but just can't bring myself to do it.
5 I agree with the reviews that praise this effort. Well written, well plotted, and much more elegant than standard high fantasy, this series just seems a cut above other fantasies in almost all departments. We reread very few books in our house, but this set is kept on the the read-again shelf with Lord of the Rings and a few others.One note. Some people love Kay's other work (like "Sarantium" or "Tigana"), and don't like this. Some like this and don't like the others. Understood. (I'm in the latter category.) They are just two different kinds of books. So, if you are familiar with other Kay books, just be warned that this trilogy has an entirely different feel. (And for what it's worth, "Ysabel" sort of falls in between the two bodies of work.)
2 Next to Kay's later works, this one stinks.  I stopped somewhere under 100 pages. The characters are loosely conceived.  Their behavior and dialogue are stilted.
1 I could not help but put this book down. I must be fair and note that perhaps I have merely grown out of the insipidity that the fantasy industry thrives on, but disclaimers aside, this series is still terrible. The plot is implausible (and that is truly saying something for a fantasy novel (being inherently implausible)), and the writing is amateurish. Honestly, I was confused when I begin reading this-perhaps I had mistaken the author's name on the cover? Unfortunately, no, but I surmise that this is some of Kay's earliest work, and it is apparent. The Fionavar Tapestry demonstrates none of the laudable elements of Kay's later writing. So, if you're interested in Guy Gavriel Kay, avoid this awful example of writing and check out some of his later books (the Sarantine Mosaic was excellent).
3 I know what you're going to say. Fantasy novels aren't meant to be realistic, that's why they're called FANTASY. I'm an avid fantasy reader. Realistic in a fantasy world for me means could this really have happened on this world? Do the everyday normal things that happen in the book fit with how things really happen? For the "supernatural" things that happen, do they fit with the concepts of how things work on this fantasy world?There are instances throughout the book that made me shake my head. For example: 5 average college students are sent from our modern world to a fantasy world, this is realistic based on my definition because of how things work in the fantasy world Kay is creating. None of these people has probably ever ridden a horse in his/her life. In this fantasy world they are thrust into, horses are the primary form of transportation. What would happen if you took 5 of your friends, threw them on horses for the first time ever, and told them to gallop at full speed? I agree... Somehow, no one seems to have a problem in the book. To me this is unrealistic. I would expect, that if I could stay on the horse at all, I would be bruised and battered. Who knows....This is only one example of this sort of thing in the book. There are many more.How would you react if you had a big ugly troll charging you swinging a battle axe at your head? Don't tell me you would naturally dodge the blow and decapitate the troll with a quick thrust of your Swiss Army Knife. Explain to me how someone who's never been in a fight can automatically kill dozens of baddies in his first battle.I don't mind if it turns out that this guy happened to be special, but the same sort of phenomenon happens to each of the lead characters.It would be more believable if each of the characters was plucked from around the world individually. Or not all of the characters turned out to be superheroes. But 5 people that happened to hang out together at college... There is just too much coincidence. I could give several more examples of the same sorts of things for each character.All that being said, it's really not a bad read. If you can look past the unrealistic nature of certain circumstances and the predictable nature of the book, you will enjoy it. I've also heard that this was an earlier work of Kay's and that his later stuff is better. (Tigana for instance, though I have not read it)
5 I read this series well after it was published, and am deeply sorry I didn't get turned to Kay earlier.  The Fionavar Tapestry is awesome in its scope and heartbreakingly beautiful in its writing.  Kay is truly a master of the art of the written word, with the power to draw you into the story like no author I have ever experienced, to make you laugh and cry and love with the characters, and to enable you to fully experience the bittersweetness of life as he describes it in his books.  He is simply a brilliant writer, and one that should not be missed.
3 I really like this series.  Kay has some real imagination and beauty to his books.  His ideas are truly original and his world is on full of wonder.Nonetheless, I found his writing style a hindrance to being fully immersed in this book, and the following books of the series.  He is choppy and downright confusing at times.  It is not that he is a complex writer - I don't mind that.  It is that he seems to be trying to be complex and comes off being vague and confusing.With that said, this book is one of the better ones of the fantasy genre.  And, as a fellow Canadian with Kay, I wish him all the best!
3 An early series by Kay who was still learning his trade.  Had some poor transitions from one development to the next, but the action was fast paced and kept your interest.  It many respects it is a rehash of several mythologies including Norse/Celtic deities and the Arthurian legend, but it is cleverly done.  Having read many of his later works you can see that he was still developing his style as a writer.  Worth a read if you are fond of the author or the subject matter
3 I wanted to give this book more stars, I really did, and three and a half stars would be a more accurate description. The book showed definite promise, and the world of Fionavar is an intriguing one, but there were just a few too many things wrong with it for me to give it a better rating.In The Summer Tree, the first book in the Fionavar Tapestry series by Guy Gavriel Kay, five college students from our world are taken into another world, 'the first of the worlds', by mage Loren Silvercloak. Soon, all of them become more than just visitors; they become entwined with the land and the looming fight against the Unraveller. All of them, strangers from another world, begin the path to finding their destinies in a world that is not their own. The ending to the book is a cliffhanger, so I would recommend having the second book handy upon finishing the first.Kay writes beautifully. His language is often poetic and sometimes musical, and his style was definitely one of the more enjoyable aspects of the book.Despite the fact that Kay is obviously a masterful author, the book seems less than perfect, for the following reasons:The book launches with very little explication about who the characters are or what really drives them. Each is given a few lines, but not much more. Though more is revealed as the novel progresses, I was nonetheless slightly annoyed with the way the character development progressed. One would think that if readers are to bond with these characters for three whole books, more would be given in the way of making us care what happens to them. On the same note, I thought that the swiftness with which the five were launched into the thick of things was a bit unrealistic.  I can only hope that this will be better explained in the later novels.Kay sometimes overwrites passages, trying to milk too much emotion out of them. (If you do it all the time, it's less powerful when you really need it.) I found the parts about Kim Ford becoming the Seer to be rather, well, silly. However, I immensly enjoyed the description of the Dalrei, and enjoyed the character of Sharra, the fiesty heir to the crown of Cathal, of whom I'm assuming we will see more of in later novels.One last note: I was rather baffled by the amount of sex scenes in the novel. While they weren't particularly explicit, I did wonder what purpose Kay what trying to fulfill by including them. And I'm sorry, but lines such as, "Cursing a hard-on, he kicked into his breeches and slipped on the loose sleeved doublet Diarmuid had given him," just don't belong in fantasy novels.Despite all this, I'm not ready to give up on the series because, as I've said, it shows promise. After finishing the novel, readers will definitely be ready to find out more about the world of Fionavar and how the rest of the story weaves.
5 I have read these books years ago.  I can't see as good as I used to and need to be able to enlarge the print.  Kindle allows me to do this; so I wonder why they are not on Kindle.  The Summer Tree is but it not available at this time.  Come on guys.  Why?Sandy S
5 This is my all-time favorite Fantasy series.  I was 12 years old when I first started reading these books; and I say "started" because I continued to read them over and over from then on.  When it comes to books, I have few other loves besides Fantasy, so believe me when I say, I've read my share.  This story is passionate, adventurous, magical, and exquisitely heartbreaking.  Though admittedly this first book is not the best of the three.  It is more of a stage setter for the all-important books 2 and 3.  I also must admit that it can be a bit confusing in the begining, mostly because it is written in the hight of emotion and the writer clearly already knew everything that was going to happen when he started, whereas we the reader do not have a clue.  But it is adoringly written, and you will find yourself quickly falling in love with various characters all too easily.I grew to love each of the characters as though they were people I truly knew and felt concern and admiration for.  The center focus being around 5 university students who suddenly find themselves swept up in a cause far bigger than anything they could have imagined.  The fate of the world (and many more worlds, as they quickly learn) lies in the balance as an epic battle begins on the first of all worlds, Fionava.  Kevin, Paul, Kim, Jennifer, and Dave soon dicover who they really are and what their lives have been heading towards since the day they were born.  They are accompanied by many colorful characters, each with a story of their own and an important role to play in the fate of Fionavar.The picture painted by Kay is one of beauty and emotion, with fastinating mythology and detailed character depth.  To quote another of my favorite books (the Princess Bride), "it has fighting, torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love," and a few welcome additions such as magic, Gods, and legends.I was passed this book by my mother, and I quickly passed it on to all my closest friends, to which it easily became their favorite fantasy series as well.  You will laugh, and cry, and certainly cheer, long before the end of book 3.  I promise.
5 Note that this review is applicable to The Summer Tree as well as the other two books in the Fionavar Tapestry.I vividly remember encountering Guy Kay's books for the first time.  I was in my early 20s and couldn't afford to buy books so I was working my way through the public library's two shelves of fantasy and scifi paperbacks.  Every time I went to the library, I would see the Guy Kay books and be attracted by their gorgeous cover art.  Then I would read the backs and think the plots sounded dreadfully boring.  Also, specific to the Fionavar Tapestry, I read the back and noted that it was about 4 modern characters who transition to a fantasy realm.  Even at that age I thought that was a keenly stupid plot device.  To this day I don't really care for urban fantasy.Eventually, though, I ran out of other options and checked out The Summer Tree.  I read the first few pages and was disgusted, just how I knew I would be.  then I read a few more and never even remembered that I was supposed to be hating on the plot.  I was sucked right into the story, entranced by the language he used and the poetic value of his prose.  Guy Gavriel Kay makes you want to slow down and savor every word.  Description is sometimes stark, sometimes rich, but never over-embellished or there to pad the story.  Everything has a place, everything has a point, everything is relevant to the story.That last paragraph is pretty fanciful. I should suffice to say that, once I forgot I was against the premise, I was sucked into the story utterly and completely.  It was beautiful to read, but I didn't think of it like that.  I just knew I couldn't stop reading, didn't want to stop reading and never wanted it to end.  It was like infatuation.The plot is a collection of several legends and fantastic stories.  GGK borrows from many favorites as well as lesser known tales to weave his tale - everything from the Arthurian Legend to the Black Cauldron.  At first I thought this would be silly, but he weaves it with such talent that you can only think, "but of course."It's a classic fantasy trilogy, chronicling the fight of good against evil, where the evil is the ultimate blackest of evils.  But even while there's the ultimate evil to fight, there are lesser evils.  We're given glimpses into the lives and thoughts of the characters on the other side, and learn that not everything is black and white.  This is a common trait in GGKs books - evil isn't evil for evil's sake (99% of the time, some people are just bad of course).  There is depth and understanding.  Sometimes there's explanation and sometimes there's closure.  The reader is led to empathize and sometimes even hope for redemption.There are several reviews on here already that read like book reports, so I won't bother to re-hash plot points.  I will simply say that all of the main characters make you love them, as well as many of the tertiary characters.  You feel their emotions with them without feeling melodramatic.  Once I got over my initial reticence, I never felt as though the plot was contrived.  Characters grow and change naturally over time. They make mistakes, bad things happen to good people, some of them irrevocable.  It's difficult for me to express the amount of love I've come to feel for this trilogy of books over the years.  I re-read them every so often and they never fail to move me.  As a matter of fact, just writing this review is making me think it's time for another re-read.The best way to express how much I love this trilogy is repeat what I told a friend once: "You're so lucky.  You get to read them for the first time."  There's nothing like that first time with these books.All of GGK's early books are on my 5-star desert-island booklist.  The Summer Tree and the entire Fionavar Tapestry were the first.  They hit no sour notes, there are no awkward moments, poor phrasing or anything else to startle a reader out of that special place reached only with a perfect story.
5 I have read many fantasy series; Rosenberg, Tolkien and Donaldson, but none match the emotion and depth of this sweeping epic.  Quite simply the best series I have ever read, and the only one that moved me and touched my soul.  Even his other works fail to match this one.
5 the first time i read this book, i was in high school, just starting to get into fantasy.  it didn't do anything for me and i didn't bother with the rest of the trilogy.  several years later, i found it, getting dusty on  my bookshelf, and decided to give it another try.  within 20 pages i was  completely hooked and could not imagine what i missed that first time.  i'm  not usually a big fan of books that integrate our world with a fantasy  world - i think fantasy is better when it's set apart on its own;  it's  somehow less plausible when the author tries to give a world of magic a  place in what we call reality.  but this trilogy is the glorious,  magnificent exception to that rule.  finishing the book for the second  time, finally understanding what all the fuss was about, i just about ran  to the bookstore to buy the other two.  now i've read them all more times  than i can count and i cry every time.  from the hedonistic garden country,  cathal, to the majestic kingdom of brennin, to the harsh plains of the  dalrei, the world of fionavar is breathtakingly real and heartbreakingly  beautiful.  kay weaves a spell with his words.  reading many of these  reviews, i have to disagree with those who prefer kay's later works.  i  have read both &quot;tigana&quot; and &quot;a song for arbonne&quot;, and  while both are above average, neither comes close to the majesty of the  fionavar tapestry.  true, they are both somewhat more polished.  but the  sheer rawness of the writing in the fionavar tapestry is what makes it so  powerful.  none of the edges are blunted, the emotions bite deeply and ring  true, more so than in his other novels.READ THIS BOOK.  i guarantee  you'll run to the bookstore to buy the other two.
5 All of Guy Gavriel Kay's books are extremely well written. The stories are amazing and the worlds that he creates draw you in every time.  The three books of the Fionavar Tapestry (The Summer Tree, The Wandering Fire, and The Darkest Road) are my absolute favourites though. I won't go into a long synopsis here, I don't think that's what a review is for anyway, but I will say you can't read these books and be unchanged by the time you have finished. My paperback copies are worn out. I'm so glad the books are now on Kindle!
5 I read these books the first time they came out.  I had to special order The Darkest Road because my bookstore never got it in.  From the first I found these books to be beautifully written, perhaps only a woman can understand the tortured beauty of Jennifer or the sacrifices Kim made to become a seer.  To say that any of Kay's characters lack depth is to show yourself not well read or a bigot of some kind.  I am an English teacher and every year I recommend these books to my students.  Those who read them, come to me to thank me every time.  I think these three books are more emotionally satisfying and adult than Tolkien.  I read them at least once a year, myself. All of Kay's books are lovely and I await them anxiously.  But, The Summer Tree trilogy is Kay's best and most satisfying work!!!!!
5 I remember the first time I read this series.  It took me four days (it would have taken three, but there was a delay in getting the last two from a friend).  I was moved more deeply than any other work in fantasy I had read.  I remember staying up until 6 AM (I was in theater at the time) reading them, and weeping my way through the last third of the last book in the series.Without doubt, Kay invokes all that is deep in us as people who have created mythos and myths to carry us.  He evokes all that is strong in us, while showing that even the mythic have their weaknesses.  While later works of Kay's may be more polished, this is the raw material that he still works from.As with every reading, when I finished my recent re-read I was almost traumatised to leave the world that had been so well crafted.  The end leaves all satisfied, but there is a bittersweet flavor to it, since the people he has created are no longer accessable to the reader.This is the series I would want while stranded on a desert island.  And I cannot think of anything more to say than that.
4 The Summer Tree is the first book in The Fionavar Tapestry series (continuing with The Wandering Fire and The Darkest Road).At Loren Silvercloak the mage's bidding, Kevin, Kim, Jennifer, Paul and Dave, five University students from Toronto, 'cross' into the Kingdom of Fionavar, the First of all Worlds, to help him in an oncoming war against Rakoth the Unraveller, and thus fulfil their destinies.Like the five heroes, the reader is teleported into a land of magic and fantasy which the author only describes little by little. Although certainly used as a stylistic device, this sometimes makes it hard to understand the ins and outs of certain characters' actions. In the same vein, I also found the few sex scenes somewhat a bit out of place and unpoetic. Anyway, looking back upon it, I realize these were just details.And indeed, as you turn the pages and learn more about the people and history of Fionavar and about the role the heroes have to play in it, the book really turns out to be enthralling and hard to put down. I particularly enjoyed the third part, where Dave is taken in by a tribe of hunters called the Dalrei, and learns about their customs and rites, to finally risk his own life for them.Although at first I was a bit sceptical about the mixing of today's world with fantasy, in the end I really liked this book a lot and I'm looking forward to reading the next two. So don't let the first 150 pages or so get you down and read on, it's definitely worth it!
5 Loved the book from beginning to end. Great story with awesome characters. Couldn't wait to start the next one. Word
2 The Fionavar Tapestry left me with mixed feelings.  On one hand, some of the writing is very well done and some parts of the story, particularly Dave's first meeting with the Dalrei, are moving and enjoyable to read.  On the other hand, the story isn't very original and I never felt very involved with the characters.  The women in particular seemed to be poorly drawn and weren't very likable.The story revolves around five college students who have been brought to the fantasy land of Fionavar, a Middle Earth-like world which Kay tells us is the one true world.  The world of the college students, which is our own world, is but an imperfect reflection.  Kay tells us that problems in Fionavar will be reflected in all other worlds, including our own, but never gives any examples of this.The biggest problem with the trilogy is that the students interact amazingly well with Fionavar and its inhabitants right from the start.  I never understood why it was necessary to have the students originate in our world, because the story as a whole would change very little (and would make more sense) if they had been born and raised in Fionavar.  The students never use the knowledge and skills they've gained in their own world to aid Fionavar.  For instance, when they travel back home, why don't they take firearms and manuals on how to manufacture gunpowder and grenades with them on their return to Fionavar?  Fionavar is a world at war with an ancient evil, and yet they never mention or express a desire for any modern weaponry or a modern means of communication or transportation.  Furthermore, the students never get homesick, they never have trouble adjusting to this new and different culture, and oddly enough, when one of them is killed, no one ever wonders what they'll tell his family and friends back home.After the students are taken to Fionavar, Kay also adds King Arthur and Lancelot to his tale.  For some unexplained reason, Guinevere has been reincarnated but Arthur and Lancelot have to be resurrected.  Once in Fionavar, Arthur and Lancelot don't actually do much and almost seem to be superfluous.  Arthur's dog actually comes across as more heroic and has more personality Arthur does.  It felt like Kay couldn't decide whether he wanted to write an Arthurian novel or a fantasy novel and so decided to blend the two, with results that are less than satisifying.There is a subtle current of sexism running throughout the trilogy that made me uncomfortable.  While some of the most powerful people in Fionavar are women, the women are all involved in either religion or mysticism of some sort.  When it comes to battles, the women are either kept on the sidelines and expected to heal the injured or are left at home.  Kay describes nearly every woman as being earth-shatteringly beautiful and seems to feel that a woman must be beautiful to be important.  Part of Fionavar's history involves a woman called Lisen, who apparently never did anything more than look beautiful and act as an aid to her husband, yet the entire world still mourns her passing....
3 Kay has some interesting ideas, but I was a little surprised in reading that most reviewers liked the Summer Tree so much. I found it very much needed the directing of a really good editor who could point out that making a jumble of a plot instead of a more straightforward story is going to disturb even those readers who are fairly bright. I confess that I've not read a lot of fantasies -- Lewis, Tolkien, L'Engle, Pullman, Heinlein, Azimov... and not for years. Lately, I was introduced to Robin Hobb and have to admit that after her book in nine volumes, nothing could compete with her glittering writing, nor her literary bent. This is by way of admitting that comparisons are odious.[G] I shall read the other two Kay books in the Fionavar trilogy and I also have Tigana and two other of his books. I also have three George R.R. Martin books -- clearly, I'm on a kick. It may also help to know that I'm seventy-four and might have other -- stronger -- views about reading material.
4 This is a very good book that I would highly recomend. The storytelling, plot and the way the story is interwoven are all truly masterful.There are issues that I have with the book. For most of the first book he repeatedly refers to characters by both first and last name. Everytime, every dialogue, every mention. That really began to annoy me and I had to train my mind to skip over the surnames and just read the given names. I also felt that the book was slightly slow in begining. However the book (and the series) does nothing but build.It is a very good opening and the next book draws you even more in. I had heard great things about Kay as an author and this series is my first "taste" of his writting. Currently about 2/3 through the second book of this series I am very much hooked at this time.Is this book perfect? No, not by any stretch. But it is extremely good. As I said, I wouldn't say that dialogue is Kay's strong point, and at times his word selection could be better. But few storytellers weave a more masterful tale than Kay.
2 didnt establish a good flow of occurances and was just unrealistic characters. He just didnt make the characters act in any realistic fasion, even for fantasy writing
1 I cannot understand how 99 people can give this book 4 or 5 stars???  I couldn't even get past the first chapter as this was utterly UNBELIEVABLE even for a fantasy book.We have the 'reclusive genius', Lorenzo Marcus, making a rare speaking engagement at a college.  Marcus and his sidekick, Matt(who aren't who they appear to be, but more on that later.) set their sites on Kim Ford who they need for some 'mission'.  They, also, just happen to need four other people for their team and VOILA! Kim just happens to be accompanied by four other people.  How convenient.After the speaking engagement, Kim and her cronies wisk Mr Marcus and Matt away from the throng of admirers to go back to Mr Marcus's hotel.  But wait!  They are being followed and Paul (one of the five) is suspicious.  I guess he never gave it a thought that they just might be followed by one of Mr Marcus's admirers from the college?At the hotel, Paul calls them out and says, You aren't Lorenzo Marcus, are you?'  To which Mr Marcus confesses that his real name is Loren, but his friends call him 'Silvercloak', Matt was a King of the Dwarves and they come from a place called Paras Derval,in another world, where Ailell reigns.  Yeah, right??  I CERTAINLY would believe this guy that I have never met!!!DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME ON THIS TRIPE!!!
1 ...since writing this series in 1984.Fresh from reading the Lions of Al-Rassan (pub. 1995), the Sarantine Mosaic (pub. 1998),  and the Last Light of the Sun (pub. 2004), with their subtle plots and characters, richly crafted world and religions, I thought that Kay could do nothing wrong.  Boy, was I ever wrong.All the above qualities are glaringly absent here.Instead of subtle characters, we have 5 heroes who constantly, and at length, reflect on their FEELINGS.  Yet, they manage to carry off all that tedious introspection without ever, well, coming to life.  The contrast with George RR Martin or later Kay POV passages could not be more marked.  For example, if I was a Toronto college student, suddenly lured on false premises into a deadly war, I would be quite a bit more upset and concerned about my safety than these guys.  Though maybe not quite as much as say, a Thomas Covenant (whose lengthy self-examinations, while repetitive, also make a lot more sense).In later books, Kay will sometimes end a chapter with something like "And he suddenly realized what he had to do" and leave you reflecting on which possible decision the protagonist will choose, based on all the insight you have into his behavior and motivations.In Fionavar, these cliffhangers happen much more frequently.  Likely as not, the protagonist will then, for no reason at all, based on no information known to the reader, run off to a location not yet introduced, to do something earthshaking entirely out of the blue.  Perhaps the characters behave that way because they are destined to do so.  The role of fate, personified by the Tapestry, becomes more pronounced in the concluding book of the trilogy.  Yet, that is a subtle point and hardly justifies the inane storywriting throughout.Fionavar itself has a cliche good-vs-evil backstory, "inspired" by Tolkien and Celtic legends.  Geographically, characters zoom off from one end to the other in hours, by teleportation if necessary, to further the "plot".  The result is that you it feels more like an adventure around a big city/theme park and its surroundings than a real world, with real features and real people.  The religious aspect involves various gods frequently interacting with mortals and Rakoth Maugrim, the bad guy, makes Sauron look like an in depth character study.Everything comes off as archetypical, rather than realistic.  That might have been the intent, but did not make this series any more pleasurable for me.  I really can't say that Kay should be ashamed of it, because he has since matured into one of Fantasy's best writers.  But Fiorana was not a promising start by any means.  And no, books 2 and 3 aren't all that much better either.
5 I loved it, start to finish, a terrific and spellbinding story!  Buy it, read it, a true adventure, I don't think you'll regret it.
4 Downloaded this book as it was free on Kindle, and was hoping for an entertaining read. Well I got it!The author has obviously done his fair share of travelling and the settings and descriptions made me jealous that I was only reading about them, and not actually there.The story is a fairly straight forward murder-mystery, and although it was a easy case to solve, and I kept waiting for a twist (that never came) it was an entertaining read. Bravo!
5 A cracking pace, familiar, likeable characters with dollops of humour and real life.  There is a follow up novel, Blood Price which is equally as good and features the same characters.  His hero is just an ordinary guy who has been thrust into an extraordinary situation - no Jack Reacher, just an average guy trying to survive and do what's right.  Read it, then read the rest of his novels, I haven't been disappointed.
5 Excellent, riveting, unique thriller, and I'm hard to please. Murder and extreme backpackers in third world countries is a strange and wonderful mashup that works because this guy is a great writer of suspense.
5 Thought provoking and chilling. Great settings around the globe and a novel twist regarding serial killers.  You will love it.
4 This is a book about lonely planet travellers and the unusual circumstances of a number of deaths. The book takes one to some far away places and through a murder mystery. It also provides simple lessons about the Internet and friendship that everyone should know. A good read.
5 The story hooked me with the first line and kept me gripped the whole way - and I loved the last line of the book.As someone who's walked the Annapurna circuit and backpacked in other parts of the world I found it very easy to engage with the characters and the places described.Well-written, nicely paced and with an original plot - what more could you want?
5 Fascinating setting. Totally unique for serial killer type genre, but I loved it. I almost hate to say it, but I think if a person were so inclined this book could almost be a &#34;how to&#34; it seemed that believable.
4 San Francisco computer programmer Paul Wood enjoys backpacking in remote unreachable places around the globe.  Currently he hikes the rough terrain of the Himalayas on the sustenance budget plan when he finds a mutilated corpse with Swiss army knives stabbed through each eye.  Paul is more than shook at seeing the body as two years ago he and his girlfriend were in central Africa when she was murdered in the same macabre manner.Paul soon learns other people were killed with the same creepy modus operendi.  Unable to ignore his preliminary findings Paul and his current girlfriend Bosnian Talena investigate.  Other travelers from the central African tragedy join Paul when he decides to avenge the budget backpacking world by taking out a serial killer.This entertaining but chilling thriller provides readers with a look at the backpacking community that reside in youth hostels or outside as they hike the planet.  The story line hooks the readers with its twists and turns, albeit not all seem real, but no one will care.  Paul is a terrific protagonist as he travels the orb although it is difficult to accept this gentle soul as a vengeful fighting machine.  Still fans of dark suspense will appreciate this eerie tale as they hitch a ride with Jon Evans to extremely DARK PLACES.Harriet Klausner
5 And very good. Finally web-tech savvy AND a great adventure. Excellent, and it's going to be very hard to beat.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  The characters are three dimensional and very believable. The twists and turns kept me guessing.
4 I liked the suspense and mystery the story brought to my imagination. The solution will make you confront your morals.  The ending leaves one with hope about life and love.
5 The book is about a backpacker who finds a dead body on a trail in Nepal, which has been mutilated in the same way his girlfriend was in Cameroon two years previously.  Our hero sets out to find the killer.  The book's about much more than that, however.  It's about recovering from the death of a loved one.  It's about backpacking, and travelling around the world, and needing to do so to the point where you only take jobs that will give you months of leave.  It's about the bursting of the Internet bubble.  It's about the concept of tribe, a chosen family that is your support network no matter how far away they are. It's about using the Internet to find people and track them down.  And, yeah, there's a cool mystery in there, too. Evans captures the feeling of being on the edge of 30, and unwilling to buy into the two-kids-and-a-dog suburban lifestyle.
3 I was very disappointed with this book.  The premise is good enough.  There is a serial killer out there, hunting down unsuspecting travelers.  And since the murders occur away from the western world, there is a tendency for the killer to get away with it.  Sounds good enough right?Well yes and no.The descriptions of life on the trail, the attention to detail of life in the third world, etc. is all done very well.  It is obvious that the author has done his share of traveling.  But when it comes to crafting a mystery novel, once which keeps the reader guessing and wanting to read more, the author falls short.  The protagonist is able to 'solve' the mystery of who the serial killer is in record time, and he does so in an almost elementary fashion.If you are looking for a light read that captures what it is like to travel to third world countries, then this book might interest you.  But if you are looking for a mystery novel with lots of twists and turns, you're better off leaving this book on the shelf.
4 I REALLY LIKED THIS BOOK.  COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER PROOFED FOR ERRORS, BUT ALL IN ALL A VERY INTERESTING READ.
3 I've spent many months over the years on the &#34;Banana Pancake&#34; trail, hauling a backpack through Asia and elsewhere, solo or with friends, seeking the next thrill, brooding over the meaning of it all, and watching the world mutate around me.  A lot of people who have done the same have speculated on how to process this experience into something like a novel, and Evans does an admirable job turning the world backpack adventure into a decent murder mystery.  While I can't say I enjoyed his writing style, and found the dialogue at times pretty painful to read, the overall experience was good, and the plot kept me guessing until the end.
4 I was truly unprepared for this story!  If you want to step into a world on the edge here is a great read.
3 I purchased this book because it was a good price. I was not expecting it to be great but it was something good to read.
5 OH my gosh! This book was amazing! The author, Jon Evans has given me so many new perspectives on things. Suddenly, I just want to walk everywhere and go exploring!  Paul, the main character loves to hike...or trek. He travels around the world to discover new places to climb and see. He meets wonderful people, eats exciting foods and struggles with a past loss. The book becomes very mysterious and soon the reader is wrapped up in the &#34;Who Dunnit?&#34;  The ending is perfect and I will cherish this story forever. Thank you, Jon Evans for showing me the other side of the world.
3 Dark Places (Dark Places Of The Earth) [Kindle Edition], by Jon Evans, kept me hanging on. It was a good story, not especially fast moving but with much about exotic places I had never heard of and some interesting characters that were developed nicely. And the story itself developed in a linear fashion. The protagonists were likable and, as a mystery should, one thing led to another, and such. But, and although I read the entire story, it was ruined for me when something way beyond possible, in my opinion, occurred. After that the story proceeded reasonably well and I was determined to be happy with it, but, the unusual happened again. I don't provide spoilers so I won't tell, however, I still enjoyed the read, just not as much as I might have.
5 Invitation to the Game / 0-671-86692-3I read this book as a little girl and spent the next ten years looking for it in book stores because it stuck with me so strongly."Invitation to the Game" is in some ways standard science fiction fare: the earth is overcrowded with unemployed people, none of whom can find a job because robots can accomplish most tasks more cheaply and efficiently than humans can. When a group of young adults are dumped directly out of their high school graduation into the government run slums to "enjoy their leisure years" as unemployed adults, they despair that they will ever be happy again. Their "leisure years" are anything but, as they stave off simultaneously crippling boredom and the perils of extreme poverty in their "Designated Area" where gangs roam free at night and the other unemployed adults party themselves into an eternal stupor to dull the pain.When a mysterious organization offers the group a chance to participate in a virtual reality game for a mysterious prize, they leap at the chance, anxious to do anything to brighten their existence and bring meaning to their lives. Yet as the year goes by and their visits to the gaming center become more frequent, they speculate as to the true motives of this organization and what the real meaning of "The Game" truly is."Invitation to the Game" is a fascinating exploration of a future where inertia prevents the necessary changes to society that are so terribly needed, and where brilliant young minds are in danger of being wasted in order to allow the system to continue unchallenged. This is not "action scifi" - much of the book is devoted to daily scrounging and survival without the help of adults (a sort of futuristicBoxcar Children, if you will) and to periods of discussion over the nature of society and their own uncertain fates and futures. Hughes does a remarkable job moving the story as a fast clip, and her contrasting drab future society and vibrant virtual reality escape are wonders to behold.While the story sounds depressing and frightening, the Hughes maintains a light touch, providing nurturers among the group to act as a surrogate mother and father, and the young adults are remarkably self-sufficient and dedicated - teaching themselves karate and instituting a fun and healthy exercise regimen to protect themselves both within and without "The Game". While their world has hardships and privations, these are seen as challenges to be overcome rather than impossible burdens. While the individual members of this thrown-together group often do not get along, they nevertheless learn to respect each other and they solve conflicts realistically. The end result is that the reader relishes in their small victories and the privations of the world around them only make the victories that much sweeter. And when the prize of "The Game" is revealed, we see that the solution to their problems is both bitter-sweet and exquisite.~ Ana Mardoll
5 This book is an awesome survival story, it really makes you think about what you would do if you had to survive in the wilderness. If you like this book I highly recommend Transall Saga for another Sci-Fi Survival Book.
4 When I was in junior high and high school, my favorite subgenre was the group of books where the story takes place after the Apocalypse, after Earth has self-destructed and people are beginning to rebuild. This story would fall into that category. Lisse has just graduated from school and is hoping to be placed in one of the few jobs available in the world, but this does not happen. Instead, she is sent to live with a group of other unemployed young people in an old building in the dying inner city. Then the group receives an invitation to the Game and everything changes.
5 I remember reading this book when I was 10 years old,And Im 27 now,And it was a really great bookI have been searching for this book for forever!!!
5 This is such a good book. I don't know what some people are talking about. If they didn't get something out of this book, then they haven't lived. Really. One of the things Lisse goes through is the horrible pain you get from leaving something so good behind and then the joy you get from experiening something new. We've all been through that at one time or another. I'd recommend this for people of all ages, even though it is written for a younger crowd. I would have also liked to see a little more with the character feelings and the such, but this was written for younger kids, and when I read it as a 6th grader, the characters seemed real to me. Now, 3 years later, when I picked the book up at the library and read it in one sitting, some of the characters are a little less real and alive, but it means more to me.Okay, I've rambled long enough. Some of the people that wrote bad reviews really need to rethink what they're saying. A piece of art isn't always 'good' based on how much blood was spilled.Please keep reading...any books.
4 I remeber reading this book several times between my 6th and 7th grade years (I am now a Junior in College) and having enjoyed it immenslely.  There are indeed parts that make you raise your eyebrow, however, most of  these can be overriden by an examination of timeperiod and environment that  Hughes has placed her main characters in.A good piece of Sci Fi for  those who are interested in it in that age category.
5 This is such an awesome book- I bought it when it first came out (remember those scholastic book orders?) And I loved it.  I lent the copy to someone and I never saw it again.  I bought it again as an adult and loved it- finished it in one sitting and I recommend this for young adults and anyone older, too- a great read!!!
5 This should be required reading in school. I mean it really gives a look into the future. We're constantly trying to make our lives easier and get a computer and probably soon robots to do our jobs for us but what happens when there are no more jobs left for humans to do? so many books have it like we'd be living in luxury but wouldn't it make our lives more drab, less meaning to them? This book is fast paced with no dawdling. It makes you definitely think twice before wishing you didn't have to work.
5 Whenever I read this book, I am reminded of the fact that short summaries, even the back of the book itself, simply do not do this story justice. It's one of the few books that I would recommend without hesitation to be on a school's reading curriculum, since not only does it tell an engaging story about unemployed life in a dystopian future, but it also has the thread of hope running through it that tells people that no matter what, they have useful skills, even if they don't yet know what use those skills are.The story is told from the perspective of Lisse, who has just graduated from school and found herself with no employment prospects. This is far from unusual, as she came from one of the top schools in the country, which had a 10% job placement rate in a world essentially run by robots. Along with her friends from school, Lisse starts out her new life as an unemployed.The world Hughes set up is an interesting one. Unemployed people are taken care of, in a basic sense, by the government, given shelter and enough credits to buy food and cleaning supplies. Anything else they want they must get by scrounging materials from garbage cans, anything throw away or to be recycled. They may not work, except at "indie" things like selling art to the employed who have money to spare. They may not travel, and they are limited to their Designated Area. Gangs essentially rule the streets, the goverment's first line of defense is the thought police, and overcrowding is a major problem.Then when the tables turn and they find themselves in unfamiliar surroundings, they are forced to exercise every one of their individual talents to the utmost in order to survive as a society. That, in a nutshell, is what this book is about. Society, whether it be overcrowded and terrible or tiny and held together by only the bonds of friendship and necessity. What makes a society, and what makes a good or bad society? Monica Hughes is not afraid of asking the big questions, nor of posing them to young people who most of us would deem incapable of truly understanding such broad concepts. Most adults couldn't properly answer what makes a good or bad society, after all, and I enjoy coming across good YA novels that don't dumb the issues down for children, but instead present the questions in an entertaining and provocative way.And like Michael Grant's Gone, this book doesn't flinch away from the fact that life involves death, killing, and other unpleasant things, especially when one is in exceptional circumstances.I could read this book a hundred times over and never get bored of it. I highly recommend it to, well, just about anybody, really, be they young or old. It's the kind of book that makes you want to think, that makes you want to be productive, and makes you examine yourself and your place in the world.I know I, for one, feel pretty confident that if I were in the same situation as Lisse, all my friends would have plenty of clothes to wear. Most people would consider skills like making a drop spindle, spinning yarn, and knitting to be quaint hobbies at best in this modern world, but when I read this novel, it's easy to remind myself that there are plenty of situations in which my "quaint hobbies" could be the difference between barely surviving the cold and being comfortable and warm.Read this book for yourself and then take an inventory of your skills. You'll be surprised at what you don't even know you know.
4 Ms. Hughes was one of my favorite authors as a young teen, and even though as an older reader I'd probably find the plots predictable and a little clich&eacute;, you have to start somewhere. This book involved a group of . . . I think it was ten or twelve . . . friends who had been together all through their education, the way all &#34;groups&#34; are raised in this future society. This &#34;family&#34; unexpectedly is not assigned any sort of job even though they have the skills they should and did everything they were supposed to do . . . they don't understand why they aren't being picked up by their society until they get an &#34;invitation&#34; to play a weird game, where some kind of virtual reality has them playing a very realistic survival game. Why are they being asked to do this? Are they being trained for something even more important than they thought?
5 Fraser takes a break from the hilarious, over-the-top adventures of the Flashman series with this more sedate and gentle window into Edwardian England (although it should be noted that a very aged Flashman does make several cameo appearances from time to time to deliver straight talk and pinch the serving wenches). The title character is Mark Franklin, a former cowboy and outlaw (he rode with Butch Cassidy &amp; The Sundance Kid as part of The Hole-in-the-Wall Gang), who struck it rich mining silver and is trying to become respectable. He's moved to England in 1909, searching for his ancestral village in an attempt to find himself a place to call home. While he has various adventures, both amorous and perilous, the book is mostly an excuse for Fraser to take the reader on an extended tour of the Edwardian years which bridged the end of Victorian era sensibilities with the rise of the horrors of modern life exemplified by WWI. With his vast riches Franklin quickly makes an entree to the upper classes, and unsurprisingly, what he finds &quot;society&quot; to be mostly selfish, shallow, blind to reality, and indifferent to morality, This is in sharp contrast to other characters from middle and lower classes, who embody more solid values and character, and are competent, productive members of society. Woven into the plot are such items as the &quot;Irish problem,&quot; the suffragette movement, and the buildup to WWI. As usual, Fraser keeps things interesting with vivid characters and rapid pacing. Thankfully (and pointedly), the book ends as Britain mobilizes with appalling naivete for the war that would destroy a generation.
5 George MacDonald Fraser is one of my favorite authors. It used to be (before Amazon) that I would have to find his books in Canada or England,  if I happened to be there. Now, of course, he's quite popular in this  country. I love his Flashman series, and they have accompanied me on many a  vacation.Mr. American contains his usual historical accuracy, though  it's not intended to be as funny as the Flashman series. Harry Flashman  shows up though, but in this book he is used to decry the folly of war, in  most of its forms, certainly that of WWI.The title character is an  American who becomes an observer of the decadence of post Victorian  England, as well as one welcomed into it, as long as he is useful to those  snobs whose society he is invited to enter. Whether he is to be amusing to  King Edward, or to use his money to restore his wife's family fortunes, he  is brought into the swim, only to find that it is a shallow pool  indeed.But along the way he comes into contact with delightful and  trustworthy characters, none of whom are of the upper class, and it is  these characters who make the snobs, by comparison, seem so feckless. Pip  is as wonderful as Samson is loyal and unperturbable. It is these  characters, and Prior and Thornhill, whom we are able to compare and  contrast with Percy, the Claytons and those who surround the King. Pip,  like most people who are positive and seemingly without a care, is in fact  very ethical, supportive of her family, and without guile. The others, in  their own ways, represent bedrock values and character, quite a contrast to  the carefree, unethical, and undignified society people.I highly  recommend this book, for its sheer pleasure of reading it.
5 This is an interesting look at the clash of two worlds, the old world of Edwardian England - settled, class-ridden and at the pinnicle of power ... and also weary, cynical and snobbish. Into this new world comes a man from the New - that world of frontier America, rough and ready, accustomed to lawlessness and violence ... and also a little naive. The "Mr. American" of the title has a mysterious past, but sufficient money to set up in a country house, to venture into that alien, glamorous world ... which in the end may turn out to be as hazardous to him as anything he encountered in his old life.All this, and Harry Flashman, too - what more can you ask?
4 This is not a Flashman book although Flashy does make a couple of showings in the book and leaves a lively imprint. If one however wants to know what it was like to live during the High Noon of Edwardian England for an outsider.Then this is the book to go to. Frankly this book is well worth the money with its good solid writing and interesting historical facts presented!Enjoy!
1 Instead I recommend Fraser's*The Complete McAuslan*The Pyrates: A Swashbuckling Comic Novel*Quartered Safe Out Here: A Harrowing Tale of WWIIMr. American and Flashman (#1) are listless. It's hard to believe that the same man wrote these books.My next Fraser will be 'The Reavers', a comic novel of the Border Reivers, loosely based on the Candlemass Road, in the style of his earlier novel The Pyrates.And The 'Light's on at Signpost', a memoir of the author's days writing in Hollywood, interspersed with criticism of political correctness and New Labour.
4 Mark Franklin, once an outlaw, had earned a fortune in the silver mines of Nevada, but had always romanticized England because of the tales of his family's descent from there, and from images of the Shakespeare he loved.  So, with his fortune secure, in 1909, he visits England to make his home in the small village his ancestors came from.He falls into aristocratic company, and meets everyone from the King to Winston Churchill to Sir Harry Flashman.  Though he meets his future wife in that society, he eventually realizes that his wife isn't much better then the rest of the corrupt society.  Having found little silver and much tarnish in England, and with World War I drawing near, he must decide:  should he stay or should he go?  And besides, there's always that outlaw past, ready to try to bite him . . .Fascinating book, as Fraser displays an intimate knowledge of that era.  It wasn't always that easy to understand Franklin's motives, and easy sometimes to laugh at his naivete, but I guess I'm not as straight a shooter as he was.  My loss, not his.Well worth reading, though it bogs down just a little bit in the middle.
3 As a lover of the Harry Flashman books by Frazier, I found Mr. American to be a bit of a disappointment. I guess I miss the romance and adventure, not to mention the humor, of his other novels. Nor does it have the zip found in Frazier's non-fiction Quartered Safe Out Here. A nice enough read....END
4 This is a curious work. As expected, George MacDonald Fraser's writing is marvelous and his storytelling creative and brisk. The only thing is that, except for one life-threatening incident, the novel isn't very eventful in the way we're used to experiencing in novels. The protagonist, an American prospector who has struck it rich, decides to return to his family's ancestral village in England to live and play the lord of the manor. He marries into an upper-class family, hob-knobs with the King, and has some encounters with a suffragette, a showgirl and a conniving aristocrat. For such a wealthy and masterful man, he gets manipulated an awful lot by unscrupulous Old Worlders, including his cheating wife, his parasitical brother-in-law, and even the infamous General Flashman. The story is very interesting (and I did find this 592 page novel quick and enjoyable reading) but just not of such magnitude and import that one is used to seeing in a published novel, especially by an author such as George MacDonald Fraser.Where I found the book most moving was in his theme of English roots and family and blood, that couldn't be broken even by oceans and centuries, and which mysteriously brought an Anglo-Saxon American home to a place he had never been, amidst the graves of his ancestors. In a similar vein, when we are informed that old General Flashman, a nonagenarian in 1914, had known a grandfather who had fought at the 1746 Battle of Culloden, we are struck by the immediacy of history and our own presence in a chain that goes into the past and into the future. The evocation of the start of World War I, so utterly devastating to England, is portrayed in the heartbreaking dialogue of 3 working men, whose mixture of romantic bravado and matter-of-fact determination so clearly showed their misapprehension of the carnage they were about to enter. This is a novel of transition: for Mark Franklin and for England. Franklin's adjustments to a foreign world are obvious. But we are also shown a rapidly changing England, who was throwing off the last vestiges of the morals and mores of her greatest era, an era that started with the downfall of Napoleon and which was book-ended by the horror of the First World War. I suppose one could say that I found the background of more interest than the foreground.
4 It's late summer 1909 in Liverpool and a Yank steps off the boat from America. Mark Franklin is an authentic Westerner, his luggage containing Stetson, saddle, gun belt and two .44 Remington pistols.I've been to England many times, and I love it. Unfortunately, my family's roots are not in the UK, nor have I had the longed-for opportunity to take up permanent residence there. In MR. AMERICAN, it's Franklin's great good luck to have made a fortune from a Nevada silver mine. This allows him to return to England in search of his roots - his forebears having immigrated to the Colonies hundreds of years before - and purchase the house, Manor Lancing, which dominates the Lincolnshire village of his ancestors, Castle Lancing.I learned in English Lit 1A that every novel incorporates a conflict, which, in MR. AMERICAN, is subtle. To modern fiction readers, fed a steady diet of lurid murders-most-foul, global conspiracies, and courtroom duels, it may not seem like much of a conflict at all. Author George MacDonald Fraser, a Brit himself, has chosen to introduce into Edwardian society of pre- WWI England a rugged individualist matured in the late-19th century American West, and develop what happens. The WASP values that Franklin possesses from such a background - chivalry, self-reliance, forthrightness, loyalty, lack of class pretension, suspicion of authority - are occasionally at odds with the upper class social circle that soon adopts him.For the reader, Mark will present as an appealing, stand-up fellow. The book is populated with interesting characters: Samson, Franklin's gentleman's gentleman; Pip, the effervescent West End stage actress; King Edward VII; Lady Helen Cessford, the militant suffragette; Peggy, the daughter of an impoverished country squire; Kid Curry, the unwelcome visitor from Franklin's ... um, shall we say, irregular past. And above all, there's the outrageous and aging rascal, General Harry Flashman, the hero of a whole other series of books by author Fraser.I was undecided for a bit on the number of stars to award this novel - 3 or 4. At almost 600 pages, it isn't the type of book that keeps one riveted. The dramatic moments are occasional and of short duration, and there are a lot of loose ends that would have made an absorbing sequel inasmuch as the storyline ends in 1914 with the outbreak of the war. (Since MR. AMERICAN was published in 1981, no sequel has been written to my knowledge. Pity.) In the final reckoning, I gave it four stars because it's about an American who finds "home" and adventure of sorts in a green and pleasant land. I'm envious.
5 &quot;Mr American&quot; begins with the arrival of Mark Franklin in England.  Mr. Franklin has spent his entire life in the American West.  He has never been to England in his life, but he's finally come home.The  author of the series, George MacDonald Fraser, has an extraordinary command  of the English language and all it's endless variations.  Combine this with  a knowledge of history that's astounding in it's depth and scholarship (as  shown in his &quot;Flashman Papers&quot; series) and you're in for treat.
4 After Black Ajax the idea of an essentially serious Fraser novel is a little less strange; when this came out, though, it was viewed as a definite anomaly in the middle of the Flashman series.  It's an excellent,  grown-up book that rings some interesting variations on classic western and  innocents-abroad archetypes-- in some ways the answer to H.L. Mencken's  famous jest that Henry James could have been a really great writer if only  he'd gone west instead of east to Europe.The straight-shootin'  ex-cowboy at the center of Mr. American is, for all his supposed outlaw  background, ultimately as much of an innocent as one of James' flowery  young debutantes.  Having made his pile out west (by means rough and tumble  but less vicious than all the Londoners like to imagine), he goes to Europe  to find refinement, culture, and-- he imagines-- the decency that life out  west lacked.  Of course he finds the exact opposite in an Edwardian England  that is morally rotten and on the verge of the greatest iniquity of all,  the mad self-destruction of World War I.  Fraser does a beautiful job of  making Mr. American simple enough to be disillusioned yet not so naive as  to be comical; this is a fine, intelligent read, and-- though this is  hardly the highest measure of a novel-- with its blend of John Ford and  Merchant Ivory, such perfect movie material that it's hard to imagine why  some aging star like Eastwood or Harrison Ford hasn't snapped it up and won  an Oscar with it.
4 Fraser, of course, is well known for the marvelous "Flashman" novels, but he wrote other novels as well (not to mention stage plays, screenplays, and critical works). This book runs to more than 550 pages, but it breaks neatly into two halves, so it's almost like a lead-in novel and a sequel; the two sections differ in flavor, too. It's the summer of 1909 and Mark Franklin, American, disembarks from an ocean liner at Liverpool with very little to his name, apparently, except some rather old clothes, a large quantity of cigars, a pair of six-shooters, and a fancy Mexican saddle. A day later he's in London, strolling the streets and drinking it all in. And very shortly after that -- following a run-in with a militant suffragette and a much more pleasant encounter with a young actress in a musical revue -- he has purchased a modest manor house in Norfolk and is moving in. But, as we eventually discover, this wasn't a spur-of-the-moment thing. Mr. Franklin (as the author refers to him throughout the book) descends from people who left the village of Castle Lancing in the 1640s to try their luck in the New World. Franklin himself, son of an itinerant schoolmaster in the West, never really had a home; he worked as a ranch hand and miner until he struck it rich, and now he's come back to where he hopes his roots are. And he's very, very rich.He gradually fits himself into the life of the village, though he's still pretty much a loner, and he takes on a manservant who steers him in the right directions as needed. And, while out exploring the countryside one day, he meets King Edward and his mistress, Alice Keppel. Bertie rather takes to the American gentleman's polite lack of forelock-tugging and Franklin finds himself swept rather abruptly into the highest levels of society. He also meets Peggy, daughter of a local baronet (friendly but financially straitened), falls in love, and rather quickly marries her. Throughout all this, Fraser shows us a vanished world through the eyes of an astute and observant outsider. And, to act as his politically incorrect mouthpiece, he brings in the now 90-year-old retired Gen. Sir Harry Flashman (who is also the great-uncle of the suffragette noted above), who has caustic comments and observations of his own and who revels in creating discomfort among the movers and shakers.But there's more, because Franklin has another side to his past. He was also a satellite member of Butch Cassidy's Wild Bunch gang, involved in several hold-ups and shootings, before he reformed and attempted to go straight. And all that comes home to roost when an extremely menacing figure from that darker past shows up on his doorstep one winter night.The second half of the story picks up a couple of years later, early in 1913, with Mark and Peggy living in a nice townhouse in London, visiting Castle Lancing at intervals, and doing all the social things one expects. At least, Peggy, who is nearly fifteen years younger than her husband, is immersed in the social whirl. Franklin himself is beginning to feel too old for that sort of thing -- but he's involved in his father-in-law's growing stud farm (which he financed), and keeps up with his young brother-in-law (whose military career in Ireland he subsidizes). Until his wife comes to him for a substantial amount of money and he gradually discovers all is not well in his life. Fraser then shows us the other side of British aristocratic society and its attitudes, the side a "Puritan" Yankees is not going to approve of much. Though he's far too canny an author to cast it all in black-and-white. The last part of the narrative, as Franklin tries to decide what to do, whether to chuck it all or what -- and all of this against the background of the assassination at Sarajevo and the slow realization by the people around him that Britain is facing its first real war in a century -- is almost Shakespearean in its tragic inevitability.Fraser likes to do extended set-piece scenes and there are a number of those, often centering on Gen. Flashman, but also including a nice courtroom interlude and a fancy-dress ball. My favorite character, unquestionably, is Pip, the jubilant, talented showgirl who doesn't pretend to be anything she's not; she's the most centered person in the story. Franklin himself, while one of the Good Guys, still is rather a cold fish and not always easy to empathize with. But the dialogue and descriptions, the historical scenery and psychological exploration are quite superior. Too bad more of Flashman's fans haven't discovered this book.
4 Some years before the beginning of World War One, Mr Franklin arrives in England, carrying two Remington revolvers and a bank draft worth a fortune.Fraser uses this auspicious beginning to give us a view of Edwardian society from top to bottom, its highs and lows, its glories and  its hypocrisies.Mr Franklin has come to England to seek out the village  from which his ancestors had emigrated in the 17th Century and to settle  there; if ha has any expectations at all, it is that he will live a quiet  life in a small, sleepy village.  Of course, this is not what happens --  and thereby hang four stars worth of reading enjoyment.From his  accidental but most enjoyable encounter with London showgirl Pip, to his  accidental but portentous encounter with a distinguished gentleman in the  country who, despite his incognito, has a rather royal manner, through his  brushes with Fraser's charming rotter, the elderly but still randy Harry  Flashman (the young Churchill runs a bit shy of Sir Harry) and a  hair-raising reminder of his past in America, Mr Franklin takes it all in  stride, with a slightly bewildered interest...It takes love to disturb  him sufficiently that he will take decisive action.An action that will  be silhouetted against the backdrop of the beginning of World War One and  its time.This is not the rollicking romp that the Flashman books are,  nor is it the cheerful, sometimes touching military fiction of &quot;The  General Danced at Dawn&quot; and Fraser's other &quot;Dand McNeill&quot;  stories...  But it is a picture of a fascinating time and place that seems  so recent in some ways and so long ago in others, a picture that helps to  open and illuminate that time and place for the modern reader as, slowly  but surely, it slips from living memory into &quot;recent history&quot;,  about which, if, as has been said,  &quot;the past is a different  country&quot;, one can say that recent history is a foreign contry that  lies just outside our own borders.And, as when one visits such  deceptively familiar but ultimately foreign places, one is advised to  engage the services of a reliable native guide and translator to get the  maximum enjoyment out of your visit.  Accept Mr Fraser's offer to act in  that capacity, and travel back to that time...
4 I found the pace a little strange for a while. A very pleasant unhurried book. Don't read it if you're in a rush or expecting a thriller.As far as I'm concerned, this book is important for the last appearance of Sir Harry Flashman and if only for that read it.I actually didn't get the ending at all... but with such a book it really doesn't matter.
5 England.  1909.  Mark Franklin, the American, has stepped off the Mauretania to his new life in England, after striking it rich on a silver mine in wild, untamed Nevada.  He's returned to what he perceives to be his ancestral home, three hundred years after his long-dead ancestor left it for America to begin with.  What will he find?  How will he adapt?Thus begins this lengthy, engrossing, dreamy tale of this bygone era and this wonderful bygone place which was to end abruptly in a mere five years, never to return again.  But what a place!  Decadent, gawdy, bustling London, with its shops and restaurants and newsboys and cabs--both motorized and horse-drawn--and trains, and theatres, and pubs, and bobbies and pickpockets.  There is no more exciting city on earth.  But the countryside is charming as well.  For the upper class in their estates surrounded by well-manicured parkland:  pheasant hunting, picnics and fox hunting during the day;  dinners, smoking, gambling and boozing at night.  And although the life of the working class was not quite the same, it was by no means a wretched existence.  One had the means, after all, to visit  the theatre, or perhaps attend a bawdy musical revue, or maybe just have a pint or two at the Apple Tree.Like any other time in history, though, there were issues.  Women did not have the vote yet and many in the community were becoming restive over this.  The Irish problem was also heating up, with the Dublin government threatening--by force if necessary--to incorporate the northern counties.  And as time went by developments over central Europe began to loom unpleasantly.  Everybody had an opinion about everything.It is just marvelously evoked and nothing is missing.  And unlike many other novels of this type--Crimson Petal and the White comes to mind--the hundreds of tiny details and the descriptions of people and places never overwhelm the story.  They are there to create a setting, not to show the reader that the author is so vastly knowledgeable.Along with the fascinating period detail, there is also--as one would expect with Fraser--a terrific plot.  Obviously, there are no Charges of the Light Brigade or Custer's Last Stands, or Sepoy Mutinies--actions commonplace in the Flashman novels--but the force of Fraser's narrative is such that even little things such as a game of bridge can become incredibly suspenseful.Our friend, Mr. Franklin--barely in England for two weeks--unwittingly comes upon a picnicking King Edward and before he has a chance to think about it, he is invited to dinner at the estate at which the king is visiting.  What a complicated venture!  How should he act?  What should he wear?  What should he bring?  Should he bring a gift?He somehow manages to get through dinner but later he is asked to play bridge--a game he barely knows--at the king's table and it suddenly occurs to him that there is a tremendous amount of anxiety in the room.  You see everyone and especially the hosts are desperate that the petulant king enjoy himself and remain in an agreeable mood.  For the king to depart his hosts in a foul mood--and to then regale other members of the nobility with tales of woe regarding his stay with them--would be a terrible black eye, and perhaps something they could not live down.  And now it is Mr. Franklin's turn to bid, with the king eyeing him carefully from across the table, and with the king's mistress prattling disarmingly to his left, while she surreptitiously counts every card.And later, after purchasing and renovating his own estate, after becoming a thorough English gentleman, and after becoming irrevocably involved with the English gentry, he gets a surprise visit from an old American acquaintance.  A Mr. Curry.  A harmless enough looking fellow, Mr. Curry is in fact a notorious murderer with a very quick gun.  He also has some knowledge of Mr. Franklin's past in the badlands of America, a past that Mr. Franklin has not completely divulged to his new English friends.  Mr. Curry believes he is entitled to a significant amount of Mr. Franklin's fortune and he is there to collect.There is quite a bit more.  Indeed, never is there a time during the course of the novel that one feels entirely complacent about setting it down.  Surely, another twenty minutes aren't going to harm anything, right?  But, in fact, it does slow somewhat towards the end.  Mr. Franklin has become slightly disenchanted with the English and with his new English family, forgetting perhaps that they are human after all.  The war has just begun.  Attempting to get across town with the inestimable Flashman--who makes a couple of delightful appearances in this--they get stuck at the palace.  Thousands of loyal Britons have congregated, singing Rule Brittania and other patriotic songs, and the sound is deafening.  As Flashman exits the carriage to go to the palace--he is there only to relieve himself--the crowd recognizes the be-medaled old hero and cheers, "Hip, hip, hooray;  hip, hip, hooray," over and over again in an ever-increasing deafening roar.  It is, to say the least, a very moving scene, knowing as the reader does how Great Britain is going to be affected by this terrible conflict.The blurb on the cover of  the paperback edition of this is from the Times, and it says, "Every page is sheer, unadulterated pleasure."  There is really no better way to describe this wonderful novel.
2 Let me say first off that I hated this book. I haven't read a book in a very long time that annoyed me as much as this did.The main problem was its protagonist, the titular hero, the "Mr. American". In the description given of the story, he is drawn as some kind of Gary Cooper strong, silent type who is calm and measured on the surface, but deadly when riled. In the early parts of the book, I kept seeing Gary Cooper, and seeing the story itself as some kind of early 30s movie.But as the story evolves, the guy turns out to be a colossal wimp, torn hither-and-yon by every one of the "sophisticated" "jaded" and "cynical" old world characters he confronts. He is beaten at every game, robbed and led around by the nose by his beautiful but contemptible and worthless wife, who has married him just for his money. Worse, he is indecisive, and even when his life is put in peril in a confrontation with an old enemy, he relies on his British valet to get him out of it. At the end of the story--and this may give something away--when he has finally made a strong decision to leave his miserable marriage, at the last minute he gives in and crawls back to the worthless harridan he has been thoroughly abused and cheated by. Hardly the stuff of heroism and silent strength.Worse, this book came across to me, as an American, as an example of the most obnoxious type of British self-satisfaction, self-congratulation and indulgent condescension. The device of setting a foreigner down in your country and, seeing through his eyes the perfection and wonders of the country, is difficult to stomach. One example: our protagonist is from the American West, the two-fisted, two-gunned he-man I described above. He is constantly reassured, and constantly thinks to himself, about the efficiency and genius of the British police system, where no man can commit a crime and escape, where one cannot indulge in the Western type of slaughter and get away with it. When he himself, in self-defense, commits murder, he deigns it better to conceal the action rather than face the police with the truth, so deep is his fear of the coppers. Again, not the hard man of decision we were promised. Yet our author seems to forget that just a few years before this story is supposed to take place, in Britain, the most famous of uncaught criminals was openly and brazenly committing foul and very gaudy and public murder in the streets of the empire's capital city and mocking those same brilliant, efficient police for their inability to catch him!The plot ends up being a rehash of a story stereotype that was already old when this story was supposed to be taking place: that of the gosh-golly nave American amongst the sharps and wolves of degenerate Europe. This type of story has merit and possibilities even today, if its done as humor and satire, but not in an adventure tale where the hero should, at least at some time, stand up strongly, rather than be a complete puss from beginning to end. In a lot of ways, this came across to me as a Jeeves & Wooster story, but without the laughs and cleverness and sly social commentary that give this type of story some merit.I give it two stars instead of one for the following reasons: First, it is very well written. The author is an excellent and smooth writer. Unfortunately, in this novel at least, the story isn't worth the talent and, I think, it's a misfire. I'll have to try out a couple of his other books before I make any judgement on his place in fiction. They are probably better and maybe he was on unfamiliar ground here.Second, his history is excellent. Some times--a lot of times--you get a better idea of history by reading fiction than you do by reading straight history. He seems to have all his facts right here, he drops in a lot of telling details of the times, the social movements, the drift of Britain and Europe towards war and the ultimate destruction of the society portrayed here. This is what kept me reading when I wanted to abandon the book and is its strongest suit. When the novel started going back to the "story" and characters is when it lost me, but I persevered doggedly to its confusing and highly unsatisfying conclusion.So would I recommend it? Yes, to British readers of a Kiplingesque, jingo mindset, if they want to relive days of glory long gone by. But as an American, I found it insulting in the worst way--the author feels an admiration and affection for us, but it is the type of "pat the dog on the head" type of affection or, maybe more precisely, the type of affection a master felt for his slaves in this country in the days of the old South: "my darkeys, I love them so; they sing so sweet and are as dumb and gentle as children". And if you are of an Irish Nationalist bent, it is even worse and more insulting. It's too bad because the idea was good, the writing is excellent; it is just poorly executed.
5 I've read all of Fraser's books and I consider this one of the best.  I just re-read it after a gap of 8 years. I enjoyed it immensely. It should be read by all fans of Flash Harry.
5 This is a great book, particularly if you are an American,live in England and are a closet wild west buff.I enjoyed every page of this book.
4 Call this book a prologue.The first chapter setup is simple: Morn Hyland, beautiful damsel in distress, is rescued from evil disreputable smuggler/pirate Angus Thermopyle by dashing hero Nick Succerso.  But that's not The REAL Story.  What REALLY happened is much more interesting.The first (and shortest) book in the Gap series focuses on The Real Story.  Donaldson has a lot of fun twisting expectations and unpeeling layers.  It makes for a good book, but not a great one.  The more important function of The Real Story is to get you ready for The BETTER Story, which is The Gap Cycle.I believe Donaldson is one of the best world-builders out there. If you've read the incredible Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, you'll know what I'm talking about.  This is what he is best at and I believe his writing fades a bit when he writes character studies.  The world of The Gap Cycle is compelling and, in its own way, enchanting but you don't get to see a lot of it in this book.  Donaldson is setting up some concepts (Gap Drive, Forbidden Space, Piracy and why it thrives), but most of this book is a character study of the vile Angus and the newly- orphaned Morn.  There are huge scads of this book that are dialog free; Donaldson is doing a lot of telling, and not much showing.And some of it is quite brutal.  In his afterword (in my edition of this book) Donaldson admits that he thought for a long time before publishing the story because he didn't like to think about what people might think of him.  While I'm glad he published it, the nastiness does go over the top in places and seems a bit gratuitous.  I believe that following a less-is-more strategy and allowing our own nightmares to fill in the blanks would have been more effective.But who am I to presume to tell SRD to write?  I'm just glad he did.  Stick with this book because the next one is much better.The Gap Series has everything you could want in a Space Opera.  Pick it up.The Gap Series:The Real Story:  B+Forbidden Knowledge:  A+A Dark And Hungry God Arises:  AChaos and Order:  A+This Day All Gods Die:  A+
4 Many of the reviews on this book complain that it is &quot;too cynical.&quot;  I find this to be a ridiculous criticism of a book.  This is the same sort of nonsensical flagellating that Thomas Hardy once said &quot;cured him of novel-writing&quot; (Hardy certainly being accused of, among other things, too cynical).But I'm not out to write a review of other reviews, but of this book.  Donaldson's universe is not as deep or compelling as say, Margaret Weis &amp; Tracy Hickman's Starshield Universe, or their delightful space-operatic setting of the Star of the Guardians trilogy, or even the relatively sparse celestial settings of some of Harlan Ellison's sci-fi work.  I don't think by this point in the series Donaldson is working on sweeping us away in typical space-opera grandiosity (be forewarned if this is what you seek -- you will not find a classically defined &quot;epic&quot; in this story.)What you will find is a compact, tightly written, and disturbingly personal piece of fiction.  If you're an empathetic person you'll be able to relate to even the monstrous Angus is some detached way.  There are no heroes in this story, and if you consider it, no true villains.  The story is about a kidnapping, but the simplicity ends there.Yet, I have to admit, I would have preferred the epic sci-fi sweep of the aforementioned authors in places opposed to the personal, introspective (and often) slow-paced tone of this novel.  Give it a try, it only takes you about 4 hours to read.
4 The Gap Cycle consists of:1. The Gap into Conflict: The Real Story, Bantam/Spectra, 19902. The Gap into Vision: Forbidden Knowledge, Bantam/Spectra, 19913. The Gap into Power: A Dark and Hungry God Arises, Bantam/Spectra, 19924. The Gap into Madness: Chaos and Order, Bantam/Spectra, 19945. The Gap into Ruin: This Day All Gods Die, Bantam/Spectra, 1996Only books 1 and 3 are available at this time (June 2010) on Kindle.  All are from the same publisher so why are not all available on Kindle?  It is quite frustrating.  Please get the whole cycle onto Kindle.
4 I have read several reviews here which described disappointment at this book and its subject matter. This is the first book in a five part series, and is the shortest of the bunch.While it is an important starting point, after having read it, you will not have any inkling as to what comes next! In fact the rest of the series goes in such an unexpected direction that you cannot judge the entire story by this novel alone.This novel, can be ugly and even disturbing, as we see the complete victimization of the heroine. I can understand how some people can be turned off to the series, but if you make the effort to read this novel, you must read the next novel in the series to get a better understanding of what you are in for. If you stick with what you read, I think you will be pleasantly surprised.
4 This was not what I expected - a sorta soft porn adventure soap opera among the stars.  In this case, the science fiction is only a backdrop to the "real" book, a study in characters.  A dark and dreary mood permeates this story (and the following ones).  Sure, you don't want a steady diet but for a change of pace...I loved Morn and in a perverse way, came to feel something for Angus.  Their relationship was more than master-slave, involving a deeply disturbing complexity.  Actually, I had no trouble getting through the book although I admit that the following works were better.
3 One policewoman, two pirates.A space policewoman, with a serious flaw - she gets sick during the type of travel required to cross interstellar distances - gets into trouble when the destroyer she serves on runs into a ruthless pirate.Enter another, more dashing, far less ugly pirate into a bleak story of capture and survival, along with the beginnings of a nasty alien plot.
4 As a fan of Donaldson's fantasy novels I was disappointed when he turned to science fiction, a genre I've not often liked as much.  I finally began to miss the guy after almost ten years.  This first book was a rough ride considering all the ugliness, but I fell in love with his writing style all  over again and persevered to find all the wonders held in the  sequels.'The Real Story' is exactly that, stark realism, gritty and in  your face.  The advantage for the reader is the pleasure of seeing  characters who, rising from their latest beating to perform a feat of  determination to survive, extraordinary under normal circumstances, are  made all the more admirable given these - I hope you follow that!Donaldson absolutely shines at writing himself into and back out of  corners when you'd think there's no way out for him, and it is all totally  believable.I'd rank this series on par with his other work and won't  be nearly so reluctant to follow him into whatever genre he chooses to  pursue next.
5 Angus Thermopyle is truly vile. Revolting, worthless, and at his core, evil in the most contemptible ways. Science Fiction needs many more heroes like him.We have many admirable SciFi heroes. But we meet Angus as a monster, and his ruination and redemption IS an epic. No apologies to Wagner required.Sure, we love David Weber's Honor Harrington. But characters like her cannot fail, they cannot fall. Their souls are never in jeopardy. When Angus begins to even HAVE a soul, it is a fragile, precious thing. It's survival is always in doubt, even past the end of the work.If this book was boring, stupid, or poorly written, then there would be no excuse for the long slog through the filth and gore that this book chronicles. But it is expertly crafted, brilliant, and riveting.There is much more to love and hate about this book, but it certainly deserves to be very widely read.
2 I read this book, and ONLY this book out of this series. It was sub-par, so I didn't buy the rest. This book ends like a movie serial. I loved The Unbeliever series, and expected more from The Real Story.I sit here and read reviews of all the Gap books, but the reality is that this one is badly written. Perhaps the series is good, but I will never know because I disliked the writing style, the simplistic story, and the pulp ending of the first installment. If an author writes a bad novel, do they REALLY deserve to get more of your money? In this case, I didn't invest another [dollar] in the rest of the Gap books because the first was not very good. I recommend you do the same.... The Gap gets 2.
5 I've got to review the entire series, because there is no stand-alone story in this cycle (which begins with 1991's The Real Story: The Gap Into Conflict). If you're in for a penny, you're in for a pound. And if you're in, prepare to be assaulted. Donaldson's penchant for making his protagonists suffer and wringing every ounce of blood, sweat and tears out of their endless distresses is both bracing and punishing. With a sprawling narrative mirroring Wagner's Ring Cycle, Donaldson builds a vast, roaring space opera like no other, wherein victims, victimizers and saviors change places, people get mutated into aliens, and the only promise is that, even if things turn out well, they will do so bloodily, after much suffering has been endured. Science fiction authors are rarely this visceral, rarely create such fascinating, damaged characters, and rarely manage to make their interstellar fate-of-humanity melodramas as personal or powerful. If you're in the mood for sci fi with the sweep of Star Wars but the emotional nakedness of James Jones, look no further than the Gap Cycle.
2 This series is a straightforward space opera (interplanetary traders, pirates, space police, icky aliens) with a nod to high opera--Wagner's Ring des Nibelungen cycle, to be precise. Unfortunately, Donaldson, whose writing sparkles here as it has in his other books (particularly the first Thomas Covenant series) has latched on to a genre that is stale and leavens it with  touches that are creepy at best and at work downright unpleasant.This volume (which is the best in the series) follows the misadventures of a young space cadet named Morn Hyland. She's a junior pilot on a huge family-owned freighter. When her ship comes out of 'the Gap' (read warp/lightspeed/whatever), everyone on the ship but her is killed. A pirate/scavenger named Angus Thermopyle, a sleeze-ball of the first order, take her aboard, has his way with her, and is eventually arrested when he pulls in to a space station for repairs. That's the &quot;Real Story&quot;.... or is it? Donaldson plays a Rashomon-like game, going back and retelling the story in greater depth, more close to the character's point of view, revealing that what really happened may have been something quite different. We get to watch Morn raped and degraded. And Morn raped and degraded. And Morn raped and degraded. Angus displays all sorts of neurotic soul, so we're supposed to come to sympathise with him--that we almost do is a tribute to Donaldson's writing skills, which is why I even give The Real Story 2 stars--but the fact of the matter is that this is a book about abusing a woman who never appears as more than a victim or a cypher. I read, somewhere, that Donaldson wrote this series during and immediately following his divorce. If so, I feel his pain, but I really would rather that I hadn't read the book. I went on to read the rest of the series, waiting for some kind of redemption, but aside from the fun of identifying characters from the Ring cycle in various spacers and magnates, it's more scenes of Morn being raped and degraded, literally or figuratively.As science fiction, it's stale; as softcore S&amp;M porn (a genre I must admit to being much less well read in) it's flat. For either, go elsewhere.
5 Sure, I had read other science fiction(Asimov, Bear, Quite a few unknowns and Names I Can't Remember), but nothing prepared me for this book.  I came  into it off the Thomas Covenant series, trusting that since it was  Donaldson, it would probably be at least an ok read, and besides, its  short.  If I don't like it I don't have to read the others.What I  found when I opened the book was a drama of such depth and with so many  realistic characters that it changed my views on science fiction.  The  bleakness of the rape scenes and the depravity served as an excellent  counterpoint to the characters' struggle to survive.  You can only have as  much good in a book as you admit bad.  This book has a lot of bad, but it  only serves to make the characters' simplest actions heroic in proportion.  Morn's struggle to survive in the face of all that happens to her is  heartbreaking - it shows both the strengths and the weaknesses inherent in  human nature.  Overcoming those weaknesses and the depravities that are  forced upon her is a seemingly impossible task, and so every score in her  favor means so much more than it would if she was merely kidnapped and  yelled at.  The other characters are equally depthy, but that depth is  developed more over the rest of the series.  I even found myself  sympathizing with the characters on the dark side of the spectrum, although  I would never agree with their actions.  These characters are not  inherently evil, they were twisted by their childhood, by the events that  surrounded them.  This can never make their actions forgivable in any  society, but it can convert anger at them into sadness for them.  If you  read the first book and never pick up the second, you will be losing one of  the best, if not the best, sci-fi series out there, and also one of the  best reflections on the nature of the human soul.  The ideas expressed are  not pretty, if they were they would not be an accurate reflection of  reality.  Give it a chance.
5 This is the first of five books centering around three central characters, each balanced and very well developed (with serious weaknesses, as all of Donaldson's characters seem to have). At times, you might find yourself sympathizing for the antagonist, and feeling unsure of who you want to "root" for. While each book is separate on its own (and each has a prologue summarizing prior books, like Covenant), it is best treated as a single story.There is sexual content in the series that some may find offensive, especially in the first book. It definitely adds to the story, and the emotional ride Donaldson delivers. If you read the "Thomas Covenant" series, you know how his books sometimes make you feel like you were run over by a Mack-Truck, and this series will definitely do that to you - but there are highs as well as lows (compared to Covenant, which was mostly depressing to me).The story line of the series is fascinating - much like Strachzynski's "Babylon 5" series, the characters are greatly influenced by political events, maneuvered like pawns until they move in unexpected manners. The first book is a "quickie", more of an introduction to the series. As the series progresses, it becomes increasingly complicated (in a delicious way). It's not hard-core sci-fi, in that the technology is not the focus of the story - it could take place in submarines or pirate ships in the ocean almost as easily.I enjoyed this series a lot more than The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant. Another good read by Donaldson is his collection of short stories, "Daughter of the Regal", which I'd highly recommend.
2 Despite Stephen Donaldson's admitted writing talents, complemented with inventive and original concepts, the content of his work has progressively and dramatically declined since the writing of the classic fantasy sextet,  &quot;The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant,&quot; almost two decades ago.  Followed by the good but unmemorable fantasy &quot;Mirror of Her  Dreams,&quot; with the &quot;Gap&quot; series he has chosen to turn his  talents  instead to science fiction.  It is hardly a success.I forced  myself to read both the first and second books in this series, mainly, I  suppose, out of loyalty to the memory of the earlier &quot;Covenant&quot;  series.  However, whereas there the protagonist possessed a dark side that  enriched as well as leavened the realism and humanity of the tale, in the  &quot;Gap&quot; Donaldson has chosen to revel in the singular immorality  and depravity of his characters.  The end result is an unrelentingly dark  world totally devoid of humanity or an inkling of compassion, with  protagonists obsessed solely with their own selfish purpose.  There is a  determined absence of the interplay between the potential for both good and  evil that coexists in all humanity.  Instead the world of the  &quot;Gap&quot; is devoted to characters pathologically oblivious to  anything outside their own primitive survival and, more often than not,  perverse desires.  There is not a single sympathetic character to which one  can attach much response beyond disgust.  While it is obvious from reading  other reviews that Donaldson has found an audience for this work, his  creation here reflects a unremitting cynicism and misanthropy that, while I  recognize its existence in the world, I would prefer not to dwell in  entirely.  And this book is too preoccupied and single-minded in it's  desire to explore the depths of human depravity for me to applaud the  quality of it's writing. Conceptually without merit and one of the least  engaging works I have read in some time.
1 I did not find the story interesting at all. The book was recommended to me by a friend whose recommendations I will not take anymore.
2 I will try the next book in the series based on reviews, but this one was just too much for me.  I couldn't get past the rape stuff
4 This is my second time reading this story, and it still holds up well. The first time I read it I was blown away by the brutality of the story and frankly embarrassed to say I enjoyed the story. The second time through it didn't appall me as much, but then again I knew what I was getting into. This is typical Donaldson; he explores the darkness of the human soul and can put human despair down on paper better than any author out there, and it's in full display here.Anyway, this is the first book in his sci-fi GAP series that sets the stage and introduces the triangle of characters, Angus Thermopyle: the ore pirate, Morn Hyland: the police officer, and the ore pirate Nick Succorso. The story is interesting in that it starts with the end of the story, but then fades back to the start and tells the "real story" of what happened. It's hard to say anything without giving it away, but it focuses on Angus and Morn and how he comes to capture her and break her, but as shown in the first few pages we know that Nick somehow gets involved too in his lust for Morn. To tell you the truth there's not much to the story beyond that and the fact that these three characters get developed through the story.This book isn't a happy one, it's dark, sexual, and violent, and it will put off some readers. You could almost say this is sci-fi horror, but the horror is human and not supernatural. I think this it is an interesting tale, told well, and introduces us to a new world built by Donaldson. Personally I love this story, and enjoyed it the second time around.Of note, it's a short read, as it's not a very large novel.
2 This is pretty cheesy and salacious.  Not worth spending the time.  I gave up after a half-dozen chapters.  Its not so much a science fiction novel as it is about exploitation of females.  Don't waste your time.
4 Like all of Donaldson's books, this one disturbed me the first time I read it. The main character was about as vile as anything I had ever considered as a teenager. And the conclusion was unsatisfying, to say the least. But no other players were named. No background or history was given. This story was all about a terrible human being, and getting the reader to want to know what happens to him.It worked.At no point during The Real Story did i want him to succeed, but I absolutely had to know what happened next. Which meant I had to slog through Forbidden Knowledge, where Donaldson gives us all of the relevant, yet dull, background for the story. If you can make it through, the last two books are amazing.
3 There isn't so much to tell about this first book of Donaldon's Gap series. It's neither bad, nor spectacular, and I wouldnt be suprised if quite some readers would be deterred by 'The Real Story' from reading more novels of this series. But, dont be too badly surprised, and just consider this book as an extended prologue to the great sci-fi epic coming up in the next four books.'The Real Story' itself is about Ensign Morn Hyland, who is captured by the pirate space captain Angus Thermopyle after her space ship got destroyed by the raider. Angus not only forces Morn to crew for him, he also succeeds in putting some kind of mind control on her, which he exploits at a very disturing rate. At this point, readers who are more familiar with Donaldson's works might see parallels to other heroines of Donaldson (i.e. Lena in Lord Foul's bane), and is it just me, or does he have a warped approach to female willingness for sacrifice, or what? Anyhow, when Morn finally sees a chance to get herself rid of Angus, she teams up with swashbuckling space captain Nick Succorso and together they plot to bring Angus down.Basically, 'The Real Story' just serves as introduction of these three leading characters and to link them together. As the series progresses and the stories behind the curtains unfold, much more details about the main characters on one side, and the forces behind the scene on the other side are revealed. With each book, Donaldson's plot becomes more spectacular and complicated, and his style of narration is grim and pretty much in your face, but whatever you say of Donaldson, geeze, he knows how to bring his books (and his series) to some breathtaking culmination.'The Real Story' just isnt one of those books - rather some prelude to some epic of a much wider scale.
3 I read this book because I was told of how disturbing it was.  My thinking was that anything that could inspire such revulsion in hard-core readers must be worth a look, if nothing else than to see what the fuss was about.  Besides that, I heard it was a decent story.My hope is that the  remainder of the series is stronger.  The story itself was marginally  interesting - but there was really no likable character to root for.  Even  Morn was hard for me to embrace.  As to the vile acts committed in the book  - yes, they are somewhat unsettling.  However, the acts here did not  disturb me as much as, say, the rape scene in Burgess' &quot;A Clockwork  Orange&quot;.  There are numerous mentions of deviant behavior, but they  are described in a detached, unemotional sense and without any detail, so  they really failed to impact me.  Maybe I'm jaded, but I was not really  that shocked.Donaldson is a good storyteller and builds characters well.  My hope is that in the next book (have not read it yet) Morn and her new  captain will be developed more fully and challenged to do more.
5 Great read, loved the whole series.  I had 3 of them and was so happy to obtain this first book and the fourth book of 5.  Best Science fiction I&#34;read in a long time.
4 ...but also an extremely well written beginning to an excellent series.  Make no mistake, this book is not for the faint-hearted.  There are scenes in here that'll make the blood boil and the stomach turn.  And most of the book deals with the relationship (if you can call it that) between Angus Thermopyle and Morn Hyland, with Morn acting as little more than a toy of Angus, who gets most of the character development.  Donaldson takes us deep into the recesses Thermopyle's twisted soul, and makes the reader wallow with Morn in those festering sewers.  This is actually necessary to understand her motivations later in the series, since The Real Story is mostly set-up for what follows later.Really, it's well-written stuff that stays with you long after you put the book down (whether you want it to or not).  If you can get through it, it's worth the read.  But make sure you continue the series.  But if you're looking for an uplifting, mind-expanding story with a happy ending, look somewhere else.
2 I'm embarrassed to admit I read this. So why am I confessing? Maybe it's good therapy. Unbelievable characters. Trite dialog. Flat out stupid plot. And the worst thing is, the 4 book "series" that this begins isn't so much a series of 4 books, but 1 big lame book split into 4 installments. A real series would have distinct stories, a beginning and an end, with some sense of completion to each. This reads like a TV mini-series complete with a cliffhanger at the end of each night's episode.So, if I hated it so much, why 2 stars instead of 1? Somehow the author managed to trick me into reading every book. I got to the end of the first and thought "oh that was awful, I have to read the next one."Take my advice and avoid this like crack: it's easier never to start than to try to stop.
1 (...) Then there's a quite ridiculous, pretentious "afterward" where the author tells of his struggle to achieve "aesthetic perfection" with this book and compares himself to Richard Wagner.All of this is made "profound" by the author telling us that the victim is really the rescuer and the rescuer is really the villain and the villain is really the victim and hip bone's connected to the thigh bone and the...A piece of depth psychology: "maybe if I rape somebody often enough, she'll fall in love with me." (I paraphrase, but only to improve the grammar.)If you like extreme sexual psychopathology -- stick with "The End of Alice."  Space jockeys would do better to re-read their Heinlein.
4 I guess I should give this five stars since there's no other way to write something like this, really; and it's an important set-up for the story ahead.  This book is brutal, disturbing, and short-- if it wasn't short, it would be impossible to finish.  I take a star off for initial editorial censorship--'fornication' for the first half of the book before leaving the word behind and saying what he means.The Real Story, although written as a stand-alone novella, serves nothing more than the purpose of setting up the characters of Angus Thermopyle, Morn Hyland, and Nick Succorso; and gives frame of reference to events later referenced as minor parts of larger plot devices, simply for anchoring.The Real Story eliminates the strained suspension of disbelief for Morn Hyland in particular.  She is believably mentally sharp, but not so much given her obvious mental issues; this push-and-pull provides no offenses of sensibilities once you've read The Real Story.The Real Story is a horrible story as it stands.  It cannot stand on its own.  It is the most disturbing, unsatisfying thing you could possibly read.  Donaldson himself admits this, and admits that he had written it as a stand-alone originally and was not satisfied.  It exists, instead, solely to establish facts and an empathy for characters that follow in the remainder of The Gap Cycle; and it satisfies that need extremely well.A word of caution:  The Audiobook is narrated by Scott Brick, who reads everything in the light-hearted tone often used with Shakespearean literature--and to the same effect:  as dark a story is, you can't help but imagine faeries and unicorns prancing about and smiles on everyone's faces as they drink their milk and honey.  No stars for the one-dimensional narrator.
4 I had a hard time reading this.  Stopped and started reading this several times. The brutality against the woman is difficult.  Then you get past that and the story gets going.  Then it's enjoyable to read and sets up for the next book.
2 When most fiction writers approach issues of rape and abuse, they quite sensibly tend to imply acts of violation rather than indulge the fantasies of the darker side of the male psyche with extensive and prurient descriptions of acts explicit violence. In 'The Real Story,' I feel that Donaldson has over-stepped his mark and might as well have included detailed, close-up colour photographs depicting rape, if immersion in appalling and repeated acts of sex crimes was the effect he wished to achieve. I guess most testosterone driven men (including myself) have a darker side to their psyches, but we recognize the barbarism our impulses and divert and suppress them: for shame, we refuse to indulge the beast within.Donaldson expresses some agreement with this viewpoint but, in his Afterword, he says, "It was as if in imagining him, [The chief rapist - KR] I'd tapped directly into the dark side of my own nature."  He also states that "If I drew on some buried part of myself to create Angus, so much the better: at least I'm writing what I know."  Mr. Donaldson, you far over-estimate the value of visualising and verbalising the savage instincts of the beast at the heart of man. You merely give voice to proto-man, stripped of all restriction, civility and culture: to the inchoate lust of the beast.The result of your lapse, Mr. Donaldson, is a ghastly expression of voyeurism focused entirely on the continuous degradation and humiliation of a human being in a manner all to commonin today's world. I do not find this acceptable entertainment, but rather, quite simply as rape-pornography.Before the hackles of some of my readers rise to risible conspicuousness, I would add that I am not advocating censorship: actually, I quite enjoy good quality erotica in all its forms. But this book should carry an age restriction and a pornography label (in my opinion).Nevertheless, Donaldson is an immensely talented writer and I quite enjoyed the story overall. He really has tried hard (maybe too hard) to reflect the elastic, multi-level dichotomies that exist in every human psyche, through the vehicle of his three main characters.I feel that he could have turned this into a masterpiece had he reflected a little longer on the dominance of his tale by a focused fascination with rape as a means of breaking the human spirit - and re-written it.
5 Nothing compares with Donaldson's first two Thomas Covenant Trilogies. But this story is surprising good, given that the main character, Angus Thermopyle, is quite repugnant. Somehow, despite this, the story kept my interest and I am now well into the second book in this series.
1 I read the first Thomas Covenant books and thought they were ok. So, I thought I'd give these a try. I gave up midway through the second book. Just didn't have enough action. According to some of the reviews, the action was just about to begin. Is that true?  Did I give up too soon?
4 I too gave this novel a chance because I loved the Covenant books. In that series, Donaldson broke ground, going completely against type, and gave us one of the first, modern anti-heroes of Fantasy/SF.  In the Gap series he breaks new ground again, by starting with a story we think we know, then takes it in a completely different direction. The book starts with a simple space-opera, then flips the stage around and shows us what's going on behind the sets.This book is sort of a gimmick to get you hooked. Judging by some of the other reviews, his gamble in &quot;The Real Story&quot; didn't pay off for some. That's unfortunate because many have passed on what many others have found to be a rewarding reading experience.If you love Covenant, give the Gap a second look.  If you love Ben Bova, Hyperion, C.S. Friedman, this series is right up your alley.
5 Read this! Very well written. I bought the second in the series after reading this one. And the third one as well.
5 This is my favorite series...I read it every year.  Much darker than what I normally read, I seem to always return to it when I need a reminder that my life isn't so bad.  This first book is a bit 2 dimensional--and not the real story.  You don't get that til the next book!
5 I have read this story just by chance mention of the book and then writers reputation and I have to say I'm glad I did. I have been looking for adult sci-fi for some time and this absolutely fits the bill. Not only is it of mature nature but the character building, the plot (I know it's a series) is fantastic. In addition, the writer knows how to WRITE!I'm now on the second book and loving every minute of it, looking forward to reading the other three. If you are an adult and wants something with some "bite" in it, give this a series a try.
3 I picked up this book not because I was a fan of Donaldson's Thomas Covenant series (I wasn't,) but because the controversy shrouding the book intrigued me, not to mention the fact that I'm a fan on the genre. Upon completion of the book, I was more impressed than I thought I'd be, though I hope the series picks up after The Real Story.The book almost exclusively revolves around two characters (the sadistic pirate Angus and helpless ex-cop Morn) with Nick, a pirate possibly as devious yet infinitely more charismatic than Angus, making appearances here and there. These three characters form a classic victimizer/victim/rescuer trio, though they switch roles somewhat throughout the plot. I thought this a fairly interesting concept, though executed poorly--too much of the book focused on Angus and the atrocities he inflicted upon Morn. The majority of The Real Story was from Angus's point of view, establishing him as a diabolic yet cowardly captor, Morn his anguished captive.I wanted to keep reading only to learn about Nick, the third main character that isn't a main character. Hopefully, he'll be more developed in the forthcoming books.As for the brutality that's getting so much attention, it wasn't nearly as bad as I'd imagined it'd be--Donaldson did more telling than showing, as one reviewer mentioned. While this is generally a big no-no in professional writing, it spares us readers the really graphic descriptions. The infamous rape scenes are generally composed of a sentence from Angus's point of view, neglecting to delve into the agony it must have been for Morn.All in all, a decent, if overly simple, introduction to the series. I just hope the sequels are more encompassing--i.e., more than two characters every hundred pages.
5 After some time laboring in the halls of fantasy, Donaldson decided to try his hand at some good ol' fashioned spaceship infested science-fiction, envisioning a five book series that is thematically based on, of all things, Wagner's "The Ring Cycle", which does speak to some degree of ambition.  Unfortunately there's a thin line between ambition and pretension.  Sometimes they go hand in hand and things still work out okay anyway, and some times the latter utterly obliterates any benefit the former can cause.  In the first volume, that winds up being more the case.He does a bold move in the early portions of the book, essentially sketching out the plot of the book in the first chapter in skeletal form.  Bearer of awesome name Angus Thermopyle walks into a bar with attractive but docile looker Morn Hyland for reasons that we aren't entirely sure of.  They are witnessed but somewhat scarred but equally attractive Nick Succoroso, who decides that he have the girl.  A distress call goes out, both ships leave, both come back at different times and Angus winds up getting arrested and Morn winds up in Nick's company.  The End.But, we're told, that's not the *real story*.Um, as it turns out, it actually is.  The rest of the book spends its time fleshing out that basic scenario and filling in the details but while the book hints that we're in for our entire world to be turned upside down because nothing is as it seems, it turns out that matters are almost nearly exactly what they seem or just make sense with some explanation.  In his first appearance Angus comes across as a mean and nasty hardened son of a gun, while Morn seems a bit beaten down, like she's been physically and emotionally dominated and sure enough, that's pretty much dead-on.  The book keeps trying to insist to us that we're not seeing the full picture but really, we are, which is the part that strikes me as unbearably pretentious at times, like all of this surely must mean more than it actually does.  And maybe it will, because we have four books to go, but right now it's a hard sell to get us to overtly care about any of this.It could actually be the short space adventure novella that the surface of it suggests if not for the fact that Donaldson wound up crafting Thermopyle as a thoroughly unpleasant character, to the point where it almost becomes ridiculous, like he's trying to prove to us how much of a hardcase he is.  He's the character we spend the majority of time with in the book and the one who rescues Morn when her ship gets destroyed.  However, there is very little redeeming about him at all and while Donaldson seems to suggest in the afterword that he was hesitant writing the character because people would assume they were reading about his real dark side and be disgusted with him.  But instead it seems at times more like a little kid trying to push us to see how far we'll let him take this before throwing the book across the room, like some kind of game of who can blink first.  A large chunk of the book, and the part that will probably turn off most people, is Angus' treatment of Morn.  To control her since during "gap-sickness" (basically something people can randomly develop due to hyperlight transit) she tends to try to destroy the ship she's on, he implants an illegal zone-control to keep her from doing anything he doesn't want her to do, then proceeds to beat and rape her almost nonstop.I've had certain reservations with Donaldson's fictional views on sexual relations before (as opposed to his actual views, which I know nothing about and are probably quite benign) . . . "Mordant's Need" showed a squirming one-sided aspect to it that was almost embarrassing and he certainly hasn't learned to be more nuanced in the years since.  Angus cuts Morn giant slices of rape pie almost constantly and has his way with her over and over again, taking all the stuff that Eremus promised Terisa in "Mordant's Need" and bringing it to violent life.  It's degrading to her and seems to serve no purpose in the story other than to make us feel bad for her through the cliche of a suffering woman, with the rather unpleasant implication that the suffering might somehow make her a better person.  It's clearly designed to shock us but all the attempts to leaven Angus' character by showing that a) maybe he's not all bad (aw, he loves his ship!) or b) degrading Morn is slowly perhaps changing him (aw, he sometimes cries after he's done hitting her in the face, maybe he secretly hates himself!) are just awkward.  Why can't he have the man being on the receiving end of the forced sexual domination for once?  It's starting to become a trend.It doesn't help that beyond the plot there's almost nothing else to latch onto other than the settings.  Angus, as I said, is the character we spend most of our time with but he's generally one-dimensional, as we're told over and over again how mean and nasty he is, how evil he is, and he alternates between thinking about how awesomely nasty he is, how he's going to break Morn, or just howling with rage any time he's angry, which is all the time.  Morn more or less exists as a punching bag, and while she elicits sympathy because most people don't want to see someone else be beaten and raped, it's not that I care about her specifically being traumatized, I just don't like seeing people in general being treated that way.  Beyond her treatment in the novel, I couldn't tell you three other things about her.  And Nick remains an utter cipher, the third weak leg to the triangle that is supposed to be the start of something epic but comes across as more along the lines of Krazy Kat in its variations as two men fight over a woman without actually fighting over her and who would rather be with anyone but the two of them.The setting more or less redeems the whole affair, Donaldson's sketched out SF universe has a lot of room for exploration, and the political maneuvering has potential.  But it seems he was so in love with what the concept could do, or so in love with being shocking (and not that I'm bragging, but I've read worse) that he forgot to work on the rest of the plot beyond the basics of it.  If not for the afterword where he talks about his conceptual plans for the series (and lengthening the book by twenty pages), there would be little reason to recommend this to anyone at all except as an exercise in watching someone indulging themselves in all the nasty dirty things that society finds wrong, and then turning around and claiming that we're not seeing it for what it really is.  Right.  The rest of the series seems well regarded, so maybe we can chalk to this up to a misfire at the starting gate and hope that he recovers for book two.
4 Ah, a kind of book which perks my interest - short, violent and juicy.The story writing is original, taking the reader from the simplistic setting of a story on through all the details (nitty-gritty at times) and takes the reader to the same conclusion as was in the short, simplistic version.The characters are very distasteful , drawing me into the story. I like to have characters with flaws, big gapping flaws which are probed painfully again and again. Perfect, happy characters bite. The Real Story, while short, won't let a reader down if you're interested in the above.
3 I picked up the Gap series on a recommendation from a friend, with the promise that it gets better sometime around book two. However, this is book one, and if i'd have bought this and read it before deciding to go on with the series it would've been a tough choice.To start with - the plot is fairly good. It involves a few chapters at the start recounting what happens over a certain time period from an outsiders perspective, then gets into the story itself mainly from the perspective of one character. The story is mostly told in third person subjective, the only exceptions being third person omniscient as the narrator takes over.The characters didn't quite do much for me. They're well drawn and realistic, they're intriguing, but they're also, at this point at least, not very likeable. This is understandable given the nature of the characters, but even people we consider undesirable have things we like about them. There's an exception to this with one of the main characters, who is caught up in a situation that is, frankly, horrific. But we don't get all that much from their perspective.Another problem for me is my perception of a detachment from the characters thoughts and their situations. Maybe this will resolve and I could explain it better with a second reading, but I felt that in getting inside the characters heads Donaldson detached them a bit too much from their relationships with other characters, and it all felt far too passive. I don't know, it could just be a problem with me having just finished three other books predominantly told in first person.Other than that, the story was intriguing enough. All in all i'm left neutral. But then again i've often felt the same about most series that I think are wonderful.3/5
5 If you are in any way squemish, The Gap Series is not for you. There are no shining heroes like Luke Skywalker or Han Solo. This is a painfully real and vivid portrayal of the darkest side of human nature. Take a journey  into a world full of rape, betrayal, murder, deceit, genocide,  political  intrigues and finally redemption. Probably the best sci-fi series ever  written. Satanically good.
1 This book offers nothing new to those who enjoy Science Fiction. It's so lightweight that it almost defies gravity. The plot is tissue paper thin and the characterisation is very sketchy. It reads like a poor 1950s pulp  novel and the ending is flatter than week old beer. I'm surprised that  Dondaldson managed to pad this material out to a thin book. For good space  opera see early Niven or Haldeman.
4 One way to distinguish between good and bad authors is to examine the breadth of their career.  Lesser authors often do one thing and then repeat themselves endlessly.  Truly great authors take on a variety of projects, challenging themselves by seeking out new stories.  Like most people, I was first introduced to Stephen R. Donaldson by the first Thomas Covenant trilogy, and I sort of expected &quot;The Real Story&quot; to be something similar only this time in a science fiction setting.  Was I ever proven wrong.  This little novel is a completely different animal, one that tackles different issues than the Thomas Covenant books and uses different strategies.The story takes place at some point in the future in DelSec, a region of space where police hired by the United Mining Company exercise only limited control.  The events described on the jacket cover all take place within the first few pages; the majority of the book is spent returning and going over those events once again from the perspective of one character, thus letting us actually understand motivations and details.  One notable aspect of the story is the incredibly fast pacing, with at least one new twist arriving every ten pages.  In contrast to the Covenant series, &quot;The Real Story&quot; uses direct and unsophisticated language, quite appropriate for the direct and intense emotions that dominate the story.Character, of course, is at the heart of any great novel.  Friends have complained that they can't understand the behavior of Donaldson's characters, and the above Publisher's Weekly review insists that they act irrationally.  They're right.  Real human beings, needless to say, are irrational and frequently difficult to understand.  Donaldson has obviously studied our species carefully, and noted the ways in which guilt and fear play out inside people's heads.  There are occasions in &quot;The Real Story&quot; where characters act counterintuitively, just as in real life, but there's always an explanation for it if you look carefully enough.I cannot crown &quot;The Real Story&quot; as the greatest science fiction novel of all time.  It has some odd lapses in common sense.  For instance, one character sneaks into an enemy spaceship from the outside.  Has this futuristic society somehow forgotten the concept of locked doors?  More significantly, it fails to build up that amazing force that you find at the endings of each book in the Covenant trilogy, and it isn't as compulsively readable.  However, I can still recommend this book highly, and praise the authors for trying his hardest to break free from conventions in a world where clich&eacute; and formula often rule the day.
2 Can Mr. Donaldson write?  Yes!  Is this a good book or good start to a series?  No! or at least Not for me.  It reads like some guy's rape fantasy and our "heroine" remains surprisingly unsympathetic.  Throughout the novel, she's portrayed as psychologically damaged (with good reason) and weak...  No heroism, no nobility, no ferocious strength... you do not root for her or any other of the main characters.  After she accidentally kills her entire loving family and then is repeatedly brutalized and raped by a fugly sociopath, our heroine's reaction is to manipulate another jerk (but a hot one) with her sexuality... her primary motivation and state throughout the novel is fear... often weepy fear.  As a female, I could not relate, i.e. where was the burning rage and absolute hunger for vengeance?  Or if not the rambette route, how about cunning & intelligence with some strategic or poetic justice? I wanted to admire Morn (or someone), but there is nothing here.
5 This is the beginning of a new series by Donaldson, and without the draggy feel of Thomas Covenant.  It has a good, solid science fiction feel to it (not fantasy passing itself off as SF as is so common these days).  Donaldson focuses on the dark characters and inner turmoils of (mentally) damaged people (and they're all damaged in some way).  Well done, this feels like the beginning of a great new series.
1 I do not understand how people identify with a protaganist who beats, rapes, drugs, rapes, kills, rapes, rapes rapes rapes. I do not understand it.  I was locked into this by sheer morbid fascination. Let's  review.Protaganist is like the good guy and stuff. Angus is SUPPOSEDLY  our protaganist. Angus rapes our female lead several times.Donaldson  moved up from  Thomas Covenant. Covenant only rapes once.Sick book. If I  could give it a negative 5 I would.
2 As a Thomas Covenant and a SF fan, I picked this book up to see what Donaldson had to offer this genre.  Frankly, the first word that comes to my mind when writing this is "open sewer".  A well-crafted sewer, but one nonetheless.What is most vivid and overwhelming for me in my memory of this book the depravity and sickness at the root of the character-driven conflict.  One main character is Angus Thermopyle, a space pirate who captures, enslaves, brutally rapes and humiliates the book's female protagonist, Morn Hyland.  Regrettably, this is not a briefly-noted backstory.  Morn's struggle to survive life in Angus's hands is a substantial portion of the book, with each subsequent degradation described in sick detail by Donaldson.While I am thoroughly familiar with the concept of an anti-hero and "realistic" "gritty" fiction, this book crossed my personal line.  While it has more redeeming value than, say, a Tom Green movie (the structure is nicely done, characterization is vivid), I feel like I am already familiar with the depths of depravity to which humans can descend.  I'm willing to traverse those depths if the payoff is great art, but this book doesn't reach high enough to justify getting my mind dirty.  There are better ways to spend your limited reading time.
3 In the Afterword of this book, the author Donaldson himself admits that "The Real Story" isn't one of his better efforts.  It was originally meant to be a standalone novella and then Donaldson later decided to incorporate it into the Gap series that he was starting.  The resulting revisions to the novella compromised its quality.Although the book reads quickly and is quite a page turner, the plot lacks sophistication and depth, and the characters are quite undeveloped and their motives unclear.  Many questions remain unanswered by the end and on top of the general dissatisfaction caused by this, the tone of the book is quite negative with plenty of violence and rape gracing its pages.However, I have good news.  There is an astonishingly stark improvement in the quality of the writing/plot/characterization from the first to the second book.  I'm now midway through the third and absolutely can't put it down.It is not really necessary to read "The Real Story" before reading the second book "Forbidden Knowledge" and in fact I'm inclined to suggest skipping it, as much of the background is retold in the latter.  However, it does read quickly and does shed more light on Morn Hyland's strange affinity for Angus Thermopyle despite her utter revulsion of him.So far, about halfway through, this series seems to me to be a MUST READ for sci-fi fans everywhere.  I hesitate at this point to put it on the level of Asimov's epic Foundation series with its brilliant plot twists, but it has a shot at getting there.
4 He struck me as a not very personable guy--he seemed bored as hell with the whole gig. But my copy of his first &quot;Thomas Covenant&quot; trilogy still has his signature. But...on to the main topic. This book and its four  sequels depict man's spacefaring future the way the &quot;X Files&quot;  depicts the near-future FBI. There's nothing in this series suggestive of  man's outgrowing his present-day character flaws like you'd find in  Heinlein, Asimov, Star Wars or Star Trek. Instead, you find the galaxy  under the thumb of a huge mining company and its tame police. To paraphase  the old Tennessee Ernie Ford song, humanity in this series owes more than  it's soul &quot;to the company sto'&quot;.There are no heroes here--the  best you get to oppose the bad guys are these dysfunctional cases. Like a  young policewoman who'd be a great hero by virtue of her sense of right and  wrong were it not for the fact that she spends most of the time getting  victimized. Even her bosses hang her out to dry. I tell you, if they ever  make a movie of any of this series, Lifetime will have as much of a claim  on broadcast rights as the Sci Fi Channel..  But you know, now i think I  understand Donaldson better. He's a bona fide iconoclast--maybe he finds  ordinary sci fi too goody-goody. This is one very gifted writer, but from  him you don't get &quot;The Jetsons&quot;. More like what if Nietzsche  wrote fiction.
5 Donaldson says two interesting things about this bookOne is that it's based on the Ring Cycle. Knowing that makes it a better read: these aren't human beings running around in space; rather, they're heroes and gods disguised as humans. And some of the gods take a long, long view, even if it means sacrificing themselves.The second is his distinction between melodrama--the interaction between villain, victim, and hero--and drama, where hero, villian, and victim change roles. When the victim takes charge of her own life and becomes the hero, you have real drama, and in the Gap series every major character is alternately villain, victim, and hero to almost every other character.This can be hard to bear. The first book--The Real Story--takes a simple, one-page space opera tale (which was printed as an ad for the book) and tells it twice more, in more detail each time, showing that the notion of hero and villain is not simple and may be completely inaccurate. This book stands on its own without the next four, but they add to it immeasurably.Over the next four books, these same three roles drift believably between the three extremely damaged people from The Real Story--the dour, antisocial pirate Angus Thermopyle, the dashingly heroic pirate Nick Succorso and his loyal crew, and poor Morn Hyland, the innocent and beautiful space cop caught between them.The "gods" of the story--back at Earth and spacestations around it instead of in Valhalla--watch these three torment and save one another as they line up their own conflicts, using all three with the same ruthlesness gods always seem to.It's a classic story told well. The space opera adaptation sits very nicely and the god characters (the UCMP executives planning to arrest, rescue, or kill the three main heroes at various times) work especially well given their source material.This series has a much cleaner writing style than Donaldson's fantasy. Almost "breezy" at times, which doesn't make the content--violence more often emotional than physical, rape of bodies and minds, and casual corruption of society and spirits--any more palatable.My girlfriend called this series "books about what it means to be human." That says it all right there, the good and the bad.
3 The Real Story is, frankly a disappointing start from a master storyteller like Donaldson. Maybe it took him one book to get out the kinks of switching from fantasy to Sci-Fi? This is a real departure from Donaldson's earlier work, although he keeps his focus on the darker impulses of humanity that marked his Covenant series.However, the book is still enjoyable, and, more importantly, it introduces the sweeping Gap epic. This is the only series that I have read where the sequels are far superior to the original. The other Gap books keep getting better and better, leading up to a very satisfying climax -- in fact, taken as a whole, the Gap series is one of the most original and thought-provoking sci-fi works in years.One annoying part of The Real Story is that it includes a lot of horrific brutality and torture, but it is required to set up the transcendent transformations in the following books in the series...So my recommendation is, read it, with low expectations, and then get on with the sequels!
2 "Most of the crowd at Mallorys Bar & Sleep over in Delta Sector had no idea what was really going on. As far as they were concerned, it was just another example of animal passion, men and women driven together by lust - the kind of thing everybody understood, or at least dreamed about. The only uncommon feature was that in this case the passion included some common sense. Only a few people knew there was more to it....That, of course, was not the real story." (p. 1-6)The Real Story opens by giving us the general view of what happened between two space pirates over a woman. What we see is bland and predictable. It is not, of course, what really happened. Next we're shown the experts' point of view those same events, probing deeper beneath the surface. That is not the whole picture either, however. Finally, we're shown the real story, played out scene by agonizing and unilluminated scene, and we come to understand the intricacies of Donaldson's creation.Donaldson's central conceit is to begin with a classic Antagonist-Victim-Rescuer triangle and turn it on his head, with Donaldson saying as much in the afterword:"My original intentions were explicitly archetypical. What I had in mind was an aesthetically perfect variation on the basic three-sided story: the story in which a victim (Morn), a Villain (Angus), and a Rescuer (Nick) all change roles...Victimized by Angus, Morn is recued by Nick - but that, of course, is not the real story. The real story has to do with the way in which Nick becomes Angus's victimizer and Morn becomes Angus's rescuer." (p. 224-225)In this, Donaldson moves with power and subtlety. From the opening, Angus Thermopyle seems a standard villain, vain, greedy, run down, powerful, and all but cackling. As the narrative progresses, however, we come to truly understand (though still revile) him. Morn Hyland's character, on the other hand, doesn't become deeper, but rather shallower, in devastating, heart wrenching, and drawn out torments. The final member of our subverted triangle, Nick, is viewed only on the periphery, for most of the story, but he is handled as well as the other two.There are two main problems with The Real Story, however. The first of them is the sheer grimness of Donaldson's vision. Now, I like dark fiction. I think that, imply what it may about my psyche, the most interesting stories are the ones that hurt the most, that make us reel back and try to shy away. In The Real Story, Donaldson has plenty of that. What he has absolutely none of, however, is contrast. There are no, and I mean that quite literally, uplifting moments in The Real Story. None.This isn't a black and white drama, but I'm not sure if it's necessarily more complex. We aren't talking about that new fad of gray versus black. This isn't even gray versus gray. The Real Story is full on black versus black, pitch battling midnight, with an is-that-black-or-just-a-really-really-dark-gray watching from the sidelines. If black and white morality can be criticized for taking the human element out and exculpating the characters from all meaningful moral choices, this is the same. By painting everyone in an equally despicable light, Donaldson shirks away from any real moral dilemmas to the same degree, no longer a battle between Rand and the Dark One, it's just the Dark One squaring off with Sauron, innocent slaughtering, sadistic, misogynistic pirate versus innocent slaughtering, sadistic, misogynistic pirate.The other major problem with The Real Story results from the interesting opening and increasingly deep conceptions of just what happened. Now, I think that the structure of the book was extremely well done, and I was curious as to just how certain events played out when everything began, but the real story turns out to be far too similar to the experts' conception of it. Yes, over the two hundred pages of narrative we get more motivations, some events that those experts didn't imagine, etc, but on the whole, our initial grasp of what happened is pretty much sufficient to extract all suspense from the story, turning nail biting fight scenes into yeah, I know how this ends. Can we speed things up a tad?The Real Story set out with a very specific concept in mind and succeeded perfectly in its aim. Unfortunately, its narrow focus led to a whole host of other problems, and I'm unsure if that one success really justifies the flaws of the story. I suppose that this volume's worthiness will really depend on the strengths of its sequels. On its own, however, I'd only advise checking out The Real Story if the concept is something you feel you need to read.
3 I was surprised at all the rave reviews of this book. I'm a huge fan of Donaldson, not only from his Tomas Covenant books, but from his much lighter &quot;Mordant's Need&quot; books.His first go at science fiction was a sight to behold, an ugly and disgusting world where everything makes you wretch and everyone is your enemy. All of the characters have huge flaws and proceed along paths that I can't imagine any sane person taking. I hated everyone in the book, and felt sorry for them at the same time. I couldn't read any more. If that's what Donaldson was attempting, I applaud him, but I won't read any more of these books.
2 This book starts in a manner which is rare within any novel: it summarizes the entire story in a span of less than three pages. Then Donaldson informs the reader that is not "the real story". The second chapter goes into more detail of what observers of those engaged in the adventures assumed had occurred, but, again, Donaldson informs the reader once again that there is another "real story". The third chapter finally starts into "the real story".I was hooked by this simple segue into telling a story. And I actually enjoyed 'getting to know' the characters - and characters they are, characters I enjoy getting to know at a distance, but not really up close and personal.Overall, this book was okay. But, in reading the author's afterword (which I recommend for anyone picking this book up) he explains how this book serves more as an introduction to these characters whom the reader will get to know much more extensively in the books which follow. On that level, it seems to be an excellent book if you look at it from that angle. Even so, it still felt slightly anti-climactic to me.I do feel that Donaldson, at least in Angus' case, chose to use the character's sexuality to expose the character's depravity. There were several passages which made me really question if that was the best route to take in revealing how messed up Angus was.  It just made it really hard to enjoy the story.Do I recommend it? Not really. If you want to read the rest of the books in the series, it probably is the best place to start within the series, regrettably so.
4 Even when you know how things will end, who will live and who will die, you still enjoy the story.  It's like viewing a good movie several times.  In this case there is even more wild intrigue and fast-paced action.  Morn survives (of course), the battles on the ship (between the travelers) are great, frenetic activity.  In the end, there was no big mystery, nothing really happened in a spectacular way.  The series did not exactly end with a whimper but instead, a long low sigh from the depths of space.
1 But the best sleep aid I've ever found.  After reading the reviews, I thought I'd really like this book.  But the plot development is glacial, the character's so pendantic, that out of sheer determination I finished the book (and find the obvious ending that bad guy Holt dies and Angus kills him and the world is saved and Morn gets a medal and a pardon- no, can't make this bad stuff up).My advice. If you are interested in this bloated book, read every 20th page.  I kid-you-not that you miss nothing other than time wasted from your life.Obviously the author was paid by the word.  If one would suffice, twenty were used....Do NOT buy this book unless you have no imagination and have eons of time to kill in worthless pursuit of entertainment.If I could rate this "book" a zero, I would...I HATED THIS BOOK!
3 Warden's machinations really need to work.On board ship, Angus is injured, Morn has to try and hold things together, complete with another couple of characters to add to the mix, and being this series, it is guaranteed some of them can't be trusted.Throw in some more space police to help out, and a confrontion with the aliens that now cannot be avoided as Dios has manoeuvred all his pieces as best he can.3 out of 5
5 The last book in The Gap Cycle series. This is an outstanding series of books. Highly recommended! I'm going to read this last one again !
4 This is the final book in the gap sequence.  I wont bother to go into the plot in too much detail.  Suffice to say the elaborate story developed in the preceeding books finally got wrapped with in an ending that although somewhat obvious, was satisfying to me.I thought in the previous books the author was trying too hard with the 3-way conflict between Morn, Nick and Angus.  With one of them out of the way in this story I think the writing stopped being so contrived as it was in the preceeding books.I just find that Donaldson can sometimes have an annoying style of writing, and wont someone please buy him a thesaurus?  The number of times he used the word 'doom' really got irritating.  I also found it a little bit silly that the 'super light proton cannon' could destroy Suka Bator seemingly instantly (in fact the whole planet faced ruin) but in the previous book, the crew of Trumpet were able to hide behind an asteroid to prevent getting hit by it.  Not to mention that if it was so easy for Calm Horizons to get within range, why didn't the Amnion simply fly a couple of their behemoth-class ships within range and wipe out humanity easily?So the plot had some big holes in it, but like any good story teller, Donaldson was able to keep the story ticking along quick enough to distract from the plot holes.  I think the weakness of the previous books was you just never knew which character to 'go for' or at least have empathy with.  Finally it was Angus who I was kind of cheering on, despite his character being one of the most vile ever in the first and second books.  That in itself makes the Gap Series quite unique in any books i've read before.It was a real hard slog to get through all of these books and to be honest I wont be repeating the experience any time soon.  The other books especially were quite tedious.  But this is a fairly satisfying conclusion to the series so I give it 4 stars.
5 I have read this series many many years ago, but it still stays with me after all that time. It is because unlike most SF, the protagonists are not good, strong or nice, but mean, selfish, weak or a combination of those traits. This makes for some tough reading, particularly the first book. To be honest, I found the first book (&#34;The Real Story&#34;) at times repulsive but read it anyway until the end, which was real good. That inspired me to read the next and the reading became faster and better.The story develops more intricate plots and deeper characters and the repulsiveness of the first book is not repeated, but used as a backdrop for mutual relations. Well considered.So, if you can sit through the first book, you will read the rest and thoroughly enjoy the last one!
5 When I started reading the series, I was wary.  Various people warned me of the brutality I would encounter. Thus, I read out of curiosity.  After finishing book one, I decided that I had encountered neither the brutality nor the intricate characters or plot I had expected.However, I plowed forward.  As the books went on, the characters gained depth, the plot twisted and grew more precarious, and I started taking sides.By the time I reached this final book of the saga, I was fully hooked, and rightly so.  Donaldson ties it all together in the final volume.  The intrigue unwinds with a domino effect and plays itself out quite nicely.  Further, although many plots and subplots reach fruition, he does not insult the reader by leaving us with a happy world with carefree characters.  This is as it should be - a series about a period in time, not a novel claiming to encompass all relavant times.I would recommend that readers not stop with the first book of the series, or even the second.  Keep reading and you will understand the politics at work, which makes this final book all the more satisfying.
3 This series is alright and has some interesting enough subjects but you could condense the whole series from 5 to 2 books if you drop the constant, "What just happened Davies?", and then a rehash of everything that we all just read about. Unfortunately, then Angus walks in and they have to explain the whole thing over again. Mr. Donaldson, a suggestion:"What just happened Davies?" Morn turned with a sigh and explained all that had just occured in the control room.
4 In 'The Real Story', Donaldson ruminates on how he permuted Wagner's 'Ring' into what would become this series.  All through the books I was anxiosuly awaiting to see how it would wind up. I was considerably worried in the in-betweener books (if I see another analysis of what the hell happened on the illegal station again, I'll barf.)  However, in this book, we are not bored to tears, and the intrigue is actually exciting and interesting.  My doubts were turned to admiration as i closed the last page, after reading extracts from Hashi's diaries, I could appreciate the title even more. Now, I think I'm going to curl up wiht my bilingual copy of the ring and the elder edda.
5 It wasn't quite the massacre I was expecting.Given the levels of brutality we had experienced in earlier books (some warranted, some not so much) I fully anticipated the series to climax in a grand orgy of violence the likes of which we had never even imagined.  Strangely though, what we get is almost calm in a way.For those who have been following along, all the threads finally come to a head, as the ship containing Morn and Davies and Angus and company finally reaches Earth, having picked up a few more people along the way, just in time to realize that the Amnion have arrived there ahead of them and ready to shoot anything that won't agree to their terms.  Meanwhile Warden Dios and his various directors attempt to pull all the pieces together of their plan to take down UMC CEO Holt Fasner and release the grip that he has on humanity.Pretty much if you made it this far, the last volume gives you more of what you might expect.  There's no dip in quality but things don't get remarkably better either.  Donaldson writes suspenseful space situations quite well and for the most part the constant shifting back and forth between perspectives helps bring the pacing to something resembling a fever pitch.  The thing is, the main characters still aren't that interesting.  What I found fascinating was how much more interesting everyone else other than Morn and Angus and Davies was, where I wanted to read more about what was going on with Dios and his directors and all the political maneuvering, as opposed to Morn once again being all angsty or Donaldson's continuing attempts to redeem Angus as some kind of hero.  Reading about Min Donner holding down the fort on the ship both against Morn's band of misfits and stalling for time against the council winds up being a far more interesting experience, topped only by Hashi Lebwohl struggling to find evidence to connect the kaze attacks with Holt Fasner's orders.  Lebwohl winds up being the breakout character in the series to me, starting out as someone who was being sneaky for the sake of being sneaky and turning into a morally ambiguous man in service to the truth and acting on it because he respects Warden Dios so much.And it is the politics that make the series only because it makes the stakes seem so much higher.  Donaldson does manage to give a visceral thrill to scenes of the council arguing, with the directors stalling for time and holding off the attempts by Fasner's puppets to hijack the whole affair, and when the victory does come down it not only feels earned but feels earned through a team effort, as opposed to one person being heroic.  In comparison the scenes in space just pale, with the Amnion threatening without actually doing anything beyond that (at least nothing that can't be undone easily . . . and it is mildly disappointing that for all the fear about being mutated, we just see one person turned into an Amnion in the entire series) and everyone working through their various issues ad nauseum until you're just begging for something to blow up.Which ultimately remains a problem that the series just can't overcome, exciting as it is.  Don't get me wrong, it's a pageturner watching all the various plottings come together, but there's really nothing in here that will stick and move the soul the way the best epics do.  The threat of Holt Fasner never seems to be as frightening or massively monstrous as the other characters seem to believe (he screams a lot and is clearly mean, but otherwise seems like a general megalomaniac with mortality issues) and thus it becomes hard to believe that all the brutality and death over the last five books was warranted or justified (in Warden Dios' defense, he does admit the situation got a bit away from him) so it winds up being a lot of fuss for very little reason.  The Amnion wind up being a much more frightening threat in theory but it turns out that their bag of tricks is fairly limited and once they run through those they don't have much else.  You reach a point about halfway through the book where it seems obvious that the good guys are going to win, it just becomes a matter of how and who is going to survive.  And the answer, surprisingly, is "nearly everyone".The book is also hamstrung by the problem from the last novel, where the multiple viewpoints require characters to repeat information that we just learned from the last chapter . . . good, if you're reading the book over a long period of time and need to be reminded about what happened, bad otherwise.  In fact it sucks a little bit of the suspense out of the climaxes as events have been put into motion for so long that watching them unfold is just a matter of seeing things done in the right order.But its the repetition in general that sinks the series a few notches below "classic" and into "merely good", as I said earlier, the characters tend have their pet issues and those often get repeated in lieu of actual characterization.  Thus five books in we're still getting Angus moping over the fact that he was tortured as a child (for what reason? who knows?), Morn angsting over pretty much everything (her family dying, Angus, you name it) and that's not even counting the various illegals and minor characters who get the same treatment.  There's a stock sense that they don't get developed past a certain point unless the plot requires it, until the plot is over and it doesn't really need them anymore.  Morn's struggles and losses don't come across as deeply felt where I'm actively rooting for her, nor is she so dynamic that it's believable that Angus would start to change his personality because she was nice to him.  It doesn't sink the series as far as I originally expected it would, mostly because the plotting and the political stuff livens up the action, but the series ultimately remains an exciting if somewhat empty experience in being epic and proving that doing the right thing is a good idea, where the stakes don't truly seem to justify the means.  It's telling that after spending five books and thousands of pages with them, the characters are comfortable to me, but never become anything more than slightly familiar strangers.  Its clever in its construction but all the structuring and allusions seems to have lost sight of where the heart should go.
4 This Day All Gods Die is the final novel in the gap series. Does it satisfy? Well, that depends on what you like. Donaldson brings his multiple plots and plot threads together quite well, drawing everything to a close. However, the pace drags; most of the characters remain relatively static; the ending is so completely different to the tone of the previous four books that it felt jarring.Starting with the plot. Everything is drawn together nicely, and Donaldson handles it all well despite the complexity the previous four books established. Finally both the plot following the main characters and the overarching plot are drawn together and begin really interacting. This plot is certainly the most explosive of the entire series.However, the pacing of all this leaves something to be desired. Donaldson, as per the previous two books, flips through character perspectives. If you like examining the plot thoroughly, from every angle, you may enjoy this. But for me it dragged, constantly examining the same events again and again. Donaldson only fleetingly spends time in third person subjective, the rest of the time in third person objective or omniscient, so the end result is alot of repetition about stuff we already know, only from a slightly different perspective.It also gives the impression that Donaldson wanted to write a character-based story, but didn't quite know how. My problems with characters, as I discussed a bit more in my review of Chaos and Order, remain. Some of the characters bring their character developments to a head, making big changes. Others, however, suffered massive changes abruptly, which I found hard to believe. Furthermore, several other characters are reduced to caricatures, at pivotal moments in the story no less.The ending to it all... well, as I said earlier, it's slightly jarring. It's the typical everything turned out better than expected ending. Not without losses - and there were several more emotional moments throughout the book - but those losses lacked any significant impact.Themes? Well, for the better part they remain muddy, though they're much clearer in this book than the other ones. It's mostly about doing the right thing, and being ethical. In the overall scheme of things, though, these are secondary, and don't have all that much attention drawn to them.Oh, and finally the ancillary documentation chapters have been blasted out of existence. Three books too late, but at least he got there in the end.I think that the series, overall, is good. The plot is the real strength of the story, but it rarely compelled me in ways that my favourite books do. I think I could have put any of the books down in the middle and not resumed without much trouble. Nevertheless, despite it's flaws, This Day All Gods Die only just manages to get the rating i'm giving it.4/5
5 Donaldson is best  known for his work on Fantasy, but this Sci Fi epic kept me on the edge of my seat. the 5 book series ending with This Day all Gods Die is simply tremendous. It is a page turner, and makes you feel anger through most of it. The "Heroes' are mostly vile, the victim shows tremendous strength. It is so complex and real feeling. truly terrific.
4 Donaldson certainly set a challenge for himself.  The Gap series is one of the major achievements of speculative fiction, and the second, third and fourth books would easily make any list of the ten best science fiction novels of all time.  In the fifth book, then, Donaldson somehow had to top the intensity of excitement of the previous volumes, while keeping everything coherent and logically consistent.The first big plot twist is that the Amnion defensive Calm Horzions takes a turn for Earth.  Armed with super-light proton cannon, it could easily blast most of the planet.  Having the bulk of the human race as hostages, the Amnion are in a strong position to negotiate, but their first demand takes everybody completely by surprise.  Meanwhile the other event that readers have been waiting for, the showdown between Holt Fasner and the civil government, unfolds slowly but surely at Suka Bator.  The tension surrounding both plotlines rises steadily throughout the book, reaching a spectacular dual climax at the end.  The conclusion will satisfy any fan of the series, in addition to retroactively explaining the mysterious events from earlier in the series.The problem, as you might guess just by looking at the book, is wordiness.  There are some points where we seem to be getting two paragraphs of psychological analysis for every one paragraph of action.  This makes the book thick, nearly seven hundred pages, but it's only a minor distraction from the good stuff at the end.
5 This volume caps Donaldson's amazing Gap series.  Those familiar with my reviews know that I don't lightly describe something as amazing.  This is easily the most captivating SF series I have read in years, and unlike many series, it does not peter out or become predictable in later volumes.As you would expect of Donaldson's work, the real story is about the characters and their flaws and struggles -- he takes us deep into the well developed personalities of each major character, and how they persevere, or fail, despite their weaknesses.The series is pretty cleanly wrapped up in this volume, with few unanswered questions left at the end.  If you've come this far in the series, of course you want to read this one too!
5 This book concludes the five-part Gap Cycle.  Several plot threads converge at Earth for a climactic ending.  The showdown begins quite early in the book, on page 197 of 688.  So it's a bit protracted but I stayed up late finishing this book and it takes quite a page turner to make me forego sleep.  Like in the previous books, there are few wasted pages describing superfluous events or conversations.  It's non-stop.This book also contains what was for me the most emotional moment in the series, one that nearly made my cry.  I've read many books that made me cry from laughter, but this was due to an emotion more like exultation.  And I can't remember the last time a book did that.  I don't want to give it away, but I'll say that it occurs just slightly under 3/5 of the way through the book.  And it has to do with Angus Thermopyle.  Now how did I come to like Angus so much?  He was outright scum of humanity in the first book.  Donaldson's pretty good...Well, the ending's good and most of the loose ends are wrapped up.  The larger scale conflict, however, remains unresolved.  I'm not sure if Donaldson intends to continue the saga but I for one would love to re-enter his universe for more.
5 I agree with the others that this series as a whole is just amazingly good.  Granted, it's also amazingly brutal, which can make it hard to recommend to friends, but it's one of the best sci-fi series I've ever read.  And the ending is just unbelievably good.  I started reading the series around the time the 3rd book came out, and waiting for the remaining two to be published was hard.  I read this book 12 years ago, so I don't really remember many of the details, but the simple fact that I still remember how amazingly good the series was (and particularly the ending) should speak volumes.
3 Here it is, the final book of Donaldson's Gap series. It does not disappoint. But I would be remiss if I did no warn all potential readers to make sure they have read all the other books of the series (The Real Story: The Gap into Conflict (Gap),Forbidden Knowledge: The Gap Into Vision (Forbidden Knowledge),A Dark and Hungry God Arises, andChaos and Order: The Gap Into Madness (Gap)). Though you could, maybe - just maybe - read this book without having read the previous books, you would be missing out on so much character development (or deformation, depending on your perspective) as well as multiple plot twists and turns which really do make the story.It it quite an 'explosive' conclusion (in a very literal sense as well). Morn Hyland struggles trying to save humanity from what could be either a huge tragedy or a road to extinction while at the same time trying to draw together the tattered remains of her character and integrity, and at the same time Warden Dios finally sees all his carefully laid plans begin to finally draw to fruition.Angus Thermopyle, a cyborg finally released from his hardwired enslavement, faces the dilemma of using his newfound freedom to flee from the chaos and danger or to utilize courage he's never known to save those whom he has never cared for.Where this last of the Gap books picks up all the different threads Donaldson has been weaving throughout the last few books finally come together. It really is an incredible vision and an excellent example of very well-crafted story.As a reader, you finally get to see some of the despicable characters strive for some of the most unlikely potential, and also to finally see some measure of peace come to the innocents who have been wounded and crushed in the midst of others machinations. The book does not quite retain the dark overtone which so pervaded the previous books of the series, though there is still quite a strong nihilistic strain running through the narrative. This is definitely not a book or series for younger readers.So I do recommend this book, but with many cautions. This specific book is still very dark overall, with pretty descriptive violence and explicit language. Thusly I have to emphasize that it is for mature adult readers only (at least in my mind). For the dark nature of the material the book engages (and in some places almost embraces) the trade-off of being exposed to such things for the story you actually get is almost not worth it. It is excellently written and developed, though, so the only reason I actually recommend it is for the well-honed craft the writer employs in his narrative.
5 Okay, so Wales isn't that far off from me, but it is a book which sweeps you away. The historical detail is so accurate that you know Barbara Erskine has done her research, but it doesn't detract from the story.Everything flows so well, that it is easy to imagine the time and place. I really grew to like Eleyna and I was sorry to see the story end. It's one to read again and would make a great present for people who like historical romance.Reveiwed by Annette Gisby, author of Silent Screams.
5 Having read two of Ms Erskine's books LADY OF HAY and KINGDOM OF SHADOWS finding this one with references to people in her other books was like visiting old friends. This book is a masterpiece which should be savored  like fine wine and Godiva chocolate. The reader is catapulted thru time  viewing all through the eyes of one woman who was wife, mother and lover to  some of the most interesting historical personas of the time. Although  fiction, the reader is given a uniquely detailed glimpse into the lives of  British medieval historical personas, seldom seen nor attemped by less  gifted writers. With this book Ms Erskine is in a class by herself and  should be read by both those who are new to her work and those who are  fans. This is a must read for anyone who loves richly woven historical  sagas. Jody Allen,  Charter member of RIO-Reviewers International  Organization
5 I was very confused while reading this book until I reached the authors note at the end. Then, everything made sense.If you've read Sharon K. Penman's Welsh trilogy you'll remember that Llewellyn and Joanna married when Joanna was only 14 and that he had five children from two separate lovers, one living, one dead in childbirth. Llewellyn and Joanna then had two children, first Ellen, born when Joanna was sixteen and then David born some two or three years later. This make Ellen Llewellyn's sixth child. This book has Ellen (spelled Eleyne) being born some fifteen years after her birth date by Penman's book and being the younger of Joanna and Llewellyn's six children.I was very confused by all of this. Who was right about the details? Penman or Erskine?  Then I reached the authors note.The main character in this book is Eleyne, daughter of Joanna and Llewellyn, married four times and the grandmother of the royal Stewarts of Scotland. She is a composite character, and in fact, the woman Eleyne who was an ancestor of the house of the Stewart probably wasn't the Ellen who was Joanna and Llewellyn's daughter.If you didn't follow the above, basically that means this book is a work of fiction, not fact, and the main characters as described in this book probably didn't exists. There was an Ellen of Whales who was married to John the Scot and Robin de Quincy and there was a woman named Ellen or Helen who married two Scottish lords and whose great granddaughter was queen of Scotland. But they probably weren't the same person.That said, this is a very good book. Weather or not Ellen of Whales had the life described in this book is a moot point. It's a highly entertaining story of love and destiny in the middle ages. Eleyne in this book is a very passionate vibrant woman. She has seen things in fire since she can remember, the most common vision being a red haired man. Her father's bard who follows the old gods tells her she will give birth to a line of Kings. When after her first husband dies she falls in love with the king of Scotland, the man she saw all those times in the fire. But there love is not able to overcome to boundaries of marriage, and the king dies without Eleyne bearing him a living son. She moves on to fall in love again, but always Alexander (the King) watches over her and tries to keep her for himself.While the destiny aspects in this book are a little overbearing, they aren't totally ridiculous. The only thing I really didn't like in this book was how Alexander wouldn't leave Eleyne alone once she was in love with her forth husband. Alexander kept popping up and making her have sex with his ghost. But men where like that then...some still are.This book gets a solid 4.5 stars ranking from me. Only not five, because until the authors note, I was confused. Read the Welsh trilogy of Sharon K. Penman if you like this book.
5 I realise that this book isn't sold in the US and you'll have to find a secondhand copy, but it will be worth the extra steps. This is Erskine's finest piece of work! I love this book so much, I think I've read it at least 20 times since I bought my first copy in cloth. Since then I have owned 2 paperbacks, one which I lend out to friends and one that I read myself. If you love action, drama, history, romance and mystery all rolled into one, then this is the book for you. The heroine will live on long after you've put the book back on the shelf. She is strong and brave in a world dominated by men. The book spans Eleyne's life (1218-1306) of nearly 100 hundred years, giving us a beautiful story of love, loss and manipulation to sink our teeth into.Child of the Phoenix is based on a real person (or two people) so it is rich with British history. I went on to read Barbara Erskines other books after reading "Child of the Phoenix" and I loved them too, however "Phoenix" is my favourite. Infact, if I had to take one book on a desert island with me (and believe me I LOVE books), it would be "Child of the Phoenix". This is Erskine's only novel set in one time period, her other books tend to involve two time periods.
5 In 1218 Eleyne is born amidst a burning castle in Wales.  From infancy, her nurse brings her up to support the Celtic cause against the English and she is taught how to use the flames to see into the future.  Throughout her fascinating life, Eleyne is married four times and produces numerous children.  Several of the characters link up to character in other Erskine novels.I have read several of Barbara Erskine's books, and so far this is my favorite.  The characters she created were vibrant and extremely engaging.  I love the historical aspects she throws into her novels and I can't wait to read more.  I only wish I had discovered this author earlier.
5 And fiction it is, based upon historical characters and NOT historical fiction.  The main character, Elyne, is (according to the author's notes at the end) a composite of two characters, one of them being Ellen, the daughter of Llewellyn the Great and Joanna.  I admit to being a bit put off at the first part of the book at the characterizations of some of the Welsh court, particularly Joanna.  Having read SKP'sHere Be Dragons, and having adored Joanna and Llewlleyn and their great love, I admit to grumbling abit at having Joanna being portrayed as such a sanctimonious biddy. Then I realized this was strictly a piece of fiction and I kicked back and thoroughly enjoyed the story.  Lots of truly evil villains, two timing false tongued kings, some wonderful heros and a spooky ghost or two.  What more can you ask for in a book?Apparently some of the reviewers were put off by the size of the book.  It went very quickly for me, but then I'm the type that doesn't like to read any book under 500 pages if I can help it.  As a side note, Erskin's books are not readily available in the US, except by special order and thus paying freight.  I was in Vancouver, BC recently and found two of her books on the shelf at a major bookstore in downtown Vancouver on Robson street.  If you're in Canada it's worth checking out.
5 I have read every book Barbara Erskine has published.  I love her style and characters.  Child of the Phoenix was the first book I read of hers and still remains one of my favourite books of all time.  If you like her books  you will also enjoy Elizabeth Harris's books (e.g. Herb Gatherers).  They  are the type of books you don't put down until you have finished!  Keep it  for a rainy day that you have all to yourself.
5 This is a great historical novel with a little bit of everything. There is definately a paranormal air to the novel, although it is kept relatively quiet, in the background. I really enjoyed this aspect of the story. There is also political plotting and scheming, romance, affairs, betrayal, war, you name it. I enjoyed the author's note at the end that made me think about what "really" may have happened, and I especially liked knowing that some of it actually did according to the records. At times the story was a little boring, particularly the parts that were heavily political and war related. I wish that the story with Einion could have had more of a conlusion, and also that Rhonwynn could have stuck around longer, or at least her spirit... But overall this was a good book. I was worried about the length but after the first chapter of this book I was not concerned with the length at all... I knew it would be good, and it was.
2 I was a fan of Barbara Erskine but she is getting to be a very self indulgent writer.  I loved her early works but the latest ones are really dragged out and now I feel a bit ripped off. From now on I will wait until they are at the library and not buy them.
1 I thought this story was very "dry" and hard to follow. I lost interest and never finished.
5 Read these books years ago, and ordered them for my daughter to enjoy now. For me these books are even better than The Lord of the Rings series because these heroes are more human, subject to frailties and capable of wonder.
4 I read both the first and second series when I was a teenager.  I enjoyed all six books very much. I loved the fantasy creatures, especially the Giants. I have just decided to re-read the entire series, now that the last set of books is complete.I found the story gripping and entertaining. I particularly like the symbolic way that Thomas and The Land are actually the same thing. As leprosy weakens Thomas's body, and insanity creeps into his mind, so goes the fate of The Land. Good series, worth reading if you like fantasy.
5 Has Mr. Donaldson written the fantasy story to end all fantasy stories? Perhaps. But I'll still read other stories.This series is phenomenal. The depth and scope of the story telling is as good if not better than Tolkien. If you like Tolkien you should love Donaldson's Thomas Covenant series.Some people have trouble reading Donaldson because he uses big words and because of this his book is criticized. Too bad. Grab a dictionary you sloth. Not you of course, I mean the other person behind you who is bad mouthing this story &lt;grins&gt;.Each night I read a little more and each night I cared even more about the characters than I did the previous night. To me that is one sign of an excellent story. When it was all over I was saddened that Mr. Donaldson hadn't written a third series. But I hear rumours that he might. One can always dream.
4 Overall this is a good trilogy of novels.  It is a very character driven series, focusing more on the inner workings of the main character than the plot.  Overall, this is a strength to the series, not a weakness. The plot itself is solid enough.Essentially, Thomas Covenant is a leper and an author in our world who is pulled into another realm to help be the savior of the land.  Covenant is a very wounded main character, the result of his leperosy in the real world.Here is what I disliked about the novel:  Thomas Covenant is the biggest whiner I have ever read.  The guy is so self centered and pathetic, its hard to care about him.  I am a doctor, have been to leperosy camps, and have also suffered with cancer for 2 years.  I have never met a patient with any disease who took it as poorly as Thomas Covenant does.  It bordered on unbelievable to me that someone could tackle a disease as poorly as this guy does.  Covenants first act in the new world he comes to is to rape an underage girl.... Wow, great way to make me care about the protagonist.  Not only do I hate rape and the character who did it, but the act itslef was completely out of character from everything else Covenant does.  While he is pathetic and whiny, he is not aggressive or a rapist.  I just didnt understand this plot point. It had little to do with the overall story and really alienates the reader so far from caring about the protagonist...  Also, he basically refuses to help out or do anything usefull for the entire 3 books.  That is until the very end where he decides suddenly to go to the "dark lord's" territory and end everything. This sudden change of attitude made no sense and wasnt developed.  I could go on and on about this, but I wont.So overall an interestnig trilogy.  Recommended for those who like character driven fantasy (ie Robin Hobb, ect).  Those people who hate these books almost universally feel this way because of the way the character of Thomas Covenant is written.  Its not easy to read or care about him.
5 Started 30+ years ago, this saga kept me spellbound for months.  A wonderful fantasy with an interesting approach, an anti-hero main character.
4 I read this in the early 80's as a teenager, and absolutely loved it.  After the popularity of the Lord of the Rings movies, I bought the trilogy for a nephew who had fallen in love with Tolkein, and he had the same opinion that I did: this was a more enjoyable story than Rings.  I didn't say better, especially since so many elements of Covenant are blatantly copied from Rings - the ring as a talisman, a disembodied near all powerful nemesis, Woodwrights=Ents, etc -, but the charecters and the storyline are masterful.  When I gave it to my nephew I re-read the copies that I had, and once again came to the same conclusion, that this series was more enjoyable than Rings.  I also re-read Rings during the popularity of the movies, and yes they are an example of great storytelling.I must say though, that the Rings movies far exceeded the books for me.  I can't wait to see if someone will ever bring this series to the screen.
5 I've read all of the reviews here and have something to say to those with negative opinions of this series:  for those of you who have relayed your reviews succinctly, I respect your collective opinions.  This series is not for everyone.  But to those who's reviews seemed to reflect confusion, please give this series another try.  You obviously did not 'get it.'This series is not about a fantasy land within which Covenant travels, such as other fantasy books dictate - yes, it is a story of a man who travels through the Land, however it is mostly about what happens to a person (physically, emotionally, mentally) who contracts and suffers with leprosy.  The Land was Covenant, literally.  When you look back at the characters, at the nuances of the Land, at the abilities of the Lords and such, and then put these details to the variety of physical aspects of the body, you can see a whole other series and story taking place.Covenant was the Land.  Though it is dreary and somewhat tiresome to read, the first book - Lord Foul's Bane - is the most important.  It is where you, the reader, learn all you need to know about leprosy.  Apply all that you learn there to the rest of this series, and the next three books, and you have a deeper understanding of Donaldson's genius.BTW:  on a side note, Donaldson - a master of language - spent some time in India with his father, who worked very closely with lepers.  His experiences there shine through in this series.The follow-up series' first book - The Runes of the Earth - follows the same pattern as this sets of series, except instead of leprosy the story follows a more psychological approach, mainly psychosis.  I am anxious to read the next three books in the final series of this epic.When I read this series and the series that followed, I was so stunned by everything - the story, the characters, the method of Donaldson's writing - I could read nothing else for a year.  It was roughly 12 months later that I finally broke down and bought the Myth series by Robert Aspirin to 'clean my pallet' so that I could once again read a serious fantasy series.And know that this series was written well before most of the fantasy series you have probably read.
5 I read this trilogy originally back in the late 1970s.  In paperback, they were nice reading on an airplane and in an airport while traveling.  I later got them from the Science Fiction Book club and have completely worn out that set of books.  I spot this and grabbed it as a replacement for those worn out books.I know the complete chronicles is not yet over. There is still supposed to be one more book published next fall.  However, the start is needed to get to the end.I found the parts of the books in the "normal" world a bit tedious and I found my self angry at the mistreatment of one man who had no control over what had happened to him.  That people in this day and age are still so fearful and superstitious is just hard to believe.In the Land, it's another story.  The characters are so well developed that you feel you really do know them.  Of all the characters, I like Mhoram with his "rudder" of a nose to steer him in the right direction and huge but gentle at heart Saltheart Foamfollower the best.Do yourself a favor -- if you like epic fantasy, grab this book!  For three books in one volume, it's not that big.  the binding is well done, the pages are so smooth and easy to turn and it is actually easy to hold (but still a bit heavy at over 650 pages).
3 Sophisticated readers insist you *must* love this book or you're ignorant and uncaring - tut! tut![Updated 16 Oct 13 - I took a lot of flack, because I did not like the book or the main character.  The most common flame was &#34;oh! You brute! Thomas is a 'leper'! How can you judge a leper?&#34;  Just because someone has a legitimate issue does not mean that I have to approve of their reaction to the issue or enjoy reading about it.  If someone put a camera in a public toilet, I would not feel compelled to watch it in the name of art. So, while I understand Thomas is a leper, it really doesn't justify his actions or make it fun to read about.]It is not a bad trilogy.  It is just not near the top of the &#34;must read&#34; stack of fantasy trilogies.  If you longingly remember the series from the early 80s then my recommendation is to read Donaldson's more recent works and leave the happy memories from the first time you read it.Thirty years ago, my friends had nothing but praise for several fantasy series: Lord of the Rings, the Iron Tower, the Narnia books, and Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever.At the time, I enjoyed the Iron Tower series, but did not have time to read the other three.Life has been a whirlwind since then, and finally I have had a chance to go back and read some of these &#34;classic&#34; fantasy series.The Iron Tower series holds upThe Iron Tower Omnibus (Mithgar).  The writing is tight with interesting characters and real growth in the protagonist.The Lord of the Rings trilogy and the Hobbit also have aged well.  (The prose can be a little dense at times; today's writers do not typically spend three to four pages describing the flora in a random meadow en-route to a destination.  But, the plot, the development of the characters, and the sweep of the saga make this one of the best fantasy trilogies of all time.Narnia is a fine series.  It is different than Lord of the Rings.  Lord of the Rings was really written for the adult community.  The Narnia series was written for children.  I look forward to reading Narnia to future grandchildren.On to our White Gold wielding friend ... be warned, spoilers follow ...The protagonist is a leper by the name of Thomas Covenant.  He is a wretched, bitter creature who was deserted by his wife and son, and Covenant returns the scorn of the world with two heaping scoops of indignation and rage.There is really nothing ... nothing appealing about him.Mr. Donaldson clearly did his research on leprosy, but I found it very, very difficult to relate to Thomas Covenant.In the first book, Thomas takes a stroll into town for no particular reason.  His phone bill is being paid for by someone else.  It could have been for charitable reasons, but Mr. Covenant assumes in his bitter, paranoid mind that someone has paid for his bill, because society wants to shun him.As a protest against the world, Mr. Covenant decides to stroll into town to pay his own bill.  That will show them!Er, um, ok, ...,  Covenant meets an apparently homeless man who we find out in book three is actually God.  God gives Covenant a contrived piece of advice.  After a completely abortive attempt to pay the bill, Covenant gets hit by a police car, and, when he passes out, he is magically teleported to &#34;the Land.&#34;This where Donaldson does his best.  The Land is a detailed, interesting fantasy world.  (While I don't mind a little &#34;purple prose,&#34; i.e., superfluous description, Donaldson does manage to pack 53 pages of action into 1100+ pages of description.)Covenant finds himself as potentially the only hope to defeat the evil force at work in the world.So, how does Covenant react to this?He is a total jerk.  He ends up raping a woman in the first three days he is there.Covenant poops on his friends.  He acts the coward, and Covenant rejects his fate -- hence the title, Unbeliever.Through an unlikely series of happenstance and against Covenant's nature and choices, he does end up helping out the natives of the Land, but there is an outstanding prophecy that spells doom for &#34;the Land,&#34; but hey, who cares?There is some sub-plot about Covenant coming to the Land as a leper and being cured while in the Land.Why would Covenant want to go back to the &#34;real world&#34;?  Who knows.In any event, Covenant returns to the real world.This brings us to book two.Covenant is feeling bitter and angry and decides to visit the nearest, large town just to stir things up.He heads to a cocktail bar where ... dum - dum - dum ... his estranged wife is performing.After Covenant is run out of town on a rail by the local sheriff, Covenant's wife calls him.  While she is talking, Covenant is drawn back to the Land.  He falls, hits his head, ... and, he petulantly wants to go back to the real world as soon as he arrives even though his inaction and self-absorbed ways leads to the death of several characters.This book is more of the same, but it takes more than half of the book before Covenant finally decides to aid the Land.This book introduces another character from the real world.  In this case, he is a blind man.The blind man does not want to return to blindness in the real world.Over the course of the book, Covenant, who is deeply, deeply committed to his estranged wife and marriage as shown in the first several chapters, manages to fornicate and spawn a child.Ummmm ... what?OK, OK, so, just push the &#34;suspend disbelief&#34; button.Anyhow, the Staff of Law is broken during the final events of the novel.Enter book three ... more of the same.In chapters 20 and 21, Covenant finally channels his rage into defeating the adversary and eventually the Illearth Stone.In a deus ex machina, Covenant's property is saved, and he is the town hero, because at one point he randomly saves a run away girl.I'm going to see if the second trilogy is any better than the first.[Update- 18 DEC 13: it's more of the same]In service,Rich
