5 This was a difficult book to read because it deals with child abuse both sexually and physically. It is a heart breaking story of a child broken by the people who should have loved and protected her.
4 Cathy Glass is such a great author. Her experiences cease to amaze me. I was deeply drawn into this book. I was pretty sad reading the book.
4 This book was horrifying in what happened to Jodie but inspirational in how her carer and other people never have up on her
4 It was good to see that the adoptive mother was more knowledgeable about the little girl's problems than were her so called case workers.  There are none so blind as those who chose not to see.
5 This story was riveting and heartbreaking! Cathy Glass does a superb job writing the story of a young girl damaged at the hands of the very people who should have loved her most. This is a worthy read and one I can recommend to anyone with an interest in children, particularly those who have had their childhoods stolen.
5 Written with true empathy compassion and caring. So disturbing that this happens.  Hope the future gives her peace and comfort.
5 I am a law enforcement officer and find this book to be a true depiction of what happens to innocent children who are abused. It is sad but I am glad the message is being pit out there.
4 Impressions:When I received this book from paperbackswap, I had been anticipating a good read.  The book  flows well and describes the plight of little Jodie. I highly recommend this book to any caring adult.Thoughts:I adored this heart breaking story.  You can't help but yearn for Jodie's improvement.  Cathy helps to voice Jodie's story- for many are unaware of the torture and hell some children live.  This eye opening description provides a great example of how abuse and neglect can deteriorate a child.  Jodie was beyond repair by the time she reached Cathy.  So many others had failed her.  Jodie tried to save herself the best she could- the reason she finally came into foster care was because she lit her father's dog on fire as she secured her two siblings to safety in the garden.  In care, Jodie was a terror- hurting herself and others, tantrums, aggressiveness, and she could not connect with others.  Damaged to say the least.. Jodie, may your story inspire others to help!  In closing, I urge others to speak out when you see or suspect abuse.  Speak out for a child who cannot.  It's a tragic triumph that she has been set free from her perpetrators yet is beyond rebounding.Quotes:It was our secret. They said if I told, horrible things would happen.  I'd be taken to a dark cave and a monster would come and chew off my arms.  Will he, Cathy? ...Will he come here and bite my arms off? - p133Read the rest at: [ ... ]
5 Very well written and hard to put down.  Although I found I needed to at times just to get away from all the terrible things that had happened to this sweet, innocent little girl.  Cathy is a saint for the work she does and how well she does it.  I was so hoping that by the end of the book that Elaine no longer had the job she was doing. She needed to be thrown to the curb for her lack of interest.
5 Fantastic!!!!Cathy Glass is an amazing woman who tells the story very well. I am a huge fan of hers and as to date has recommended all of her books that I have read. Jodies story is a heart breaker for sure. Grab a tissue and get lost in Cathys world. You will never be the same.
4 What I liked best about this story is that Cathy, Jodie's caretaker, kept the focus on Jodie and less on herself unless her reflections and actions filled in the blanks.  (See my review about Max and his mother)  Even though this child suffered from unspeakable acts from truly evil people, there is hope in the world, as long as Cathy and others like her keep doing what they do.
5 This was a compelling story that not only shares the story of an abused child, but that also shares the story of a foster parent. I found it to be sad yet heart warming at the same time. It was an easy read and I always found myself wondering what was going to happen next.
4 Heartbreak made real. Wish I could make a happy ending but true stories can't always be the way we went them.
5 great product, great deal, great experience, arrived early, as descibed by the seller, very happy with the product and service
4 There are few people in this world who have such huge hearts. To take in extra children and expect your own children to share their parent's love and time is a big ask. However, this family is incredibly tolerant and giving when it seems that not a lot is coming back. Extremely difficult situations they are put in must test them beyond reasonable boundaries. These are the people who should be given medals, the unsung heroes of this world.
5 This was such an intriguing book, I couldn't stop thinking about it whenever I had to lay it down. The author is a natural story teller, the book is filled with her and her family's emotional pain while fostering a little girl named Jodie. She will quickly draw you into the sad and tragic life of this little girl. Even though I suspected what had happened to Jodie, when it was revealed in the book, it sent not only dread but shivers of fear through me to know that this happens and is happening to children all over the world as we speak. Unthinkable that parents could do something so vile to their own child. I admire and respect Cathy Glass for the work she does in helping children, what a wonderful person she is! If you read one book this year it should be this one, it's just so sad that help came too late to truly help Jodie.And on a last note, this book shows how social services breaks down and some of the problems involved with these "so-called" social workers. Cathy does make excuses for some of them but in my opinion there is no room for error when we are talking about the safety and well-being of chldren. Jodies social worker in the book SHOULD not only be fired from her position but prohibited from working with children ever again. It's people like her that allowed this little girls life to be ruined when they could of saved her when she was first put on the "at risk" list. What is wrong with these people? How could anyone turn a blind eye to such a situation, I just don't understand that. Makes me very sad.Excellent read!! I can't wait to read her other books now!
5 I could not put this book down.  I wanted to find out what happened to Jodi and what miracle would work for her.  The author told the story so well, not so fast that you missed entire blocks of important information, and not so slow that you could put the book down for a long time.It's such a sad truth and happens too often to believe.  It's nice to hear about the different aspects of a child's behavior that comes through.
4 This book was completely heartbreaking. I gave it a 4 star rating because I would have liked more detail on the court hearings. I definitely recommend this book to everyone. It is an eye opener for how our "system" can sometimes drop the ball. And how there are angels like Cathy Glass that can make a huge difference.
5 Tho of course the subject matter (small child abused by parents and others) is very deeply disturbing, I truly liked this book.  It is so heart-warming to hear of a caretaker who had the patience and love of a saint in dealing with this very difficult child.  I recommend this book to everyone, especially all those who daily work with those who need our love, support, and help!  Just remember, you may need a tissue.
5 I cannot imagine what brings people to do such awful things to children, but foster carers like Cathy are a prize.
4 As a 20-year veteran of caring for foster children, Cathy Glass thought she'd experienced it all. But she was little prepared for Jodie.Only eight years old, Jodie had been removed from her biological parents after setting fire to the family dog. She regularly threw tantrums, acted violently toward everyone in her reach, woke in the middle of the night with hallucinations, and used soiling herself as a threat for getting what she wanted. No one but Glass even wanted to try working with her.Despite the emotional and physical strain of having Jodie in her family's circle, Glass soon got Jodie to open up about her past -- horrific stories of sexual abuse at the hands of her own parents, who appeared to have subjected their young child to a pedophile ring.Despite the potential for creating a negative and overly sentimental book, Glass manages to steer clear of both. She cites her story in a empathetic yet matter-of-fact way, never dwelling on Jodie's past -- which cannot be changed -- but rather her goal of helping Jodie overcome the tragedies of her young life to become a healthy and successful adult. Readers will find themselves full of hope as they wonder whether or not the pair will succeed together.
5 Heartbreaking is not strong enough to describe what happened to this little girl.  Nor is caring strong enough to describe the determination and perseverance shown by Cathy and her family.  As difficult as it is to read about this type of childhood, it is imperative that the public is confronted with the reality of what innocent children face from the people who are supposed to love and nurture them.  May it not be in vain.
3 Knowing that this story was true, was quite disturbing.  I probably would have &#34;enjoyed&#34; (not the best word to use) the book more if it was written in American English; but it was written by a British author using British terminology.  I also wanted to know what happened to Jodie in later years, so it left me wanting to read more.  I don't truly appreciate a book that leaves a story without a proper ending.
4 There are no words to describe this story. The title says it all. It is truly heartbreaking but it's people in this world like Cathy that make a true difference in these children that need to be loved.
5 No book has made me more angry than this book has!  Oh it is well written.  The story is very well told, but the story itself is INSANE!!!!  There is no reason why this child HAD to suffer as she did.  She was abused by the system as surely as she was her abusers!!!! Only some of the nasty people in her life were punished and the anger inside me has created such angst I need help to understand WHY???? HOW????  God Bless Kathy Glass for her love and a well presented book that exposes not only the tragic story but the system that helps but just as certainly hinders with damaged children.  I would be ever so grateful if someone could please, PLEASE provide us with an update regarding this child. (In the least a means of finding our for ourselves.)  Thank you Kathy for your book.
3 Damaged is a page turner about a seriously damaged child placed in a foster home.  A picture is portrayed of the effect this child has upon her foster mother and foster family.  This is a book of perseverance and love, though the outcomes were not what one would hope.
4 Very well written , it broke my heart that this little girl was so damaged and can't believe that the people out there that should have loved and cared for her treated her in such a terrible way. I take my hat of to Cathy who is a very special lady to have taken care of this very disturbed little girl , she was very lucky to have had you in her life , its sad that she has such permenant damage and will never really function as a normal adult one day . I hope that one day she will learn to trust and love and that she will have some sort of a normal lifeIts worth the read
4 Sad but bitter sweet story, gripping and heart warming.  Recommend to all who are regarding fostering children or who just love children.
5 A very emotional read. You want to take Jodie in your arms and hug her until she stops hurting. It leaves you cheering her on to be everything any little girl dreams of being.
5 Unbelievably disturbing. Such people should to the max for ruining this child's life. Thank God for people like Cathy who can find the love and compassion in their hearts to try to make a difference.
3 I liked this book but couldn't help but think the Author was portraying herself as perfect throughout the whole experience.. No one is perfect and we have our moments that we'd rather not discuss. I think in this book it would have made a world of difference if it was a little more &#34;real&#34; and down to earth.
5 My review will undoubtedly be lost in the many, but I feel compelled to add my 5 stars. I won't retell what the book is about, but I do want to express my gratitude to Cathy for what she does in the lives of these difficult children. If I had Jodie in my house, on the third day she would have already been gone for two. People like Cathy must be born different than I was. I have the greatest admiration and respect for her, and as my son often told me, when I did a favor for him, "your reward will be in Heaven." (Meaning that you seldom get a reward in this life. ~~smile~~)
5 This book clearly shows the long  term effects of abuse on a child from an early age till the time she was removed from her biological home. It also shows how Jodie is helped by love and care in her foster home. Sadly it also shows that sometimes full recovery is never possible.
5 Being abused myself, my heart hurts for her and all the others. There is help available. I survived, raised three wonderful children, and live a happy life.Enough praise can not be told to foster care..thank you for giving and to the other family members!  KUDO!!!!
3 This book was read in 2 days! I cried for this little girl , The foster mom Cathy Glass was a terrific person and I would recommend this to anyone it truely was a remarcable ,wonderful story.It is a tear jerker though have your tissue box handy..
4 It was hard to read this book, but I'm glad I did....I only wish we could find out how Jodie did long term.
5 We wonder when children have behavior problems in school. No was born in this world to be bad. We should not judge a child as we do not walk in their shoes or sleep in their bed. ..... It may be they do not have one or some one to help keep the night away.
5 Does this really happen in our world? We need to be listening to the children and understanding the clues that are placed before us. This was a well written account by a woman who truly cares.
4 This book was so hard to read yet I couldn't and didn't stop. I kept having to check if this was actually non fiction because Jodies abuse is too awful to be true. Important read on many levels. Social services issues, importance of good foster care, abuse...All things we must examine!
5 A terrible tale of abuse that hits you in the gut. Cathy Glass really knows how to turn a phrase.
4 No reader should attempt to read this book without knowing ahead of time that there are disturbing descriptions of genuine acts of severe child sexual abuse throughout. Other types of child abuse are also described. If a reader has experienced abuse in her or his own life, do not read this book without recourse to a therapist or understanding listener as there are many scenes that can trigger post-traumatic flashbacks.That said, the book was well-written and edited in a plain, forthright style, by the foster-mother of an eight-year-old girl who had been bounced around through the British social service system for four months before being helped in any substantial way, other than removal from the "home" where she had been abused so badly.The book is gripping; I received it at a discount and sat down expecting to read a chapter or two to see if I liked it and ended up reading the whole book at a sitting.  It was profoundly moving, distressing, and realistic. The writer did a remarkable job of keeping it real and not dwelling in any exploitative way on the experiences of the abused child.  However, the plain facts are hair-raising nonetheless.This is a book that should be read by all care-givers, foster parents, social workers, child-therapists, and students of child therapy.  It should be assigned reading with discussion groups afterward.All in all, although I couldn't say I exactly enjoyed the book, I learned from it, it touched me, and I would recommend it very highly to those with interest in the subject of child abuse and its aftermath.  However, it DID push my buttons and trigger some flashbacks, and I thought other readers should be made aware of the possibility.
4 Well written, and I found I couldn't put it down. Though it was a bit depressing, this story is how it is out in the world.
3 Author gets more than a bit carried away with her great fostering abilities.Pathetic story about a very lost child.
5 Very touching book ...it is sickening to some extent but also an eye opener. Definitely a good read and suggest it to anyone who is thinking about reading it.
5 It broke my heart reading this book. It is so sad what evil things people can get away with. Thanks to the author for sharing this story, hoping that somehow the system for these poor children will someday get better.
5 This is a truly heartbreaking story of an abused little girl.  However you will also find out how truly loving and compassionate foster carers can be.  Cathy honestly grew to love this little girl as did her own 3 children.  A definite must read!
4 A very touching but heartbreaking story. I don't recommend it for the faint hearted. I salute Cathy Glass for her commitment towards foster children.
5 Shockingly sad because it is true.  An event that most people try to disregard and forget, is too close to home and very much continuing with no signs of stopping.  This book broke my heart in two.  Ms  Cathy you are a saint. Thank you for all the children you have helped.
5 This poor child was almost thrown away without any chance at all.  Fortunately for her, her social worker decided to take a little extra effort and find the right care.  Sad tale of just how easy it is for these abused children to get lost in the welfare system.
5 This book was phenominal and well written.  It's heartwrenching to know that for a lot of kids these circumstances are reality.  A definite must read.
3 Such a heartbreaking story. It didn't surprise me one bit that social services was no help what so ever, and it sucks that in reality kids have to punished long after the abuse has stopped
5 This book will tear at your heart strings!!! The sad truth is that these monster still walk among us! If it wasn't for people with hearts as big as Kathy's (who lives with her eyes wide open ) and shares these tragic stories. Who says it takes a village? Kathy certainly isn't a village but one would never know that, and don't tell her, SHE is a village all on her own!! READ these stories and ask yourself IF you cold do what her and her family do . Than you Kathy for sharing these tragic story's most importantly Thank you for all you do to save any precious child in need!! PLEASE buy this book and support a worthy cause you wont be disappointed!!
5 Damaged. The Hearbreaking True sory of a Forgotten child.This was a great read. Different from what I usually read but would read more from this author.
5 This is a very moving story about a caring foster mother and the emotionally, physically and sexually abused little girl who was sent to live with her and her family. It's a sad story and almost hurts to read it. Such an abused child may never be capable of living a normal, happy life. The book is sad, but also quite educational. It's hard for most of us to comprehend such suffering at the hands of one's own parents. Couldn't put it down wondering what would develop next.
5 This story was so sad that I cried. It is a well told story showing the failure of child services even in England
5 My heart goes out for little Jodie who will never have a normal life. Just knowing there are people out there like Cathy taking care of these damaged children is proof beyond reason Angels do walk this earth.I hard a hard time reading about the tremendous abuse this child suffered yet I couldn't put this book down. I felt the pain and heartbreak as well as the joy on the little success Cathy had with this broken child. A very good read.
4 this being a true story..it was sad.  To imagine a little child going thru that is horrendous, but I kept reading.  The ending was good also and it does not leave you hanging.
5 A true story that is altogether not uncommon just rarely discussed. Too many cases in child welfare are &#34;forgotten &#34; due to fear, lack of skills, or just &#34; too many cases&#34; per worker. Very similar to our justice system with court appointed lawyers, yet these are innocent children depending on someone to &#34;save&#34; them.This story told from the point of view of a foster parent, and her &#34;foster&#34; child's life sentence. How some parents harm their own children to satisfy their own needs is never understandable. The challenges a child harmed by the people that are supposed to protect them, will encounter all their lives.This story will make you think and hopefully speak out when you encounter abuse!
3 The story was unsettling and invasive.  Such cruelty is unforgiveable.  The details of the abuse made me feel like a voyer.
5 I read this in a day, hardly  being able to put it down. Cathy Glass is someone who has a special soul. There are not many people who could provide such care to such a troubled child. I give her so much credit. The story of Jodie was heartbreaking and I will always wonder how she is, years from now. I have an idea that she truly is 'Damaged' beyond repair. And that's what is pathetic.... it could have been prevented if someone had been doing their job as a social worker. It boggles my mind that she COULD have had a normal life, if not for the monster's who tortured this helpless human being from nearly the day she was born. I hope these animals get what they deserve. No child should ever have to endure the horrors that little Jodie was dealt with.
5 i loved this book.  i had to keep reading it.  hard to believe things like this happen in this world we live in.
5 Wonderful...I can't seem to understand why life is this way, but It is a great read  I could read it again
4 This book was really good, but i had to take several breaks from reading it because it was so sad. Also not a good selling point for people thinking of foster care. Although it's a true story, I was wishing for a much happier ending
5 Overall: 5 StarsPlot/Storyline: 5 StarsCathy Glass does a brave thing in this book by telling the story of one of her "failures." By "failures," I mean that the child was not "repaired" to the point of being able to enter society by finding a permanent family. This was by no means a failure on Cathy's part, as she did everything that anyone, outside of a trained psychiatrist, could have done.What amazed me about the story was Cathy's perserverance in keeping Jodie. Sure, a couple of times she admitted to wanting to "send her back." However, she never did so voluntarily, as I feel that many foster parents would have done. Ms. Glass was supremely honest in what she considered to be her shortcomings, but I considered to be her bravery and strength of spirit.Jodie's story was a horrifying one that will leave the reader gasping and crying. Unfortunately, it was also a story of something that is too often an occurance in our society. Cathy does a terrific job of detailing Jodie's past with the knowledge that she gained from Jodie. She tells of her experiences in a succinct manner, shocking the reader without resorting to blatant tactics.I think I was most horrified by Cathy's portrayal of the Social Worker's failings.Character Development: 5 StarsCathy not only does an excellent job of allowing the reader to get to know Jodie; she also reveals much of herself in the telling. I felt as though I was getting to know her as well as her charge and her family.The reader is also privy to the personalities of her children, which gives the story a more rounded effect. It particularly shows the major contrast between Jodie and "normal" children.Writing Style: 5 StarsAs in her first novel that I read, Ms. Glass' writing style was excellent for the story. It was simply told, without a lot of fanfare. The descriptions were well done, and the dialogue was realistic.Rating: R for Adult Themes and Child Sexual Abuse
5 I found this book, moving and upsetting, this poor little girl, thank God  someone cared enough to help her.I would recommend this book, but be prepared too feel sad
5 Loved this book.  I randomly bought this on Amazon and finished it in a weekend.  It's an easy read but such a disturbing story. This is the first book by Cathy Glass that I bought and by far her best.  Thankfully you don't have to read her books in any particular order, but I was definitely spoiled by picking this one first.
5 This book keeps you reading just to find out what happens next. The story is told so matter of fact and you can really picture the scenes going one (which are heart wrenching). Your tears will fall on this one so have a box of tissues as you read.
5 Wow! I recommend this book to anyone who has ever-ever-dealt or wondered about child abuse.  What cruelty can be imposed on a child?  So many children in this world that suffer from all kinds of abuse.  You need to read this book to grasp a better understanding of the suffering of a child.  I guarantee you  will have a hard time putting this book down, and if you do it will only be to grab some tissue to wipe your tears.  How many children are out there who are afraid to speak out?  They only need one person to listen..I highly recommend this book, especially to anyone who works with children, or have some of your own.
3 This story was difficult to read because of the damage done to the child.  It was a good insight into the foster care system of England.
5 What a tragic story  broke my heart how this family treated this child.  Took book on vacation bad move. Not an easy read.
5 This was a book that shows how some kids get looked over by the state but it is not the states fault it is because there is so many unwanted, unneeded families that need help and no one is there to think of what is best for the kids.
5 I downloaded the sample to Kindle and let the wife read it.  She liked it, so I bought the whole book.  Wife liked the whole book.
5 Well written and very heartbreaking, a child so damaged and a woman with such a strong resolve to help as much as she can.
4 I have been unable to read this book yet, as I have over 50 books on my Kindle waiting to be read. I look forward to it though. There should be some way to let reviews be delayed until you are actually able to use/read the product, rather than it looking like you don't care and/ or are not willing to leave a review.
4 An informative story, but certainly very sad. Although it is set in Great Britian, it appears the social servies available to abused children are pretty inadequate world over. I admire anyone who can devote themselves to trying to help children who have been abused. Cathy Glass must truly be a remarkable woman.
4 Not sure why I read things like this, people are sooo evil sometimes!!  Makes me want to hug every child I see!!  Softens my heart to those who had suffered by someones  else's hand.
5 I love this lady's commitment for this child.  This is a wonderful story about a devoted caregiver and a troubled child.  It gives you an in-depth look at their day to day lives.
5 This story was a heart wrenching one, but allowed the reader to realize that children in foster care can have unsurmountable problems because of abuse that marks and scars them permanently and no amount of love and care can repair the damage done, sometimes inflicted from infancy.
5 Heart wrenching, devastating, horrific, incomprehensible, but true.The author is an amazing woman, but the child is even more amazing......She's survived for years what most adults could not survive for days.Unfortunately, this is a true story of one little girl.......  there are many children, in every country suffering from the insanity, the evilness, the vileness of those who were supposed to protect them.
5 Even though Jodie suffered so much at the hands of her biological parents, she found love and a family in Cathy and her kids! It is very sad that Jodie will never be the same as kids her own age, but she has found a place that will continue to help her as much as they can!
5 It is absolutely a true situation when a child falls between the cracks! Thankfully she got the right home in the end.
5 This story is one of too many heartbreaking stories. You want so badly to finish the book to find a happy ending. This story was very well written, and tragic all at the same time.
5 it kind of leaves the reader with a question about what happens to the child after. by the time the book finished it kind of left me feeling like i had just gotten to the climax of it all
5 After reading the extreme torture of this child I sent up a prayer for her. It is like everyone involved murdered her soul. I can't imagine them treating her like this since she was so small. However I know we have a merciful God and he permitted it for his glory.One day she will be in heaven with him and she will never suffer again. There is a special curse on those who torture children.
3 I would have never understood all that is expected of a misrepresent...the love..patience an genuine desire to help a child overcome such horrible circumstance..this story really gives an insight on th dedication and love of a foster parent.
3 YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO BARE THE INGRIEVANCE DONE TO CHILDREN BY PARENTS.SOME SHOULD BE HUNG.BUT THE WORLD JUST STANDS BY AND LETS THEM GET AWAY WITH IT.
4 This book was heartbreaking and very difficult to put down. Being an American, I had a little trouble with some of the British terms, but other than that, I really liked Ms. Glass's writing style. Beware though, that this book graphically describes the behaviors of a very young girl that was subjected to horrible sexual abuse, and it is not for the squeamish.
5 thought the author did an excellent job of bring this reality to life as many of these events do happen in today's world, I having been a caregiver for 15 years could relate with the author and her efforts with this &#34;damaged child&#34;.  Caregivers are special !!  God Bless.
4 This book is written by a Cathy Glass, who takes on the care of a 6 year old foster child named Jodie.  Although this woman had had many foster children in her home over  the years, Jodie turns out to be very damaged from unimaginable things done to her.  As her story slowly unfolds, I found myself crying for this little child, getting angry at an over-burdened foster care system and hoping there would be a happy ending to this true story.  The story does not take place in America, but could have happened anywhere.  Cathy Glass and her family try every way possible to reach Jodie.  There are breakthoughs, but eventually it becomes evident she needs institutional care.  Cathy Glass and her family continue to visit with Jodie, but the child was so damaged that she cannot form much of a bond with them.  This story hit close to home because my brother and his wife, who have two sons of their own, began the adoption of a young boy about 10.  It turned out they were never given the full information about him by the system. He had been in and out of foster care many times, and returned more than once to abusive parents.  He eventually created an emotional "wall" to protect himself from further hurt, and they were unable to break down that wall. Sadly, after trying for a long time, they were unable to help him.  He ended up in several more foster homes and is now, as an adult, living in an institutional setting.  They occasionally hear from him, and he continues to refer to him as mom and dad.  The reality of how these innocent children were abused beyond help of a normal life is sad but true.  And the greater reality is that if someone suspects a child is being mistreated, don't look the other way, report it.  Your claim will be investigated and your identify will not be revealed, but you may be able to help rescue a child from unspeakable abuse and the chance for a normal life.  In the case of Jodie, and also the boy my brother's family wanted to adopt, their lives could have turned out much differently if only someone had cared sooner.  I pray for all children in these situations and hope the system in our country and other countries can get the funding and manpower to help more children in these and similar situations.  An overburdened system, with too many regulations and not enough workers, needs to be changed.
5 I loved it, made me think about my career options a lot more. Very inspiring. Cathy Glass is an absolutely amazing woman :)
5 Damaged has opened my eyes to a whole world that I never knew existed.  Both good and bad.  Unbelievable that a child could be so abused and a family so willing to help.  Well written and a true page turner! Unfortunately for Cathy Glass I can only read about such heartache sparingly.  I will return to her novels after something a little lighter.
4 My only gripe about this book was that the epilogue was the only source of Jodie's time at her proper care center. I would have like the book to include a least a handful of chapters about her time there. An epilogue is not enough.
2 Such a sad story.  I often felt like I was reading a clinical summary.  It just didn't flow and reading it felt like a chore.
4 Good book, but horrific what happened to this little girl. First time reading this author. Was a little tough understanding some words. Also needs a better proof reader as many many errors.  Was hoping to read more from this author but when I went to see what to read next by Cathy Glass, all of her books are out of my fixed income. I only paid 2.99 for this e book Damaged, but ALL the rest of her e books are 5.00 or more guess next time I am in town will have to check our library to see if by chance they might have some of her books. Very disappointed that e books are selling for such a high amount, especially since it is a download and the cost factor is how much? How can they charge this much eighth dry just wanted to read more from this author and afraid I will not be able to. Live in a rural area with a small library in next town. Keeping my fingers crossed. Took one star off, only because of the poor spelling, and just plain typo errors that were not caught. Not like errors you might find here on my review, but I am not a paid author. Also not use to typing on the kindle.
4 Shows that the social workers are not all very good.  Need to have a better system for guarding our children.
4 This heartbreaking story brought your attention to all the badly damaged children that become part of the &#34;system&#34; and get forgotten, by all but a few.  It brings to light how few &#34;truly caring&#34; individuals are involved in the placement and follow up care of these badly abused children.  It's much easier to turn your back and forget than deal with the realities that some children have to suffer through.
4 Heartbreaking STORY and very hard to believe the evil that goes on.  My heart is so heavy now, having finished reading it.
5 If you are sensitive, be warned, this book is NOT for you. I found myself crying and tears streaming down my cheeks uncontrollably when reading certain passages in this book because I cannot believe the child abuse depicted so clearly. I am usually a fond reader of memoirs but I think I need a breather after this one... the sadness still lingers and I must praise the author, Cathy Glass, for her accomplishments. Not many have such big hearts as hers, especially dealing with a child like Jodie.
5 It is so hard to fathom a child having to endure the abuse that Jodie did. This book tells her story and how the effect of her abuse changed her life. Her childhood was stolen. Cathy and her kids were the best thing that ever happened to Jodie. We need more carers in the world like Cathy. My heart just aches for Jodie.
5 I enjoyed reading this book. Carer was very good with this little girl.  Heartbreaking that this little girl had to live through this.
5 This was an interesting book! However be prepared for tragic events that happen to a child and wish all the bad people who hurt children are punished for that.
4 Wonderful heart breaking book.  Excellent to read but I am still appalled that there are people in the world that we call human beings!
4 This true story takes place in England, so US readers might have some difficulty understanding the differences on the role of the foster care system and child protective services.Foster parent Cathy recounts the story of 8 year old Jodie, an extremely disturbed, violent and low-functioning girl  from an abusive family.I've seen kids as abused and disturbed as Jodie, so I wasn't as surprised by the child's revelations as some readers may be, but this story may trigger PTSD reactions in abusive survivors who are still vulnerable to reading such accounts.Cathy Glass's first person account is written beautifully  and stands out by not presenting herself as hero or martyr. She shows us her imperfections in the outstanding job she did caring and advocating for Jodie during the year she lived with the Glass family.Jodie is a girl who is hard to like, even though we know there are reasons for her behavior, and we want her to have the help she so desperately needs, she is hard to like. Yet, Cathy loves her unconditionally, and Cathy's children learn to love her too.If you're able to read stories of horrible abuse, this is a good one.
4 The book was well written and easy to read (from a style standpoint).  It's difficult to image any child going through this level of abuse. A sad reality for many...thank goodness for the foster parents who commit their time, love, resources, and family to helping abused children.
5 While reading this book there were many times I wanted to find these people who hurt this little girl and kill them.  Yes I said Kill.  Even that would be too good, they should be made to suffer every minute of the rest of their lives.  Cathy wrote this book in such a manner that I felt she and I were talking and she was telling me about Jodi.  Cathy is an extremely wonderful author, she took this horrible subject and wrote about it without letting emotion take over and sway the book to her emotions.  IF you can read about child abuse (and I mean horrible child abuse) and not let it keep you up all night and upset all day long then I will tell you this is a great book.  The things that are happening to some of our children need to be told, we HAVE to do everything we can to protect them.  KEEP YOUR EYES OPEN, if you see something that doesn't look right make a call to the police or child protection, they will do a child welfare check to see what is going on...please help these beautiful babies all that you can.
4 This book in my opinion well written and did bring to my attention how awful children from this life style are so strongly effected.  I found it to also be very sad because of the extent of damage this can do to a child.  All in all I found it to be a good read and a page turner.
4 Heartbreaking story of a system that failed a child, and a foster mom's devotion. I can't wait to read other books by this author.
5 Hard to read, hard to think about sexual abuse can exist and does sometimes at a very young age. The result and attachment disorder is named for the child's impaired growth and ability to trust those in their lives.
5 Very interesting although sad story of this poor child. Well written. God Bless Cathy and her children for all their hard work and dedication!
5 This is a very touching book. This little girl needs so much help and love. A heartfelt story that will truly touch you. A must read for sure!!!!!!
4 Cathy Glass is a foster mother with a lot of experience taking care of hurt and neglected children.  When she consents to take Jodie into her care she is shaken by how deeply troubled she is.  Jodie's tantrums range from cursing and kicking to multiple personalities, the level of abuse she experienced is beyond what most people can imagine.This book can be hard to read at times but Cathy's strength and her dedication to helping this child is impressive, it held a lot of good ideas and lessons about taking care of children in pain. Reading about the patience and determination that Cathy shows in caring for this little girl is inspiring, although her no holds barred story shows the tremendous hoops many foster parents have to jump through in order to get the support and help they need for the children in their care.  Cathy shows foster parenting isn't for everyone but if you are willing to put in the time the rewards can be great.
4 This was the first book by Cathy I have read and it really saddens me what this little girl went through.  How adults can defile and break an innocent child like this is evil.  Cathy tries to gloss over I think the explicit details of this case but there was enough detail to give as one of the horror this child went through.  God Bless Cathy for all she tried to do to help her.
5 Of course, this broke my heart into. I felt like I was with you every step of the way. My daughter has worked in this field, and has told very similar stories about children. She states there greatest hope is that it can be overcome. My heart goes out to you and all foster parents that dedicate their lives to such a great cause.
5 I loved it but I wasn't expecting something as hard as this.I highly recommend this book but you need to be in a good place in your life, and read it alone (I cried my eyes out in my commute and shared kitchen in my work).
4 Afraid it is all too true, These things do happen to children.  The book opens one eyes to the horrer of  people and some parents.
4 A heart-stopping true story about the evil done to children... and a lifting experience about a true 'carer'.Cathy epitomized the word 'Mother' - she has a lesson to share with the world...never give up!When will we learn that children are God's finest creation?
4 I liked it because it did not get graphic about the abuse.  It centered on the affects it had on her
5 Found the book fascinating but wanted to be able to punish the parents really badly.  It has stayed with me a long time.  I just pray that all child abusers can be caught quickly and given punishment they really deserve.
4 One you can't put down praying for Jody to recover the entire time!  You have done it again Cathy thanks for telling these stories and letting people know the world of foster care for both the child and the foster family
3 The story itself was an interesting one--the realism of the backstory was heartbreaking and you can't help but feel for Jodie.  However, the style of writing wasn't engaging, and parts of the story get repetitive.Also, I don't know if I buy the (spoilers!) letter at the end.  Jodie can't comprehend any of the events around her, can't tell right from wrong, has constant hallucinations, and can't tell past from present...but somehow has a remarkable moment of reflection and clarity to write Cathy that letter?  Nah.
5 "Damaged" by Cathy Glass was one of those books that I absolutely could NOT put down. If you "enjoyed" the book "A Child Called It" by Dave Pelzer, then you will love this book as well. It takes a look at the work of Cathy, who has been a foster parent for many years. She is told of a disturbed little girl, Jodie, who has been with 5 different foster homes in the short period of 4 months. Cathy decides that her experience in caring and loving foster children is more than enough to take on this new challenge. Cathy later finds that she is in for more than she bargains for with this little girl. However, Cathy does not give up and earns the trust of Jodie, only to be told bits and pieces of her horrific childhood. I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone! It is an emotional true story that will leave you with a new respect for foster parents and the good people of the social service system.
5 Though the content was horribly tragic, I loved the very idea of this book. Finally, someone is giving a voice to the foster children. Now, if only someone could write a beautiful and inspiring story of one of them.This story was difficult to read at times, yet strangely compelling. "I could not put it down" sounds so cliche, but it was a fact this time.I hoped so hard for a better ending for this child, but I guess she got the best possible scenario for her level of brokenness. My heart bled for her and for others out there like her. And I am a bit more sensitive to children who are acting out in public. We truly never know what another might be going through, so the more compassionate we can be, the better.
5 It is horrible to think that any child could ever be treated the way Jodie was, but that her own parents could/would do this, is far worse. Thank God for carers like Cathy, who really *do* care!
5 I highly recommend this book! I chose to read it having previously read, &#34;A Child Called It&#34;. This book is similar in the sense that it shows what can happen to children if they are not protected by the people who are supposed to be protecting them the most. This book shows the effects of an abused little girl who is taken in by a foster carer and both their lives and changed forever.
5 The author has written an engrossing story about the throw away children that survive in our society.  The stories pull at your heartstrings and make you question why as a society we allow these children to suffer at the hands of those who are supposed to cherish and protect
5 A heartbreaking story about a child's gradual revelation about her extreme sexual abuse, and how the foster system is sometimes the best thing possible.
4 I loved this book, could not put it down once i started. Shows us how lucky most of us are and how we should not take things in our lives for granted. Unbelievable what can happen to others who may even be our neighbours, you just dont know........
4 A very vivid look into the foster system. Heartbreaking story of an abused child, and how one foster mum tried to save her. This book kept my attention right from the start, I do recommend it.
5 I liked this book because it was a true story about s little girl who because of her horribly abusive parents will never be able to have anywhere near a moral life.  It tells how the system works.(good ad bad), and how a wonderful foster parent ade such a huge difference.
4 I read this book in 2 days and literally could not put it down. It's disturbing but gives you a real insight into the abuse of children. There were parts I read, where I cried and could not believe there are people out there who do this to children. This little girl never had a chance and as you reach the end you found out that her abuse effected every aspect of her and eventually she became a special needs child, even though she was born perfectly healthy. It's horrific! I actually had trouble sleeping the night I finished it b/c I could not stop thinking about it.
5 This book opens one's eyes to the things that can happen to children-by mistake. Hard to read but a good look into CPS in England
5 To say I loved this book does not mean I love this book.  It is another sad story of how horrible children can be treated.
5 This book is so very special in its content .Cathy shows throughout such determination to help this poor child. Its a very compelling story and a book you just can't put down. It describes the horrors the child was brought up to believe are normal in family life. Cathy glass is a true star filled to the brim with endless love.
5 Damaged was a heart wrenching book. Sad to believe this sort of thing really goes on undetected by so many. Kept my interest all the way through.
5 This is a very moving story of how a human being can be destroyed slowly but surely. It brings hope that through patience and love a human can be at least partly healed. If you are interested in helping victims of child abuse, this is the book for you. It tugs at your heart of how a child can fall through the cracks and no one hears her pleas for help.  It stirs emotions of anger of how people can be monsters and yet fool social workers and the system.  Maybe books like this will awaken our society to the need of the countless abused and forgotten children. We speak of the silent screams of aborted babies and rightly so, and ignore the silent screams of children living in a world of an unbelievable hell maybe next door or down the street.....
5 This heartbreaking story got my attention from the first page.  It's hard to fathom a child being so abused.  Read it with a box of tissues next to you.  We should never forget there are children whose lives are living hell.
3 what a sad heartwrenching story. if you are looking for a happy ending there really isn't one. just a picture of what evil looks like and the affect it has.  it was inspiring to see those few people who stood out from the masses and tried to make a difference in this little girl's life.
4 Hard to put down.  It was so twisted what the little girls family did. Cathy glass is a hero for sure.
5 This is a very well-written but heartbreaking story about a child who lived through the worst abuse you can imagine.  Cathy Glass is an amazing and wonderful person who has been and still is there for Jodie through thick and thin.  She also has some amazing children.
3 This book was gripping and compelling - found it so hard to put down - gut wrenching!! The author is incredible!
5 This is an amazing story and one book I just could not put down...  It is a sad story, but I think it shows how some children fall through the cracks.. And need someone to save them.....
5 I loved this book. Which probably makes me sound morbid. This poor little girl. All I can say is that I think that Cathy Glass is a Godsend and was sent here on this earth to help as many children as she could! In the book she called herself a failure because she was not able to rehabilitate this troubled little girl. I completely disagree. She gave this child a voice, she gave this child a chance, if not for her I do not believe that Jodie would still be alive. She didnt give up on this child like so many before her had. This book made me horrified and sad and mad and happy. I am glad to know that there ARE people out there like Cathy Glass that are willing to do anything they can for a lost child.This book is also a reminder of what is wrong with the Child Protection system. This happened in the UK but could very easily have happened in the US. I was very angry with Eileen for not doing her job. I loved Jill. I do feel sorry for these workers because they see the worse of the worst. I just wish they cared a little bit more.Although the book did not end how I would have hoped, I did go onto Cathy's website and saw an update on Jodie and although sad, she (Jodie) seems to be doing much better. She is probably never going to get better but she is doing well enough that she was adopted and is now an adult. Cathy has not had contact with her for two years and that has saddened me. For Cathy and her children.This book is worth the read and I am grateful that I bought it and read it! Cathy is a hero!!!
5 This is a TRUE story.  That makes it REALLY SAD.  It opens your eyes to things that go on in this world that you don't want to know about, but you should, so you can help do something about it.  A VERY MOVING story.  Foster parents are WONDERFUL!  (Most anyway)  I don't know how they do it, but I'm really glad that SOMEONE does!!
3 As a former Child Protection Services social worker, I am ashamed to say too many children receive services too late or simply suffer in silence.The world needs more caring Social Workers, more foster parents like Cathy Glass, and fewer case workers like Eileen.
4 It was an older book but a very compelling story.  I have worked with traumatized children for over 20 years and her story is still the story of many children today.  Sad but true story!
5 Wow! Such a heartbreaking story of an abused child. My heart goes out to the characters in this story. Totally worth reading. I couldn't put it down until I found out if the abusers were punished.
5 I read this book recently and thought it was wonderful! The story itself of the child battling personality disorder and coming to terms with what happened to her, was frightening to read and hard to digest but Cathy Glass does a wonderful job describing the bond she created with this young soul, but also shared some of her own fruistrations coming from a parents point of view too. I really hope she continues to keep writing as I enjoy reading about her journeys through foster parenthood and the adventures it holds..This book is well written and as a reader you become attached to the child too, as if you were actually Cathy's parental assistant. It's a good read!!
5 The book was very interesting, heartbreaking, and emotional...I couldn't wait to finish reading for the outcome of her disturbing behavior. I plan on reading more from Cathy Glass.
5 This is a very disturbing story about a severely abused child.  It is about the love of a caregiver's heart to do all she can to reach this child.  How much structure and love will be enough to make a difference?
5 This is a comprehensive book about an abused child and a weathered Foster mother.  The sad story tells of the journey of the Foster mother to understand and cope with bizarre actions, and the little girls journey to let go of anger and trust again.  Very well written and easy to read - although heartbreaking.  It made me angry how a human being can treat a child so horribly.
5 Loved this book. Interesting and a page turner. The story was told clearly and with great care.  I appreciated the authors work.
4 I loved how the language makes the story so alive and interesting.  Thank God for all the Cathys in the world.  I learned so much from this sad story of Jody.  It is well written.  I wanted to strangle some of the social workers as Cathy did.  The wheels of government turn slowly.
5 I was not  keen about the title Damaged referring to a  child at first, but then when I read of the horrors of Jodie's early life and their effect on her present and future , I sadly agree that this child was indeed 'damaged' by her own family. Jodie suffered a lot of sexual abuse by family members as well as other pedophiles and was otherwise an unloved little girl. She did not sound too appealing when Cathy Glass took her in to foster care, being overweight, rude,and  making habit of soiling as a threat. But the family grew to love her, and helped her with her diet, learning and most of all ,love. Jodie's future turned out to be not as bad as feared, and the book was not as depressing as one would think. There were moments of humour in the story and some vindication for Jodie's abuse. Very thought-provoking reading.
5 I love it for the true story it is, well written but a hard read for the soft at heart.
5 This story broke my heart and I only wish that Jodie was removed sooner.  Cathy's endurance, loving family and tenacity gave that little girl something she had never had before -- a chance at a real life away from her abusers.  I cheered her on, cried with her and felt her pain as she endured so much to save this child.  She's a hero.  This book opens your eyes to the trials that carers and children endure.  A great read.
5 This was a book I found hard to put down.  How can this happen?  How sick can some people be?  Upsetting book but very well written.
5 Cathy Glass is an amazing person and an amazing writer.  This book, as all of her books, is difficult to put down.  I find myself saying &#34;Just one more chapter.....&#34;  Glass keeps the reader interested and eager to read more.  I have shed tears and had a chuckle or two while reading this book.  Most of all, Glass shows the desperate need for loving and devoted caregivers for children who's parents are unable, for whatever reason, to care for them properly.  She also shows the reader the problems with social services.  Although this true story takes place in England, the events could just as easily take place in the United States or any other country.  I recommend this, or any other book by this author, especially if you are considering becoming a foster parent or a social worker.
4 heartbreaking true story.  Makes one want to look behind every one's closed doors to be sure that children are well loved & cared for.  Kudos to Ms. Glass for her heroic efforts on behalf of this child no one could care for.
5 Damaged by Cathy Glass, This is the type of book which is hard to put down. I was anxious to know what happened to this girl and praying for a happy ending (I will not reveal whether happy or not). It is so difficult to believe any child can be abused by any adult. It is repulsive to think about yet inspires one to try to do something to make it better. An adult who abuses a child does not belong in a human society. As far as I am concered, they belong underground.
5 Awesome book. Will recommend it to  friends. Quick read  once I started reading it was difficult to put it down
4 I wish I could sit and talk with him. I wasn't able to  put this book down.  I hope he writes another.
3 Read it and found it not to be a book I would really recommend as felt that the author just wasn't a good writer and that a lot of the words that I am sure on familiar to the Brits, were totally unfamiliar to me which made the book even more unsatisfying.I have read several books on child abuse so I am familiar with the horror of what adults can do to children, but this just was poorly written and very repetitive of the author so wanting his father's approval and love, that it became a redundant theme and was total overkill.
5 This book is an incredible read that takes the reader into the drama and intensity of raising a child and being a father to your child is a real responsible act and not just good intentions that are never manifested.  This story sheds light on how many families deal in silence with the challenges of life that are expressed in children's lives negatively and are never dealt with in an appropriate way.  This is a great read that will keep your attention from begining to end.
4 WELL! So much for the housework! But there's always tomorrow, right?It's not a terribly quick read - just enough to to read on the plane or a long car trip.The story is told in a very non-graphic manner, yet you know what abuse was suffered. Not too sure that the &#34;coincidental&#34; meeting at the end is true, but that doesn't take away from the story.I would have liked to have seen a bit more depth added to some of the characters, to get more of a sense of what their personalities were like & lengthen it some. The author does fall short there making it sort of flat.The story itself is a 5 but the skill at telling it bumps 1 off for me
4 I read the book, but it was difficult.  This little boy went thru torture and survived, but at what price?  He should have killed his father long before he did.  I could not understand the boy still loving such sadistic father.  This story did not ring true, he was treated so bad by all the men in his young life.  It is not surprising that he became mentally ill.
5 I started not to read I was afraid to many memories would return I,m femal and was abused by my uncle as a toddler and I remember every thing he did to me and made me do to him .  this book should be read by all so they can understand why their child is acting strangely. thank you for telling your story.
4 My heart wishes this story never would have happened but I am reminded that it continues to happen whether I want it to or not. &#34;We&#34; are so quick to watch the young girls for signs of abuse but don't want to think that the boys are abused, too. What Stuart went through should NEVER happen to anyone- not even something I would wish on the &#34;worst&#34; people in the world. I am amazed that Stuart could come out on the other side, going through such hell in the process. I will never forget his story.
5 I'm not going to give the story away but I have to say this is a harrowing story that slowly moves to inspirational with one mans struggle to deal with his unloving and disturbing life, I have read all of the books in this series and enjoyed them immensely.
5 If you can stay with this book without breaking down . It's  a good read . It raw truthful and heartbreaking . My heart and prayers goes out to this incident little boy .
5 It is horrific what this boy went through! I read this in one sitting. Then I ordered the second book, because I wanted to read about how he healed. This man is amazing! He tells the story of so many men out there, abused as children, who have not yet been able to speak up. Their stories need to be told too, Stuart is helping do that. I highly recommend this book.
5 An excellent book and very heart wrenching. I can fully understand the emotions and mental traumas this person went through and the result.  The damage done remains with the victim throughout their life, despite them appearing to cope.  And the impact on other family members is also something to consider.
5 Clear and laugh-out-loud funny explanation of why certain claims are believable, while others are flim-flam,.  Ben Goldacre has done heroic work tracing back , and giving us the skills to evaluate, original sources.  His premise is that 'people aren't stupid'; that we can make our own choices when given the tools.  Then he takes on nutritionists, big pharma, the whole mess.  Did I mention is an exceptionally clear and accessible way?  You'll never look at a juice carton the same way again.  And - it's funny.  I'd be wearing the t-shirt, too, if there was one available from a printer in the US!
4 This book shows how those who work in the field or speak in the name of it can be manipulative. Scientific knowledge, as of any type of knowldge, can be missused and Ben Goldcare shows that brilliantly with homour.
5 OK, I already believe in much of what he had to say but while my biases are based on guesses and hunches, he goes far further. Enlightening and educational about how bio-science in done. By hucksters too numerous and their willing dupes in media, as well as the big pharam. No one is spared. All done with style, and substance.
4 Bit of a rant by the author... But if you can step back from his ranting about the inadequecies of the British media in reporting medical news, what he he says is a very sobering analysis of media reporting of  science in general. His comments about the media desire to 'dumb things down' particularly struck a chord with me - as Goldacre mentions, business news is not 'dumbed down' economic news is not 'dumbed down' art news is not 'dumbed down' so why does science have to be 'dumbed down?'I do recommend the book because if nothing else, Goldacre knocks you out of contemplacy and acceptance and makes you want to double check what the media is saying before you believe it, and as he rightly says, we all need to be doing that. Goldacre focused on British media reporting of medical untruths, but his message is equally applicable to the many other areas of science reporting in the press today, especially the science of global warming and the potential it has to inflict uncalculable and unnecessary hardship on the world - just as poor reporting by the British media has inflicted draconian medicine on the accepting British public with their desire for a story over the truth.Everyone with half a brain and an ounce of curiosity should read this book. More people like Goldacre are needed out there to question and follow up on science and stop accepting the non-scientific journalists selling us dud information in the name of making money for publishers. The world will be richer for knowing the truth. Read Goldacre and start hte journey to finding out the truth in science.
5 This book exposes the reasons why many people hold scientifically unsustainable beliefs and how this effects our society.This volume is a must read for anyone who wants to actively participate in society.
5 I stumbled on this book while researching critical thinking for a University course I teach to science and business students in Healthcare career tracks. Everyone in American higher ed is distressed and alarmed by the lack of CT skills of our students and our society in general. In my lifetime, there's been a decided streak of anti-intellectualism that has made our nation incredibly vulnerable to propaganda, advertising, and quackery in medicine, religion, and politics.  It's terrifying (though I have hope that the tide may be turning; our self-inflicted problems are of a size and depth that simplistic thinking and wilfull ignorance cannot prolong the fantasy that "it'll all turn out OK"). This book will become a required text for my class and should be read by EVERYONE.  Practitioners and patients alike will find it to-the-point, well-illustrated, and even fun to read (dry British humor that I read aloud to my 14-year-old, who now wants to read it as soon as I'm done!).  Yet there's no dumbing down at all.  This doctor's brain is a treasure and I'm grateful he wrote this book.  It will elevate the discussion of the healthcare crisis like no other book I've read.
5 This is a great book! It explains the scientific principles and also shows how irresponsible the media can be regarding medial studies, scares and promoting alternative medicine that have no effect.. Ben Goldacre! Thank you :)
5 Brilliant and often very funny. Highly recommended reading. Also check out Ben Goldacre on TED.......Youtube. One of my best reads for 2012
5 I've known about Ben Goldacre - and been a fan of his - through his podcast, Twitter and audio interviews long before I read this book. So I knew what to expect - and I wasn't disappointed.Goldacre teaches us the skill of critical thinking in medical science, particularly as it's applied (or misapplied) in the U.K. Among his targets are homeopaths, water diviners, anti-vaccination scaremongers, "scientists" with laboratories in a garden shed, and other quacks.But this is not just somebody defending big pharma and attacking alternative medicine. No, this is a book about good science, and Goldacre says pharmaceutical companies have also been guilty of sacrificing good science for good profits. He talks about the way these companies - sometimes even unintentionally - skew research results in their favour, sometimes in subtle ways that are almost impossible to detect. The difference, of course, is that this is wrong, unethical and sometimes illegal; whereas with quackery there usually isn't more than a half-hearted attempt to justify their claims with science.This is a book of solid science, but one that's written in an accessible, engaging and even witty style.
4 Despite its rather broad-sounding title, the "bad science" is really science associated with the health, nutrition and medical fields. The author, a physician and strong advocate of evidence-based medicine, guides the reader through what constitutes careful research and diligent analysis and interpretation of results. He points out the many pitfalls that even the most conscientious researchers can unwittingly fall into. But mainly he also discusses various tricks that less than honest researchers - those usually with a vested interest in some specific outcome of the experiments/research (e.g., some alternative medicine practitioners, some pharmaceutical companies, some nutritionists, even some physicians, etc.) - will use to promote their ideologies, products, etc., even when these have been proven worthless by honest, careful researchers. Carl Sagan's view that "extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence" features prominently throughout this book.This author is not afraid to express his views - especially when sloppy research and/or dishonesty is involved. His prose, although occasionally cumbersome, is quite lively, authoritative, friendly, often witty and fast-paced. Anyone interested in the use and abuse of science should thoroughly enjoy this book.
5 An essential book for anyone, whether you're involved in medicine, science, any of the (so-called) alternative therapies, or a patient undergoing and/or considering undergoing treatment. I was taught that science was all about either proving that something works, or it doesn't (i.e. you demonstrate that the hypothesis is proven/disproven, then you produce a method that can be replicated by anyone else, and freely give your information to the world). The proving that something does not work (or has such bad side effects that its efficacy is not worthwhile) is just as important, for the advancement of scientific knowledge, as the proving that it does work. Ben Goldacre has produced an epic opus that clearly demonstrates numerous examples that all the medical/scientific community seems interested in is publishing a biased, lopsided array of &#34;good news&#34; studies, while the balanced (bad news) studies are ignored, much to the detriment of many lives lost because of lack of information being available. It's a very sad and scary situation, but thankfully Dr Goldacre's book (also &#34;Bad Pharma&#34;) may be a catalyst to spur the scientific community into changing their ways.
4 Exceptional book from arguably one of the most gifted health writers/journalists around. Enjoyed the sections on publication bias, placebos and nutritionists. Also compelling, all the fawning that was done over antioxidants.I enjoyed the thorough and well-deserved butt-kicking given to homeopathy as well.
4 Ben Goldacre writes in easy to understand language about the importance of critical thinking and assessing the bull factor in many scientific claims.He destroys what he perceives (rightly in my opinion) as snake oil/ instant cures.He might seem a bit hard on alt therapy, but he has some very valid points.He shows you how to asses for yourself, what is likely hype and not.He also gives some very interesting insights into the truth about vaccinations.Do read this book.
5 With all the pseudo science around and the misinformation being spread, this books is both enlightening and informative. It gives you the tools to research the true effectiveness of products being offered.
5 I bought this book on an impulse while I was ordering another book from Amazon, and I'm very glad that I did, because it is excellent. The stories of confidence tricksters, misleading drug trials, as well as the credulity of lazy journalists and plain self-delusion, are depressing to read about, as they imply a waste of money for large numbers of people, many of whom can barely afford what they spend on quack remedies. Nonetheless, Ben Goldacre has a very lively style, and his book is entertaining.Anyone can call themself a nutritionist, and offer nutritional advice. Of course, we all do that with our children, other members of our families and often with friends. That is almost unavoidable, but becomes much more serious when it's a matter of doing it for money (sometimes large amounts of money), and offering advice that is both expensive and nonsensical. Patrick Holford, for example, has claimed that oranges are sold that contain no vitamin C, so you need to buy his pills. Gillian McKeith is another self-styled nutritionist and television personality, much admired by British journalists, who advocates, among other things, eating chlorophyll to increase the oxygenation of the blood.Another of Goldacre's targets is homeopathy, the notion that many diseases can be cured with sugared water that has been prepared in the correct way. Like many quacks, homeopaths dismiss the resuts of randomized trials that show their remedies as indistinguishable from placebos as "unfair", while occasionally cherry-picking the occasional trials that seem to show a benefit.Mainstream medicine is certainly better than quackery -- vastly better than quackery -- but it is not without similar problems of its own. Pharmaceutical companies exist to make profits, and many of them are not above a bit of cherry-picking of their own, publishing results that suggest that their product is effective, and concealing ones that don't. Goldacre discusses all this, and continues to examine why many journalist are so credulous, accepting so many claims without doing any serious investigation.Most of the examples in the book refer to the UK, and might suggest that it is less appropriate for American readers. However, that doesn't really matter, because it is the principles that he is discussing, and the exact details are less important. Most readers will be able to think of examples of the same sorts of thing that apply to their own countries.
5 This is a brilliant book! It's entertaining as well as illuminating. I often found myself laughing at the foolishness of the quacks, con-artists and pseudoscientists that Ben Goldacre exposes. But, sadly, this is no laughing matter, as these people have such a significant and damaging influence on our society nowadays. Goldacre helps explain why this is by discussing how poorly science is understood, and how easy it is to buy into the alternative view of the world that underpins the 'New Age' movement. Whatever "merits" the New Age ideas have (and I fail to see any myself), the sad facts are that con-artists exploit the naive idealists by abusing their wallets (and often thier health) with junk medicines, ludicrous nostrums and ineffective therapies - Goldacre shows how this is done, by whom, and what amazing amounts of money are involved.An excellent companion book, written in a very different, but wonderfully complementary style, is Michael Specter's "Denialism". Read both!
5 Every person who buys manufactured products, from vitamin supplements to cosmetics, should read this book.  Quote &#34;Posh cosmetics are a special, self administered, voluntary tax on people who don't understand science properly.  People don't buy expensive cosmetics because they are more effective, but because they are 'luxuary' goods and a status item&#34;.  Find out how you are wasting your money.
5 Most entertaining book I've read in the past 10 years.I recommend reading this to ANYONE. And it's absolutely hilarious!It will hopefully get translated into many languages so that morepeople can benefit from it!
4 This is a terrific book!  Forget the absolutely horrible cover design and graphics, which would lead one to believe that this is another "pop science" book. Also forget some rough editing and some tangential arguments and a little stream-of-consciousness writing.  Also forget some unfortunate personalizations inserted in the narrative which lend informality but detract from the author's arguments.  Also forget that Goldacre greatest strengths are his greatest weaknesses:  Calling Montsano Company "evil" because of Agent Orange 45 years ago is hardly effective argument or professional writing.  If you can transcend minor flaws, this book should open your eyes.  It's really a primer on statistics, but applicable statistics and how they are misused and abused.  Freakonomics and Outliers are in similar vein, but more enjoyable.  But Bad Science is one of the best books I have come across in along time.
4 This is a good read. Goldacre demolishes bad scientific reporting, the 'natural therapies' industry, and how scientific illiteracy is actually promoted within educational institutions.  This book will appeal especially to readers in the U.K. as many of Goldacre's examples - and his excoriating assessment of Gillian McKeith - may not be familiar to those in other countries.  The only discordant note Goldacre strikes is towards the end of the book, where he launches into a rather bizarre and unnecessary invective against "liberal arts graduates".  One wonders whether he was bitten as a child.
4 I bought this book knowing I would probably agree with it. Turns out I was right.Detox baths, ear candling, Brain Gym, homeopathy, the MMR scare, nutritionists, moisturisers, vitamin supplements, pharmaceutical companies  - they are all myths that are deftly and humorously deconstructed by physician and professional skeptic Ben Goldacre. Most importantly, he presents facts - quotes peer-reviewed papers, looks behind the news reports, reasons on the evidence. The chapter on how big pharma distort the data from clinical studies is worth the price of admission alone. It's easy to read, but it probably helps if you have a background of some sort in the sciences.However.Despite any protestations to the contrary, don't ever think Ben Goldacre cares overly much about the people whose myths he gleefully deconstructs. Referring to things that are untrue as a 'vast empire of nonsense', 'hocus pocus' (Brain Gym), 'gobbledegook' (homeopathic remedies) tells me the author doesn't have an entirely objective view. Neither does casting doubt on the intelligence of members of a profession: apparently, nutritionists 'lack the intellectual horsepower to be fairly derided as liars', and journalists that sensationalise news reports are are `intellectually offended by how hard they find science' and therefore 'resentful' of not being part of the progress of science. There is a fair dollop of intellectual snobbery throughout the book.Skepticism is fine, even healthy to a point. It's foolish to swallow everything you hear. But hard-nosed skeptics usually have more faith than they care to admit - and Ben Goldacre has an almost evangelical faith in evidence-based medicine.Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the book. And it certainly confirmed some suspicions. I just worry about how Ben Goldacre's unrelenting skepticism has coloured his interpretations of the facts. In the end, books like these really only polarise people into opposing groups. I wish the author was more interested in dignifying the uninformed than bashing people with logic.
4 There are three issues of concern regarding science literacy.  The first is that there is, quite frankly, "bad science."  This happens because of fraud, bias, poor experimental design, misinterpretation, and a number of other factors discussed in Ben Goldacre's excellent book, Bad Science.The second issue is that there are people who intentionally or unintentionally misreport or mischaracterize alleged scientific studies, or simply don"t get it.  These people write articles, promote blogs, or give talks or interviews that actually promote "bad science."Finally, often ordinary people, Joe and Jane Public, are not well qualified to make good judgements regarding the various claims that quacks and shysters make.  And many of these claims aren't harmless issues, like which product gives you more youthful looking skin, or makes your clothes cleaner or your teeth brighter.  Many of these deal with health-related claims.  And poor decisions here have real consequences for individuals and society.This issue of not comprehending your own incompetence is interesting.  In one study, researchers reported that "... people who are incompetent suffer a dual burden: not only are they incompetent, but they may also be too incompetent to assay their own incompetence, because the skills which underlie an ability to MAKE a correct judgment are the same as the skills required to RECOGNIZE a correct judgement" (p. 285).Interesting read, with many British examples.
5 This is a wonderful, angry, ranty book that educates and entertains, and ultimately leaves you sad that the world is the way it is, and wanting to change it.I have read some good works on critical thinking and on science, and this book is right up there with the best of them. Ben Goldacre works in the NHS and the science he is talking about is unashamedly the science of healthcare - but the points he makes about understanding scientific reporting and spotting quackery applies in other fields too.Indeed it was very refreshing to read a book attacking bad science, and defending reason that focussed on such real world and downright useful subjects as how to answer someone who thinks MMR jabs cause autism, or who thinks eating spinach will oxygenate your blood.I thought I was usually reasonably good at spotting bad science, but putting the book down and picking up today's paper I was immediately struck by two stories I would normally have quicky forgotten, and was left suspecting that both are very inaccurately reported.Bad science is all around us, and in this book you can sharpen your skills at spotting and refuting bad arguments. The only people who will hate this book are people who think that "there are more things in heaven and earth..." and thus we should never discount homeopathy (or crystals, or tarot or whatever) just in case they work by some mechanism we do not know.(And the message of the book to those people is - fair enough. But there is simply no evidence that the *do* work at all).The only down sides of this book are the writing style. It is open and amusing, but sometimes some people might feel it grating a little. I didn't - I liked it, but I would understand if others felt differently.Moreover, there writing was sometimes a tad opaque. I found myself re-reading some paragraphs because the book was so chatty that sometimes the author repeated himself and at other times he seemd to assume his point was clear before he had quite finished writing it. It is a minor criticism, because for the most part the author has done an admirable job of making science and the scientific method clear and understandable.One last criticism - had I been explaining the material in this book, I would have covered much sooner the issues of prabability and chance, and the point that even where there is no effect to be discovered, 1 in 20 experiments attempting to show the effect (or rather, to disprove there is no effect) will come up with positive results merely by chance.He does mention this in a very good chapter on statistics. It is just that it was relevant earlier, and even when mentioned it is not a point he labours.Again a very minor criticism for a very good, readable and enjoyable work that is thoroughly recommended.
3 Ben Goldacre is one sharp cookie. His assesments of the ways of the world of medical science are witty and cleverly told so as to make them intersting to a layperson like me. He does tend to get very technical, though, but at least he does acknowledge this himself.I do not agree with his butchering of everything homeopathic, though. This is just too science-nerdy for me. As he does mention himself, a lot of people quite happily spend their money on homeopathic treatment, and I for one don't really care if they spend their money on sugar pills, if it works for them, why not? For me it's a bit like Richard Dawkins saying that people shouldn't be allowed to believe in God, it's simply too authoritarian for my digestion. Goldacre does go into a long argument with himself as to why it is not &#34;harmless&#34; but at that point he lost me.Still a good read, though, and I am looking forward to reading &#34;Bad Pharma&#34;
4 Ben Goldacre's Bad Science was a pleasure to read. He very thoroughly covered clinical trial design and statistics in a way that was not mind-numbingly dull. With this background he explored some of the less scientific areas of health care such as homeopathy. If you are expecting a neutral discussion of topics such as these, then you will be disappointed as Goldacre sticks to the facts, which do support mainstream medicine. If you are on the side of real medicine however, I strongly recommend this book to you. The only shortcomings are that a lot of references are to situations in the U.K. and that Goldacre only talks about medicine, contrary to the name of the book. If you are more interested in general science, then I recommend Demon-Haunted World by Carl Sagan.
5 It seems a bit gratuitous to write the 223rd review of Ben Goldacres book "Bad Science" but having decided that it would be more of a fault not to recognise the brilliance of his book I'll go ahead any way.The Bad Science that particularly irks Goldacre and takes up the bulk of his book is that which relates to the medical sphere. It's not that he thinks purveyors of crystal healing, homeopathy or the wannabe scientific but far from terrific "nutritionists" should be soundly horse whipped weekly or even fortnightly, but that he wishes they would stop pretending to be what they are not which is science. The other target of his ire is the media, the scare-mongering, the cry wolf-ers who were up to their necks in the MMR scare-mongering without understanding more than a tiny fraction of the whole story. With regard to MRSA he gob-smacked this cynical reader with the information that the "scientist" who was coming up with the +ve results for the newspapers was working from his garden shed, done up with pieces of kitchen fittings and sub-standard scientific apparatus: The Walter Mitty of the world of micro-biology no less!He's also interesting, though it is by no means a central part of the book, on the attractions of the quick (quack?) fixes to deal with complex problems within society. The account of the Teeside Fish oil fiasco is fairly disturbing, as is the bizarre (and trademarked) exercises that are apparently carried out in hundreds of schools across the land. Hopefully this aspect of his writings will be explored further in a later book.Totally recommended, Goldacre is an effortlessly witty writer and by some slight of hand. . . sorry . . . by rational explanation he makes statistics, especially those relevant to the study of the efficacy of medical treatments, entirely comprehensible. 100% recommended. A first step to immunising yourself from irrational medical nostrums, saving yourself a pile of money as well as having a well earned laugh.
5 Ben Goldacre is a doctor who writes a weekly column in the Guardian exposing bad medicine. He writes, "The hole in our culture is gaping: evidence-based medicine, the ultimate applied science, contains some of the cleverest ideas from the past two centuries, it has saved millions of lives, but there has never once been a single exhibit on the subject in London's Science Museum."He attacks the idea that social and political problems can be solved by pills, even Patrick Holford's Optimal Nutrition pills, or those of the TV 'nutritionist' Gillian McKeith, with her PhD from a non-accredited correspondence course 'college' in the USA. Their advice is just 'a manifesto of right-wing individualism', blaming people's ill-health on their food choices, not on the social inequality that drives health inequality.Dr Goldacre writes, "All too often this spurious privatisation of common sense is happening in areas where we could be taking control, doing it ourselves, feeling our own potency and our ability to make sensible decisions; instead we are fostering our dependence on expensive outside systems  and people."He praises the brilliant Cochrane reviews of medical literature. He notes that to say that giving placebos in trials of treatments is unethical is to assume that the treatment is better, which is to assume what is being tested. We don't know the result of the trial before we do it - that is why we do trials.For example, trials have proven that the painkiller Vioxx caused 80,000-139,000 heart attacks, a third probably fatal, during its five years on the market. Trials have also discredited antioxidants, hormone replacement therapy and calcium supplements.Dr Goldacre notes that anti-arrhythmia drugs when given to all heart attack patients, not just to those with arrhythmic heartbeats, increased their risk of dying. He reminds us that Benjamin Spock's well-meant but wrong advice - that babies should sleep on their tummies - led to tens of thousands of cot deaths. What counts is the effect, not the intent.He recounts the media's disgraceful nine-year campaign against the Measles Mumps Rubella vaccine. The campaign caused an epidemic of mumps in Britain, with 5,000 cases in January 2005, and 2008 saw the highest number of measles cases since 1995. Nearly half of all homoeopaths irresponsibly advised against taking the vaccine, as did almost a fifth of chiropractors. Only a few homeopaths and just a quarter of the chiropractors acted professionally and recommended it.
2 This book had some good information and at times was quite amusing, but I had one major beef. Constantly throughout the books the author goes on about "humanities graduates", equating them with ignorant science-deniers who spread misinformation and endanger people's lives (i.e. by being journalists who 'resent' science and by not believing in immunisation. Really, he has researched every immunisation opponent and discovered they are all humanities graduates? Please show me the statistics, Dr Goldacre.) This is ridiculous and a massive generalisation that is just as much bad science as that which he is seeking to expose.He also seems to think that all of his readers are male, because says, "I recommend looking at your sperm [under a microscope]; it's quite a soulful moment." (location 4347 of Kindle edition). Well I'm sorry but I don't have any sperm and yes, female humanities graduates can read books about science. But that doesn't fit in with his world view. These kind of tiresome things really interfered with my enjoyment of the book and drove me to write this review. The book would have been better if he had left out these stupid, unsubstantiated and prejudiced jibes.
5 Do you know how much the wool is being pulled over your eyes?  Find out the true facts about the para-medical and pharmaceutical companies that are ripping you off.
5 The sudden violent death of a husband and father devastate a family. As they learn to live again the wife finds herself threatened by men wanting something her husband had, feeling vulnerable and confused hooks up with a detective which will lead both into danger and the unexpected.This book was interesting and quick paced. You feel the emotional roller coaster this widow is on. A book that you hate to put down and can't wait to pick up again. After just reading a few boring books this was refreshing. My kind of book. Andrew Gross has good instincts and makes the characters feel, think and speak as most average people would when put in the unthinkable positions they find themselves.
5 So glad I decided to start reading his books. He has become my favorite author of this genre. Thanks to Patterson for introducing us. In fact I can't remember enjoying reading Patterson's books with such intensity. Now I keep hoping this author has another book on the burner. I feel I know Ty and find it diffcult to put this &#34;Dark Tide&#34;down. Please Mr. Gross keep writing as each and every book you write brings more entertainment to so many readers.
5 I too enjoy Andrew Gross books, but one has to be in the mood for a real thriller and excitement.At the time I really couldn't put the book down and stop turning the pages.
5 This book is an excellent read; fast-paced, interesting, interest holding. I always enjoy this author and will buy other books by him/her.
2 Who cares? I don't think I'll bother reading this writer again. This was boring and not very well written. Don't bother.
5 This is an amazing book.As someone who lives and breaths football,(soccer) this is the perfect book.The bicycle kick, the injury, this book has it all from Wazza's stand point( Rooney) A must have for soccer fans.
5 There's nothing groundbreaking here, but it's a great telling of Rooney's career up through the end of the 2012 season. I know it's ghost-written, but the language and style seem authentic, like I could picture the words coming from Wayne's mouth. You get a good look into what was going through his mind during the key moments of his career and a glance behind the curtain into United's locker room. The latter was my favorite, as he gives his opinions on several players. I feel like I understand Wayne Rooney a little better now and hopes he remains with United for several more years.
3 what you expect from a scouser. That said he loves his football and is dedicated to united. a winner who is a street wise footballer
4 Autobiography of one of the top strikers in the Premier League. In Wayne's own words, read about his formative years as a young lad in Croxteth, Liverpool, and his meteoric rise to the EPL, becoming the youngest player ever to score in the Premier League. He glosses over his Everton years, with most of the book concentrating on his service with Manchester United. Some interesting facts and anecdotes regarding his teammates, manager, and his family, but the majority of the narrative is focused on individual matches throughout the course of these ten seasons. The book becomes a tad repetitious when relating match summaries, and there isn't near as much behind-the-scenes insider revelations as I was expecting. I was hoping to read more inside information about what goes on in their lives off the pitch, but there were few examples to be seen here. FWIW, I'm generally neutral regarding Rooney and ManU...neither a diehard fan nor do I dislike him (or the team). Overall, I'd recommend it for Rooney fans or ManU fanatics, and it's not a bad read for the casual football follower, either. But I felt it could have gone a little deeper in some areas.
4 Being a US-based fan of Manchester United, it is not always easy to get access to team information.  So when I saw that Wayne Rooney's book had come out, I knew I had to have it.This is a quick and easy read.  I did find certain aspects of it to be rather enlightening - mostly around the behind the scenes views of the locker rooms and training regimen. The manager is always a looming presence and I was personally hoping for a bit more insight on him.  Wayne left it to the usual cliches - in other words, nothing new here.The book is set up as a chronological view of the 10 seasons that Wayne has played in the Premier League.  Along with  the occasional insight, you get a recap of the the last 10 years. It is fun to go back and re-live those seasons and remember all the champions.  One thing that really stood out to me was the constantly changing personnel.  When 10 years is compressed into a few days of reading, you really get the sense for how often players and coaches come and go.My one disappointment with the book is that it really isn't all that revealing.  Well, that is, outside of the fact that Wayne loves footy, winning, Everton, and his son Kai. Case in point was his whole contract debacle. It basically came down to a bad week?? Really?  He doesn't delve at all into why he was thinking a certain way or how he came to any conclusions in life.  Is he really just driving forward through life with reckless abandon and not considering his decisions?  I just don't buy it.  I think there is more to the man than was presented here and as fun as it is to revel in the trophies and winning, I was really hoping to understand the 'why' of Wayne Rooney more.Overall - I still recommend the book. Just remember it is a bit like reading the sports page, not all that revealing.
5 I enjoyed reading this as you could tell Wayne Rooney had done it, not a second hand account. A great read for any Rooney fan.
3 Anyone who is a big man utd fan will like this book. It goes through the ten years reasonably well. However it doesn't tell you anything shocking or that you don't know already it could go into more detail over the contract negotiations in 2010 or Ronaldo leaving in 2009!
3 Just good. You won't find it that interesting, as there's no real great revelation.It's just that it's not as insightful as Alex Ferguson biography.
3 Narration of times and terbulances of a starRoutine story of development of a professional. Good if you are in awe or a diehard fan.
4 It's wonderful to read Wayne's 10 years in the premiership, for me and I'm a Man Utd fan, however I found myself getting a little bored, it was just lacking 'something'I'll give it 4 out of 5 stars but only because I'm a united fan, it really warrants 3!
5 Must read book if you watch premier league football. Lots of inside stories shared through the eyes of someone who has been arguably the best footballer in the premier league over the last 10 years.Also a great book to learn secrets of team management & culture from, as Wayne Rooney shares stories of how Sir Alex Ferguson manages manchester united and how he has built a culture of " Always Winning" at the club.Great read !
5 I love these books and plan to read the entire series.  They are entertaining as well as suspenseful.  I also learn much about the area/setting in which they are.  Fry and Cooper are an entertaining pair!
3 I read the first three or four books in this series. The hero is a friendly, if somewhat guileless, young police officer in a rural area. The heroine is a young woman who has just transferred in. They are partnered. Through several books, I kept waiting for her to adjust and mellow. She never did. I began to find her character more and more irritating: suspicious and coniving, yet uninteresting. Though this is suposedly explained by an incident that occurred in her past, I just could not relate to her. I eventually gave up on the series.
5 I love Ben cooper...want to clone him..another grt grt book in the cooper / fry series..actually takes me across the big pond..I can visualize it all and love it..Fry needs to soften up a bit..but that will happen...
5 I am really enjoying this series and I have been pre-ordering the new ones as they become available.  I cannot wait for the next one.  Stephen Booth makes the characters and the landscape come alive, wrapped in an interesting mystery.  I think his novels show a slice of England that many Americans are fascinated with - how the past lives in present day.
4 Dying to Sin by Stephen Booth is a May 2014 Witness Impulse publication. I was provided a copy of this book by the publisher and Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.An old Farmhouse with the odd name of Pity Farms is the scene of a very puzzling crime. Workers digging on the foundation discovered a preserved hand . This sets off a string of other gruesome discoveries on this out of the way farm where evidently someone has been getting away with murder for a long time. With the owners of the farm either dead or suffering from dementia, Cooper and Fry have their hands full. First of all the task of identifying the dead bodies and then trying to figure out who they need to interview especially since the these corpses have been buried awhile and the farm had hired many immigrants over the years who came and went frequently. To add more pressure it is the holiday season and Diane and Ben both seem to have a case of the Bah Humbugs.Diane is feeling out of her element more than ever before while working this case. Her inability to fit into this small community has come to the attention of her superiors who have suggested to her she could be happier somewhere else. While she knows that and ask herself why she is wasting her time here when she could easily find a job working for the MET, having someone else point this out for her was painful.This eighth installment in the Cooper and Fry series is a particularly difficult one. The owners of the farm are selling it and the sole survivor in the family is in a facility suffering from Alzheimer's. By all accounts two brothers lived together on the farm for years although they did not get along at all. One brother was a religious man and the other was very superstitious. Odd ducks for sure. But, there have been some rather disturbing occurances on the farm in the past and the detective working the case back then seemed to have found his own way of handling things.This book is a procedural which takes the reader through the entire investigation from start to finish showcasing good old fashioned police work. The office politics are bubbling over in background and we glimpse the personal lives of Cooper and Fry at times as well. I loved the forensic elements the author included. These details were very interesting, for example we are told how the pathologist might judge the age of a corpse. The odd goings on at that farm also showcases a terrible problem that seems to plague small community's worse than the big cities. This case reminds us that bucolic scenery can be a deadly illusion and crimes are more easily committed and hidden in this type of environment. But the same sins inflict the country folk as do the city folk, a lesson that will most likely have long term repercussions.Sadly, Diane's future seems a little unsettled and she appears to be ready for a change in her career and perhaps in her personal life too. I felt like I could identify with Diane on many levels. I don't want to say anything that would hurt anyone's feelings , but having lived in a small town for many years, I still to this very day never found a niche for myself. Sometimes that is simply the case for those who are not born and raised in an area. Newcomers just don't get all the little inside jokes or the lingo or jargon or mindset and are never fully accepted. If someone is lucky enough to finally breakthrough they will admit it took them a great many years to do so.I hope that this case and Diane's quick thinking that helped solve the murders and unravel an ongoing crime will give her some long overdue respect and she will be able to feel like she belongs, at least a little bit. Only time will tell.Dark, atmospheric, moody, and suspenseful- I give this one 4 stars.note: This book was published previously. This is a reissue by William Morrow's Witness Impulse imprint. This book is now available in digital format.
4 A better plot than the last one but again little progress for the characters. Diane has become a little more human but Ben is just as gormless. Angie appears briefly but with no real resolution of her story. Adain I enjoyed the richness of the landscape of the book.
4 Enjoyed the book, it didn't disappoint me, and the setting of the story makes for all the more interest in the story.
5 I must be a fan, because I've been consuming &#34;Cooper & Fry&#34; books since I discovered Stephen Booth last year. So what can I say? DYING TO SIN is another good one.But better than that, it's a clear marker of maturation for characters who had previously begun to frustrate me. There's only so much prickly Diane Fry I can take before I wonder how in the hell she keeps her job. And the uncertain Ben Cooper who emerged rather too quickly in the earliest books appears to be headed for a much-needed turn around - fingers crossed. Even my dark horse favorite, Murfin, is emerging from his own one-dimensional shadow.And, as usual, another good Derbyshire mystery!
5 I enjoyed this very much. I liked the character interactions and the wonderful descriptions of the countryside. This was a very good mystery and I enjoyed every page of it!
5 Booth's Cooper and Fry series opens up a whole new setting for detective stories.  Not only does the reader get a good who-done-it, but one is also exposed to the Derbyshire countryside, age-old lifestyle and conflicting modern problems.  The characters are realistic.  Descriptions are quite good.  The tension between the main characters is still strong this far along in the series, and quite reasonably so, given their different  origins.  Their personal conflict sets up and echoes the overall theme of traditional, ancient countryside ways disappearing in the face of modern development and encroaching city life.  The sense of place one gets is quite enjoyable and most likely very skillfully evoked by the author.  And even though crime is crime to the city girl, Fry, country boy detective Cooper knows the ways of the people.  They make a good team, in spite of, or, rather, because of their differences.
5 I don't know how he does it, but the Cooper & Fry series have always been set in a sort of mystical land - I've traveled this area of GB quite a few times, and it really is a mystical land. This particular novel was terrific - I've read almost all of Booth's Cooper and Fry series and can't wait for more to come!
3 A bit too much reminiscent of the previous four.  The characters have remained static and the jokes similar, but regardless of that I still enjoyed most of it.  Acceptable escapism.
5 Stuart MacBride can do no wrong with this series!  The police are so real, the mysteries so bloody and *yuck*, the details make you feel you're right there alongside the police, watching it all unravel.  Intriguing and totally satisfying!
5 Fast paced, lots of action, fantastic characters and great writing what more could you ask for. Stuart MacBride has created a great series I hope he keeps it going for a long time.
4 First Line: Waiting was the worst bit: hunkered back against the wall, eyes squinting in the setting sun, waiting for the nod.There's strange goings-on in Aberdeen in this fifth outing by Detective Sergeant Logan McRae. For one thing, it's summer, and the folks in Aberdeen, Scotland don't seem to be familiar with sunshine or warmth. For another thing, the Polish immigrant community is being targeted in a series of gruesome attacks, and McRae actually gets to leave the country to follow up on leads. Most people seem to think these attacks are hate crimes against the Polish, but when a local crime boss is targeted, McRae begins to wonder if something else might be going on.Other than that, the situation seems to be normal: The Detective Chief Inspector seems to have it in for our lad and Detective Inspector Steele continues to go out of her way to make his life miserable. Even though I'd love to slap her briskly about the head and shoulders most of the time, I do like the character of Steele: she serves to remind people that men don't have the politically incorrect slob market cornered.The story moves right along at a good pace, but I'm beginning to notice a change in McRae. Through four books the young man has been unerringly idealistic no matter what is done to him or how many idiotic superiors try to break him. There has been plenty of humor to break the gruesome case load into manageable portions.Not so much in this one. The humor is less, and all the characters seem grimmer. With the lack of humor, the violence of the villains isn't as well disguised and isn't as easy to stomach.How many more infinitely inferior superiors must McRae go through before he leaves the force? Give the poor man a promotion, an entire weekend off, and transfer D.I. Steele!
5 I just love the characters in the Aberdeen police procedural books Logan McRae writes about.  The plots are always tight and this book is filled with the unexpected black comedy I so love.  Can thoroughly recommend!
5 Review of  Blind Eye (Logan McRae) by Stuart MacBride . It was my first experience with this series and author. I will continue as author writes interesting complex plots with great pacing and substantial characters including the peripheral secondary ones. WARNING: some graphic gore/violence...not for highly squeamish reader!Plot 5 of 5Characters 5 of 5Pacing. 5 of 5Writing style 4.5 (writer did not always smoothly segeway(sp? ) from one scene to another imo.Average 4.9Very dark.. but the real crime is not pretty..has some humor to keep it from being constantly and overpoweringly intense. Not the book for everyone
4 Another convoluted, gritty and intense police procedural with DS Logan McRae. This book involves Polish gangsters trying to muscle in on the Aberdeen crime scene. Logan MacRae and DI Steel are again caught in the crossfire.The dark, twisted humour is back particularly in the first half of the book and then the book succumbs to the grittiness of the plot. Logan McRae just seems to be becoming weary as a character. With every book I have read in the series to date, he should have been dead and buried by now with the injuries he has sustained.However I enjoy the relationship between DI Steel and McRae, and I'm going to keep on with the series because they are well written, engaging police procedurals. The cast of characters both new and old are always well fleshed out. As always a very engaging read.
1 In an earlier review I said I had yet to find a character in any of the novels that was at all likable. And McRae himself constantly screws up. When he's confronted with a situation, he gets sucker punched, slips on a banana peel, is stabbed multiple times or the like. In Blind Eye he's working in Krakow with a Polish partner. They are pinned down by gunfire from a couple directions. As they try to escape, he actually shoots one of the bad guys. He stops and says "I...I've never shot anyone before..." With the other bad guys closing in, McRae then says "We need to get him an ambulance!" McRae is not only too stupid to be a cop. He's absolutely unbelievable as a character. Somebody please stop me before I read another one of MacBride's novels!!
4 The violence in this novel could be off-putting for the faint-hearted, but in no way detracts from the clever plot. Once again detective Logan McRae somehow manages to catch the bad guys, while at the same time navigating his survival under the scary DI Steel. MacBride's descriptions of Aberdeen are masterful.
1 The visceral reaction I had to a serial killer who gouges his victim's eyes out made me put this book down  immediately, which I did.  I had just finished the author's &#34;Broken Skin,&#34; the skinned-alive-roasted- up-and-served-for-dinner book and it was beyond repellant.  I loved the cop characters, though, so I hoped it was an abbertation. Apparently not. After &#34;Broken Skin&#34; I needed to giddyup away from the author for awhile. So I did. A month later I picked up &#34;Blind Eye,&#34; the next title in the series. Call Ralph!  Kidney dish, please. This crap may sell but it is indigestible.
4 Detective Sergeant Logan ("Lazarus," or just "Laz" for short) McRae, of the Grampian Police, has his first big case in six months.  It's been longer than that since his last, disastrous, one.  And the present one isn't going well.There are actually two big cases going on.  One has to do with a caravan full of heavy-duty firepower.  And the fear is that there is a turf war in the offing.  The second one poses a more imminent problem.  Six businessmen in the area have been attacked, in the most horrific way imaginable, having their eyes gouged out and the optic nerve and eye sockets burned.  All the victims have been Polish, indicative of the anger, resentment and just plain racism at work in the community, mirroring hate crimes arising out of the issue of immigration and hatred of immigrants, both legal and otherwise, extant in many parts of the world.McRae lives and works in Aberdeen [the author's place of residence as well].  He is tempted to begin a new relationship with another member of the police force, but is a little out of practice.  He also is hoping for a promotion, since a Detective Inspector is about to retire and McRae is one of three thought to be in line for the job.  But first he must catch the man they call "Oedipus."  His DCI thinks he is a natural for it, given his "experience with serial weirdoes."Detective Inspector Steel is going through her own personal issues, describing herself as "a forty-three-year-old lesbian chain-smoker who swears like a f***ing sailor and boozes it up every night."  They make for an interesting team.  Once again Mr. MacBride gives the reader a sometimes brutal but always interesting police procedural, sure to please his growing number of fans as well as gaining him new ones.  Recommended.
5 Although Aberdeen, Scotland Detective Sergeant. Logan McRae is still healing from the brutal Flesh House case he investigates nasty hate crime assaults on Polish immigrants; even the cops are horrified with what has happened to the eyes of the victims.  DCI Finnie believes the prime suspect Gilchrist is a malcontent who loathes the influx of foreigners from East Europe for taking the jobs away from locals.However, Logan wonders if something else is the motive beyond the attacks when even a crime boss is beaten.  Instead Logan considers a mob war between Scottish mobsters and Polish gangsters while Finnie tells him to stop thinking as that is not standard operating procedure for a DS.  Meanwhile, McRae feels a double whammy when Finnie punishes him by sticking him with loud mouth Detective Inspector Roberta Steele to keep witness Rory Simpson, a pedophile, safe from an angry female stalker.This is a strong Scottish police procedural that is owned by Logan but contains a deep support ensemble especially the cops.  The investigation is cleverly devised so that Logan is once again an outsider in trouble with his superiors especially pompous Finnie.  Fans will enjoy his latest case as he works around the bureaucrats to solve the hate crimes.  His back case load is also worth reading (see BLOODSHOT, DYING LIGHT and COLD GRANITE).Harriet Klausner
3 If this is your first MacBride novel, then some of the character and story references won't be clear, because he's chosen not to rehash, to let new readers step in easily mid stream.  Even if you have read them, the first couple of chapters make big character leaps narratively in relation to previous volumes.  Those things aside, this is the most even keeled and readable of his novels.The drawback for someone like me who has read them all and likes procedurals (policiers) is that there's nothing new here - nothing!  The same old characters doing the same old things, i.e., no development, no learning; the same old serial murder story in new clothes, as if MacBride is incapable of writing about anything else; the same old violent climatic ending, with central character Logan McRae getting himself and others brushed up, then miraculously escaping; and the same old wandering ~500 pages.  Next to, say, Donna Leon's Brunetti and Venice police, MacBride has allowed himself to be a superficial bore.  My hunch is that he could be better than this, if he tried.  MacBride likes to joke in the intro about the reaction of Aberdeen's tourism bureau to his books.  What they should be unhappy about is not the picture of crime his stories present, but the total superficiality of characters that inhabit his Aberdeen.
4 The same thrill seen in each book in this series! A must read when reading Stuart MacBride books and it also has the dramatic ending!
4 Someone is preying on Aberdeen's growing Polish community.  Men are found abandoned, barely alive, on building sites with their eyes gouged out and the sockets burned.  Threatening letters arriving at police headquarters make it clear that the attacks will continue.The victims are too scared to talk to police, and the only witness is a paedophile on the run.  Grampian Police are not making much progress in capturing the offender they have tagged Oedipus.  There is another big case happening at the same time (involving firearms) and Detective Sergeant Logan (`Lazarus' or `Laz') McRae has his hands full.  McRae is also hoping for a promotion: one of the Detective Inspectors is about to retire, and catching Oedipus could only enhance his chances.This is an interesting, and at times brutal, police procedural.  There is plenty of action, mostly in Aberdeen but also in Poland.  There are also some juicy red herrings, some fascinating personal challenges (especially for DS McRae and Detective Inspector Roberta Steel).  This is not a novel for the squeamish, but it does have some delightful humour.I am reading this series out of order, and this is my first exposure to DS McRae and his superior officer, DI Roberta Steel.  It won't be the last: these are characters worth exploring and I'll be tracking down the earlier four novels.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
4 I've read all MacBride's Logan novels and this one was a welcome return to form.  The last one, Flesh House, while good was very violent and dark - a real departure from earlier outings.  While Blind Eye isn't short on the more vicious aspects of the crimes committed (the title is a major clue), I'm happy to say the overall tone is considerably lighter than the past few entries and much more in line with the first book, Cold Granite. Another reviewer felt the banter between Logan and his crass, lesbian boss Steel was far-fetched and weak. I respect the reviewer's opionion but strongly disagree - I laughed out loud several times during their exchanges...especially when Steel and her partner want children and she practically orders Logan to volunteer his "services"! I delighted in this scruffy, oddball duo with their warped yet winning cameraderie (if you can even call it that). Yes you have to suspend disbelief to a certain degree - after all, nearly everyone in the book - good and bad guys - are barmy, but that is what makes it all the more enjoyable a read!
4 I really liked the first half of the book--it was classic Stuart MacBride, where nothing goes quite right, and what goes wrong goes spectacularly, muddily, soddenly wrong.  Then his hero, Logan MacRae, was sent off to Poland and the plot got very silly for a while.  Suddenly there were big explosions and there was lots of chaos and mayhem.  That didn't make it a bad read--just not as good as the first half of the book.  MacBride mostly reeled it back in by the end, and the final chapter is just lovely and gruesome.  Unlike some other readers, I like it when MacBride gets enthusiastic about the blood and gore.  This one wasn't as gruesome as his previous novel, but that's okay.
5 Stuart MacBride has an amazing ability to blend wincingly graphic subjects with laugh out loud funny material, and quite often on the same page.  I have enjoyed reading all of his books.  Blind Eye has enough twists and turns in the plot to keep you up until the wee hours of the night reading &#34;just one more paragraph&#34;.  Excellent author.
5 I am hooked to the Logan McRae series.  Can't put them down.  Love the characters & the story lines.  It can get a little gruesome, but it definitely paints the picture for you.
5 I am working my way thru the Logan Macbride series. Murders sometime beyond gory and not for faint hearts. But I love Logan and his keystone cops buddies with all their foibles and all. Plus the very dark humour.
5 Once again, Stuart MacBride doesn't disappoint. A compelling police procedural set in Aberdeen is a wonderful read. No matter how graphic the crime, his characters are still able to share a joke.I love his writing, especially some of the expressions that are so local to Aberdeen.I've read his first five in the Locan McRae series and each one is better than the previous... and they're all fantastic!I have #6 in the series and can't wait to dive into it.Well done, Stuart MacBride!
5 In Aberdeen, Scotland, Det. Sgt. Logan "Laz" McRae is investigating a series of attacks on Polish immigrants. The attacker gouges out their eyes, cauterizes the eyes and leaves them in their injured state. One note that was left stated that the Poles have taken our jobs, our women and our God. The attacker is given the nickhame Oedipus.As this case is being investigated, one of Aberdeen's major crime bosses is found with his eyes gouged out in the same manner. Shortly afterwards a large quantity of weapons and ammunition is found. Police fear that this could be preparation for an all out gang war to take over the gang leader's operation.Logan is under the strick disciplinarian, DCI Finnie, who never seems satisfied with Logan's work. Logan also works with Det. Inspector Steel, a fiesty lesbian officer who needs a curse box to donate to because she curses so much. She's currently under stress because she and her partner, Susan, have been turned down for adoption and now Steel wants Logan to donate the sperm needed for artificial insemination.This is a madcap police procedural. Since the police in Scotland don't normally carry guns, there are a number of skirmishes that could have involved the Three Stooges; police officer hit with a beer bottle, kicked in the crotch and shot at without rear of return fire.There's lots of action presented in a realistic manner where the reader gets to see the mistakes that police, who are human, can make. McRae is an excellent protagonist with a strong sense of right and wrong. He's moral, determined and as relentless as a hungry pit-bull.
5 Stuart Macbride has become my favorite author and nobody does it better.  Blind Eye is more in line with Cold Granite than Flesh House - it's incredible exciting and a bit lighter than Flesh House, though no less absorbing.  Logan McRae's personality is getting more and more developed and we see a lighter, dare I say comic side of his boss Roberta Steele.  Not to be a spoiler but Logan's soul and morals are bared in this book in a surprising, but believable way.  It's a long read - 516 pages - but well worth the hours you spend.  Thank you Mr. MacBride.  Please keep it up!
4 It's a real treat to hear Stuart MacBride read his own work. Unlike having to listen to a narrator who seems to miss nuances from time to time, Mr MacBride is able to override that completely.As well as being a talented writer, he's clearly a pretty good mimic; it's easy to imagine him as an actor on the stage, working in radio drama or doing the voiceover for a telly ad. The accents and voices he uses for the characters in Blind Eye make it easy to follow all the way through.The novel tells the story of DS Logan McRae as he takes a kicking from criminals and his bosses alike while investigating the Oedipus case.The Oedipus case involves attacks on the Polish community of Aberdeen which link into the local Scottish crime hierarchy and into prostitution and porn films. The handle for the case and the perp has been chosen because of his modus operandi, the gouging out of a victim's eyes with a spoon and then the burning out of the eye-socket afterwards.It's fairly grim subject matter if taken at face value, but it's handled in a way that makes the book light and dark in fairly equal measure.All the way through there's a humour that is very entertaining and that makes the gritty elements of the story more palatable.  In fact, the book has the feel of a comic crime novel as much as anything else. MacBride barely misses the chance for a pun or a sharp retort and he really does have a huge variety in his wit. The comedy enters some of the character creations in the book who seem like caricatures sketched by a cartoonist as well as into some of the settings.Along with MacRae, there's the ever present lone-lesbian DI Steel who goes into overdrive on this one, not least because she's in need of sperm (you'll have to read it to work that one out).As well as a tour of the Aberdeen underworld, there's a strong section set in Poland that gives a vivid sense of place.What I really enjoy about the writing style is that it's always moving forwards. This provides a real sense of drive and momentum, something that kept me as a listener pinned to those speakers (not literally, though I wouldn't be surprised if Mr MacBride has used that somewhere in his books). It makes the work very engaging and means there's always something to look forward to.Whether you go for this as a novel or in its adiobook form, you're in for a treat.
5 I am happily working my way through all of the books in this series. I am quite enjoying it and Mr. McRae.
5 I am sure that this book will be too graphic or violent for some readers. And violent and graphic it is and some... But, what makes Stuart MacBride stand out among the numerous crime writers is his immaculate plotting and vicious sense of humor. This lovely man makes me laugh and cringe in the same sentence. Now, that takes special skill. I might not be willing to spend days with his characters, but I would love to meet them and perhaps spend the night in the bar with them. More than one my poor liver couldn't take. Please keep them coming.
4 Entertaining and not for the prim and proper reader. Salty language and content. Other characters enjoyable too and seemed real,
2 Stuart MacBride seems to be heading rapidly downmarket. I enjoyed his first three novels, but this one, like his previous one, has lots of gruesome and gory detail. I wouldn't have a problem with that if the plot and the storytelling maintained a standard similar to that achieved in the early novels. But in this one the plot is a real hotchpotch with extra ingredients continually being thrown in to keep the pot boiling.The character of DI Steel is becoming less and less credible for a senior police officer and her dialogue with DS McRae, though often amusing, is also frequently trite and unfunny in this story. The weaker material should have been edited out.And towards the end, the main villain makes an unbelievable decision amidst a confused morass of events that hardly constitute a climax.I got no feeling of satisfaction when I came to the end and I suspect this will be the last novel I read by this author.
4 In the fifth book of the Logan McRae series, MacBride makes good on his promise to the Aberdeen Board of Tourism and sets the book in the summertime. But, the Board still may not be happy, as the central plot in this police procedural revolves around a spree of hate crimes against Polish immigrants - specifically against men blamed for taking women and jobs, these men are grotesquely blinded.After the high-adrenaline speed of the previous book in the series,Flesh House, this one opens a bit slowly. Some time has passed after the fourth book's completion, and the reader is immediately left with some long-lingering questions regarding McRae's personal and private life. Unfortunately, it takes quite a bit of time for those questions to be addressed. But, there are new characters - and returning old favorites like DI Steel - to provide ample and entertaining distraction from those questions. The central crime isn't as flashy, though, and it takes a while for the storyline to be truly absorbing. It makes a striking contrast against the flashy fourth novel in the series.The "summer love" of Aberdeen feels a bit forced - but once the plot finally starts rolling it does become a more exciting novel. The brief change in scenery to Poland makes for an interesting change. And the dialogue and bantering between the police officers is as funny as ever. I really am enjoying this series. MacBride is a wonderful writer  with vivid, colorful imagery (and some great verbs like "rabbiting" and "hurpling"), a gift for creating sympathetic and realistic characters and a keen ear for dialect. It is a real joy to read these mysteries and I am looking forward to reading the next book!
4 I felt like a voyeur watching through the window of Anya's soul. The story of her painful childhood experiences, her lack of belonging and fear of abandonment coupled with her fear and distrust of men and the failure of the system would have been enough to destroy most. Ms. Peters provides insights into the human psyche and how deeply the need to belong and be loved are ingrained in all of us. On the other hand she reveals the deep fear, shame, and embarrassment that hinders people from getting help. Her faith and her lack of bitterness are admirable.  Blogging about her circumstances were her self-therapy.This was a hard book to read because of the story not the writing. I have always had compassion for the homeless, but this book has convicted me to do more to help.
5 I know this is not a true story but it could be, and probably is some place in our own town's. sad story.
5 Hard to imagine a child would be too afraid to report abuse but it is so often the story.  This is one of the best books I have read in awhile - well written.
5 A story that is very hard to stop reading couldn't put it down.nice difference having her write her story the ups and downs
3 A very sad tale about a child who grew up in a hostile environment unwanted and unloved and struggled to find acceptance as an adult.
5 Great reading...easy transaction..Easy transition to my kindle. Will buy more from here. Exactly as advertised. Will use this seller again
4 it's a tale of the social tragedy that happens everyday and every where in the world. makes you think some.
4 From the beginning, you are intrigued to see how she ended up living in her car. But. Once you learn of the horrors of her child hood, I am amazed at how she survived. I found myself getting very angry at how her mummy turned her back and never helped at all. It appears that every person that anya had depended on. Let her down. It's a story of amazing strength and the will to survive and strive.
5 This amazing story is one I will long remember. Horribly abused as a child, Anya fought her personal demons and managed, against all odds, to carve out a rewarding life for herself. I cheered her on as I read through tears. I highly recommend this book.
5 Beautifully written, this is a book of both heartbreak and triumph, of overcoming the odds when they are stacked in a way u don't think can ever change. Realist and confronting, teaching and storytelling. Just wonderful. Thank u so much for sharing ur story Anja, ur an inspiration.
5 Hard read emotionally as it is painful. Yet I fully appreciated the honest openness. I don't know how people come to terms with this level of abuse. A lot of us have varying degrees but anya s was horrific. Plus to be the product of a hidden love,affair. I know she didn't pass blame but how could some of these adults miss the stress  ythey imposed?  Again I think what a wonderful creature we are in the ability to move past and conquer.
5 This book starts out as a young girl & follows through her life's story & it's a true story. It kept me reading this book until I finished it & came to the end, which I will not discuss in this review.  You will truly come to one conclusion some of us are great deal stronger than others. You will surely fall in love with this girl's story about her life, I enjoy books about people & more so if they are true stories. I do feel it's it's worth anyone's time to read this book it will keep you turning the pages especially if you have children of your own. Gail
5 are the best, especially when it comes to true stories.  This was a sad book, I usually share all my books.
5 This book was easy to read, and moved smoothly. I am impressed at how this young lady was able to get her life together.
3 While this book was pretty decent, it didn't start to get good until half way in.  The first half of the book all that was talked about was how the little girl was called names and beaten.  Don't get me wrong, all of the abuse she was taking at that point was terrible but it seemed to be repetitive.  Then about half way in, the real torture began.  At times I was almost in tears.  I wanted to keep reading to find out what happened next.  The writer is a strong lady who went through things unimaginable.  If you can make it half way through, I recommend the book, but don't expect too much excitement until then.
5 Just goes to show you that no matter how bad things are or get there is always a way back. I was in an abusive relationship and found it hard and very frightening to get out of but I did eventually find my inner strength and got free. Now life is how it should has always been free from the fear and able to be me the person God intended me to be. It says something to feel safe in your own home. Anyas story was heartbreaking and inspiring , there is hope. Never give up for where there is a will there is way. Thank you for sharing your story , God bless you Anya :)
5 I keep getting lucky in my reading choices.  This is wonderfully written although it is heartbreaking.  True courage and a determination to live.
5 The book broke my heart from the first page. Couldnt believe how many heart breaking tragedies this girl lived through. Absolutely loved it
4 This story touched a lot of truth and lies in my own life.It's a terrible pity her father had,by the guts to bring her to Ireland and look after her properly.Her mother sounds vain and selfish.A good story but I felt it jumped bit here  and there.Brendan seemed to have been there for her most of her life and then suddenly he was unreliable .I found that hard to understand.Also that both her mother's just disappeared out of her life.Never the less a good read and a good look into what a lot of us grow up with "don't tell".
5 Abandoned is a compelling story of one child's fight just to survive.  Anyas life was heartbreaking and demonstrates how desperately children want to fit in and be loved.
5 This book is a great read,sad some people have to actually live through that kind of abuse and think there is no one they can turn to for help.
5 Anya , what an amazing moving book. Thank you for sharing. My heart goes out to you, I realise you are not asking for sympathy , but instead you have my admiration. After an entire life of abuse, suffering and pain you have risen above it . No one should ever. Have to. Go through what you were forced to endure . I pray you find love for yourself, and your life is full of. Joy from this moment on, whatever form that may take . I think that you have proven yourself to be incredibly brave . Good fortune , good luck and blessings to you.
4 This is a sad, true story of a little girl who just wanted to be loved and to know who her parents were.  I cannot understand the one review I read by someone who said they could not keep people straight, that her aunt is her mummy and her real mummy is someone else and her brothers and sisters are really her cousins...it was not difficult at all to keep everyone straight.  The fact that this little girl turned out to be the woman she is today is amazing, because she really did not have a loving home at all and never really knew who her father was until she was older, although she did know her real mother had not kept her.  Hard to imagine needing love and never getting it, except from the aunt she called "Mummy" who turned on her at one point.  And to have survived the unimaginable sexual abuse by her uncle was also amazing.  The fact that she survived all this and overcame it gives hope to others who may be in similar situations, and I hope someday she finds someone to love her and has children of her own that she can love as she never was.
4 What are we doing to our children? It broke my heart to read how people can treat their greatest possessions. This was a difficult story to read at times, but so very important because of the message it delivers to us all. The strength and courage displayed by this child is phenomenal.
1 Anya lived with her aunt and uncle,born illegitimate to a religious Irish gal, who couldn't own what she had done. Throughout Anya's life she visits frequently as does a mysterious &#34;uncle&#34; that spoils Anya. &#34;Daddy&#34; as she calls her uncle hates her and abuses her in every way possible, but Anya clings to her love for her aunt &#34;Mummy&#34; and endures. When the fragile house of cards that is Anya's miserable life collapses, Mummy does not leave, she chooses her man over Anya and leaves Anya's real mother to make new arrangements for her. By page 40 I had already guessed that the mysterious uncle was Anya's biological father, yet when she finds out that this man who is good as gold to her is actually her father she rejects him. Her aunt and uncle clearly don't want her back. Her real parents are good to her. She's still not happy because she clings to ever fading hope that &#34;Mummy&#34; will come back for her. Her real parents did their best to make up for leaving her,but nothing ever pleased her. Not uplifting at all. Don't bother.
5 Amazing. What an inspiration.l she is to all the people who struggle in this world. Things like this still carry on- and as the generation continues, I fear, it's only going to get worse.
5 How can parents be so mean?  Good read that opens up your eyes to the lives that some children are dealt.
5 It took me a little time to get into Anya's memoir but after I read so far into it I was hooked.After reading about her horrible childhood and then her time as a homeless person I would have liked more detail as to where she ended up and exactly how she ended up there. I beleive she will be writing a sequal to this memoir due to the abrupt ending in this book.Overall it was a very good book and definantly pulls on the heart strings.
5 All I can say is this is a book you can not put down.  It's as if you are living this author's journey and going through this hard and unexpected path of horrors she went through
3 The story is compelling and sad.  The telling of it is a bit repetitive.  Amazed it took so long for help.
1 i would strongly suggest reading the sample chapters before purchasing this muddled mess of a book. i found the beginning very confusing...apparently mummy is auntie and real mummy is kathy and daddy i aunties husband and those referred to as brothers and sisters are cousins? as i read on i coul not get lost in the authors world because i was so busy trying to keep the characters straight. i am truly sorry that the author was abused and i commend her efforts but the story was just so all over the place it turned me off. i was so annoyed i decided not to risk paying almost seven buck with the hope the story would get better. i would recommend Deliever Me Frm Evil by Alloma Gilbert over this book anyday and no i am in no way affliated with Gilbert. i just think her book flows better and am suggesting it since it is the same genre as Abandoned.
2 Did need all the explicits of what happened this this child.  A couple is sufficient but not chapter after chapter
5 As Anya maps out her horrific abuse at the hands of her uncle it's easy to follow and understand her descent into homelessness as an adult. The homeless are a group of people most of us never think about and if we do, we visualize them in our minds as 'those people' - somehow different from ourselve. But Anya is a real person who at birth had as much opportunity as any of us, but never was provided a warm, nurturing environment in which to grow up confident and strong. And when she finally can't take the abuse any more and speaks out, she ends up losing what little she had in the way of family forever. After describing how her life subsequently spiraled out of control, to the point where she had few possessions and no place to live, she goes on to tell how with the help of a few kind people she was able to pull herself up out of the vortex she was in and make a conscious decision to retake control of her life. She is truly an inspiration.
5 What a trooper. I feel better after reading her story. What strength!!! I recommend this book for all who need a boost.
4 Marianne covers many previously uncovered(at least as far as I've read) corners of her life- especially interesting was her account of her father's work as British intel in WWII; he interviewed Nazi officers. He also ran a utopian commune after the war. She comes from pretty distinguished stock! Also, she obviously has a generous, funny spirit even when she's admitting her own and other's flaws (I like how she unflinchingly discusses the darker sides of Burroughs and Ginsberg). Her scandalous tales of teaching poetics Naropa college were interesting too. Although I think Corso took it too far.It was also refreshing to read her disavow the romantic Artist/Addict notion -- 'disordering of the senses' and all of that. That notion really needs to die once and for all! Also interesting was that she had a different take on Acid as 'Seeing God' than you might think, for a 60s icon.I was irritated by the seller giving me a public library copy with missing photo pages though when they listed it as "Good Condition". Tsk tsk.All in all, a good sequel to her last book.
4 I really enjoyed this and I have also read &#34;Faithfull&#34;. Intelligent, witty and honest. I am intrigued by 60s culture and social history, but it was equally interested to read about the ways she has stayed relevant into the 21st century.
4 one thing I give this woman is kudos for being who she was....and she is still relivent....she is a rolling stone....very small club...muse of so many of their early songs.  I show her today at the reception, a glass of wine in her hand...........I love album broken English..........stunning..........
5 This is a good book. Marianne Faithfull is deep and funny and she was there at that remarkable blur sometimes referred to as the '60's. 70's 80's 90's 2000's...
3 Liked her first autobiography.  This was not as well written and repeated a lot of what was in the first.
5 the hard copy of this book was the only thing I bought on my first trip to London.....it was not available in the US at the time.  Ms, Faithfull is an incredible writer and story teller.  I find her fascinating.
3 This book was OK It was not that inspiring although it did have some good book reading recommendations. Just OK
4 Memories, Dreams, and Reflections isn't a traditional autobiography. It's a series of vignettes about Faithfull's friends (e.g., William Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, Kenneth Anger), experiences, and music. She's had a fascinating life, and she's a very interesting person, so it's a good read, especially for her more devoted fans. I particularly enjoyed the chapters detailing each song on her newer records. Her chatty, intimate tone makes for an entertaining read. If you're a more casual fan or just want to learn a bit about her storied life, I would suggest her autobiography Faithfull, which takes a more linear path through her life story.
3 Marianne Faithfull&#8217;s first autobiography, Faithfull, was published in 1994 and is a brilliant rock autobiography, probably something that just about anybody should read, as long as you can deal with the incredible self-absorption (hey, it&#8217;s a rock bio &#8211; what do you expect?). She followed it up with this book in 2008; sadly, though, it is simply not as good. It re-treads a lot of material as the first one (mommy and daddy&#8217;s doomed relationship is revisited, but without any new insights, other than &#8220;one of the reasons I was sent to the convent was so that my mother could have a sex life.&#8221;), but also tells interesting anecdotes of her grandfather and his Jewish wife in Vienna, so dipping back into the past is not all wrong! Finally moving ahead in time, it deals quite superficially with events that have come up in the years in between, which includes health issues (most importantly the fortunate, fluke-y just-in-time discovery of deadly cancer &#8211; Al Jourgensen had the same luck), friends dying, recording sessions, acting, and more tours. She also dwells on the Beats, her appreciation of them, and of experiencing the passing of William Burroughs, (hero or monster?), Allen Ginsberg and Gregory Corso.The chapters are all over the place, some of which are devoted to a single friend&#8217;s memory (for Caroline Blackwood, Henrietta Moraes, Juliette Greco and Gregory Corso she becomes a sort of &#8220;Speaker for the dead&#8221;, a la the Orson Scott Card book in his Ender series, which I have just finished reading &#8211; which I guess is what happens when people get old and survive their friends, family, acquaintances), and one chapter covers her surreal conversation with Fabulous Beast (herself). Being a proto-goth, she gets gloomy too. &#8220;I think the apocalypse will appear for far more banal reasons than [the end of the Mayan calendar]: war, pestilence, famine, and global warming. And rampant greed. And, of course, sheer incompetence. It ain&#8217;t gonna get any better. I just hope my grandchildren get to see the world I grew up in and know what a tree is. It&#8217;s tragic, I know. I&#8217;m beginning to sound like a complete curmudgeon &#8211; but I am a curmudgeon! And now I see how curmudgeons get to be that way. This world sucks!&#8221;She also goes back to the Sixties a lot in the text (and even more so in the pictures section), talking about how beautiful and stoned everyone was, but how the Sixties were really just a weak version of the Fifties, which she was too young to be involved with until later in life when she moved in with the Beats. &#8220;Being with George (Harrison) and Pattie (Boyd) was very relaxing. Mick and I were able to lie back on Moroccan cushions, get high and float away listening to George&#8217;s new songs.&#8221; She claims that Mick Jagger had nothing to do with the writing of &#8220;Ruby Tuesday&#8221;, despite getting a writing credit, but that Brian Jones had a large hand in it (more than any other Stones song), it &#8220;was a collaboration between Keith and Brian. Without Brian there wouldn&#8217;t be a &#8216;Ruby Tuesday&#8217;.&#8221; She talks about the Joe Orton play &#8220;Up Against It&#8221; that they were trying to cast the Beatles to make a movie of, which would have been edgy, and potentially career-destroying, but for which they may have built up enough popularity and credibility to pull off. In it, &#8220;the Archbishop of Canterbury turns out to be a woman, the [Beatles] get dressed up as women, commit adultery and murder, and are involved in the assassination of the Prime Minister.&#8221; Hmmm&#8230; tantalizing to think about what may have been, or if Mick Jagger and Ian McKellan had taken it up afterwards, as is the legend! (Orton was murdered by his gay lover, inspiring the Beatles song &#8220;Maxwell&#8217;s Silver Hammer&#8221;).We learn weird tidbits throughout, some of which complement the first book; for example, it seems that she lost all ability to speak French after her near-OD in Australia and six-day coma. Interesting, she also gets to sing an unused Roger Waters song from 1968, &#34;Incarceration of a Flower Child&#34;. She gets catty with Paul McCartney, and Mick in a sort of backwards way. &#8220;Whatever we thought of Linda &#8211; and she didn&#8217;t make that great an impression on me &#8211; I think it was a credit to Paul that he didn&#8217;t marry a model. A module. Because that&#8217;s what all the others have ended up doing, they&#8217;ve married these modules. And they have children who also become modules.&#8221; Of course, Mick, Keith and Ron all married/allied with models/former models, and some of their kids have become models now too! &#8220;There was a lot of dark, creepy stuff in the sixties, I can tell you: The Process, Mel Lyman, Manson, Anton LaVey, and L Ron Hubbard. Those people were always trying to get hold of me. Somehow I managed to negotiate my way around them quite successfully. I didn&#8217;t get involved in any cults, apart from going up to Bangor for that regrettable weekend with the Maharishi and the Beatles, the weekend that Brian Epstein killed himself.&#8221; Inspection of Brian Epstein, inspection of Spanish Tony&#8217;s Vesuvio (&#8220;like all dealers, he didn&#8217;t consider himself just a dealer, he wanted to be something else, something a bit more grand, a maitre d&#8217; to the hipoisie; thus the Vesuvio&#8221;), and regret about ever having anything to do with Kenneth Anger (she had played Lilith, &#8220;a cemetery-haunting female demon&#8221; in his film Lucifer Rising; &#8220;dabbling in the occult has a nasty way of casting its baleful influence long after you have left the scene &#8211; and accumulating vengeful force along the way&#8221;).But things were much different then for privileged people like Faithfull. &#8220;The artistic community, even in the sixties, was very small. &#8216;The Sixties&#8217; was actually a very few people. In the sixties you could go up to the Stones&#8217; Maddox Street office and tell Mick some crazy idea you had and he&#8217;s listen to you &#8211; not that he&#8217;d probably do much about it, or Paul at Wimpole Street, but today it would be beyond belief what you&#8217;d have to do &#8211; apart from the fact that you wouldn&#8217;t want to! There&#8217;d be fourteen lawyers prancing, seven accountants simpering, managers mulling, minders, minions, middle-men, media mentors, marketeers.&#8221; The book is incredibly chatty, and at times the author doesn&#8217;t even try to cover up that this was all narrated to him: &#8220;&#8221;When I hear Gregory laughing while I&#8217;m reading his poetry on the album &#8211; which you must get &#8211; I see Gregory rise up with his wicked puckish grin, a wild jail kid, but so sweet.&#8221; At one point she even gets someone else to tell the story!It is with great envy that I read about her collaboration with Nick Cave (!!), the Bad Seeds, and PJ Harvey (!!). Unfortunately, her chapter on Before The Poison, the recording where she collaborates with them, is brief, and she really doesn&#8217;t talk much about other musicians! Happily she also mentions being in Singapore, staying at the Raffles Hotel, and walking around the corner in search of an opium den to hang out on Bugis Street (also called &#8220;Boogie Street&#8221;, according to the local pronunciation, which Leonard Cohen wrote a book about), and nearly getting killed by the tough punks who used to hang out there (times have changed - now it&#8217;s a youth hang-out). And with drugs she&#8217;s still unrepentant, willing to find some good there. &#8220;I&#8217;m not prepared to feel that everything I&#8217;ve done in the last ten years is wrong. I am ready to admit that my body prefers it when I don&#8217;t drink, but I'm not sure about the rest of me! I&#8217;m convinced that there&#8217;s something in us deep down that needs a break from the regular life. My theory is that by keeping yourself just slightly off the straight and narrow you can avoid all sorts of things perhaps major things, that otherwise could spell trouble. I know that when I&#8217;ve been in top form, off drink and whatever, it&#8217;s then that I can get into all sorts of trouble &#8211; sexual pickles and all that stuff. I&#8217;ve even been known to marry the wrong person soon after sobering up.&#8221;Of course, none of this changes that fact that we&#8217;re hearing all of this from the Marianne Faithfull, who along with Michelle Phillips became the vision of hippy chick beauty and youth. The fact that she&#8217;s aged like a wine into this incredible songbird is also a stunning achievement of someone who has really had it all, on both sides of the coin. What a life!!The pictures are great, and the book even has an index!
3 A Vintage Affair by Isabel Wolff was an enjoyable read. The story-line of Phoebe Swift and her new vintage clothing store is fun and interesting. The descriptions of the vintage clothing, who owned them and how they came to be at the shop were very engaging. There was much more to this story than you would first expect.I liked Phoebe; she was a kind character who struggled with past mistakes. Her clothing store connects her with an elderly French woman, Mrs. Bell. Among the items that Mrs. Bell wishes to sell to the store is a blue coat that was made by Mrs. Bell's mother. Through the story of this blue coat, the reader learns about a tragic incident that happened to Mrs. Bell, as a child, during World War II, an incident that Mrs. Bell has never forgotten nor forgiven herself. There is a bond between these two women, as their stories, though very different, are very much the same in many respects.As much as I liked the book, there was something that was lacking. The author took a turn with Phoebe's friend's story, Emma, that I found somewhat unbelievable. Without giving anything away, I just thought, had the author kept her story on track, it would have made more sense and had more of an impact. This definitely influenced my opinion of the rest of the novel.I was also hoping for a different outcome with Phoebe's love interests, and her parents' relationship.  Despite some of these weaknesses for me, it was a book worth reading. If I could have, I would have rated it with 3 1/2 stars.
5 The author really does a nice job with the writing and story.  Phoebe, an auction house buyer, quits her job to open her own vintage clothing shop.  She is still  grieving over the death of her oldest and dearest friend.  She meets an elderly woman who is selling her vintage clothing, and a friendly relationship develops. They delve into Mrs. Bell's past, and how her town in France was overtaken by Nazi's and her best friend shipped away to the concentration camps. Meanwhile, Phoebe forms relationships with others, people who have come into her shop-- an actress who becomes her assistant,an attractive older man with a spoiled teenage daughter, a rumpled reporter, young women who have purchased from her. There are some unexpected revelations.  The characters are well drawn.  There are no shocking secrets,and it makes for pleasant reading.  The author has great knowledge of vintage clothing and designers.
3 I love fashion so when I read the summary I knew I must read this book so I was really excited when I won. It was a light romantic novel with some heavier stories told within the main plot of the book.Phoebe Swift's love for all things vintage leads to her opening her own shop, Village Vintage. She meets many different and unique people with many wonderful stories. One of these people is Mrs.  Therese Bell who grew up during the war in the 1940's.  She tells her story of growing up during the war and the person she felt she betrayed and has kept a part of it, the beautiful blue coat, to herself all these years. Which is something Phoebe could relate to all to well.I really enjoyed reading this book. The descriptions of the vintage clothing was wonderfully detailed, I could picture every outfit perfectly.  I enjoyed the story of Mrs. Bell somewhat more than I did the main storyline with Phoebe, but Phoebe's was just as interesting to read about.There were so many characters each with their own individual personalities.  Phoebe's two or well three, I suppose, love interests Miles the older man with the snobbish daughter, Dan a sweet and quirky journalist/ film aficionado, and of course the ex-fiance she left behind. One of my favorite characters was her mother who was obsessed with wanting to stay young and learning about all these different procedures she was thinking of doing. I enjoyed all of the characters even the not so nice ones.A Vintage Affair was a really fun and at times sad book to read. It makes me want to open up my own vintage shop in hopes of meeting a wonderful person like Mrs. Bell and being surrounded by all the beautiful clothing.
4 If you're a vintage clothing lover, as I am, heroine Phoebe Swift has a dream job. After quitting a demanding position as a clothing and textile auctioneer, she opens an elegant vintage clothing store. The merchandise is all expensive couture in perfect condition, it is described constantly and in detail, and Phoebe's buying budget seems limitless. After an opening replete with champagne and flowers, and attended by fashion magazine writers, Phoebe soon gets plenty of customers who all have gossipy little life stories. One immediately becomes an assistant and girlfriend, and Phoebe has plenty of other supportive girlfriends as well. A reporter who interviews Phoebe not only writes a flattering feature story, he immediately becomes a boyfriend. Phoebe attends a high-flying auction where she buys a couture dress for 3,000 British pounds and meets a wealthy man who becomes another boyfriend. Phoebe also goes on an enjoyable buying trip to France, gets taken out on expensive dates, goes to elegant parties, and receives fancy clothes as gifts. Oh, and she's beautiful, thin, poised, cultured, and overall, just about perfect.Phoebe does have a little problem or two in addition to deciding between eager suitors: Some time ago, her childhood best friend Emma committed suicide because Phoebe became engaged to yet another perfect man with whom Emma was in love. He's still calling, but Phoebe has broken the engagement, and her grief even leads her to display one of Emma's millinery creations with a "Not for Sale" sign. What higher tribute can there be? However, none of this stops Phoebe from thoroughly enjoying her rather luxurious lifestyle.If you want to read 344 pages of escapist, competently written chick lit, and you like vintage clothes, you'll love A Vintage Affair. Just don't expect it to be great literature.
3 This book is an ok read, but a little slow. I loved the unusual vintage take and incorporating the different characters into the story using the vintage clothing was a great idea, but it was kind of a slow read.
5 After her life is shaken by the death of her best friend and a split with her former fianc&eacute;, Phoebe Swift decides to trade in her career as a Sotheby's employee in favor of running a vintage clothing shop.  Her new life gets off to a good start, with a successful store opening and two new potential love interests.  Phoebe also finds a friend in Th&eacute;r&egrave;se Bell, an older women who sells her clothes to the shop.  She and Mrs. Bell bond over their shared experiences of losing loved ones, and as Phoebe helps her new friend work through her tragedy, she finds the resolution she needed with her own.  Isabel Wolff's characters are quirky, believable, and delightful, and Phoebe's journey to find her new place in the world is heartwarming.  The reader will find themselves drawn into all aspects of Phoebe's new life - good and bad, old and new - and hoping that everything works out for the best.
5 This story revolves around vintage clothes and some of their stories. Phoebe Swift opens a vintage shop where she ends up meeting a few remarkable people. It is a romance like no other, it is a vintage affair. You fall in love with the characters and they become your friends that you just do not want to leave. If you are looking for a feel-good, romance book then I recommend this one for you to read.To see more of my review visit my book blog to read more.[...]
4 Some novels are more difficult to rate than others.  In the case of _Vintage Affair_, it has problems; none are so serious they destroy its charm.  The book has quirky, fluffy, fairy tale appeal, but not enough to distinguish from it other light and pleasant and ultimately forgettable reads.  Four stars is too many.  Three would be too few.  I'm rounding up rather than down with some misgivings, but it is, I think, the vintage fashion parading through the story that wins that fourth star the day.Aside from Phoebe and Mrs. Bell, most of the important characters have a slightly cartoonish and exaggerated quality, and many of the events are similarly just over the edge of believable.  Clothes bought at Village Vintage can work magic. The shop itself has a Midas touch without the drawbacks:  everyone it touches comes out richer before the story's done, Phoebe not least of all.  There's just a hint of magical realism, faint as the lipstick imprint left behind by a fond kiss.  The history of Mrs. Bell's coat is not the least bit light, funny, or divorced from reality, however, and neither is Phoebe's grief over her recently deceased best friend.  These interwoven plotlines mesh a little oddly with everything else, and I find myself wishing they had been given more space and the romantic plot less even though I enjoyed it.Kudos are due there, by the way:  I wasn't fond of Dan and got exasperated with Miles, but Phoebe never spends all her time thinking about either of them.  Her romantic interests are only one aspect of her life.The content of _Vintage Affair_ is light and fast-moving.  The delivery... has issues.  The author is very fond of the ellipsis.  Thoughts and bits of dialogue are always trailing off, sometimes in ways that make sense but just as often not, and emphasis is used with similar abandon.  Sometimes there'd be three variations on 'she said' all in the same paragraph.  When I couldn't imagine a line being said that way by any real person, or when I was reminded for the second time in as many lines who was speaking, it got between me and any immersion in Phoebe's story.  I lost track of how many times I asked myself, where were the editors?  Smoothing the prose out a little would've improved the book measurably.Three main plotlines was probably one too many for this novel, the prose clunks, and yet the charm is still there--I would drop by Village Vintage if it really existed to see Phoebe's beautiful cupcake dresses and hopefully glimpse one of Mrs. Bell's outfits still displayed in the window.  I give it three and a half stars as a fair-to-good light read with a winsome passion for fashion.
5 I liked this novel about a woman, phoebe, opens a vintage clothing shop and has some very interesting clients.  It was a nicely written story with some good characters.  It had a little mystery with a story behind the cloths from the second world war.  Would read something else by Isabel Wolff.
5 I'm in the middle of reading this book, my first by the author, and it's really hard to put down. The cover art is what brought my attention to the book because I love vintage wear, so this book is right up my alley. I'm definitely gonna check out the other books by this author, she's great!
3 I liked the story behind the dresses but it was just ok for me.  I especially enjoyed the historical facts.
4 Village Vintage is a new venture by a textiles expert (Phoebe Swift)from Sotheby's (or is it Christie's?). She leaves her job and starts this business to live out her dream.I'm not familiar with fashion, designers, etc., and so I was very pleased to be so interested and captivated by this novel. Phoebe makes good connections early on. The characters and Phoebe slowly wind out the many threads of the story, which then build up, and twist back together in a satisfying end. [OK, reaching a bit there, aren't I?]There's a great deal more luck involved in Phoebe's venture than I would imagine happens to most first-time business owners. However, it all works very well together.I enjoyed the characters, the flow, and the resolution of this story. I would recommend it for light reading.
4 A Vintage Affair took me to London and to Phoebe Swift's new Vintage shop she is opening for an unknown reason (for most of the book).  Phoebe is struggling with the loss of a good friend and the end of her engagement and you can tell immediately that there is something more that she won't or can't share with anyone about what happened with those two relationships.  In fact it takes a significant portion of the book for the reader to find out what happened.However, while you are trying to figure out that, she is also running a vintage shop that actually is very successful.  Along the way she meets an elderly lady parting with most of her possessions, except a beautiful, almost perfectly preserved children's blue coat.  Phoebe connects with this lovely and strong woman and learns such an incredible story that I won't even attempt to summarize it here.  Suffice it to say- it's compelling, involves WWII, and concentration camps.Vintage affair was thoughtful, interesting, and reminds us of the importance and endurance of human relationships and bonds.  I enjoyed reading Vintage Affair and definitely would recommend it for others considering it to read.
5 This was a good book for summer reading.  It centers on vintage clothing and the stories behind beautiful garments.  The main character Phoebe, opens a vintage dress shop and comes to terms with her best friend's death and her own pain by interacting with her customers and through becoming acquainted with an elderly woman who provides her with vintage garments.  Everyone has a story to tell, some tragic, some uplifting, and many touching.  This book was well-written and the characters were engaging, as were their stories.
4 I had never read any of Isabel Wolff's books before, but I'm impressed with her writing style. This is the story of 30-something Phoebe Swift who lives in London, loves vintage clothing and works for the auction house Christie's. When tragedy strikes her best friend, Phoebe decides to make some changes in her own life and she leaves her job to open up a vintage clothing shop. I won't flesh out the plot, since a lot of other reviewers have already done so. For the most part, I liked the story. But I do think it was a little too long and some of the side plots don't really add anything to the main plot. For example, if I were the editor, I would have gotten rid of the side story about Phoebe's parents. It didn't do anything for me and 50 or so pages could have easily been cut without the reader missing anything.Phoebe is smart, beautiful and talented, so this being a work of fiction, men are falling all over her. Two of the three men who fall head over heels in love with her are handsome; all of them turn out to be rich. At one point, Phoebe gets involved with an older man, a widower with a teenage daughter. The daughter, who has been spoiled rotten by her father, does not accept Phoebe in her father's life. Phoebe thinks she's being patient, but it annoyed me that she didn't try harder to understand the girl's point of view. Really, no one wants to think of their parents having sex... and any teenager would feel uncomfortable having a strange woman sleeping in her father's bedroom. The girl needed counseling obviously, but I think she also needed more than a couple of months to get used to the idea of her dad and a new woman. At some level, Phoebe should have understood this, because Phoebe herself had trouble accepting her father's new wife--and she was over the age of 30, not in her teens, when her parents broke up.The most compelling subplot is the story of Therese, an elderly Frenchwoman who is dying of cancer. She sells some clothing to Phoebe, and despite their age difference, the two quickly become good friends. What is the significance of the sky-blue coat that Therese refuses to part with? And will Phoebe solve the mystery and track down any of the people involved before Therese passes away?All in all, I'd give this book 4.5 stars if I could. The plot, however, I'd only give 4 stars. My main complaint is that everyone, with the exception of a couple of characters, lives happily ever after. Phoebe's dress shop is a good luck charm and everyone who buys something from her store ends up being blessed with good fortune. It got to be a little too much for my tastes, and was boring and predictable. I needed more surprises. But I give the author 5+++ stars for her detailed descriptions of vintage clothing. When it comes to vintage clothing from the 20th century, the author really did her research--and it shows. The author and her exquisite descriptions made me fall in love with the whole idea of vintage. After reading this book, I may even go out and buy a few vintage pieces of my own!
4 Resurrecting vintage clothes, recognizing their flaws, reparing them and giving them a new life with an owner who values their uniqueness and beauty is all about renewal. Wolff's book is all about renewal: the renewal of an older woman who feels ugly after a divorce; the renewal of an elderly woman who bore a terrible secret since childhood; the renewal of a young woman trying to cope with the loss of a best friend and more. Virtually all the characters in this book,however minor, undergo a renewal, leaving the book more repaired and loved than they entered. Although the story is predictible at points, that doesn't take away from the story. The pleasure in the book is about the journey. It has the feel of a classic, lasting story. At times, especially in the beginning, it felt too slow, but give it time - Wolff is setting the stage for the rest of the book, and it is worth commiting to the full book
4 This is a very well written book with an intriguing and thought provoking story.It is not just a fluffy piece of fashion fiction this is the work of a skilled author.She uses the themes of lovely vintage clothing to weave her characters together in aninexplicable pattern that brings it all together and makes a beautiful novel come to life.I look forward to reading more of this authors work in the future.
2 Some parts were interesting and I enjoyed the history and the storyline about the shop.The story dwells on death which I found rather morbid.
2 I was very excited to start this book. I kept reading in anticipation that it would get better...it however did not. I love stories that go back in forth from real time to the past. This one did that, but I would have liked a little more concentration on that part of the story rather than the main character's love life that was boring and predictable. I wanted there to be more details and story from the old woman's past. That part of the story was just kind of dropped off and barely a part of the end. If you like chick flick books that include a ton of details about clothes (which I do not) than this would be a great read for you. I think that about 1/3 of the book was explaining vintage clothing and the particulars of all the pieces she carried in her shop. Like I said, great book for a chick flick. I do not care for chick flicks.
4 For those of us who are passionate about vintage clothing, books with vivid descriptions of classic dresses and timeless accessories are a truly treat.  "A Vintage Affair" exactly got the power the right outfit can have to change your life, but didn't quite convey the passion for rich fabrics and exquisite tailoring that drives those us who salivate at the thought of a Worth gown.  The storytelling was fun and frothy, and had the requisite happy ending, but just like a great garment needs the right foundation, I did't think this book had the needed underpinnings.  I wanted richer characters, storylines that reached deeper and a more detailed understanding of why clothes have such power.  This novel is like a pair of Gap jeans, made well, fit fine, but won't be cherished for generations to come.
4 Ultimately, I believe A Vintage Affair is a story about relationships and people. There are many in the book: parent/child, husband/wife, boyfriend/girlfriend, as well as male and female friendships. I greatly enjoyed reading similar storylines play out with the different characters, each coming to a very different yet satisfying conclusion. The book does not tie everything up neatly, but provides enough information that I had closure. A sequel would be good, as I like to revisit characters, but Pheobe, who is the main character in this story, would not necessarily need to be in a follow up book.A Vintage Affair is also about betrayals, small and large, with varying levels of consequence. Pheobe believes she has betrayed someone she loves very much and then meets an elderly woman with a story of her own, that matches Pheobe's feelings. They bond and help one another through their traumas. Though I didn't agree with either woman's choices, I felt sympathetic to their situation, which reinforces Wolff's talent as an author. Pheobe also observes betrayal with her parents, and is the victim of it with her boyfriend. Her mother is quite a challenge at times and provides some comic relief just when needed.I liked learning about vintage clothing and films, as both are prominently described in the book. I am not a history fan at all, so I liked how subtle the education was on all the historical matter. This is an English story and the reader has to be prepared for a few terms that are not American, but are still easy to understand.Good read, will be recommending it to my bookclub.
4 loved this descriptions of the vintage clothes throughout the book! the story was better than i expected, with more depth and history. sometimes i got confused about characters, there were a lot.
4 I have a hard time coming up with a genre for this one, reviews have said it's a lovely romantic comedy and she is described as writing chick-lit. But first there is no humor in this one, and yes it has romance but not any more than a normal book. It's not focused on the romance., and i don't want to call it chick-lit. Let's just call it a "normal" book with romantic tendencies. But the book is so much more than that, it's about friendship and loss, and there is a story about WWII that almost breaks my heart and I keep on hoping.Phoebe has lost her best friend and she is trying to cope with that, she has left her boyfriend, and she blames herself, him, and she missed Emma. How she die you learn after awhile as Phoebe talks with the old lady telling her story about Emma, their friendship and how it all ended. She is trying to go on and she has bought a store and transformed it into a vintage store since that is the clothes she love. Then one day she gets a call from an old French woman who wants to sell her clothes, but in her closet there is a little blue coat and Phoebe gets to hear a story as she visits, a story about friendship during a hard time in occupied France. There are similarities between their stories and perhaps they can find forgiveness and friendship in each other.I enjoyed this book a lot and I could not put it down. Isabel Wolf weaves a wonderful and delightful story and the corner stones are the vintage clothes that Phoebe sells. They make the story. I feel like I want to wear them too, even though I am like Phoebe's mum, I don't want to wear old clothes. But they seem so lovely, and unique. She explains about the clothes, their history and meaning. Even if I don't know everything she makes me know.There are sad parts too, I had hope for so long time and kept turning the page and wanting. To learn the truth, and I did feel sad at times. It does deal with some heavy things.And yes there is some romance, she meets a man, is he the man, or is someone else for her. But I was always more fascinated in Phoebes relationship with the old woman, and the two stories belonging to that. But the romance needed to be had so she could move on and love again, because I wanted her to be happy. There is also the story about her parents and the search for understanding and forgiveness there, so there are some themes that echo in the book.Delightful and wonderful is how I would like to describe it. It makes me want to go out and find a vintage shop. A very sweet read that made me hold my breath at times. I want to read more by this author.
4 I bought this as a vacation read--didn't want anything too serious.  I love vintage fashion, and this sounded like a nice fluffy tale about vintage fashion in a fashionable neighborhood in London, with girl talk and a romance to round it out.  It was all of those things, but it was also about the depth in a variety of relationships- family, romantic, friendship...how they begin, how they end.  Our regrets over relationships that have ended.  How to forgive and move on.  The necessity of forgiving so that we can move on.  The necessity of accepting the truth so that we can move on.  The sadness when it is obvious that even with forgiveness the relationship cannot be repaired--the tragic parts will always be hanging in the background, casting a spell of gloom over all potential happiness.  The acceptance that sometimes it is impossible to gain forgiveness because the other party is gone, and so you must figure out how to make it right and forgive yourself.  I thought about this book a lot after I read it.  And realized that there was a lot more to the book than the title and the dresses on the cover.  I think this book deserved a different title.  Although it becomes more clear what the title means as the book progresses, a glance at the book would lead a person to believe that the book was merely a romance.  And it is much more than that.
4 This is an enjoyable story.  It's main characters all have flaws but are believable and for which the reader can identify and sympathize.  The main character, Phoebe Swift is passionate yet restrained, kind yet naive.  Smart and funny.  I very much enjoyed reading about the inside of the vintage clothing world.  I hadn't really noticed before but will from now on.  There's enough romance to keep it interesting yet it doesn't overwhelm the story.  And just enough spice in the form of secrets, imperfect characters, to keep it interesting.  A great book to take on vacation or a weekend trip.  I haven't read Isabel Wolff's work before but will be seeking out more.
4 I haven't quite finished this book, but so far, it has been a very interesting read.  It made me excited about vintage fashions, or even looking at second hand stores for "treasures".  It also made me aware that the stories of people who lived during the war years need to be preserved.  I have enjoyed the mystery and the descriptions of fashions (many names with which I'm not familiar at all). I'm a little put off by Phoebe's weakness for men who seem to have issues of control - and I could do without descriptions of intimacies - but I'm hoping that will resolve itself by the end of the book.If this author writes other novels with the vintage fashion scenario, and perhaps more mysteries and stories associated with the garments' owners, then I will be looking forward to reading them.
4 This is a wonderful story about love, life and repentance.  Phoebe's struggle with her past touched my heart.  I felt badly for her and wished for her to find happiness all the way through the novel.  When she meets Mrs. Bell I was moved by their budding relationship and Phoebe's search to bring her peace.  The characters were so well formed that I was angry, for most of the novel, with Miles and Roxy.  I fell deeply in love with Dan and was angry at Phoebe for not seeing what was right under her nose.There was a single point that bothered me.  It's when the man wanted to try on corsets and Phoebe says that of course she didn't let him.  It took up two lines.  Why even bother to put that in?  If this was a character flaw it needed to be expanded on more, because put this way it just appears as if the author is prejudiced against transgender individuals.  It made me angry because I don't understand why he couldn't try on the corset and why Ms. Wolff felt the need to throw that in our faces?  However despite this malicious and prejudicial remark I did enjoy this book.  I laughed, I loved and I cried.  A Vintage Affair is a wonderful read.[...]
5 I really enjoyed this book.  It was well written and kept my attention...a real page turner. I enjoyed learning a little about vintage clothing/fashion and has enticed me to check out some second hand/vintage shops in my area.  Looking forward to reading another Isabel Wolff novel!
5 Loved A Vintage Affair by Isabel Wolff.  Although several coincidences occur, coincidences also occur in real life. Serendipity happens in reality! The main character's love of vintage clothes, her passion, brings her happiness in her romantic life as well as her career.Enjoy!
4 This was an enjoyable and light-hearted read. Perfect for beach or poolside. It got me interested in vintage clothing and the history of clothing.
4 Isabelle Wolfe's novels are similar to Sophie Kinsella's so there is romance, wit, and contemporary UK life all in the same book.  Will it stick with you as a classic?  No but it is fun and a fine diversion.Pheobe as a former employee at Sotheby's for its vintage clothing department decides to open her own vintage clothing store.  This is a fascinating premise as Phoebe knows a great deal about major designers' finest work.  We go along with her as she bids on gowns at auction, finds a dress for an A-lister's stylist in Hollywood for the red carpet, goes to people's homes to possibly buy the finds in their closets, deals with customers from all walks of life and so forth.  Actually, a novel just about this would have been possibly even more fascinating to read.  In fact, illustrations would have pushed this novel up to a 5 as we would have then been able to see the clothes.This story also has romance elements and although some of those are interesting, that is the weakest element of the book.Phoebe's recent loss of her best friend to a malarial death coupled with a customer's retelling of the loss of her best friend during WWII was much stronger than the romance element.  It even managed to tie in a vintage garment to the retelling of these friendship stories.I enjoyed it and would recommend it.
5 A Vintage Affair was a wonderful read from start to finish.  Calling this book "Chick-Lit" does not do it justice.  I enjoyed some of Wolff's earlier books (Minty Malone and Tiffany Trott) -- in fact, they introduced me to the British Chick-Lit genre.  This novel has the humor and enjoyment fact of those earlier books, but the character development was phenomenal.  Wolff has matured into a top rate novelist.  Our heroine, Phoebe Swift, moves on from a career at a prestigious auction house to open Village Vintage, a specialty shop outside of London specializing in high end, designer vintage clothing.  She is trying to get over the death of her best friend and is only able to find closure through a surprising friendship that she strikes up with a customer.  Even the minor characters are well developed.  Although every character is flawed in very real ways, I liked them all and could sympathize with their shortcomings.  I especially enjoyed Phoebe's interactions with her mother -- an older woman constantly searching for the answer to eternal youth.  I would highly recommend this book.  The characters have stayed with me long after I put the book down.  Highly recommend!!
4 This is a cute story and would probably make a good movie...The description of the clothes in this story is amazing, but I spent a lot of time looking on the internet at the different clothes and designer's. This book would be perfect for someone who enjoy's to read in the fashion industry.
4 I really enjoyed this book quite a bit.Phoebe Swift is an enterprising, hardworking young woman who leaves a solid career at a famous auction house to head up her own boutique specializing in vintage fashion. This isn't bohemian, patchwork vintage, the kind you may have dabbled in a bit when you were younger, but beautifully tailored pieces (such as suits and elegant dresses) that have been carefully and lovingly preserved by their owners through the years.And with every piece of clothing Phoebe acquires, a story emerges. Some of the stories are in the past, such a tale about the French occupation and a tiny blue coat, a box of unworn lacy slips that never got to experience the light of day- and some of the stories begin when people walk into Phoebe's shop, such as beautiful prom dresses from the 1960's that find new happiness with young, hardworking girls who covet them today. And there is Phoebe's own story, which gets revealed as she shares herself with the people who reveal their stories (and clothing) to her.This novel is a bit like a big bowl of hearty soup- while there isn't much to "chew" on, per se, it's warm and satisfying and full of different flavors and textures and colors. I think it's unfortunate that Isabel Wolff sometimes gets grouped with the "chick lit" genre. While there are elements of romance and "girl in the big city" in "A Vintage Affair", the book is smart, very captivating (without being overwhelmingly sad at all), and not at all fluffy. Phoebe is not in the least bit vapid or indulgent.In addition to the lovely story and characters, Wolff gives an excellent education to the reader about vintage fashion. There's a lot of information about the clothing and their construction and their preservation. Even though I'm not incredibly into fashion or vintage, the bits about Phoebe's work and the clothes she featured in her shop were very interesting.I highly recommend. Not going to change your life (except maybe get you interested in vintage fashion!) but definitely worth the time and emotion you will invest in it.
5 What I loved the most about this book is that all the characters were flawed and therefore realistic.  Most of them were very likable but they all had their ghosts and problems.  Each of the minor characters served to show the main character about different aspects of people, some of them very good and some of them bad.  The story itself was a very quick read, well-developed and fun.  There was a little bit of suspense but the author didn't drag out the unknowns unnecessarily.  The reader learns fairly quickly what the characters' secrets are.  Instead of making the story about finding out the secrets, the author chose to make the story about how the characters learn and move on from these past actions.  This made the story so enjoyable.  The reader wants the main characters to come out on top and win.  Overall, this was a great book.
3 This perfectly pleasant novel focuses on one woman's struggle to make over her life after a devastating loss. Part of her journey includes opening a vintage clothing shop in England and there is quite a lot of discussion pertaining to vintage (including clothing film and personalities). If those subjects are your interest areas, and you don't mind a book that is on the lite side, you may well enjoy this bit of fluff.Where this book fell down for me was the attempt to focus on rebuilding life after loss. Numerous characters in the novel address this subject but it is with little emotional intensity or depth. The characters stories are competently covered and are interesting but this reader's heart was never engaged. The characterizations here are so surface that it is difficult to get a handle on their essence. The protagonist (Phoebe) is almost without acknowledged fault being bright, kind, artistic and accomplished. Her mother is a cartoon of the aging spurned woman. Her father is a bumbling late-life father and her beau's are an uptight executive with a spoiled teenager and a kindly color-blind fellow seeker. (There is a holocaust story thrown into the mix as well, but I won't even go there.) We have seen these people in a hundred other books and for them to become more than a faade the author needs to invest some time letting us get to know their inner workings. It is the old slog: don't tell me who these people are and why they are that way - show me.On the up side: the plot does move along at a rapid pace and the stories being told would be engaging if one cared a bit more about the subjects. The writing is at the level you would expect for a YA novel. (This is not a knock - many people prefer their beach books or light reads to be less challenging.) The information on vintage apparel is interesting and informative.Focus on vintage - 4 stars. The rest - 2 stars.
5 In reading this story I met a variety of people I would very much like to have in my life.  The main character is warm, caring and extremely knowledgeable about her 'vintage' clothing.  It would be most interesting to have a follow-up ... I was sorry when the book ended, which to me is the sign of a good story!
4 I've read a couple of Isabell Wolff's novels before and I find her reads a welcome break from the usual thrillers and suspense novels I usually read.  The book centers around Phoebe Swift, owner of Village Vintage, a vintage clothing shop that is her life since the tragic death of her friend and her broken engagement to her fiance, Guy.  Her life revolves around the women who visit the store to shop and their stories and then turns to her when a reporter named Dan comes do do a story on her business.  Also along the way she meets Miles, a single dad who is raising a teenage daughter and who shows up at a clothing auction to bid on a dress that Phoebe also wants.  You also will meet Mrs. Bell, a woman that is at the end of her life and is selling her vintage clothes to Phoebe and also tells her the story of a child's blue coat in her closet.I enjoyed the story, I liked the vintage clothing shop angle, and enjoyed reading of all the people that she met through her shop who touch her life.  I found myself rooting for Phoebe and for things to turn her way.  The story also has another story within a story about Mrs. Bell and the history of the blue coat which she has not told a soul, not even her husband.It is a quick read with full, enjoyable characters.Overall, I would say it would be a good escapist read for the beach or for a little "me" time.
4 I really enjoyed this book. I have always been interested in fashion and Fabrics. This book covered all of this with a very interesting story. The writer brought it all together very well.
4 I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS 5 STARS IF SOME PARTS GOT MORE ELABORATION...I FELT THE STORY COULD USE MORE DETAILS IN SOME AREAS BUT FELT IT WAS A GREAT STORY OVERALL...ENOUGH TO BUY HER NEXT NOVEL WHICH I HAVE YET TO READ!!  BUY A VINTAGE AFFAIR...IT IS A GOOD, EASY TO LIKE READ!!
5 This has to be one of the best books I have read in a very long time.  First, I'm not a big fan of books written in the 1st person, but, this story couldn't have been told any other way.  The main character, Phoebe Swift, is a smart, resourceful, but vunerable.  She is a sharp business woman and a great friend.  And, the vintage clothes....the description of them is wonderful.  I love this book and I'm going to be looking for other books by Isabel Wolff.
5 This well-written and moving book tells the story of the power of love and of friendship.  Phoebe, struggling to overcome the loss of her best friend (and subsequently her fiance) uproots herself from the life she has known and follows her heart to start a business focused on her passion for vintage clothes.  Therese is approaching the end of her life, and seeks to pass along her clothes and her stories, and to alleviate her guilt for an error committed long ago.  These two stories intertwine in ways that are both surprising and emotionally compelling.Even though I am not much of a clothes person myself, it was impossible not to be drawn into Phoebe's passion for vintage clothing and the glimpses it provides into bygone eras.  The clothes are as much a character as anyone in the novel, and I was drawn to the impact the dresses had on the women who fell in love with them.  As Phoebe and Therese draw closer to resolution of their individual problems, it is there friendship that allows them to face the difficult truths in their pasts and forgive themselves for the mistakes that harmed their beloved friends.  This book was an excellent read, one that I recommend sharing with your friends and family.
5 I don't want to overstate the plot again but please try this book.  It's not a typical chick lit book.  It's fascinating from the character development to plot to timing.  Just an all around satisfying read.
4 This was a good read- it's characters were easy to relate to, and it's plot was very enthralling (if slightly predictable). I found myself unable to put it down. However, I wish there was more about Phoebe and Mrs. Bell and a little less about Miles ans his horrid daughter (who only seemed to be there to add a third point to the love triangle and to be be antagonistic, respectively). I greatly enjoyed the side story about the little blue coat, and greatly enjoyed the ending to the book. I would recommend this book to any Chick-Lit aficionado and those interested in vintage clothes/history.
5 A VINTAGE AFFAIR is the story of a friendship that ended in tragedy. Or rather, two friendships that ended in tragedy, both causing a tremendous amount of survivor guilt to both women involved. One story takes place in France during the second world war. The other is a contemporary story set in present-day London. But author Isabel Wolff is a talented story-teller who manages to weave these plot threads together in a way that does not seem cliched or predictable. And although I am generally not fond of contemporary fiction (I tend to find it too depressing), I did enjoy getting to know the protagonist Phoebe Swift, who not only opens a vintage clothing store in London, but also goes on a emotional roller-coaster of a ride during this novel.If you love reading about the recent past, especially about beautiful clothes, and if you enjoy reading something that will stir your emotions and cause you to think, this is the book for you. Perfect for a curl up by the fire during one of those cold days we are having now.  Five stars.
5 I was captivated with the story line.  It is very well written and keeps it readers turning pages late into the night.
4 This was a good book.  I had seen it first at Costco and did not pick it up, but did pick up another author there who I really enjoyed so decided to give this one a try as well and it was a good book.
5 "A Vintage Affair" by Isabel Wolff is about Phoebe Swift, a woman who opens a vintage clothes shop in London. Phoebe went through a lot of changes earlier in the year-ones that the reader learns more and more about as the book goes on-and she sees opening the vintage shop as her way to escape the pain that she has been feeling. As Phoebe starts to heal she meets new friends along the way: Dan-the reporter who interviews Phoebe for his newspaper, Annie-a shopper who ends up working at the store, Mrs. Bell-a woman who wants to give some of her clothes to Phoebe and also as a story to tell, and Miles-a seemingly perfect man who Phoebe meets at an auction but he comes with some flaws.I found the book to be quite enjoyable. Phoebe is a likeable main character and I found myself rooting for her to be happy. That to me, is so important in a chick-lit novel, the main character has to be likeable to the reader. It was interesting to read about vintage clothes. I'm interested in fashion but I learned some things about vintage that I hadn't known before. If anything, this book, stirred up some interest to learn more about vintage designer clothing. Some of the story contains rememberances of World War Two. That was quite fascinating to read as well. I never got bored reading this book and I ended it with wanting more. I think chick-lit readers, and even non chick-lit readers will enjoy this one. It would be a great edition to your summer reading list.
3 Interesting insight into the world of vintage fashion with a new appreciation for the lessons of history often offered by older friends.
5 I loved this book and can't wait for her next one.  I've always liked browsing through and collecting "dead people's stuff" so this book was right up my alley.  She did a good job of tying all the parts together.  I highly recommend this book.
5 FOR ANYONE WHO LOVES DESIGNER CLOTHES AND ENJOYS THE HISTORY AND  FACTS ABOUT THE DESIGN AND CONST OF THEM-THIS WILL BE A REALLY GREAT READ. ENTERTAINING AND FULL OF IMAGINATIVE DRESSING TOO!
4 I thoroughly enjoyed A Vintage Affair. Although the plot was not too surprising, what was wonderfully entertaining was the detailed information on vintage clothing.  Nice to have one of the plot lines be about a vintage coat.  I think this author could add more magic to her plots and bring some surprise (why did she have a psychic in the plot and why the "feel" of a spirit at the house in France but those plots took us nowhere?)I'll read her again, but hope she can expand to make her stories more magical along with the great background details.
4 I first discovered Isabel Wolff over a decade ago with her fantastic very funny and very touching, "The Trials of Tiffany Trott" and felt that wolf had been robbed of the fame she deserved by those dreadful and unimaginative Bridgett Jones novels.Isabel wolff has said that she prefers to writes about women who start out stupid but end up smart. She might be accused of being repetitious on this score, however she always provides a fresh environment, lively friends and wonderful surprises that enlighten the heroine and provides the reader a deeply satisfying literary experience. Her real gift is taking a realistically imperfect character who will simultaneously drive us nuts and make us genuinely care for them.A Vintage Affair is Wolff at her reliable best. Phoebe Swift is the not-so-swift heroine whose unconscious competitiveness breaks the primary rules of friendship and dating with tragic results. Her unwitting quest to become a better friend is gradual but satisfying. But what really frames the story and makes this a true marvel is the vintage clothing, their histories and their fresh new futures that drive the events.This is a quick, interesting and highly enjoyable read. Even if from page one the reader realizes what Phoebe is clueless about - "that in fact not every man is available or worth competing for." The reader will enjoy her road to epiphany. And you will most likely be passing this on to a friend.
1 There are some good things about this book. Some. But the bad FAR outweighs the good.As a fashion and vintage lover, I loved the descriptions of the clothes and the idea of the vintage shop, however though the author did some research the prices were just soooooooo bad. When she went to Mrs. Bell's apartment the clothes she described were worth a lot of money-I'm talking thousands and thousands of dollars and then paid her only 800 pounds for all that? Come on!!!!!Insanity and taking advantage of an older woman. As a few other reviewers stated she has no idea what she is talking about when it comes to vintage. Having all of these pieces that are said to be in her shop? That in itself is pure fiction.BUT my biggest problem was that I hated and I mean HATED the main character Phoebe. I can't think of any other fictional characters that I have felt such loathing for. This woman is a horrible woman! She goes to a party her friend is throwing to meet her friends new boyfriend. Her friend tells her beforehand that she thinks this guy is "The One!" and what does she do? She falls in love with him. Oh well if he flirted with you within the first few minutes of meeting you. So what? Does she tell her friend that this guy is a jerk? No she gets engaged to him and then can't understand why her friend is upset. She should just grow up and get over him! Her friend calls her and tells her she wants to die and she says she's going right over but then lets him talk her out of it.I just can't with this woman!!!!!She turns down a lovely man for a man with money because the man with money has style. She has NOTHING that is slightly likable about her. NOTHING. She is a selfish you-know-what who cares about nothing and no one.She is the coldest character I have read. The only characters that were decent were Annie, Dan and Mrs. Bell. They were human, which is more than I can say for Phoebe.I've never hated a book more than this one and that's saying something.
2 This book is fine if you are into vintage fashion and designer originals, and you read it only for that, but if you want to like a protagonist then skip it.  This heroine is so self absorbed that I wanted to reach through the book and give her a shake.  The men-who-got-away should feel lucky.  Her relationships with everyone are superficial; even those she insists she is trying to help, she is only trying to assuage her own imagined guilt. This is a book about guilt and its effect on people, but when some of those people have nothing to feel guilty about it is difficult to wonder at all their whining. The idea that the heroine's father was incapable of caring for an infant because he was 62 was insulting to all men.  I kept feeling that she should just leave poor Mrs. Bell alone since every time she saw the dying woman she upset her. Much of the dialog was repetitive.  There is just no way I can recomend this book.
2 I enjoyed reading about vintage clothes. Mrs. Bell was the best character study. As for Phoebe, she is invited to meet her best friend's new love interest, then the next day accepts a date with him. She becomes engaged, friend dies and she's full of guilt and blames the guy.  On her first date with another man she hasn't a clue when his 16 year old daughter calls several times and convinces him to come home early to help her with her homework. She goes right ahead with the affair, then is distraught when she realizes his daughter will always come first. Not to worry, there's another handsome rich man waiting in the wings.
4 When it comes to vintage clothing, I know absolutely nothing. However, this book painted a beautiful picture of what it must be like to have passion for vintage clothing and the stories behind each piece of clothing. More importantly, the characters in the book face real-life obstacles that any reader can relate to from love to loss. I found the book to be an easy, enjoyable read, and I truly loved the storyline.
5 this was a wonderfully written book that captured my attention from the first chapter. the author creatively winds grief, history, love, friendships, and family drama into a neat ball that the reader is more than pleased to unravel chapter by chapter. i will definitely be reading more of her books.
5 As someone who has been studying couture sewing by reading about it in books and magazines likeThreadsI found A Vintage Affair a delightful book to read. After the death of her friend, for which she blames her then boyfriend, Phoebe Swift opens a clothing story that sells only vintage couture clothing and accessories. Her storefront captures the eye of a reporter for a struggling new newspaper and his story about the store brings in business in ways they never expected. Then her store is behind the breaking news story that catapults the newspaper into the news itself.There are lovely descriptions of the clothes and the stories behind them and how special certain pieces are to people. The different characters are well thought out to the point that you want to slap Phoebe when she takes up with a gentleman that is spoiling his 16 year old daughter rotten. You just know that this isn't a relationship to get into because his daughter will always be first in his life. Over the course of the book there is healing for many different relationships that have over time become difficult. One of the main themes is the touching story of a handmade girls blue coat that takes us back to WWII and the holocaust.I found it a truly delightful book to read and only wished that it were illustrated with some of the clothing that was described. The story itself is light reading set in Great Britain. If you love some humor, romance and fashion in the books you read, you should enjoy this one.
5 Tweeted: Happy tears fell unchecked reading a Vintage Affair by @IsabelWolff Love, Life, Friends, Cinema, & Fabulous Frocks!- A MUST Read!I've always liked vintage fashion - since trolling thrift stores in high school! So reading this book was pure pleasure learning more about fabulous vintage frocks! Also mixed into it was a mystery, a love story, and pondering how to deal with grief, guilt, change, and aging. It's a fast read that's not preachy with complex characters who make mistakes & learn from them! A happy ending had me crying & loving the story. Enjoyed the Kindle edition.When buying vintage items, always check the pockets! Whilst in college, I bought a lovely black crepe de chine clutch w/ etched brass frame and tucked inside was a wallet with a calendar for 1942 & a love letter! What a treasure!BONUS: The librarian in me LOVED the added info & resources at the back of the book! I read this for my book club & enjoyed every minute!
4 In 1983 in London preadolescents Emma Kitts and Phoebe Swift meet at primary school in the Blackheath neighborhood.  They become best friends.  As adults they remained BFFs until Phoebe becomes engaged to the man Emma has fallen in love with.  Not paying attention to Emma's needs, Phoebe is not there for her when her buddy dies.  Feeling guilt and remorse, Phoebe ends her engagement and quits her job at Sotheby and goes after her dream.Phoebe loves vintage clothing so she opens up a boutique in Blackheath.  Her shop is a success and she loses herself imagining the history of the garments she sells.  Elderly Mrs. Bell commissions Phoebe to sell her entire wardrobe.  Fascinated by what the elderly woman tells her about failing her best friend, a Jew, during the Nazi occupation of France, Phoebe begins to heal by forgiving herself for failing Emma.  She even has two boyfriends; her first since dumping her fianc&eacute;.A Vintage Affair is an enjoyable British contemporary character study that focuses on history repeating it self at the individual level as Phoebe, Mrs. Bell and readers learn that betrayal, guilt, grief and self forgiveness are recurring human traits.  The story line effortlessly moves back and forth in time as the theme is affirmed in each subplot.  Although the key males come across as emaciated, readers will appreciate visiting Blackheath as redemption seems just around the corner of the person seeking solace.Harriet Klausner
5 When a book really gets into my head, I start thinking about who will play the lead characters in the film adaptation.  This book deserves to be made into a movie.  It has the parallel story lines that worked so well in Julie and Julia, delectable romantic intrigue, enough fashion references to make Carrie Bradshaw drool, and more significantly, a view into a horrific episode in our collective history.My ideal leads: Phoebe: Goddesses like Keira Knightley and Cate Blanchett would almost be too perfect for the role.  Perhaps Carey Mulligan?  Mrs. Bell: I suggest Vanessa Redgrave, as a nod to her performance as Fania Fenelon in Playing for Time.  This 1980 TV movie was a grim portrayal of the Auschwitz musicians that are described in this book. Miles: Colin Firth. Dan: I'm stuck on this one.  Maybe you can suggest someone, but you'll have to read this delightful book first.
5 Loved this!  I'm not a fashion person.  I'm so far from stylish and fashionable it's hysterical. I have no knowledge of vintage wear, except that some of what I've seen, I like.  But, I devoured this book.  Phoebe Swift, is a terrific character.  She's real and she's likeable.  When she talks about vintage fashion you're captivated.  Every dress has a history, but so does every person and as perfect dresses are discovered, so are secrets.  As secrets are shared, friendships are formed.  As friendships are formed, those secrets help others to let go of their own grief and secret regrets.  The glimpse we get of Mrs. Bell's World War 2 flashbacks are interesting and her story weaves into Phoebe's so well.Isabel Wolff's descriptions are a vivid feast for the senses and her writing captivating.  Some would call this chick-lit, but it's really so much more.  It should be light and fluffy, but instead it's rich and lustrous.  I absolutely loved this story.  I read it in an evening, straight through. There is some non-marital sex, but we are not privy to any details, thank goodness.
3 I enjoyed the book.  It was a book club pick...easy to read & entertaining.  I loved all the clothing and fashion descriptions.
5 Isabel Wolff has written a delightful story to entertain and captivate. A Vintage Affair tells the story of Phoebe Swift, who leaves Sotheby's to open her own vintage clothing shop. Each garment has a history and each garment has a future as far as Phoebe is concerned. Throughout the story we are treated to brief descriptions of designer named clothing and they do sound wonderful!Phoebe goes to purchase clothing from an elderly Frenchwoman and finds a child's blue coat among her things. They gradually become friends and share a connection because of the coat, which helps Phoebe heal her pain of a past heartbreak. Wolff's writing is so lovely that the stories become vivid, endearing and special. The story includes two men competing for Phoebe's affection, her mother who leans on Phoebe for life-advice, her father coping with a new family, and an amusing cast of customers.Don't miss A Vintage Affair. It's a well put together, brilliantly amusing book.
5 I totally enjoyed this book.  It is about old clothing and a Vintage Wear shop.  A subplot involves the Paris Roundup (not called that in this book - but the dates match up as well as the holding center towns).  Phoebe Swift is the owner of the shop and is entangled in two affairs of the heart (Dan and Miles) during the book.  In addition she has a lingering problem with a former love (Guy).  Look forward to reading other books by the author.
5 I enjoyed this novel immensely. Wolff's style is readable (almost crisp), her characters interact realistically and are well developed, the subject matter is interesting and there was a wonderful blend of conflict, suspense and mystery. I appreciated how Wolff wove social issues into her story without ever being preachy: the responsibilities associated with parenting, awareness and accountability to those less fortunate in the world, our cultural mania against aging, history, the Holocaust, aging gracefully, betrayal, and atonement. I thought she did a remarkable job balancing the tone between tense/serious/solemn and light/frivolous (represented by the cupcake dresses) / happy. And finally, this story is a reminder that well-made things last and these things that have been handed down through generations, have meaning to people, and value. This book is a perfect choice for anyone who likes fashion (especially vintage clothing). It is practically a chick-flick in book form. In fact, I would love to see the movie version of this novel.
4 This book was really enjoyable.  It introduced me to a world I was unaware existed.  Loved reading about the vintage dresses and purses, etc., as well as the lovely heart-warming story.
3 A fluffy story and one that you would have to be into designer's and label's.  Paragraph structure is odd sometimes.
5 I am a girl who loves all things vintage, and just stumbled upon this book by accident when I entered 'vintage' into the search engine. I was very pleasantly surprised. There is a lot to learn in this book about vintage clothing, and I think I just might start my own collection. I also enjoyed the fact that it was set in England, so I learned a little more about their culture. The romance part of the story also was very interesting. All in all, I would thoroughly recommend this book. 5 out of 5 stars!
5 What a beautiful story!  I love this book so much that I cannot wait for the author's next book.The story is about a young woman, Phoebe Swift, who recently has given up her job of 10 years at Sotheby's to start her own business. The business she has chosen is a vintage clothing store and from the start, Phoebe meets many new friends and learns their life stories along the way.This is such a good story even if you aren't a fan of clothing and fashion;there is much that will appeal to every reader. Phoebe meets new men and works out the end of a long time friendship by meeting some of the people that she comes in contact with in her new venture.There are many plot twists in this charming story and many moments that will have you laughing and also crying.  You won't be disappointed, this is just that good!
5 A Vintage Affair is a story of love, forgiveness and new beginnings. Phoebe's whole life changes when her best friend unexpectedly dies. Blaming herself she abruptly ends her engagement and leaves her great job to start a new life by opening a vintage clothing store. The people she meets help her overcome her grief instead of running away from it. While purchasing clothes for the store, Phoebe meets an older woman, who shares a childhood secret that Phoebe can't forget.  In search of answers for the older woman and for her own life she is able to confront her grief and begin to move forward.Touching story that easily sweeps the reader into the search for answers along with Phoebe with the hope that she can find success in love and vintage clothing.
5 A Vintage Affair was one of the best books I've read in a long time. It was heart-warming and heart-wrenching, full of the emotions we experience in life - joy, sadness, regret and renewal.The book begins by introducing us to Phoebe Swift, who has just quit her job as a Sotheby's auctioneer and opened her own vintage boutique in London. Phoebe is trying to start anew after a traumatic experience changes her life. As Phoebe goes through the "birthing pains" of beginning her new business, new people begin entering her life and affecting ways she could have never dreamed of. A new romance develops, new friendships begin and Phoebe finds help in unexpected places (and people).When she befriends an elderly woman who sells her some vintage clothes for her shop, Phoebe life is again forever altered.
4 This novel kept my interest throughout.  Phoebe has just opened a high-end vintage clothing store, and her passion and search for quality items leads her into new romantic relationships and friendships.  She purchases a collection of clothing from an elderly woman and develops a personal interest in her.  Both women share feelings of deep loss and guilt that they been hiding and now face.I should mention that a love of vintage clothing drives the story, but it is not necessary for the enjoyment of the novel. In fact, I do not much care for vintage clothes from the period collected by Phoebe, but it doesn't matter.I could not give this book five stars because of two factors:  First, some of the coincidences in the story are a little too convenient.  Second, Phoebe is clueless regarding some of her own mistakes and bad judgment.  I liked the story much more than I liked her.
3 After reading all the glowing reviews about this book, I ordered it with great anticipation. In the beginning, I was taken in by the characters and felt the story really moved along. When Mrs. Bell was introduced, i felt the novel starting splitting into two directions that were not really compatible for me-- fashion and the Holocaust. I felt that from this point forward, the author wasn't sure which topic should be the most important for this book and  both stories ended up feeling forced for me. Is this a story about a young person making a success of her life or of an older person feeling guilt about her past? Neither thread was adequately developed  and things that happened often felt forced--taking away from my enjoyment of the book. I missed having characters in Phoebe's life rounded out; character development definitely suffered here. On the whole, I would only recommend this book with reservations.
4 A Vintage Affair is a good solid read.  It's packed with history, romance, clothes, angst, parties and travel.  Perhaps parts of the story seem contrived, and some aspects of Phoebe's character are not very attractive, but these are minor quibbles.  It's a great story and Isabel Wolff makes this book well worth the reader's time and money.Since the death of her best friend, Phoebe has been wracked with guilt.  She breaks up with her fiance, quits her job and opens a vintage clothing store.  She makes a new circle of friends through the store, and grows up, as do her parents.  Well researched and beautifully written, subplots involving another, earlier tale of guilt and friendship, as well as the difficulty of blending modern families give this book a richness of texture unusual in chick lit.From vintage clothing to French vineyards, A Vintage Affair has something for everyone.  History buffs will enjoy the WWII memoir element, fashion afficionados will like the descriptions of the clothing in Phoebe's shop.
5 I admit I love clothing, especially Vintage.  This book was better than I imagined, though.  It was a speedy read with the various plots going on throughout it.  There was great character development for the main character/narrator, Phoebe.  The vintage clothing aspect was inspirational and fun to read about as well.  It was not overwhelming to the story but a nice enhancer.  Phoebe definitely has given me the urge to want to open my own shop.  The book is not your typical love story type novel but more about self-discovery, moving on, some fun mystery, and of course clothes!  I give it 5 stars for what it is, a fun novel, a great beach read.
5 Looked for the book closest to home and bought it.  The book arrived in just the condition as described and had been  mailed out promptly.  Couldn't ask for more.  Thanks for offering it for sale, now I'm looking forward to reading it.
5 I honestly think this is about the best book I've ever read.  It wasn't that long of a book, but it covered so many different types of stories.  It was mainly a chick-lit book, but there was a lot of historical information in it also.  I never thought of looking at history through fashion and clothing, but it was a great way to learn about different eras.  Quite a bit of the clothing the main character, Phoebe, gets for her shop is from an old woman who is about to die and she tells the story of the clothes she wants to give away, especially a blue coat from her childhood. Her story is a main part of the book.Along with the history of the clothing (which is not boring at all - you just get a feel for what that time period was like), there are two love stories going on.  The 2 men Phoebe is interested in were really fun to read about and all along I kept hoping she'd end up with my favorite one.  One man is very nice, but has an extremely spoiled teenage daughter and the other man is a writer for a newspaper who is also interested in old movies and wants to open up his own movie theater/movie club.There are several characters in this book. There's Phoebe's best friend who dies at the beginning of the book and makes several appearances as Phoebe talks about their past friendship; there is Annie, an aspiring actress, who works at Phoebe's shop and Phoebie's mother, who is addicted to cosmetic surgery, is in a lot of the book.  Then there are various customers, who we learn about thorough the vintage dresses they pick out and there is Phoebe's seamstress and her psychic neighbor.  I was never once bored with this book because every single person in it was likable and interesting.I'm sure people who are interested in fashion will love this book.  The author does a great job of describing the different styles of dresses, the fabrics and names the designers.  I truly could picture what it was like in the shop and if it really existed, I think I'd be there all the time. If not shopping, I'd at least want to see what was in the window display.
4 Make you appreciate vintage clothing.  Previously, aggreed with her other &#34;did not want towear other people's clothing.  Now will reconsider.  Well written, quick read
4 I was won over by the cover of this book and the description. So i bought it through kindle after a sample. The story of Mrs Bell was heartbreaking and i felt that that story was what made the book, really.I thought the book flowed very well and i thought the descriptions of the clothes were great. I also loved the fact that she didn't OVER describe things like some authers do.Also, like another reviewer has put, this book has still got me thinking about it (a day later).One of the things that slightly irked me and puzzled me are the 3 love interests. She seemed to love Guy the most and she was so in love with him to marry him AND to put her so called amazing "friendship" on hold for, yet when something happens to her best friend, she breaks it off with him and never speaks to him ever again AND blames him for it all (wrongly!)?! Also, the same for Miles, I really liked his character and she seemed to have lots of chemistry together and he was very loving...and then what goes wrong there ? What was with Dan?? I really didn't understand that whole story line. A lot of the way through iw as thinking "please don't get them together" , there was NO chemistry and i felt that she actually didn't like him. Also, off and on throughout the book, i thought he might be gay!Pheobe just seemed to be interested in him when he had money...or maybe that was how the character was supposed to be. I did not like the ending, there was no lead up of any romance between her and Dan, and what was that bit at the end when he calls her "sweetheart" randomly?? Oh and then they walk off hand in hand?? They had had no romance up to that point!! I also thought the mother and father would get back together. I also thought the reason for her blaming Guy and herself for a death that no one could have prevented, was really ridiculous and when Guy confronted her, i felt a huge dislike for the main character (Phoebe)...All this said, i found the book really special. The story of Mrs Bell was the core. I loved the vintage store...i want one now! I would recommend this book even though there were a few things that i personally found annoying.
4 Most of the other reviews have gone over the plot of this charming book, so I won't belabor that. What I will do is tell you that I absolutely LOVED A Vintage Affair and didn't put it down until I finished it in one day. Now, for me, that is NOT just chick lit. This book has a wonderful main character, Phoebe Swift, who narrates the story and captured my heart early on, in the Prologue. She's definitely not perfect, and we feel her confusion, her disappointment, and most of all, her regrets. But she's also filled with passion and enthusiasm and hope, and we, the readers, are taken along for the ride. Phoebe is not afraid to risk in love or in business, but she is unable to get beyond regrets about what she sees as her own failings. There's also a bittersweet story of World War II friendship and tragedy that parallels in many ways a complex friendship in Phoebe's own immediate past. Both stories of betrayal and friendship touched me deeply, and I have to admit that tears were flowing freely as I read.What makes this book a can't-put-it-down page-turner is the fact that mystery lurks around every corner, as does coincidence (or fate?), and this combination, while it may strain credulity at times, also keeps the reader guessing and hoping, right along with Phoebe. In addition to mystery, there's romance that includes just about all the various shades of romantic entanglements, including lost love, found love with complications, and budding romance with great potential. Somehow the author manages to keep it believable enough that the reader is swept along with the story, unable to put the book down or forget about what's going to happen next.To make the novel even more interesting, there are fascinating details about vintage fashion, classic films, vineyards, and World War II in Europe. The story is set in England, and the British setting provides interest without becoming off-putting to American readers. Somehow this author pulls all the above together beautifully, even though this review may make it sound like a hodgepodge of plots. The successfully unifying elements are friendship, parent-child relationships, romance, and regrets, and who can't identify with most all those facets of life? I adored A Vintage Affair, and I highly recommend it. I definitely intend to investigate other novels by Isabel Wolff.
4 3.75 starsPOV: 1st Person: PhoebeSensuality: WarmPhoebe Swift is 34-years-old and sorting out her life.  From quitting her stable job to start a new business to dealing with her mother's insecurities to helping her father with his newborn son, Phoebe has a lot on her plate.  She is also grieving the loss of her best friend since childhood who died only a few short months ago.  The people who enter her shop and her life help her to grow and heal from her losses.What I really liked about the book was that everything seemed very "normal."  Everything Phoebe is dealing with is life--not something outrageous and unbelievable.  She is handling things the way a normal grieving person would handle it.  I really enjoyed her relationship with Mrs. Bell and Mrs. Bell's story from WWII.  I enjoy history, so this worked for me.  I also liked reading about the vintage clothing.  Fashion is not my thing, but I was intrigued by all the descriptions and it made me want to go out and find a vintage clothing store.There is some romance in this book as Phoebe finds herself the interest of more than one man.  There are some kisses and innuendo, but nothing graphic.The book is not fast-paced or exciting.  It just kinda plods along.  It is interesting, but I didn't find it difficult to put the book down.  It wasn't until the last 10th of the book that I actually wanted to keep reading and finish the book.  I did find it to be very similar to most other British women's fiction with lots of sadness and depression and without a lot of happiness at the end.  It ends simply with no exciting event--it is just over and life goes on.Overall, I enjoyed the book.  It is a good read about a woman coming to terms with her grief and pain.
5 WONDERFUL READ.....MOST OF ALL ...CLEAN FUN ,HEART RENDING....JUST WHAT AN ENTERTAINING STORY IS ALL ABOUT. THE STORY WAS TOLD VERY WELL AND GUESS WHAT???  THE AUTHOR DID NOT FEEL THE NEED TO RESORT TO CONSTANT FOUL LANGUAGE....HWO REFRESHING !!!!
3 An easy read. Not terribly deep and someone predictable. If you have an interest in vintage clothing, you will probably enjoy this more.
4 I loved this novel. A Vintage Affair is about a woman, Phoebe Swift, who quits her day job to open her own vintage clothing store and encounters many unique characters through the opening of her store.The story is beautifully written, and there are many separate story lines in the novel that all end up coming together in different ways. Isabel Wolff is full of surprises as an author and keeps you reading.There's romance, there's history and there's a ton of fashion. I didn't just enjoy reading, but I can honestly say that I learned a little bit from this too.
5 A Vintage Affair is a beautiful combination of historical fiction and contemporary women's fiction. On the surface, it tells the story of Phoebe, auction house buyer turned vintage shop owner. In substance this career change isn't drastic; it utilizes the same skill set. It is, however, a great risk both financially and personally as Phoebe initially uses her shop to hide from her demons. In running from her own past, Phoebe ends up running headlong into the pasts of others. Clothes do hold memories, after all. She ends up very involved in the life and past of Mrs. Bell. This French survivor of WWII tells Phoebe of her experiences in her designer clothes, which Phoebe is buying from her, and of her experiences in clothes that were handmade for her during the War, specifically a blue winter coat which she refuses to sell. As Mrs. Bell relates the small betrayals that had lasting consequences in the French countryside where she grew up, Phoebe notices the correlations to her own life and the large act of betrayal she has been trying to forget she committed. A wonderful read with lush descriptions of both the clothes and the eras in both women's stories, A Vintage Affair will not disappoint. It is a story that will stay with you, just like the prom dress in your attic that you can't bare to part with.Book source: Goodreads First Reads Program
4 I really enjoyed this book, although it was different than I was expecting. Based on the marketing blurbs, I thought it would be more of a standard feel-good, escapist chick-lit novel, where romance is front and center, and the vintage clothing storyline is used as a fun backdrop. Instead this book has two quite serious, and even tragic, backstories - one for the main character Phoebe, and one for an elderly woman that she meets and befriends, Mrs. Bell. Both woman are seeking to understand and deal with guilt and pain from their past, and although Phoebe does have some love interests, this isn't a happily-ever-after type story. Ultimately, it is uplifting, but in a more complex way (and sorry for being vague, I don't want to spoil the plot.)The vintage clothing information and setting is superb. Phoebe opens a vintage clothing store, after selling vintage for Sotheby's, and we learn a lot about it through her, which I (mostly) enjoyed. If you are not into history or fashion at all though, this book probably is not for you, because part of the draw of vintage clothing for Phoebe is the history implicit in each piece, and this is used quite a bit in the story. In her Afterword, the author lets us know that she herself is a huge vintage clothing fan, and even includes an Appendix with vintage clothing store listings for major cities around the world.Although I really appreciated and enjoyed this book, I can't quite give it 5 stars because there were times when I got a little bored with the vintage clothing detail, and there were scenes and dialogue that felt contrived to me. But otherwise, this was a lovely, and heartfelt, read.
5 This book touched every nerve in me - in a wonderfully profound way. I fell in love with each character & enjoyed getting to know them. I feel as if they are MY family & I love that.
5 Phoebe Swift, reeling after the loss of her childhood friend, leaves her prestigious job at Sotheby's auction house to open her own vintage dress shop. With a keen eye for fashion and an open ear for her customers, Phoebe has a talent for matching people with their ideal dress or accessories. While buying a collection of dresses from an elderly woman, Phoebe comes across a child's antique blue coat in pristine condition and the story behind the garment draws Pheobe into its owner's life. Phoebe soon discovers that only by revisiting the past can she hope to really move forward with her life.A Vintage Affair was a wonderful book. Multiple story lines are woven together in tale that is as artistic and charming as the garments that provide an anchor to tie them together. The book is a clever mix of family drama, historical fiction, friendship, romance, and fashion. The characters are well-drawn and entirely believable and the supporting cast is equally as interesting as the heroine. Isabel Wolff has taken a couturier's eye in crafting every detail of this beautiful novel.
4 While mourning the death of her best friend, Phoebe Swift decides to open a vintage clothing shop in London. Phoebe has been left with tremendous survivor's guilt following the suicide of her friend Sam. Guilt has led Phoebe to end her engagement and to cut ties with her former fiance. To cope Phoebe throws herself into her shop. The book follows two parallel plots: one following Phoebe as she returns to the dating world, the other chronicling her growing friendship with an elderly woman who has a closet full of clothes with compelling histories.Though this book deals with some sad events, I would describe this book as a 'happy book'- light and enjoyable to read, and left me with a smile and an upbeat attitude. This is one of those books that reads quickly and ties up neatly in the end. Sometimes I want to read exactly this kind of book, and this is one of the better examples of this genre I've read recently. I'd call it beach or vacation reading. I did have a few issues with the book- I thought the ending was a bit too tidy, and I was annoyed by Phoebe's decidedly poor treatment of her ex-fiance. But this book also had wonderful descriptions of vintage clothing and fabrics, and an engaging plot.  I very much enjoyed reading this book, and will search out other works by this author.
5 I really enjoyed this book. Well written and compelling plot. Interesting characters. I could not put it down until it was finished.
5 my maiden name was kitt,so i was prepared to love this book.it met all my expectations. the characters were real.the vintage clothing was gorgeous.it was very fine,well written chick lit.
5 Great read
4 I loved the characters and story line.  Kept  me interested from page one.  Would recommend it others.  I enjoy readingbooks that take place in England.  Plan to read another of Isabel Wolff's novels.
4 This is a captivating book that keeps you turning pages. A fun, light enjoyable read, with delightful characters and a plot that effortlessly weaves together themes of happiness, sadness, romance and friendship. Wolff certainly researched vintage clothes and I loved her descriptions. I don't personally wear vintage but I gained a whole new appreciation for it as the author's passion for "clothing with a history" constantly bubbled to the surface. Contrary to what the cover implies, the book also has depth and complexity. It touches on themes of loss, regret and letting go of the past. I loved the relationship between Phoebe, the protagonist and Theresa an elderly French woman she purchased clothing from. Their friendship was real and convincing, a joy to read about. I also loved the author's witty writing style and her subtle reference to current social issues.Review previously posted at: [...]
1 I read this book for a book club. I found it loathsome. I suppose it could be recommended for beach reading or the like, but I wouldn't enjoy it even under those circumstances. It is highly superficial, the characters are caricatures, and if you don't love fashion it has little to recommend it. It reads as if it had been written by a very young person. A woman in my book club said "It's interesting how each character sort of has one piece of baggage that identifies her: the mother is obsessed with her appearance, the daughter feels guilty about the past," etc. That is a kinder way of describing a caricature. Two-dimensional characters: the mother makes appearances only to obsess about her aging face, the lover's daughter is an irredeemable brat, etc. Worst of all, the Holocaust is introduced as a minor plot line, as shallow as all the others, about teenage jealousy and...deportations to concentration camps. I'm sorry to sound hateful, and I can see that many others have enjoyed this book, but I found it foolish and shallow.
4 This is a well crafted story centered around dresses, the women who wear them and the women who hope to wear them. It reminds me of vintage jewlery, when you wear a ring you know was someone else's, what was their story? And does it carry through to your life some how?
5 I had trouble putting this book down. I loved the descriptions of fabrics and clothes and their stories. The stories that connected the characters and the clothes added a bit of humor and remembrance as they dealt with growing up and wondering if life is as it should be.
4 This was a fun read while on vacation!  It reminded me of a Maeve Binchy book and I love her books!
5 I was introduced to this book by the Fiction book club of Dear Reader.com.  I enjoyed the first "episode" and then went to Amazon.com and read the First Chapter.  I promptly ordered the book.  It was a delightful read with well-developed characters and side stories.  It was difficult to put down until I finished reading.  My book club had not made a choice for our May book and after my description of the story it was selected for May.  We just had our May meeting and our readers age 60-94 all found portions of interest.  Some were familiar with the settings in England and France.  Others were taken with the story of the older woman who was disposing of her post World War II wardrobe but did not want to sell her youth size winter jacket.  The miscellaneous relationships held this reader's attention.  And best of all there was a pleasant ending!
3 I started this novel and really liked it.  The more I read the less I liked  the main character Phoebe Swift.  She did not seem that kind to customers in her vintage shop.  I wanted to like her more, but the way she went from one man to the next really got to me.  I thought she was shallow and I thought the whole Holocaust story should have been more researched and explained.  It just was added as a side story that never fully developed.  I did like the explanations of the vintage clothes.  I have never bought vintage but now it seems like the thing to do.  If you love clothes this story will entertain you, otherwise I would find another story,
5 This story was interesting from so many different angles.  I especially enjoyed how the story of the main character and the elderly woman that she befriended became interwoven.  The story revolves around a vintage dress shop and how the clothing has a little history in and of itself.  You'll find yourself smiling and a little sad from time to time.  All in all, a very good book.
5 I loved the history, the fashion, the romance. It was an interesting book with lots going on to keep you reading!
5 I enjoyed reading this book!  It dealt with relationships in a very honest way.  Sometimes the choices we make are a mistake.  But life goes on and sometimes you can reconcile your errors and sometimes you can't.  I loved the characters and felt like I knew them.  This book was given an A by the Purdue Calumet Book Club.
5 Usually the novels I read about Europe are historical fiction.  I was pleasantly surprised in this book.  There are old and new aspects to it.  The story keeps you interested right until the end.  I'm not by any means a fashion connoisseur but I found the bits of fashion history fascinating. I connected with Phoebe from the beginning and wanted to see her succeed in every way (romantically and business wise).  This is my first Isabel Wolfe book and I think I will be reading more.
5 Author Isabel Wolff does a masterful in creating a novel that blends so many elements so seamlessly into one story.  Against the backdrop of vintage clothing, she weaves together a story from the past with a tale of the present using the common thread of friendship.  Like some of the vintage clothes shop owner Phoebe sells, sometimes relationships fray at the edges.  Sometimes they can be repaired, sometimes not.  With strong, well-defined characters and an intricate plot, you will soon find yourself engrossed in this story which is rich with history, touched with romance, and shrouded with mystery.  With its satisfying conclusion, some may say that the author ties everything up too neatly.  But really that is not the case.  She leaves no threads dangling, but not everything turns out to be picture perfect.  Some of the character's mistakes and errors in judgment leave their mark on people's lives, just like in real life, and like with vintage clothing, relationships may be salvaged but the repair is evident.  And, of course, no matter how hard you may wish it, you cannot undo the past.  Sometimes, it is too late.  A thoroughly captivating read, this novel is every bit as fine as a vintage evening gown in mint condition.
2 I wanted to love this book.  I loved the idea of a story behind a piece of clothing in a vintage store.  However, the story had too many ridiculous coincidences.  I only finished it because it was such an easy read, and I was traveling with little else to read.  It seems the author played up to what she thought would sell to audiences.  It even started to remind me of a Meg Ryan -like movie with a little of Sarah's Key.
4 This was a wonderful book.  It had just the right mix of romance, mystery, and detail about vintage clothing.  I wasn't sure what direction the story would go in at first, and there are many major plot lines taking place...Emma, Mrs. Bell, and Phoebe.  Somehow they are all intertwined and resolutions occur for everyone.  I loved the details about the clothing and even running a shop and could have read on and on about that.  In fact, you could almost see a series with Phoebe and Village Vintage, but I guess she could not go around solving mysteries each week.I think I would have liked a little more detail regarding Emma, but I guess it just kind of served at a jumping off point for Mrs. Bell's storyline.  Everything wraps up in a very satisfying way...happily but not necessarily unrealistically.This is smart chick lit.  You'll enjoy it- great for a summer read but not too fluffy.
5 Really fun and a great read.  Be warned, once you start you won't be able to put it down.  Started it late one night and read through the night, much to my detriment the next day at work.
5 I am going to be brief. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was well written with many subplots none in my opinion, predictable. Highly recommend.
5 I loved this book. It was an easy read and I couldn't put it down. I love anything vintage and love to learn about the time periods of ago so this fit me well. I plan to read more from this author and start to check out vintage clothing to purchase.
4 I'm not into fashion much less vintage fashion but enjoyed this book. There are some interesting characters and amusing moments but it's not a comedy. There is some romance but it's not a romance. It was just a very enjoyable read.
5 I have adored this book for a long time. It's the perfect balance of frothy and fun with a little drama to keep you interested. This is my go to beach book!!
3 I found "The Vintage Affair" to be a mildly enjoyable read.The characters didn't quite feel real to me and there were far too many lucky coincidences.  The way the book was written in some instances felt strange to me.  For instance, if there was a dialog going on, there were several instances where they would be talking to each other and the dialog would be abruptly interrupted with a non-dialog sentence that broke up the flow of the story.  It's hard to even communicate in type."Oh my goodness what happened?" Character 1 asked.I told her."That's so horrid!" Character 1 said.Why couldn't the author just continue the dialog?  That happened on several occasions and I found it annoying.With that said, there were aspects of the story I did like.  Every time a "cupcake dress" sold, I got happy for some reason.  I loved the clothes aspect of it.  I didn't know half of the designers she mentioned in the novel, but that didn't bother me.  I thought the subplot was sweet.Overall, a pretty "OK" book.
4 At times the book dragged on a bit with all the details.  HOWEVER, it was a beautifully written novel with likeable characters - even the ones that were flawed.  The storyline was touching and emotional at times, especially Mrs. Bell's and Monique's story.  The friendship between Phoebe and Mrs. Bell was wonderfully portrayed and really warmed my heart.  Although annoying in the beginning, I came to love Phoebe's Mom.  She definitely had spunk and a great heart - like Phoebe.  I am so glad I read this book.  The ending was really well done.  I was crying (happy tears).
4 Others have already reviewed the book story line quite well. It makes one think about how one's past influences how one reacts in the future but doesn't determine what has to happen in the future. But, the story is not heavy "you have to think alot and analyze every action" read. The vintage clothing descriptions were easy to picture and it was interesting to think about who would have worn the clothes originally. All in all, it was a good summertime read and I look forward to reading the authors other book(s) if available on Kindle.
4 A completely different story then you would think from the title.  I have read many stories of the holocaust, but this was from a different view altogether.
5 I am usually quite skeptical when in comes to books in the chick-lit genre, however writers like Marian Keyes and now Isabel Wolff have very pleasantly surprised me.  The characters are almost instantly interesting and likable. In this book in particular, I found myself quite sad that I couldn't meet her and shop in her boutique.  The story is much deeper and involves some mystery and history as well, which add such important layers that set it apart from other novels in this genre. I highly recommend it as a totally addictive read any time!
1 I was unable to read this book.  Within the first twenty pages, it had become such a waste of time that I gave up.  Boring accounts of clothes upon clothes and not at all well-written.  Characters were as dull as the clothes.
4 I have to say up front that I picked this book solely for the front cover.  I hadn't read the much of the summary; I only knew it was a fiction about vintage clothes.  That and the beautiful dresses on the cover did it for me.Phoebe Swift has left her dream job at Sotheby's auction house, to open her own vintage clothing shop.  Along the way, she meets some wonderful friends who help with her new adventure.  But Phoebe has a tragic secret that she holds close to her heart.  When she meets Therese Bell, an older woman selling off her clothes,  she finds someone who can understand what she is going through.I was pleasantly surprised with the novel.  I would describe it as chick lit with more.  It is a well told story, dealing lightly on some heavy issues. The surprise was a fairytale feel with some historical fiction thrown in.  The descriptions of the clothing were wonderful, and the effect that they had on the people who wore them was sweet.  I am not a fashionista, but I really enjoyed being surrounded by such nice things for the time it took me to read the book.Phoebe is a nice, thoughtful, friendly, hardworking young woman.  She has a good head on her shoulders and seems to make good choices.  She, as a main character, was a bit flat for me.  But she did provide a nice structure to support the fashion and the rest of the story.Therese Bell was a wonderful character, and her story made up the little bit of historical fiction.  Because historical fiction is my thing, I found myself more excited when Phoebe made an appointment to go see her.  For me, she made this book good.The chick-lit part of this book, including parent issues, dating ups and downs and neat friends was standard fare.  I am glad that I read this book.  It was a light read and a good story.
5 I purchased this book based on a recommendation from a blog I follow.  When I received the book I was afraid it was going to be pure chick lit.  Was I wrong.  The author is a fantastic writer who managed to weave "old and new" together to make an enjoyable read.  I loved reading the history of vintage clothes and designers.  It made for a great summer read.
5 I think the reason we tend to keep certain articles of clothing long after we have stopped wearing them is the memories which they bring back to us.  I know I do.  This is a story about Phoebe Swift, a woman whose business deals in lovingly worn clothes.  She had spent years working as the Vintage Clothing Curator at a world famous auction company in London.  The death of her best friend and the subsequent breakup of her engagement have caused her to want to take a new path in her life.  She quits her job and uses her knowledge and experience to open her own shop named Village Vintage.Along the way through this book, we meet her parents (divorced because he had a late life affair and now has a baby son) and the several men in her life.  The parents are confused by the turn life has made and the men, of course, are gorgeous and interesting.  Our heroine is lovely to look at and delightful to know and, so attracts, these men.  I, to the chagrin of my friends, not being a tag sale or vintage clothes type of person didn't know that vintage clothing was so big in the marketplace.  However, I guess it is and Phoebe is able to ride the rising tide to success.  She and the author, obviously know vintage clothing and the descriptions of the clothes are lovely.  One can almost visualize them.Lest you think this is just a piece of "chick lit"; forgive me - I hate that term, there are a couple of really deep stories within this book.  One is the friendship between Phoebe and Emma, her best friend who died.  The second theme is built around a collection of the type of prom dresses (tea length, made of evening fabric with beads and other shiny objects and worn with huge crinolines) which I and my friends wore back in the 50s and 60s.  There are several of these dresses and each one is connected to the story of the girl who buys it.  Finally there is the story of the relationship between Phoebe and an elderly woman, who is widowed and childless and is dying of Cancer.  This last woman was happy and financially comfortable in her married life, and she owns many lovely clothes.  She wants to sell them to Phoebe so that someone else can enjoy them also.  However, there is one article which she won't sell.  It is a girl's blue coat in the style which was worn during the 40s and 50s.  This coat also has a story attached to it, and eventually, as she draws nearer to the end, the elderly woman tells it to Phoebe.The lesson I got from this book was about the choices which we make in life.  Many times they seem harmless, but also, many times, the effect they have on our lives rings down through the years.  Often, the clothes we keep in the back of the closet bring those stories back to our minds, sometimes for good; sometimes in sadness.
5 I must say that this book caught my interest right away and the book just got better and better. i won't go into the plot as so many others have already done so, but it was charming, and heartwarming. i read this in one day and would really love to read her other books, i hope they become available on kindle soon!
3 Rating: three and a half starsYour heart misses a beat; your stomach flutters, your eyes lit up, feasting on every detail. You say to yourself how beautiful it is. There in your hands is the perfect dress albeit it was made 60 years ago. Other people only see an old dress but for you is a unique find, one to be treasured.  In her book, "A Vintage Affair," Isabel Wolff captures this feeling for vintage clothing at every level, from the person who casually picks up a 1950s purse because it tickles her fancy, to the hard-core collector, to the connoisseur.  Weaved with the designer brands, famous fashion designer names, clothing styles, shopping and care tips are the stories of Phoebe Swift, who after 12 years as an auctioneer at Sotheby's and after the recent tragic loss of her best friend, opens her own vintage clothing shop, and those of her customers.Phoebe's store, "Village Vintage," becomes the crossroads in the lives of the characters of  "A Vintage Affair".  As Phoebe gives, as she puts it, a new lease in life to the fabulous 40-, 50- or 60-year-old gowns, dresses, and coats; they in turn, enable their new owners a fresh start in their own lives. It's not only the buyers who are touched by the vintage outfits but also those who part with them as in the case of Therese Bell, a 79-year-old cancer patient whose greatest regret in life mirrors Phoebe's.As somebody who loves vintage jewelry, I can attest that everything Phoebe said about why she likes vintage is true. Whether it is clothes or jewelry, those who love vintage wear them for their uniqueness, marvel at their craftsmanship and design, wonder at their history, and are driven to save them from destruction.  For the most part, I enjoyed "A Vintage Affair."  For readers who like collecting vintage clothing, the shopping excursions, the glamour and the make of the dresses, the historical tidbits, the drama of the auctions are going to speak to them. For those who are not into vintage, these details may be a bit too much for them.  Through Phoebe's romantic complications, I appreciated the fact that she's a woman who can stand on her two feet. The multiple story lines made for a novel full of dramatic events; all the ends were tied neatly - and yet, when I finished reading the book, I was surprised to feel somewhat dissatisfied.  I couldn't quite put my finger as to the why until it came back to my mind a certain scene where journalist Dan, his editor Matt and Phoebe are discussing one of her customers' involvement in a breaking-news case.  It was all the explaining that is going on in the book. Every transformation that every character goes through is spelled out instead of letting the reader be the judge of the significance and meaning of those transformations. All the whys are given, there is no room for nuances or for the reader to wonder why and in doing so to have an "aha!" moment."A Vintage Affair" is a good book nonetheless.  The plot is engaging and the rich details of the vintage dresses made me wish this book came with pictures of each outfit mentioned by Phoebe. Wolff has done a remarkable job at blending the results of her research into a novel that both entertains and educates.
5 For we who love to read, is there anything more glorious than a book you don't want to put down?  You sneak it out at work to read a quick paragraph, you hope for a traffic jam so you can pull it out to get another page in, you read well past your normal bedtime even though you know you're going to pay for it tomorrow. THAT is what this book was for me.  More than just chick lit, this is part Holocaust story, part fashion history lesson and part romance. I enjoyed very much watching Phoebe open this store and in the process, make herself and many people around her, happy.  The similarities between her and Mrs. Bell were enough that she learned from Mrs. Bell and would not repeat her mistakes.  I am checking out Ms. Wolff's repertoire and intend to read eveything she's written.
5 I loved this book. Loved it! This was my first book by Wolff and won't be my last. Her writing was straight forward and easy which allowed her masterful story telling to shine!She sold me on all her characters. I loved the tie ups to all her threads, and the love interest turned out to be the perfect one. This book was a blend of contemporary and historical -- a Holocaust saga told through her elderly customer turned friend, Mrs. Bell. We can never have too many novels reminding us of the horror of the Holocaust and remind us man's heart could once again be as dark.I highly recommend this book. I don't say that often. Fabulous read.
4 I've read other books by Isabel Wolff and so was looking forward to reading A Vintage Affair.  I was not disappointed.  I won't recap the plot as it has been done already, but I will say that the timing, the descriptions, the fullness of the characters is all so very well done.  While I'm certainly not an expert on vintage fashion, I found the descriptions of the clothes fascinating and very easily pictured in my mind.  This book sparked an interest in me to look further into vintage fashion.The various stories in the plot were all easily tied together.  Ms. Wolff made the characters and the happenings in the story so easy to understand.  The themes of forgiveness, friendship and love were beautifully done.  I was especially fascinated by the story Mrs. Bell told about her experiences during World War II.  There are many great characters in this story, most all of them people I would love to know.  I've seen this book characterized as chick lit, but I think it is much more than that, a beautiful story, well told.  I highly recommend it.
4 While this novel has stories of romance, the protagonist Phoebe is an independent woman, who opens a vintage clothing store in London.A warning to all you with a propensity to shop: be careful upon finishing this book! Beyond the gorgeously described vintage threads, there is a story of two female friendships woven throughout.  One is that of Phoebe and her late best friend, Emma, and the other is through a connection discovered with an ill, elderly woman who lived during WWII.  The emphasis on the novel is strongly in the friendship camp, although there is a bit of romance (or discussion of the lack there of) in Phoebe's dating life and the recent demise of her parent's marriage.This book isn't life changing, though it definitely offers more depth than traditional chick lit.  It will make you think about some of your personal regrets you've been carrying with you, and may offer some insight on how to let it go.  Perfect read for a trip, especially if you're escaping to a charming countryside with many vintage offerings!
3 If you love all things vintage (movies, clothing, music, people) you're sure to enjoy A VINTAGE AFFAIR by Isabel Wolfe. This book falls into my special category of "heartwarming but not quite chick-lit".  The story of Phoebe Swift a thirty-something year old who, following the death of her best friend Emma, decides to quit her lucrative job with Sotheby's and open a shop specializing in vintage apparel is appealing on several levels.  If Vogue is your bible then this book is a veritable who's who of fashion designers and a catalog of their creations from the 20's to the 80's.  On the other hand, if you are seeking a story that embraces subjects like love, hate, jealousy, divorce, friendship, emotional and physical loss, coping with grief and guilt and the horrors of WWII you will find those between these pages too.Each item at the Village Vintage shop represents a fragment of one person's past and another's future. I will refrain from recounting the story for that would ruin your pleasure in forming your own impression of each individual for yourself.  Suffice to say that Isabel Wolff has created a novel filled with endearing and memorable characters whose life stories will intrigue you and take you on an emotional roller coaster ride.  3 1/2 STARS
4 Goodreads Description- Every dress has a history. And so does every woman.In Isabel Wolff&#8217;s captivating A Vintage Affair, a treasured child&#8217;s coat becomes a thread of hope connecting two very different women.Her friends are stunned when Phoebe Swift abruptly leaves a plum job at the prestigious Sotheby&#8217;s auction house to open her own vintage clothing shop in London&#8212;but to Phoebe, it&#8217;s the fulfillment of a dream. In the sunlight-flooded interior of Village Vintage, surrounded by Yves Saint Laurent silk scarves, Vivienne Westwood bustle skirts, cupcake dresses, and satin gowns, Phoebe hopes to make her store the hot new place to shop, even as she deals with two ardent suitors, her increasingly difficult mother, and a secret from her past that casts a shadow over her new venture.For Phoebe, each vintage garment carries its own precious history. Digging for finds in attics and wardrobes, Phoebe is rewarded whenever she finds something truly unique, for she knows that when you buy a piece of vintage clothing, you&#8217;re not just buying fabric and thread&#8212;you&#8217;re buying a piece of someone&#8217;s past. But one particular article of clothing will soon unexpectedly change her life.Th&eacute;r&egrave;se Bell, an elderly Frenchwoman, has an impressive clothing collection. But among the array of smart suits and couture gowns, Phoebe finds a child&#8217;s sky-blue coat&#8212;an item with which Bell is stubbornly reluctant to part. As the two women become friends, Phoebe will learn the tale of that little blue coat. And she will discover an astonishing connection between herself and Th&eacute;r&egrave;se Bell&#8212;one that will help her heal the pain of her own past and allow her to love again.This is a great book about clothes, history, friendship, and love.  I loved how the author tied in vintage clothes not just with fashion but with their history...who wore them, when they wore them.  Was it for a wedding, a special night out with a lover or friend?  Why were they saved?  What did the stains represent?  All of the stories that the owners told about the clothes that Phoebe went to buy were so intriguing that they just drew me right into the story.I also loved the friendship between Phoebe and Mrs. Bell.  The story of the &#34;little blue coat&#34; was so bittersweet and full of history.  On a side note, I am also reading The Storyteller by Jodi Piccoult and the story of Monique at Auschwitz along with the details are the exact same as some of the details in The Storyteller.  So I am assuming that both author's did their research on life at this concentration camp and they are sad details to say the least.  Anyway, the way their relationship grew was very real and, again, I loved how the Wolff tied Mrs. Bell's history again into vintage clothes.  Mrs. Bell definitely taught Phoebe many lessons on love and how to forgive yourself when mistakes are made.At first I thought I admired Miles and thought Phoebe and Miles' relationship would go somewhere but I wanted to just strangle his daughter, Roxy.  She was a spoiled brat and I was hoping that things would change with her strange relationship with her father, but it didn't, and I was so angry with Miles after awhile that I was yelling at Phoebe in my head to just get rid of him.  That relationship was the one thing that bothered me about the book but I can't go into details without spoiling things so you will have to read it to understand but I wish things were better explained with him.I have not read Isabel Wolff before but I plan to add more of her books to my reading list.  She is a fantastic author and I can't wait to read more of this wonderful author.  4 stars.
4 Very good novel.  It makes you sad but very happy too.  Worth reading and learning a little about vintage clothing and also about courage that some people.  The love between friends can be a very greatthing.
3 A fun read that revolves around vintage clothing and the history of one piece in particular (a child's blue coat).  I can imagine I would enjoy a movie version mostly because the verbal descriptions of the garments only whetted by interest in seeing them!
5 I loved this book! It was wonderful to watch the main character grow and develop through the novel. I also loved reading aobut the cupcake dresses! Wish I had one!
4 I truly liked this book. I had no trouble keeping track of the characters.  I looked in my closet to see what I could find that might be considered &#34;Vintage&#34;
5 You get hooked from the begining.  I cried, I laughed, and I kept reading.  I couldn't put it down. Get this book and pass it around. Totally worth the read.
4 A former buyer for Sotheby's starts her own vintage clothing store. It is one year since the death of her best friend, and the store helps her escape from a past she wants to forget. Vintage clothing is her passion, and through it, she meets many colorful people who make imprints on her life, big and small.This is an engrossing novel. Although the reader can expect the twists and turns the author takes, it is no less fun to read. When Mrs. Bell comes into the picture and tells Phoebe not to touch the blue coat, we know there is a story surrounding the coat, and we fill discover it in time.This book has many layers. From Phoebe's past with Emma and Guy, to Mrs. Bell's story, to the story of the cupcake dresses, to the story with Dan, to the story with Miles, there are lots of things going on, and the author's masterful execution makes all of them blend together seamlessly. Each character is properly developed, and we come away with a sense that we know them well.Miss Wolff has certainly done her homework. The knowledge of vintage designers and fabrics is astounding, and no doubt took lots of research and dedication. These things are referenced with just the right amount of background information so readers with no knowledge of vintage fashion can keep up.I recommend this book to anyone looking for a breezy read.
4 Phoebe Swift is willing to make desperate changes in her life. After the death of her best friend and calling off her engagement, Phoebe abruptly quits her posh job at Sotheby's and opens her own vintage shop. Her passion for previously worn clothes and the stories they once told is Phoebe's hook for running her own business, and she quickly befriends a Mrs. Bell and begins to learn her stories. Mrs. Bell is a widow dying of cancer, and asks Phoebe to sell her clothes to new owners. While looking through Mrs. Bell's closet, Phoebe stumbles upon a child's blue jacket, and the story behind it fills the pages with mystery and sadness, but a happy ending.A Vintage Affair by best-selling author Isabel Wolff is a beautifully written story about the essence of friendship, forgiving oneself, and finding love in unexpected places. There are many subject matters that will pull heartstrings, and I found myself wide-eyed in many places due to the emotional intensity of the characters and their situations. Wolff did an excellent job when it came to research for this novel, and it showed when I became quickly immersed in the storyline and could not put this book down. I did think there were a bit too many sub-plots for my liking, but other than that, an excellent read and a definite recommendation from me!
5 Every once in a while a book comes along thatyou do not want it to end, as with this book.I enjoyed the characters, the setting and readingabout vintage clothing. You do wonder about the personwho first had the dress or coat or purse.What was their life like, where did they wear the piece ofclothing they purchased.Just a nice book.
4 Meet Phoebe Swift. She has just left her job to start a high end vintage clothing store, Village Vintage. She's in the middle of a bad break-up, her best friends death and her parents drama. With her Village Vintage taking off she is introduce to two very different but interesting love interests, meets a fascinating old woman and buys some awesome clothes.Not being one who typically reads chick lit I am always surprised by how easy it is to get absorbed by the few good story's that exist in the genera. The characters are all pretty typical, but the Vintage shop is a nice touch and really makes the story interesting. There is an underlying World War II story that stretches throughout the novel and gives it more depth then expected. Overall it was a fun, super quick read (I read it in two days and it's 340 pages). If you're looking for the next great novel, you'll be sadly disappointed but if you're looking for a great escape for summer you're in for a good time.
3 Disclaimer: This is NOT a synopsis of the book, merely my review/opinion of it. That being said, I chose this book because I harbor a secret fascination with vintage clothing and thought a novel built around the topic would interest me. It did. BUT...I found it a slightly disconcerting melange of vintage designers and garment narrative, friendships lost and found, perceived betrayal and The Holocaust. All these things were somewhat awkwardly woven together in this book. However, I loved the vintage aspect of the book, the author's research and descriptions were wonderful. The friendship story lines were quite good, if a bit quirky. I must say it was refreshing to have a little romance in a novel that didn't go on and on and on with descriptive sex. The betrayal thread spans the friendship and Holocaust topics, the latter storyline I would have enjoyed on it's own as it sort of felt a bit forced here. It almost seemed as if the author tried to pack too much into one book, if that's possible. Although the book started off slowly, about a third of the way through I was well and truly hooked, wanting to continue to the very end to find out "what happened". Surprisingly, I found myself thinking about the stories on into the next day after I finished it, which is a sign of a good book, no? I would have given this a solid four stars if I hadn't felt the writing a tad uneven. And finally, what's up with Dan?
5 I absolutely loved this book!  The twists, turns, and the story within a story made this one of the best books I have read so far this year.  The author gave each character a depth that made me want to know how their story would turn out.  Looking forward to more from this talented author!
5 May be a bit spoilish so beware...I loved this book. I couldn't put it down. The secret from her past was revealed bit by bit perfectly. I was sad to see Phoebe's relationship with Guy never recovered. He sounded like an amazing person. I loved Phoebe's relationship with Mrs. Bell and the story of the blue coat. Being Jewish, it was heart wrenching and I loved every bit of it.There was only one small part that I didn't agree with. It was a discussion about children between Mrs. Bell and Phoebe, where Mrs. Bell was telling her to have children for the happiness that children bring. Which is fine if you want to have children but it's not the only reason you should have children and if you don't want to have children, that should be fine as well. Being child-free by choice, it bothered me a little bit.Some of the designers mentioned in the book went over my head because I don't care about labels but the descriptions of the vintage clothing sounded beautiful. Especially the cupcake dresses. I want a cupcake dress in a deep dark red.~
4 If, as Mark Twain said, clothes make the man, Isabel Wolff's A Vintage Affair demonstrates that each of us also imprint our clothing with our stories, our feelings, our lives. Sometimes those clothes retain the regret for choices we have made that have altered lives, and sometimes those clothes encourage us to take the leap, to have the self-confidence to break off that dysfunctional relationship, to tell the truth, to pursue an opportunity, to fall in love.Phoebe Swift has built her life and a successful career around the fashion and styles of days of yore, but when several life-altering events occur within two years, she decides to take a risk and pursue her dream - a vintage clothing store that sells the memories embedded in these clothes so they will have new life and new stories. Phoebe loves helping her customers find the perfect vintage outfit for the affairs in their own lives, yet her own life is stagnant, the clothes not speaking to her own regrets and challenges. This changes when the elderly Mrs. Bell offers to sell Phoebe her clothing and shares the pain, regrets, love, and life embedded in them. As Phoebe's customers imprint their clothing purchases with their own stories and share those stories with Phoebe, she begins to open herself up to new life choices and to overcome the pain of the past.The vintage clothing from Phoebe's store develop  a life of their own in Wolff's novel, becoming almost integral characters themselves. As Phoebe and her customers imagine where the cupcake dresses or white satin handbag has been, these imagined lives and stories help each one to accept the choices and triumphs of her own world, and the reader longs to step into the feminine sleek cocktail dress and suave pumps to become Audrey Hepburn or feel the swishy crinolines as Cary Grant, Clark Gable, or Fred Astaire spins her on the dance floor. As the dresses of Isabel Wolff's A Vintage Affair take over the reader's imagination, anything is possible.
4 Definitely a girl book- but not sappy drivel. Very good development of the main character and good narrative. I liked that it was not completely predictable. Main character has some heartache and the book doesn't end in automatic happy ending style, rather, it has a *hopeful* ending.
4 Though I don't know much about vintage clothing, I thought the premise of A Vintage Affair sounded fascinating.  I loved the idea of a woman finding the courage to strike out on their own and learning a lot about herself in the process.A Vintage Affair had a lot of interesting information about vintage clothing, which was a real treat.  It was great to learn about something while simultaneously enjoying an entertaining read.  Phoebe is clearly passionate about vintage clothes and really believes in their power to give people confidence.  It's easy to forget how big of a difference feeling like one looks good can make on a person's mood.Phoebe herself was a very endearing character.  She was grappling with some personal demons of her own, and threw herself into work in order to avoid thinking about them.  I really enjoyed reading about her coming to terms with her past.  Wolff did an exceptional job making her feelings palpable to the reader - it was easy to sympathize with her emotions.  Additionally, I loved the secondary characters in the novel - from Phoebe's mom to Dan, Wolff has a flair for creating three-dimensional, appealing characters.A Vintage Affair was an enjoyable read that's difficult to classify.  There are so many different threads that come together beautifully to make up this novel, it defies being assigned a single genre.  It's a complicated, well-written novel, and I will definitely be going back to read more of Isabel Wolff's works.
5 I wish I could give this book 6 stars because 5 doesn't seem like enough.  I'm not going to bore you with another recap of the plot in this review but I will say this about it:  it's the first book I've read in a long time where the plot unfolded for me as a surprise rather than an expectation.  I loved every second of reading this book because the author did such a great job of not giving away too much at once.  Phoebe, the main character is incredibly charming and likable.  All the characters in the book are so well written that by the time you turn the last page you can't help but feel a connection with all of them.  The descriptions of the garments are described in such a way that you have no trouble seeing in your mind what they look like.  Don't pass this book by if you're not into vintage clothing or couture because there's so much more here than that.  This book will make you laugh and cry but most of all it will make you glad to have read it.  I will definitely seek out other books written by this author!
5 I COULD NOT PUT THIS BOOK DOWN, I LOVED IT SO MUCH. I JUST HOPE THE POPULARITY OF THIS BOOK WILL MAKE HER OTHER BOOKS BECOME AVAILABLE AS AN EBOOK.
5 This book grabed my attention from the get go.But I just love characters that spring to life and we get just enough juice and detail to keep the pages turning.Add a few twists and I was delighted.I just had a feeling from the cover I would love this book .Don't ask me how I knew but it did not let me down at all would recommend to all my girlfriends.
1 One of the few things I found of any interest in this novel were the descriptions of the vintage clothing, how Penelope bought and sold it. Otherwise you have a very trite plot: girl steals her best friend's lover, something bad happens, life is consumed with guilt (a major theme of the book).  And in a parallel from WWII, Penelope meets a woman who makes a similar decision, boy over best friend, during the Holocaust, with predictably disastrous results.  There are some backstories about Penelope's parents, the ex-fiance, and two newlove interests.  It ends up exactly where I thought it would.  The men are flat stereotypes.  The mum is hyperbole.  Annie, the aging actress, is well-drawn and interesting.  I dislike stories that treat the Holocaust lightly; it is not a subject that lends itself well to essentially a romance novel without any steam. I only finished because it was my book club's choice and except for one other, they all liked it.
5 I loved this book. Since my background is in fashion design, I enjoyed the descriptions of those beautiful dresses, suits, coats and gowns of the 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s and 60s. But the way Isabel intergrates the stories of the women who wore these outfits into her story is very well done. Her own tragedy and disappointments are highlighted and explained by her relationships she forms with these vendors and customers, many of whom she befriends. The book left me with a desire to start my own Vintage shop, but most of those beautiful items are all bought up now. Still, I have started talking to my friends about starting a club where we can all wear vintage clothes from a consignment shop, and make up a story about the outfits or dressing up as characters from books. I also now enjoy reliving my own history in my own closet full of beautiful clothes.
4 this book is for you!  I liked it a lot, but am spoiled by some of my favorites (I'm really a historical novel type of girl).  But it was fun and entertaining.
4 I've read Isabel Wolff before and admit she's never been my favorite author (fine, but not a first choice), but I found myself really enjoying "A Vintage Affair."The story of vintage clothing expert Phoebe Swift who opens her own shop in the wake of a personal tragedy that cost her, her best friend, and the love of her life.What Phoebe loves about vintage is the history of the clothes, the life they lived before they came into her possession. The stories that comes from those clothes range from Nazi-occupied Europe to insurance fraud, and focus far more on friendship than romance, though there's a bit of that too. All predicated on the idea that the "perfect dress" really change your life, in way that definitely transcends fashion.I was drawn into Phoebe's life, her past and the characters that enter Vintage Village, the shop she opens, especially that of client Mrs. Bell. I wasn't as blown away by the romance aspect and thought the final confrontation with the ex-financee, which explains the mystery of what really happened to Phoebe's best friend Emma, and his relationship with Phoebe, didn't really work all that well. (SEMI-SPOILER ALERT: Why do the objects of chick lit character's affections always have to be secretly rich? It's so trite and Harlequin romance-y. Give up the rich jerk for the sweet poor guy only to find out he's really rich too and was just pretending to be a poor schlepp. Oh yeah, that happens all the time in real life. Not.)But, aside from those minor quibbles, "A Vintage Affair," was a fun, fast read that made me smile, and even cry a little.
3 I spent the last two days reading Vintage Affair, and it was ok. I agree with the other reviewers that the descriptive detail about the clothes was wonderful.  However, I was left dissatisfied with the ending of the book.I really felt *spoiler* that she ended up with the wrong man.  For some reason I was hoping that Phoebe would end up with her ex-fiance, Guy.  Especially once she realized that she was falsely blaming him for her best friend's death.  It seemed to me that she loved him more than the other two male characters.That leads me to the character of Dan...random use of the word "sweetheart" at the end.  It did not jive with me.  Also, it seemed as though she became more interested in him when she found out that he had money.  Common theme among all her men.Also, I might be crazy, but I was hoping that Phoebe's parents would get back together at the end.  I think ultimately at the end I was left with disappointment because I was given the impression that love does not overlook faults (like a misunderstood death or an accidental child).  Instead the characters such as Phoebe and her mother break off and hide in another relationship or issue.  Yes, I know that Phoebe's mother did not just jump into another relationship immediately (instead it was cosmetic enhancements), BUT the book was written in a way as to give the impression that both parents were still in love with each other.  Like I said, it was a nice book, but I was disappointed at the end.
5 I knew I would like this book; women, fashion and relationships. However I didn't know how quickly I was going to get sucked in. It didn't release me till teh end, far too soon in my opinion. We have a young lady, Phoebe, who's best friend, Emma has passed and Phoebe feels responsible because she fell in love with a man that Emma had dated and really liked.In this story, Phoebe starts a vintage clothing store, and meets new friends, new loves and comes to terms with Emma's death, through an elderly woman's own story. She also comes to learn about love and herself in the process. Just about every kind of topic she covers; family, love, friendships and a bit of scandal in it too!!!I loved this style of writing, it was so descriptive of the clothing, you felt as if you were putting some of the pieces on yourself. Heck, I wanted a cupcake dress after this story!!!I will be checking out Ms. Wolff's books, she is one of my new favorite authors!!!
3 I thought this was going to be a light romance novel about a vintage dress shop owner. I was pleasantly surprised with the strong sub plots and themes of friendship,loss,living, and moving on that made it so much more.  The story takes place in London and is written by an English author.  I thought it was well written and kept me wanting more.
5 I actually picked up this book based on all the great reader reviews!  I am so glad I did.  I loved this story from the first chapter.  The book is so well written and the relationships that are developed throughout the story are so heartfelt and endearing you will feel like you are right there watching them unfold.  A real keeper!
4 The title and cover of this book caught my eye one day when I was just passing through Barnes & Noble. I read the front flap and decided right away that I wanted to read it. I love fashion and I love a good romance novel so it seemed like a good bet. However, after reading this book, I have mixed feelings. Isabel Wolf is a good writer and obviously did a large amount of research before writing this novel, something I always appreciate in an author. Her rich vocabulary brought the descriptions of the vintage clothes to life and the characters were well developed. I enjoyed the book immensely and finished it very quickly.However, being an extremely picky reader, there were a few parts that jumped out at me and were somewhat annoying. All of the characters' emotions often seemed very stunted unless they were one extreme or another. And the heroine, Phoebe, put up with behaviors from both her male suitors that would have sent myself and many of my friends running away as fast as we could. It made her seem like a bit of a doormat which is not a desirable characteristic for any heroine.All in in all, this book is an excellent read and I was able to enjoy it despite a few rough parts.
5 Vintage Affair is a great read. I put off reading my review copy, having decided it was a `romance' - not my favorite genre. It is a romance, of course, but also a well-written story of modern life. Phoebe's romantic travails are an important part of the story, of course, but not the main theme. It touches on important issues, from child-rearing to personal responsibility. Her relationship with a dying woman and her memories of the Second World War become the dominate feature of a novel that explores many important issues. And, unlike much contemporary literary fiction, Wolff does this without regarding a believable plot and characters as a hindrance. Many interesting facts about the vintage clothes industry, Provence, and other things are effortlessly worked into the story. It also provides nice vignettes of contemporary London, off the tourist track.
3 If you loved playing dress up as a little girl, you'll enjoy this book, which centers around a woman who opens a vintage designer clothing shop in London.  Phoebe is reeling from a broken engagement and the death of her best friend when she meets an elderly woman who wants to sell her wardrobe of vintage clothing.  The two become friends and Phoebe slowly learns about Mrs. Bell's experiences growing up in France during WWII.  While the plot is a bit too convenient, I enjoyed it, probably because the protagonist's love of beautiful old clothes and the lives behind them resonated with me.
3 Although it was not a significantly memorable or groundbreaking book, it was a very nice story about several different characters who make mistakes but eventually find peace and redemption.  There is a little bit of a love scene that I would say is R rated, therefore I only gave it 3 stars.
2 I realize I'm in the minority, but I just couldn't get drawn into this book and I really tried.  I must say that this book was defective ... some of the pages were out of sequence, (which Amazon graciously took care of) but it didn't deter me from continuing on and I was able to piece it together.On a positive note, the author did an excellent job with the exquisite descriptions of the clothing.  When you purchase vintage clothing you're buying a piece of someone's past and I found it interesting to see how the vintage clothing could actually transform a person within.The part of the storyline that touched me most was the friendship that developed between Phoebe and Mrs. Bell, the frenchwoman and her childhood Jewish friend, Monique.  Anything written about the Holocaust grabs my attention, but I was hoping for more detail to develop into that part of the story.This is the first novel I've read by Isabel Wolff and I found it rather disappointing, but I will try another.
4 This is an OK chick lit. Cute and sweet, but quite superficial. I was interested in this book because I love the world of vintage dresses. However, Wolff did not show us anything more interesting than something I could search online. I also had a problem with Dan's business. Newspaper companies are struggling everywhere in the world. And even well-known papers can't find anyone to buy them. It's just a chick lit, but still...There are 3 guys who are all great looking and rich, and the protagonist Phoebe is a cool beauty every guy falls in love with instantly. That made this story less attractive. There's a "moving story" with an old lady Mrs. Bell, but it also felt superficial because every other thing in this book felt unrealistic.But, for a chick lit, it delivers what readers want. Therefore, 4 stars.
4 Despite having taken a republican line some years ago in a TV studio debate on British royalty, Starkey seems magnetized by monarchy.  He has developed a stellar career writing on the subject, generating several books and television series.  He handles source material with relish and in DVDs judiciously uses prestige heritage locations.This is a very good and readable account of the great monster's life, marking 500 years since his accession in 1509. Starkey is particularly strong on the early years. He has recently criticised the focus on Henry VIII's wives, notwithstanding his ownSix Wives: The Queens of Henry VIII, and this book aims to right the balance.Starkey has also written another study of Henry,The Reign of Henry VIII: Personalities and Politics- and has recently said that despite his fascination for Henry, he feels he will never exhaust him.Whether Starkey finds royalty reprehensible or magnetizing, this is a great read. (It's already out in DVD in the UK under the title Henry: Mind of a Tyrant ...  )
4 Starkey has a knack for making history suspenseful and amusing. Most histories of Henry VIII I've read seem to focus more on his later years, while in this book we get to know the young Henry; a very different perspective than that of the old, fat, ruthless head-chopper. The unflattering portrayal of Henry's father and his influence on young Henry is also quite interesting.
3 I knew almost nothing about the young Henry VIII and his family (parents, grandparents) before picking up this book.  Starkey knows the Tudor era very well, and his descriptions of 'daily life in Tudor times' were fascinating.  The illustrations were well-selected and the narrative moves briskly.  Maybe a little too briskly.  In fact, the whole thing reads like a TV script.  Starkey has an incredibly annoying stylistic tic (well, annoying to me at any rate)--lots of one sentence paragraphs and paragraphs ending with a punchy question, as if the author has just turned to a TV camera to make a pithy point before cutting to a commercial break.  This kind of writing is fine for a script, but not for a serious biography. There is a bit too much psychological guesswork in it for my taste.  Also, the book just *ended*; no conclusions, no wrap-up.  I would have appreciated a brief chapter or afterword giving the reader his conclusions about the first half of Henry's life.  Given that a second volume, covering the latter half of Henry's life, is in the works, this lack of conclusion is even more puzzling, as it could be the lead-in to the second volume.I realize that this book is not aimed at a scholarly audience.  I finished it, learned quite a bit and was entertained, but my pleasure was somewhat muted by Starkey's writing style.
5 I  know Dr. Starkey is controversial among Tudorphiles - a love him or hate him sort of thing. I personally love him. As with all his previous Tudor period histories, this appears very well-researched and his conclusions feasible, even probable. Dr. Starkey gives extensive background for his assessment of the Tudor king's character and actions and does not seem to jump to unfathomable conclusions like some other authors (DO sit down, Ms.Weir!) The young Henry seems in such stark contrast to the older Henry, they seem almost to be two people. Dr Starkey does much in this book to reconcile the two and provide interesting theories for the chasm. As always, his writing is very clear and interesting, not your usual dry professorial read at all.( I do think he has a slight crush on Anne Boleyn. I swear reading his descriptions of her, you can almost hear Barry White singing in the background.) Oddly enough, I came away from this book feeling that although Dr. Starkey feels he has made an accurate assessment of the great - and I mean that - Tudor king, he did not really understand him. That Henry's contradictory personality is deliberate on the part of the king and purposely designed so that no man might know his true mind - even 500 years later.
5 Great book written by one of the masters of scholarship on the Tudor era. This book examines Henry's very early life and the political turmoil that surrounded his mother and father as they sought to cement their positions as King and Queen of England. Even though Henry was a second son and therefore not expected to rule, he was obviously affected by the constant political intrigues and out and out rebellions that his father had to deal with throughout his reign. This book is a fascinating look at one of England's most famous monarchs and one who irrevocably changed the course of British history.
3 David Starkey, ever readable, here illuminates the life of the young Henry VIII, leaving out all the oft-told stories of his tyranny, debauchery and panda-like shape.  Young, brilliant and beautiful, Henry bursts onto the scene as a prodigal child, impressing all with his learning, his athletic skills, his musical accomplishments and his piety.  At not yet 18, he takes the throne of England, a country just coming into its renaissance from a dark, medieval past.  Exemplifying all the virtues of the ancients, Henry dazzles scholars and ambassadors, men and women, courtiers and country-folk.Unfortunately, Henry VIII did not live up to his early expectations, and Starkey gives us little reasons as to why this paragon turned monster made such a dire about-face.  We all know about the six wives to come, the beheadings and divorces, the tangled family life and the mess he made of nearly everything.  The author seems to be saying &#34;just don't go there.&#34;  But he did.
5 This June 2009 marks one of those dates in history that tend to make historians take notice -- on Midsummer Day, 1509, a young man who was barely eighteen and freshly married, attended his coronation as Henry VIII, King of England. And now to mark the 500th anniversary of that occasion, there has been a wealth of new books, both fiction and nonfiction, exhibitions, and quite a bit television to boot. It seems that the public is still interested in this king of legend, he of the many wives and a rather bloodthirsty record.Longtime popular historian David Starkey now focuses his attention on King Henry himself after writing about Henry's wives and Henry's children. In the first volume of a proposed series, Starkey looks at a portion of Henry's life that most writers either skip or ignore, preferring to rush ahead to the more titillating aspects of the king's life, namely his divorce from Catherine of Aragon to marry Anne Boleyn. But in Virtuous Prince, Starkey works a bit farther back, looking closely at the history of England around the time of Henry's birth, and the remarkable events that surrounded how the Tudors came to the throne.The story begins with the Wars of the Roses, the conflict that arose from having a weak king, Henry VI, and two rival families that were seeking to take the throne for themselves. The winners eventually turned out to be the Yorkists, who were led by Edward IV, a charismatic man who had the misfortune to marry a woman who had many relations to take care of and a disposition that wasn't likely to win her many allies. When Edward died, he was supposed to be followed by his son, another Edward, and there was a younger brother, Richard, Duke of York, in case anything happened. But it turned out that it was Edward IV's brother, Richard III who became king. Now a new rival arose in Henry Tudor, a remote descendant of Edward III and Henry IV who decided that the crown of England was worth gambling for. And in 1485, Henry invaded, fought Richard III at Bosworth, and won.England for a time, was stable. Henry VII, as he was known, married Elizabeth of York, Edward IV's eldest daughter, and set to work unifying a fractured kingdom and begetting heirs. His first son, Arthur, was his parents? pride, and carefully educated and groomed to become the next king. And when a second son, Henry, was born in 1491, and christened with great ceremony, the succession was assured with an heir and a spare.Gradually, we get to learn about the lifestyle of a young prince, and the people and influences around him. One aspect of David Starkey's writing that I've enjoyed is that he is able to take complex ideas and circumstances and make them understandable to readers who are not university-trained scholars. What makes this so interesting to read is that I discovered that the future Henry VIII was a lively, intelligent boy, delighting when he was the center of attention, a student that was skilled in languages and scholarship, but also devoted to horsemanship, hunting, and especially jousting. When his elder brother married the Spanish princess, Catherine of Aragon, in 1501, Henry was an old hand at charming the crowds despite being only ten years old, and he relished the attention. But within six months, Catherine of Aragon was a widow, and Henry was his father's heir. Even more devastating was that his mother, Elizabeth of York, was dead within a year after that, trying to bear another child. In the following years, Henry watched his elder sister Margaret be married off to the Scots king, and poor Catherine of Aragon be variously betrothed, married and repudiated by himself by orders of his father. In the meantime, Henry VII never got over the loss of his wife and eldest son, became more miserly, and gradually saw his health decline, finally passing away in early 1509.Starkey covers the early few years of Henry's reign, when he could indulge in patronage, his love of sportsmanship, and his marriage to Catherine of Aragon. The story, so far, ends abruptly with the death of Henry's first son, a little prince that only survived for less than two months.What I took away from this one was the image of Henry as a Renaissance prince, brilliant and shining, looking at the future with the promise of every desire being fulfilled. And given the world that he grew up in, there is nothing to show that events would ever turn against him.While Starkey's style of writing does get annoying at times -- he delights in the occasional snarky saying or joke, and other times he gets very pompous and pedantic in his writing -- this is still an excellent book. So many authors give the barest outlines of Henry VIII's early years, if they mention it at all, and it was very eye-opening to see how much of the younger man survived as Henry aged and went through the turmoil of trying to leave a legitimate, living son behind him to be king.Along with the narrative, there are three inserts of colour reproductions of paintings, engravings and objects associated with his reign. There is a genealogical chart showing the lineage of the Tudor, Yorkist and Lancastrian dynasties, as well as an extensive bibliography, notes and index to help those who are interested in further research. Finally, there is an interview with David Starkey by director David Sington to coincide with the television programme Henry VIII: The Mind of a Tyrant -- this interview is unique with this particular edition of the book.For those who have not yet explored the glittering world of England's Tudor kings, this would make an interesting start, but I recommend that they start with Starkey's biography about Henry's queens, titled Six Wives, which gives a slightly better overview or one of Alison Weir's many biographies about the Tudors.Overall, this gets a hefty four and half stars, rounded up to five. It's a readable, workable biography, and helped me to fill in a lot of gaps that I did not know about the youth of Henry VIII. And, happily, there is a forthcoming volume -- Henry: Model of a Tyrant -- that will continue on Starkey's story about one of England's most recognizable kings.Heartily Recommended.
5 Prof Starkey writes as he speaks: with enthusiasm for the love of his subject and respect for his audience. Being an university lecturer myself, I can identify with him and I surely can see his "star" quality. When he talks about history, he just "shines". He's the best.Elvis A. Eagle: A magical adventure by Sinclair, C. R published by Scribe Press Unbound
5 Different and querky which the children loved. Kept their attention right to the end. Would recommend - a good bedtime story.
4 Henry loves books. But not like other children love books. No, Henry loves to eat books. Any and all books, though red ones are his favorite. And Henry notices that the more books he eats, the smarter he gets. Unfortunately, once he begins to eat many books in one sitting, the information gets all jumbled up and he doesn't know anything. Besides, it gives him a stomach ache and excessive library fines.Can Henry enjoy books in any other way?This lively story is made by its unique illustrations. There is a chomp taken out of the back cover, for Pete's sake! One could pour over them for hours and still find something new, I'm sure. On the flip side, there is a busyness to them, due to the background of every illustration being a book page, that can hamper the read on the first go through. This isn't a problem on successive reads, once the reader knows what to read, but may put some readers off in the bookstore. I encourage readers to give it a second try because the book is too fun to pass over.The text is also fun, don't get me wrong. And I love that it makes books fun, intelligence inducing and "cool."Armchair Interviews says: This is a great book for any child's library.
5 Ha, Ha. This is a fun book to read to our grandkids ages 2 1/2 thru 4. Unfortunately it may have encouraged one if them to actually take a bite out of one of our softer, foam type books! We all got a good, behind our hands, laugh!
3 Book Eating Boy is funny and cute in some ways. As a read-aloud to a group it was very fun. However, be sure to have a talk about the bad behavior of the main character before reading and explain why this behavior is unacceptable.
5 This book is fantastic! I'm a teacher and have used it as a read aloud in my first grade classroom and kids simply love it! It inspired them to think about how we gain knowledge and what it would be like if we gained it by eating books instead of reading them. Such a fun concept for first grade discussion! The best part of the book, though, is the surprise bite out of the back!!
5 I love Oliver Jeffers. We have several of his books. They are so unique and hysterically funny. Can't wait to get the next one. This one is great!
5 Whimsically conceived and marvelously illustrated.  Painted on old book and ledger pages, the story charms and the artwork captivates.  I cannot comment on this book's suitability for children, but it certainly was inspirational to ME.
5 Oh wow! The elementary teacher in me just jumps for joy at this book! What an utter delight of story-telling and children's book-making at its most hilarious best!Not only is there a great blatant message in the importance of education, but the story is told in a surprisingly nonchalant way in comparison to the over-the-top gorgeous illustrations that use its character as only a detail in wild book-related images.The narrative happily trots along, not rushing, not stretching, just telling the story as entertainingly as possible in an awesome layout.Awesome story, incredibly made book. Almost good enough to eat.
4 I liked this simple silly plot of a boy who loved books&#8212;by eating them!  We thought it was cool how he got smarter by doing that.  I have talked about &#8220;devouring&#8221; a book it was so good, so this literal take on it was funny.  It&#8217;s a different view of a bookworm.  The backgrounds were unique.  The added detail of the bite taken out of the back cover was great surprise, especially for my kids.  It made the story come to life.  I liked the message that reading books is a &#8220;treat&#8221; just as enjoyable as eating them&#8230;and you still get smarter too.  The boy gives into temptation every now and then and takes a bite out of a book while reading.  Our favorite page was after Henry had eaten so many books he had a dream of a book trying to eat HIM!
5 So cute and different! I bought it hoping I would like it and I think it is so fun. So different than your average books for kids.
5 This is a fun book to read.  Have given multiple times as a gift.
5 One day while walking his cat, Henry gets a hankering for the taste of a word, a page, and eventually an entire book. Pretty soon he is eating several volumes in a single sitting, and the knowledge in the books is going straight to his brain. He dreams of being "the smartest person on Earth." And then his taste for books goes south as do his book smarts. Fortunately, he figures out another way to get smart that isn't so hard on the stomach. Unique pages and illustrations relating to books are incorporated into the "book" theme. Probably best for seven to nine year olds, and their parents.
5 I got this for my niece for Christmas last year, she absolutely loved it!  I thought that maybe she was too old for it and worried that when I gave it to her, she wouldn't like it (she's 9).  But it went over really well, it's one of her favorite books!I also enjoyed reading through it myself before wrapping it up for her, it's just such a clever childrens book!  The fact that there is a bite out of the corner of it is an added bonus :)
5 This is a new favorite in our house. It is also the third book by Jeffers that we've bought and it doesn't disappoint. My 3 yr old loves how there is a &#34;bite&#34; taken out of the back cover. I like that it promotes reading in such a fun way.
5 This book is sure to be a crowd pleaser.  The title itself makes anyone who loves books or not curious.  Once you begin to read your hooked.  His book is fun and has a great lessons and would be a great way to introduce genres.
5 very fun, silly story with great illustrations. Very glad to share it with the grandchildren.  Thank you  again Oliver Jeffers
4 Nice story however the pictures are a little &#34;busy&#34; for youngsters and story is a little simple  for older children.
5 This is such a charming book!  As so many reviewers have mentioned, the visual details are amazing.  Yes, the story is simple, and I think that allows us to enjoy all the extras Jeffers gives us on every page.  The plot is predictable to adults, but my son was quite engaged and even a bit worried when we read "This is the worst bit."  My 4-year-old loves it and my 2-year-old repeated "monumental" multiple times while we were reading it for the first time.  I really enjoyed finding a book with an obvious message, agenda even, that doesn't overdo it.
5 We are in a golden age of children's book publishing.This book is a visual treat from the very beginning, with art created on pages of old books.  Brilliant.I've often though of reading a good book as devouring it -- this book expands on that concept.  Very clever and well done.And  oh, the last page!More books like this, please.
5 Oliver Jeffers' THE INCREDIBLE BOOK EATING BOY tells of one Henry who loves books - for meals. He's even smarter than his teachers at school as he eats information - but will it come back to haunt him?
3 Oliver Jeffers, The Incredible Book-Eating Boy (Philomel, 2006)Jeffers' amusing little tale comes with a chomp taken out of the back of the book. If that's the sort of thing that amuses you, then I highly recommend checking this one out. It is, as the title tells, you the story of a kid who eats books--and, by osmosis, grows smarter. (Wouldn't it be great if that actually worked?) However, he finds out that gluttony, of any sort, gets the best of him... It's a fun, clever little book, if a tad simplistic (even for a kids' book). But while you're digesting, no pun intended, the contents, spend some time looking over the backgrounds of the pages, which are absolutely enchanting for bibliophiles. Amusing, I just with there'd been a bit more to it. ***
5 I love the story and kids also really enjoyed it. They even pretend to eat all the books at home and it was fun to see the cover with bite mark.
5 Just like you can't take a pill to become fit, our boy learns that you really need to read the books, and that the act of reading itself is wonderful. Love the bite out of the book cover!
5 This is a great children's book that has the kids laughing and thinking. The 5 and 7 year old really enjoyed this.
5 My 6 year loves this book and thought it was silly that the boy ate them. He said he must have a bad stomach ache.
4 My youngest pick up this book from the library and renewed it twice because he loved it so much. It's perfect for early readers. It has a good message with great illistrations.
4 Almost unbelievable. Would like to have known what ended up happening to others in the book such as their father. But good book. Couldn't put it down.
4 Very enlightening into the life in a cult. Disturbing the power that some have in controlling others. tge girls came out the other side despite the ordeal they went through.What a shame that their father and mother did not protect them like a parent should.
5 For those of us who live sheltered lives insulated from evil and those who would prey on innocence - we are truly blessed.  This book was an eye opener and I am so grateful that I read it.  While it was not an easy read, it was a compelling one.  I could not stop reading until I could confirm that these sweet young children were safe.  I cried for those children who didn't make it out.  What an amazing and hear wrenching read.
4 I was not disappointed with this book . Found it very interesting and informative concerning the religion ( the cult ) she and her sisters were in . It is unbelievable what things go on in this world that we have no knowledge of . It is amazing to me how much a human being can tolerate
5 It's an amazing sad story, I cannot believe you all go trough this kind of misery. I watched the movie massacre in wacko txt and I was astonish
4 I lied but I wouldn't say I loved it.  It started really well but kind if petered out towards the end.
5 I am a true crime lover and I purchased this book because it sounded fascinating. It started out a little confusing but after the first chapter I could not put the book down. I fell asleep w my tablet and when I woke up the next morning I finished reading it. This is written by women who experienced more in their lives than anyone that I hv ever heard of. These woman turned everything bad they ever went through into a learning experience and  lived  to tell about it. You all are an inspiration to me and many other survivors of physical, mental and sexual abuse.
4 The sisters were second-generation members of the Children of God -- the same cult as the books Jesus Freaks and Heaven's Harlots told about.  In fact, they knew Davidito, the subject of Jesus Freaks and several of the people mentioned in Heaven's Harlots.  But these stories are not duplicative; each has her own angle on the subject.Their stories of abuse are all the more chilling because they are told so matter-of-factly.  Example:"Everything was rigidly scheduled -- from school hours to one hour of exercise time in the garden.  We even had scheduled 'date' times, where we each picked the partner we were to have sex with, held out our hands for a glob of pink baby lotion and proceeded to our various beds. The adults used KY jelly, but for some reason baby lotion was the lubricant of choice for us little ones.  [She was five years old at the time.]  We knew what to do, as we had seen our teachers at it often enough, though we were a little lacking in the actual mechanics.  Generally, the boy got on top of the girl, and a lot of sounds followed in the general rhythm of 'Ooh -- Aah, Ooh -- Aah, Ooh -- Aah'."Or this, when one of the sisters was about ten:"Often, the shepherds would take me into a private room for correction -- for the usual sins: rebellion, worldliness and lack of hunger for the Word of God.  It seemed to me that they just had it in for me.  The Home shepherd, an Indian man named Matthew, scared me.  He would shout at me until he got me to cry, and the he would smile. 'Now tell me you love me. Do you love me?''No.' I looked at him hatefully.His eyes grew fiery and he grabbed my head with his two hands and held my face an inch from his own. 'Tell me you love me, or you can't leave this room.'He played this little power struggle game until he had wrested the words out of me. Then he would kiss me all over my face and hug me for what seemed like hours before finally allowing me to leave."And that's one of the milder incidents.The most sickening part is at the end, when Juliana confronts her father with his abuse and neglect, and tolerance for the abuse she suffered at the hands of others.  He will not accept that anything happened, even though he knows that it did.  He falls back on cliches and slogans from the now-dead Moses David, and reiterates that the end times are going to be soon, and then she and her sisters will "come crawling back to the Family."Jesus Freaks: A True Story of Murder and Madness on the Evangelical EdgeHeaven's Harlots: My Fifteen Years in a Sex Cult
5 I could not put it down.  The twist and turns. Edge of your seat up and downs. I loved it.
3 This is a good book, but nothing great.  A bit of a disturbing topic, but overall well written.  I actually read this a few months ago and can't remember much about it, so I am not sure what that says about the book...
5 I just finished reading the amazing book of 3 very strong women. To read, first hand the power a cult can have over a person, better yet, a group of people is so crazy. I myself, have never been in one, thankfully, but have heard here and there about them while growing up. The way these authors describe their lives is such detail and you can tell, it must pain them to relive it while writing this book. Very good read, and I highly recommend it...to EVERYONE:-)
5 One of the best books i've ever read, it will break your heart.  This book will keep you on the edge of your seat.  Worth a read.
5 Incredible true story of children living in a cult,unprotected & at times separated from parents .Cruel and gut-wrenching ,hard to put aside & equally hard to read.
5 good book. nearly finsihed reading it. would recommend if your interested in cults and the abuse the did to children
5 This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time.! The base of this story is horrific yet the way these ladies have written and expressed themselves is brilliant. While reading this book I was compelled and moved to keep reading,read it straight through, the amazing strength of these ladies reverberates through the whole book. It's power gave me shivers'. Thank you ladies for sharing your lives.
4 Although the book repeated things, I was able to view the situation through others eyes. I had heard horrifying tales of cult life, and this brought it into focus. These children were brave. I am proud of them.
4 I enjoyed this book, tho I thought it a little wordy in places.  I also wonder at the ability of the author to recall such vivid details from such a very young age.  However, since I was not in this situation, it would be difficult to question those who were.  Overall, I thought it was a pretty good book that brought out a lot of insight into how people can be lured into and brainwashed by a cult.  What a horrid way for a child to grow up!
4 `The shipping was fast and the book in good condition!  I really enjoyed reading it, although it took me some time as i had to keep putting it down to do other things.  (That was hard to do!)
4 What I liked about this book was that it gave three different perspectives from within the same family and time frame, and also that it didn't sensationalize the abuse, but did give it appropriate coverage. Ran a little long, but was an interesting and easy read.
5 Very dark, but certainly a wake up call to those who think cults are harmless!  Maybe this is extreme but maybe not.
3 I have no opinion about the content of the book, but I did have trouble following the storyline.  As each sister told their story there seemed to be not much overlap with the other sisters.  Some of the same information told by each girl had different names or locations and tended to leave me confused.
5 Reads like a well written book of fiction. But as we all know, truth is often stranger than fiction. I find it amazing that these three young women survived such an ordeal.
5 I really didn't think that I was going to like this book!! I was SOOO wrong! It was so interesting that I couldn't't put it down! What a shame that these 3 young ladies had to go through so much abuse! This is a book that everyone should read. It made me sad, mad, and cry that children are being USED IN SUCH A TERRIBLE WAY!!
2 I couldn't read this after the first pages or so, and I hesitate to leave a review because of it.  But it was too graphic for me personally, and I couldn't bear to think about what happens to children under these circumstances, so I could not read it any further.
5 it was amazing how these people could endure the kind of treatment they receivedI was glad that they realized that what they were told was not all true.
4 I was so sheltered that I did not know the wiles of how a cult works. It was a good read for me. There were some dark situations that was hard to get through but the authors dealt well with it. While the intent of the book from my perspective was not to reveal cults, rather, it showed the perseverance of the girls and how they clung to the right kind of morality against all odds. It is how they survived and survived successfully. Please read.
4 After reading this novel, I did some research and saw some of the photos of their pamphlets (google some of the titles), and am shocked and horrified that this cult is still in existence, with the "Queen" still at the reins.  Why?  After having actual video and photographic proof of what went on inside these camps, how could our government (and the other world governments) allow this woman to continue to lead?The book is long, and repetitive, but still kept my attention.  Knowing while reading this book, that it was a true story, made it all the more awful to imagine.  In the book, several of the parents say they "didn't know"... I don't believe that for one second.... they read and SAW all the literature/photos that was sent out.  Unbelievable!
5 This book should be on the curriculum, in my opinion. Yes, it is graphic and disturbing - but sadly it's a true story. I have read this book many times and am shocked each time at how the group could call themselves "The Family of LOVE" when the adults bullied, hurt, abused and molested their children. "Not Without My Sister" is a disturbingly true story, but I recommend it if you want to know what really happened in the Children of God/The Family of Love back in the day - events that they today still hasn't apologized for, unfortunately.
5 I thought this book was well written and tragic. The things that these girls had to endure was awful. I don't even know what to say about it... I'm glad these women got to tell their stories and they got away from this cult.
4 From the time they were toddlers, sisters Celeste and Kristina Jones, and Juliana Buhring, were forced to endure an array of daily horrors no child should ever have to experience. Their parents allowed the other members of Children of God, the cult of which they were part, to rape the girls, to force them into performing sexual acts on adult men and baby boys alike, to perform stripteases on video for "Grandpa," their leader. The smallest question or resistance resulted in brutal beatings, isolation, starvation for days on end, or even "disappearing." It was clear that no one ever left Children of God.Yet none of the three sisters ever believed this way of life was correct. Deeply unhappy from their earliest days, all Celeste, Kristina and Juliana longed for was a normal life on the outside, with their parents and other siblings. Most of the time, however, it seemed impossible.Despite the odds, however, all three girls eventually escaped. Bearing their own emotional scars, they now devote their lives to sharing their story with others, and helping all the child victims of cults around the world.The story told by the three sisters in this book is eye-opening and brutally honest, yet at no point overly sentimental or self-pitying. Rather, they simply tell things as they were, and readers will root for the three to find their freedom.
4 This book held my intrest enough to finish it. Not really one I would recomend to someone. May read again someday.
5 It is never pleasant to read some disturbing experiences that these young lady's have gone through.  I kept questioning myself on why I was reading what I was.  My wife, Mother in Law & sister in law all read this book & found it disturbing.  The only reason I could find as to why I wanted to read such a book, was in the hope that the 3 lady's were now back together & leading 'normal' lives.If you are planning to purchase this book, the details, I found, are very explicit.  However, the truth has to be known & the truth definitely comes out in this book.  Yes I feel extremely sorry for these young lady's knowing that while I was growing up, there were people suffering like they did.  These young lady's are very brave.  Brave to that fact of making it known the disgusting things these so-called 'adults' put them through & then these 'adults' trying to justify their crimes through the word of the lord.I can only wish Kristina, Celeste & Juliana well, & congratulate them on their brave fight & wish them well in their continued fight to expose organisations such as the 'Children of God'.This is a very good, well written, but painful book.  The 3 lady's courage can be found to be inspirational & a lesson to us all.
2 I WANTED to like this book. I really did. I have been in a phase of reading books about kids and/or adults caught in the clutches of cult like  religions, such as the offshoots of the LDS and those like it. This seemed to fit into that category, so I went ahead and bought it. I wish I hadn't spent the money.Truthfully, this book is first off, fairly poorly written. It comes across as one of the types of books one can buy for 99 cents for the Kindle. Also, it seems to be written in such a way as to appeal to those who are looking for titillating scenarios of older men forcing young girls (think ten years old and younger) into extremely sexual situations. I'm not into soft porn (or any porn) nor do I want to hear graphic details of a beyond middle aged man forcing a child to perform oral sex on him. Granted, I assumed that when the synopsis mentioned the girls being forced to get "married" at young ages and being "violated", it was obvious that one aspect of that would be sexually. But the premise of the book SEEMED to be the aspects involving the mistreatment of the women/girls in the faith more than anything. That wasn't the case however. This book was simply a showcase written to draw in those who want lurid pedophilia type details. So if that is what you are looking for, you'll like this book. If however, your interest lies in reading about religions that are actually cults in disguise or the mistreatment and subjugation of women in certain religions, this isn't the book for you. While that is mentioned of course, it is pretty much mentioned only to relate how the girls were sexually abused... in detail.
5 Easy read.  Sickening to think this group actually impacted many children in this way, and that the parents allowed it, never taking responsibility.  The sister's stories seem to run together, but don't try too hard to keep them straight- Just read it to get the gist of what happened to them and other children in the group.I'd like to discredit the reviewers who implied these women were fabricationg their stories.  After reading this book, I researched more specifically about things mentioned in the book (The Story of Davidito, Flirty Fishing, the Mo Letters, etc) and it was very disturbing to actually read the content of those items.  I also came across news programs and interviews with former cult members and watched very disturbing footage confiscated from the cult.There are a lot of honorable religious groups out there, but this story just goes to show that not all are what they present themselves to be on the surface.
3 This book was so sad but an eye opener. I cried, I just wanted to take these girls and raise them my self, I felt so bad for them, my daughter also read this and agrees.
3 I remember the days when we use to hear about Cults and what went on in some of them.  Disturbing to say the least.  It is hard to believe adults would let other members abuse their children this way.  My heart goes out to all those young people who had to live through this.  These sisters were very strong to overcome it all.  Good book..
5 This story is heart wrenching, well told and not for the feint of heart as it deals with abuse that is beyond imagination.
2 not really crazy about the way it was writtenand to think of what was happening it was sadshe most of the time felt very alone
5 OMG this book had my head spinning.  I can't believe that these kind of communes actually exist, and to this day.  You would think that the law would of stopped this kind of thing from happening long before now. Although this book has many twists that confused me at times, I give any book about children being abused emotionally or physically 5 stars because being a survivor myself it takes a lot of courage and every bit of inner strength to survive. God bless all that have survived and all that have lost their lives due to the sickness of others. Amen.
5 We all want the love of our parents. These girls were abandoned, kidnapped and misused by the cult. It is told in a easy to read style. It is shocking that adults would think their behaviors earned the acceptance of God when they perpetrated violence and sexual deeds on these girls. Sad to think the cult is still operating. I can only hope these girls will have successful, love filled lives after living with fear, panic, humiliation and such terrible adult role models.  I couldn't put the book down.
3 This story dragged on and on. So many characters to keep up with, not smoothly written. I could not finish the book--I made it 2/3 of the way through.
4 Interesting for the first half but then I lost interest. I skipped some parts just to get to the end.
4 Brave women wrote this book. It is distressing to know any of the people involved in these atrocities are still walking freely in any country.
5 I cry when I read what happened  to all those babies  oh God  the hurt they all went through.  I am a child of God he would not want one hair to be hurt on a child.. I am happy ,Celeste,Kristina and Juliana got out and helping other children who have been hurt. I never read what happened to. Poor mini. .I am  so happy I got to know you girls.. I love you all
4 Whilst this sort of book is hard to read, they need to be written and read to ensure people are aware of this sort of abuse. The book is a heart retching account of how adults can abuse children under the guise of "religion" and blind belief.  All the best to the three young women who brought this abuse to our attention through a well articulated book.
3 The book does jump around a lot from one sister to another so if you have a hard time following an author who does that this might not be the best book. It is a great story of how it really does make a difference in the way you are raised on what your outlook on the world may be.
5 The title of this book is a little misleading. "Not Without My Sister" made it sound as though one wouldn't dare to leave the cult without taking her sister with her at the same time. Nonetheless, I couldn't put this book down until I finished. It's so strange to realize that all the cult practices were (and I'm sure still are) taking place right under the noses of authority. From the outside, it makes perfect sense that there's something wrong with an organization when the name, the names of the members, and the locations it operates at must change...ever. It's some pretty strong indoctrination that would keep cult members from experiencing cognitive dissonance over the constant hiding, running, sexploitation of children, destruction of official documents, etc.It's also very interesting that the Children of God's social experiment in not allowing children in the cult to have any personal boundaries was immediately disastrous. The clock can't be turned back on millions of years of human evolution. It's one thing to give up your rights as an adult and join an organization that would dictate your every move, but giving birth to children and not imparting any choices to them is against human nature and incredibly abusive.Many thanks to the brave women who told their story, creating a window into the Children of God (The Family International) cult. I would love to see the demise of this organization in my lifetime.
5 I don't believe I could have survived the abuse that these sisters experienced.  You will not be able to put this book down.  I also did reach on the information I learned from reading this book and to my surprise the CULT is still functioning around the world
4 Children growing up under the domination of a cult are said to know only one thing, the society of the cult.  That is not necessarily true.  We all have a sense of what is right and wrong.  Some of us turn off that knowledge in order to survive.  Some rebel.Regardless of what the Children of God cult claims (and I have no idea what it claims these days), it is a cult based on perversion.  It calls sex, even sex with children, the ultimate expression of love.  It perverts the Gospel of Christ, whose love was to release us FROM sin, not enmesh us in it.There were many that escaped from the domination of this perverse power structure.  Some escaped through suicide.  Three young women escaped by labeling what happened to them as wrong, and finding a way to survive outside the confines of their world.They paid a price no child should pay, and once they left, they needed to learn to survive in a completely different world than that which they knew.Follow Celeste, Kristina, and Juliana as they struggled through verbal, physical and sexual abuse.  Cheer with them as they faced their doubts, and finally escaped.This is a true story.  Names have NOT been changed to protect the innocent.  It this story, the adults were not innocent, and they should be brought up on charges of sex with children, incest, rape, imprisonment and torture.
5 This showed how evil leaders rise and how people follow them, sacrificing their own children to be following the leader. This children have never healed and continue to wander , not knowing who they are or who their true parents are. So sad.
5 This book is a good book.  So many different emotions for the reader.  I can not imagine what it would be like to live like the girls had too.  WOW
5 This story of sisters brought up in a cult reminded me of my own childhood raised in a church that went to extremes with discipline and was obsessed with end times.  At least I didn't have to suffer the sexual abuse too!  I also noted that this group separated families just like I read about the Scientology recently.  No wonder there is such a high rate of suicide.  I'm grateful these girls escaped, but I hope they didn't give up on God.  Just because this group distorted the Bible doesn't mean He isn't real.
3 I will get the negative out of the way first. I had a hard time how the book jumped from sister to sister. I had to keep going back to remember what sister was telling the story at various times in the book. I'm not sure there is a better way of doing it for if you had each sister tell their story from beginning to end, I would probably forget how the other sister was seeing the same part of life. With that all being said, it was a good book but hard on the heart. I know horrible things happen in the world but it is easier for me to think that it happens with &#34;crazy&#34; people in other parts of the world. It was hard to take in the fact that this cult started here in the &#34;good 'ol USA&#34;. It is really hard for me to believe that these adults could believe in their hearts that this was &#34;ok&#34;. As one with a future in ministry, it has made me realize how important it is for me to be aware of my words because there are many that are taking in every word.
4 I was surprised to find that people are still living in cults.  I thought that this was a thing of the past.
5 This book read like a novel but unfortunately was a true story. It just amazes me that this happens and nobody gets punished.
5 Three sisters of the same father, Kristina, Celeste, and Juliana, describe their harrowing accounts of childhoods. Instead of being children, they were sexual slaves and slaves to the cause for the Children of God cult. This book is quite a read but it's important to realize how the Children of God or the Family International operate in order to destroy them. The Children of God and the Family International is nothing more than a cult focused on sexual orgies with minor children involved such as the young girls on the cover.Their father, Christopher Jones, should have protected them all along. But part of cult culture is the separation of children from their biological parents or those who will protect them from the abuse. Cult culture is bent on secrecy, lies, deception, and illusions.Their late leader, David Berg, was seen as the supreme being rather than a human being. His death did not help in it's organization's deconstruction. Like other cults, the Children of God changed their name to the Family Internationl. The sisters here provide an insider's look into this twisted world where children are routinely abused in various ways particularly sexually.Another issue with this cult is that they move around frequently rather than stay in one place. They keep a low profile and try to maintain a sense of normalcy to outsiders. The insiders like the sisters here write about the illusions to the public and to outsiders such as relatives who visit their loved ones.This book is a triumph against the Children of God for revealing shocking accounts of blatant abuse of children and even it's adult members. The Children of God leaders make decisions for the children and the adults. Their mysterious founder David Berg lived on the run and in hiding much like Bin-Laden. He sent messages through his trusted advisors to his members about the end of the world and how to train soldiers for the end-times.The girls' father Christopher Jones blindly accepted David Berg's leadership and his word as the holy gospel. He believed Berg was a prophet and not a pedophile. Even in the end, I don't think their father realized the overwelming damage that the Children of God inflicted upon his own offspring. Often, he was out of their lives and on missions for the organization. He was a true believer who never doubted his prophet unfortunately.For three sisters, they had to learn to escape the Children of God cult not just physically but emotionally, psychologically, and sexually as well. When you join a cult or are born into one such as the Children of God, your mind is not yours to begin with and neither were their souls and bodies.This book will help in stopping Family International and exposing their practices. The sisters have done a brave job in detailing painful memories and experiences of their lives. My heart goes out to them and all the other survivors.My only complaint about the book is the lack of photographs except for the cover and back. Another complaint is the writing is a bit off. But other than that, their experiences are invaluable for those survivors out there.
5 awsome
4 This is probably the sickest, sickest book I have ever read. Three sisters and their cult survival, also the incredible and damaging effects of brainwash and mass mind control. This group describes in explicit detail religious prostitution, holy orgies and sanctified pedophilia. I kept hoping that some of it was embellished! Was definitely difficult to read this.The physical, sexual, mental and emotional abuse these children endured is astounding. The cult is still in practice over various countries and has some 10,000 or so members worldwide.
5 This is a story written with such great honesty and wisdom you can't tur away fro reading it, even with all of the torture these children went through. I read this and could cry and thousand tears as I did so.  How much evil is done through people who can use the word &#34;God&#34; to manipulate others into insane beliefs is beyond me. Well worth the read of this fine writer.
3 I didn't really like this book but read it. Mostly it is titled &#34;Not Without My Sister&#34; and right from the start, sister was gone.
4 I liked this book.  Really opened my eyes to cults.  The end was slow, but still a good book. A quick read.
5 There was no one any closer to the late Princess than the ever-present butler.  Some people will dismiss him because he was a servant and he spilled the beans.  I think he was obsessed by her, but told the story without rancor and with simple honesty as he saw it.  Her family was jealous that he knew more than they did about the woman she had become; that he held secrets of which they were unaware. If his obsession is put into perspective, I think this is the clearest history of a complicated woman who loved her boys and tried her best to do good.
1 This author is in it for himself.  I did not like his style of writing because it took  you here there and everywhere with no real story backbone.
5 Loved his insider's view of Diana giving us a better understanding of who she really was. Plus I dug his courage in risking more public flogging because it was important he get some facts straight on her behalf.
5 Very well written, informative and exposes the difficulties that Diana had.  It give a report that appears to be true events
2 I was hoping for a book that would provide a more insightful book about the late princess. The relationship between Mr. Burrell and Diana was portrayed as being very chummy. It was not at all as I would have imagined a professional relationship between a princess and a butler to actually be. I would have imagined such a job to be more about professional obligations and work and less about discussing which dress to wear and dishing about dates. I couldn't quite put my finger on it, but at the end of the book, I ended up feeling (as the reader) that the book was just not as accurate. Or if it was, it was a bit disheartening to learn that Diana was a &#34;KFC&#34; fan and enjoyed listening to Disney movie soundtracks and reading self-help books. Not exactly the high-brow life one envisions for royalty. Or that Diana was not a great friend to have and was &#34;off and on&#34; with her few friends. Some of her interactions with Sarah Ferguson and a few others left me with the feeling that I was reading about a circle of girls in Junior High and not about sophisticated grown women who moved in circles of power and wealth. If my friend made me feel that way about running late to get to an airport (after failing to give me the right time and information), I don't think I would consider them much of a friend. Not to knock someone who isn't around to speak for themselves, but this book didn't seem to elevate Diana's memory as much as I had hoped it would. Great book for any reader who wants to learn about Diana shopping for humorous cards at the gift shop or her inability to cook or her (well known) strained relationship with her ex or her love of &#34;healing&#34; crystals.
5 Written by her former Butler. This was a sad detailed book about the Princess's life from the man who loved with and served her till her death.
5 this is the 2nd book with daniel knox and it was really exciting and very knowledgable in its history, i hope that will adams will write more adventures of daniel knox.
3 Great literature? nope; nonetheless, I read it cover to cover on a 10 hour drive to Canada. It made the trip go by faster.
5 If you are looking for a fun read chocked full of ancient Egyptian history this mix of adventure and romance is a rollicking good time. The second book to feature archeologist and adventurer Daniel Knox and his partner Gaille Bonnard by Will Adams is that rare instance where what we read between the binding actually lives up to the fun promised on the cover. When Egytologist Knox comes across a lid being offered in an Alexandrian marketplace it triggers something at the back of his mind which leads to the Dead Sea Scrolls and the mystery surrounding not only the Exodus but so much more it would not be fair to reveal too much here and spoil your fun.There are plenty of good guys and bad guys, and enough historical proof and speculation to please and enthrall even the layman. Soon Knox finds himself on the run from a bad Egytian Tourist cop named Khaled and a twisted preacher protecting an ancient dig. An Egyptian policeman named Naguib whose wife and child act as his conscience when a young girl's body is found at a dig will try to discover what's going on before it is too late for both Knox, and his love Gaille, who has been abducted. Khaled's character has echos of those 1930's films of this type of adventure, and though set very much in the present, the book also has this feel.You'll have to read this crackling adventure to discover how Akhenaten, Moses, Nefertiti, Adam and Eve, and a hoax which might have an unexpected basis in truth all play out in an Egypt full of ancient secrets. Knox's pal Augustin is on hand, and might find a romance of his own, while Knox realizes finally that his feelings for his mentor's daughter are much deeper than he'd been aware. There is both excitement and danger here, and just the right dash of romance mixed in to the pot, making this a wildly entertaining book which will have you waiting on the next one. A fun series and a quick read to relax with at home on the balcony or at the beach. Fun stuff!
4 The book is a classic page turner and really keeps the momentum up. Some of the characters are a bit woolly as there is no time to develop them as the story cracks on at such a page. Well worth the read. A great book to read while on holiday.
2 not at all surprising.  The wacky fundamentalists are evil again?  Quelle surprise!  Am I the only one who's getting bored with the usual suspects?
4 The Exodus Quest outlines the story of the race between an archeologist and a group of evangelical Christians to find evidence of the Jewish exodus from Egypt.  The hero of the story, Daniel Knox, endures attempts to kill him, framing for the murder of an Alexandrian archeologist and the kidnapping of his partner.  In order to set things right he must solve the puzzle of the Pharoh Akhenaten.This book has lots of suspense, lots of intrigue and a great storyline.  My only complaint with it was the multitudes of Egyptian names.  Yes, I know that the story takes place in Egypt, however, the author might have simplified things by not delving into the multiple names of each historical character.  Perhaps if I were an egyptologist, I'd have been able to keep it straight.  Having said that, I still very much enjoyed reading the book and would like to check out more by this author.
1 I listened to this as an audiobook.  For those who have tried this method, they probably will agree with me, that since you can't easily go back to identify a character or event, the writer's lack of clarity or depth of character, causes many of them to run into a muddle. I am quite familiar with American and European History, as well as the Jewish history, however, the History of Egypt is long and complicated, only to be bested by tring to put together Chinese History and their Dynasties.I would have one more negative comment. Although I am basically an agnostic, and certainly not a fundamentalist, I do get tired of using fundamentalists as cliches. It would certainly be refreshing to learn that the Butler did NOT kill Cock Robin.
4 The Exodus Quest is an Indian Jones-type adventure for the New Millennium!I love Will Adams' style of writing, with short sections usually ending in a cliff-hanger, and each section rolling into what is happening in another locale with the other characters. One would think that it would be easy to find a place to stop in such a book, because there's always a good break, but it made me keep reading because I wanted to know how the storyline that had just had a break would play out. This one kept me up well into the night! I also liked all of the ancient Egyptian and Jewish history in the book, comparisons of stories from different mythological traditions, and reading about the objects of daily life that were being excavated and how they might have been used.
5 I really like this writer's style of short chapter's on this ever changing thriller. If you like fiction combined with historal facts, this is a book for you.
1 I found this book offensive for its portrayal of Christian characters. One of the main villains is a Christian preacher who repeatedly tries to murder the main character, Daniel Knox. The Christian students who are working at the dig are portrayed as dumb. The only Christian character who is a good person is a minor characer named Claire, who is not introduced until the last part of the story.The plot of this story moves quickly, but is far-fetched. The characters are poorly developed. The views on Christianity, the Bible, and history are unbelievable. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you want to read an action-packed story with cardboard chracters that is anti-Christian in its views of the Bible and in the portrayal of most of its characters.
4 In Alexandria, Egypt Archeologist Daniel Knox walks in a local market place when he notices what appears to be an ancient earthenware bowl.  The teenage vendor insists the artifact was given to him by his friend Daniel Knox and once belonged to Alexander the Great.  He is amused by the hawker as everyone claims to be his buddy since The Alexander Cipher case.  The lad sets prices based on pure supply and demand of how much he perceives the customer can afford, but refuses to reveal where it was found.Knox visits his friend Omar Tawfiq who lets him browse through his database.  He finds a picture of it, but Omar explains it is not a bowl from Ancient Egypt; instead it is a storage jar lid from Qumran, home of the Dead Sea Scrolls.  Soon that lead takes the excited Knox to a dig led by Reverend Ernest Peterson and his team of theological students who seek a portrait of Christ that Peterson plans to keep.  As a murder of a native archeologist occurs, corrupt cops blame Knox while the beleaguered Egyptologist learns in horror from his cell that his partner Gaille Bonnard was abducted near the ruins of Amarna, several hundred miles away.With a strong ancient historical base, the latest Knox antiquities thriller is a fast-paced over the top of the Sphinx entertaining tale.  Readers will enjoy the hero's hyperactive adventures in which he is a guest of the state, but needs to be in three other places at the same time.  First he must rescue himself by proving his innocence, which is difficult to do when you're in a cell; so that he can second rescue Gaille; and third rescue the artifacts being devastated unmercifully by the Reverend.  No caffeine for Knox.Harriet Klausner
5 I have always been interested in all things Egyptian so I was excited to read this book. Unfortunately, as seems to be a habit of mine, I did not read the first in this series. Although I will after reading this novel. This book had an interesting theory about the possibility that Akhenaten and Neffertiti were Adam and Eve. There also seems to be other circumstances where there are parrallels between the Bible and Eqyptian history. Whether this is true or not is not for me to say but I did enjoy the concept. This book was very fast paced and full of interesting characters and lots of dangerous situations. Lots of bad guys and good amount of running and hiding by the main characters Daniel and Gaille from these said bad guys. There also was a hint of romance between these two people. This novel was researched very well and the plot of the story believable. The archaelogical sites were described in so much detail that I wonder if these sites were real. Sure seemed like it. I enjoyed this book immensely and do entend to find the first and read the last when it comes out.
4 This was a cool story that I found very unique and fun to read to see what happens next.  You won't be disappointed with this fast read.
4 See book summaries above.I love these kinds of books. Deeply researched, enlightening, educational and to top it alloff, darn entertaining. The mix in action and suspense with all the background andhistory was done with great talent. Keep up the good work.
4 I loved the Alexander Cipher and so I wasted no time moving on to this book (which seems to come in two alternate titles, The Moses Quest and The Exodus Quest) and gobbled it up in two days. Again, the author sucks the reader into a world of action and adventure in Egypt. I enjoyed reading the further adventures of Daniel Knox and friends and again appreciate the fact that though there's a minor romantic element, that doesn't hijack the story. Though the first quarter of this book gets a little bogged down in background information (I think the reader could do with less), those scenes are interspersed with more action-heavy chapters, and soon the story is racing ahead at a breezy pace. I couldn't put it down in the second half. A great read for armchair adventurers and action-adventure fans.
4 In this fast paced adventure, our heroes never seem to be in control as several interleaved plots play out to keep them constantly off balance and struggling to stay alive and out of hospital and police custody while solving millenia old mysteries.  There is plenty of suspense as two groups of tomb raiders cross paths with Daniel Knox and Gaille Bonnard, giving Daniel plenty of survival challenges when he is not escaping the police.  Daniel's best friend Augustin, who has found his lifestyle unfulfilling of late, finds he can rely on Daniel to bring excitement back into his life - and perhaps a more meaningful relationship with a surprising new woman in his life.This book is not as geographically wide ranging as "The Alexander Cipher", with all the action taking place in Alexander, Egypt and the surrounding countryside, with very little sleep by Daniel and Augustin - and perhaps by the reader too.  The fast pace is maintained by switching between lots of parallel action with a large cast of characters, with the book perhaps suffering as a result, as it does sometimes become difficult to keep all the different characters 'straight'.
2 The fad of archaeological-religious thrillers seems to have hit its high and is on the downward fall. Sure, this is still a popular genre and could yield more winners, but it seems we aren't having many blockbusters at this point. Adams' book has the necessary elements and moves along briskly, a quick escape perhaps, but not overlly compelling and suffers the flaws of some of its bigger counterparts.The stereotypical religious zealot has been overdone, even though in real life one is hard pressed to find these crazed Christians running around. Or take the snarky comments like (p. 45) about the Bible being intolerant of homosexuality. So disagreeing with something and believing its wrong makes you intolerant? By that reasoning, there are a lot of intolerant atheists out there.Even the pro-Bible character can't get it all right. He claims the Bible isn't strictly factual. Funny, people have been verifing what it states for centuries (i.e.The Old Testament Documents: Are They Reliable & Relevant?,The Big Book of Bible Difficulties). The Akhenaten theories are nothing new. Was he influnced by the Hebrews? Perhaps. The only similarity between him and Moses is their monothiesm. After that, one has to close thier eyes, make some giant leaps of fancy and ignore a lot of contrary facts to think they were the same person.Most historians recoginize the Egyptian allusions in Exodus and see it has evidence of Exodus having basis in reality. The novel gets some of that right (though makes some giant fantasies like "Hebrew" being Egyptian), but follows it with a know-it-all character - who is obviously intolerant of the Bible - who ignores all this and shows her ignorance of the Bible.Though first the supposedly pro-bible guy tries to link all of Judaism with Egypt. This guy must be getting his history from the New Age shelf. No doubt there are similarites, mainly cultural or minor details, afterall no people live in total isolation from their neighbors. The "Judaism stole everything from Egypt" crowd always neglects to discuss the blinding differences (seeThe Bible among the Myths: Unique Revelation or Just Ancient Literature?). Back to the Bible-intolerant character:p. 81 "seven day creation" : Doesn't say that, seeThe Genesis Question. And the original Hebrew only includes certain animals on the Ark (see previous reference). The claim that the Bible is "contradicted by the historical and archaeological record" is also laughably false. Again, see the above references why scholars can easily show it is more than just a "folk history." The claim that the Bible wasn't put together after the Babylonian conquest will have scholars laughing theirselves silly.I don't know if this was just the character talking (and she is largely proved wrong later), but the author leaves the ending ambigious. That is the problem with a lot of these books. Big build-up to a potentially earth-shattering revelation, but it ends in more of a whimper. Adams can write a good story, but we shall see where he can bring these characters. For a detailed look at the reality of the Exodus, which is actually alluded to a bit later in the book, seeThe Miracles of Exodus.
4 I'm wondering why there are two titles for the same book, Moses Quest and Exodus Quest. Maybe one day someone let me know?The story is awesome and Adams is very imaginative, I love all about Egypt but Alexander Cypher is better.Regina
3 As with most of these historical, religious, mysteries, the prologue starts out great and really grabs your attention.  Unfortunately this book doesn't tie back to the beginning, at least not well, and the story gets lost along the way and somewhat confusing as too many characters with Eqyptian names get introduced.  I liked the thoughts on what "might" have actually occurred that led to some of the amazing bible stories but then the ending just confuses things more by basically stating that the premise formed throughout the book is probably wrong, so never mind, ignore what I said previously.  Not exactly a surprise ending or cliff hanger.  I guess I have been spoiled by Dan Brown's books and these others just don't quite match up.  It was an OK story but certainly not worhty of some of the high praise mentioned here.  Just my opinion of course.
3 This is a thriller set in Egypt and involving a series of unusual murders and the discovery of an archaeological dig which could change the course of history. I found the story appealing if at times a bit bland. The main character, Daniel is your average do-gooder. No flaws, but no particular interesting either. Daniel loves a woman named Gail (I listened to the story so I do not know if this is how her name is spelled); who apparently believed Daniel was her father's lover. This caused a rift between them a while back, but now they are over it and are falling in love. Gail is described as beautiful and is also somewhat generic and bland.The villains of the piece is a crazed fundamentalist preacher who is trying to hide the discovery of the site because he is afraid that people will see the scandalous images of Christ. While I enjoyed the story, I didn't find the revelations or the archaeological elements to be that riveting. Akhenaton is a cool enough character as it is without making him Adam. Just discovering a tomb or undiscovered artifact would be interesting enough. Plus turning the villain into a crazed killer just was a bit too convenient.Overall, this was a nice action orientatd story, but I would like to see Gail and Daniel less sterotypical. I didn't really see any romantic tension between them (there was more interest between Gail an Dainel's Semi-stalker friend), and frankly I was bored with Gail in particular who filled the role of damsel in distress.
5 Kept me guessing throughout. I find the basic premiss interesting even though questionable. Dazzling piece of inventive fiction. I found myself losing track of who was who; however, this was my shortcoming. Good potboiler!
2 Just finished this book and it is so annoying how poorly edited this material is.  If this was a product from the store, I would return it because it was defective.  Since it can not be returned, I slogged my way through it.  The book was OK... about a 3-3.5, I liked Ice Princess better, but I have to say this book was very difficult to read.  There are at least 3-4 typo's per page in Kindle (which are short pages).  Two to six words together, missing words and some that are just wrong, did anyone read this when it was placed on Kindle... I can guarantee, no one did......!  A disgrace Amazon...  check out what you sell... especially for $9.99.  This is edited worse than any .99 cent book I have bought from Amazon, and thats saying a lot...  Buyer beware!
3 This review was originally posted on my blog Little Miss Reader ([...])Because I heard this as an audiobook I like it a bit more than the first book! It feels like you are listening to a CSI episode! It is great! Even though it makes the story that much more intriguing, it still had its boring parts.The story line is quite interesting in this book, every other chapter is set in the present and then there is the other chapters - which is set in 1979, where the crimes where committed, you get to hear from the victims how they lived their last days, it is horrifying. But it gave the book an edge.In this book Erica is pregnant! I love how sweet Patrik is in this book, and how their relationship develops, they are the reason I want to keep reading the series!When it comes to the crimes that is commited in this story, it is quite gruesome. I cringed everytime we heard about the victims, they suffered until the end and I just feel so sorry for them.There also were a bunch of plot-wists! Everytime you think you know what's going on, the story develops and you are left thinking what now? And that is really a nice twist. You can't put the book down because of those twists, so you just keep on reading and then there comes another and another and another.I really don't have that much to say about this book, there aren't that many things I actually enjoyed about it, and the rest was a bit "meh".When that said, I still don't enjoy the series that much, but I still love reading about Erica and Patrik... So I have to give this book 3 hearts, just as I gave the first book 3 hearts.
4 Some of the writing in this book descends to an almost amateurish level and cliches abound like dandelions in the Spring. But it is also one of the most intricately constructed plots I've read. Intricate enough to overcome the writing and justify 4 stars. I immediately downloaded the next book in the series. Enjoy!
4 I totally love these Scandinavian writers!! I do not know what is in the water there?  very good mystery, well constructed, switches back from the past and present to bring the story together.  A body is found, and underneath the body, as they are taking it out,  2 more skeletons are found from many years prior to when the first body was killed.  When tests are taking, it is found out that the 2 cases are connected, and members of a prominent family are involved.  A page turner!
3 The second novel centered around Lackberg's appealing protagonists -- writer Erica Falck and policeman Patrick Hedstrom. Like &#34;The Ice Princess&#34;, this one has lively characters, a vivid sense of place, and a welcome dash of humor. The story, however, seems less driven by the psychology of apperantly normal people, and more an account of an over-the-top Scandinavian Gothic family. I didn't like this quite as much as &#34;Princess&#34;, but did enjoy it, and will look forward to further adventures with Erica and Patrick.
4 How much does parenting matter, or rather, how much can you screw up a kid if you really tried?  Almost every plot, both main and background, focus on a parent child relationship.  At center we have three generations of fathers and sons creating an environment where horrific crimes against young girls could be permitted.  But every side plot also involved some parent child relationship with a sliding scale of disfunctionality.The plot successfully exposes the pitfalls that can have deadly consequences when we take an end justifies the means approach.  For example, relatives make a surprise visit the lead detective and his very pregnant wife, taking advantage of their kind nature.  They take a very hands off approach to parenting as not to squash their children's inquisitive nature (and it is "okay" because she is a child psychologist).  The consequence to this approach is the child inevitably turns out to be a major pain in the butt.  We all know those parents and their kids - this is a universal truth.Later on one of the lead characters is acting as a parent figure to a troubled young man and decides not to give specific instruction to him.  He basically parented good values as long as they were convenient for his needs, but when he needed some trouble taken care of, not a word of what not to do.  In this situation the young man reverts to his old ways, what he knows, and commits a terrible assault.You have on one hand the Preacher, a long since deceased patriarch who through his lies and manipulation has led to the death and general ruination of multiple lives.  And then you have our lead detective who is well on his way to becoming a first time father.  Every generation has the opportunity to make a change to their family path.  The problem usually is people often pick the wrong things to purge, and the worst things to incorporate.The problems I did have with the book were technical in nature.  The translation was a little bumpy and I never felt like that the story ever got into a good flow.  Not helping that cause were the 40 page chapters and multiple side plots going on.  For example we spend a little time with the detective's wife's sister. As I can figure she has escaped an abusive man only to hook up with another one.  Then she receives a threatening phone call from the ex who then proceeds to destroy everything in her new apartment.  The book ends with her moving in with him again (WHAT??).  Then we conveniently get a rapist turning up as a red herring for 5 pages.  Now you see him, now you don't.The biggest problem though was the complete lack of motivation of the whole mystery until the end.  Typically a detective will work through all the angles of the crime and slowly figure out who they are trying to catch.  Sometimes you get to spend time with the criminal which will add meaning to the plot, but here we only get to spend time with the victims in which we learn that the criminal hurts them, is nice to them, repeat until dead.  Essentially at the end the perpetrator is arrested and then he explains the whys, because you have no clue until then.  To me that feels like cheating.Not the best example of Swedish crime fiction, but worth the read.Thank you T. Stevens for this review. 3 1/2 stars
4 This was my first Camilla Lackberg novel. It was different than most crime novels I'm accustomed to. I wanted to read her, after having read several novels by another Swedish author. Her story is engaging, and kept me wanting to read further. I was hungry for more plot development. I liked the beginning of each chapter, where she gave a snippet about the victims. My only criticism if you want to call it that, was too many excursions into the everyday lives of the investigators. I think it may have detracted from the story some. All in all, I would recommend this book to my friends, who read this genre. I'm looking forward to reading Ice Princess now...
4 I ordered this book through Amazon and it was delivered on time and in great condition.  I really enjoyed reading it, it was well written and kept me intrigued to the end.  I would happily read another by Ms. Lackberg.  I have been focusing on Scandanavian Crime  Fiction this year and think it is truly wonderful.  It shows a difference in attitudes and customs and thinking and instructs much more that just working toward solving crimes.
5 What is it about Swedish writers that chill me to the bone? I wonder if it is the subconscious thought of a cold and biting landscape; perhaps those Swiss commercials for hot chocolate and throat drops? No matter the reason, Camilla Lackberg and The Preacher left me chilled and shivering the whole book through!This second installment in the series is set in the coastal town of Fjallabacka and brings back the main character of Erica Falk, who is now side-lined with the  impending birth of her first child. This novel shifts focus to the local police force which includes the father of her baby, Peter. Peter is lead investigator on the report of a missing girl that soon turns to a death investigation.  This murder is just the first in a string of missing young women.  While Erika does some assisting with her investigative research skills, Peter is the real detective and lead investigator.  He is also responsible for his detective team, a hodge-podge of local yokels who do little but slow him down and boggle the investigation.  Peter has more than that to contend with, though, as his one case soon turns into a manhunt for a possible serial killer.This book is a delight for some many reasons--it is as frightening as it is funny. I ran the full gamut of emotions while reading and found myself reluctant to put the book down for even a moment until I finished the whole thing. Lackberg's writing style is masterful as she draws the reader cleverly in, making us care about every character in the book. While the mystery and killings are puzzling and brilliantly done, the best part of the story really takes place in the lives of the characters and their relationships to one another.  This is one of the few books that I've read where I became emotionally invested in every character, both main and secondary, likable and unlikable.  It started to feel less like a book and more real, with each character becoming a person, with motives and aims that was a puzzle to me.  I kept asking myself, `How does this fit?'  `Why is he acting this way/saying these things?'.Overall, one of the best murder mysteries/thrillers I've read in a long time.  The only bad news?  Now, it's one more series that I'll HAVE to follow--it's that good!
4 First Line: The day was off to a promising start.It's summer in Fj&auml;llbacka, Sweden. Erica Falck is close to the end of her pregnancy, and her partner, police detective Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m, has taken some vacation time to be with her. Unfortunately, the body of a young German woman is found on the beach, and Patrik is called in to lead the investigation. Since the heat has turned Erica into one continuous mood swing, Patrik is ashamed to admit that he's looking forward to getting back to work.When the bones of two young women are discovered buried beneath the German woman, speculation is high that the skeletons are of two young women who disappeared in the area in 1979. Patrik now has more work than ever before which means that Erica is left unwillingly on the sidelines to deal with freeloading relatives who like to show up uninvited on the doorstep of any family member who owns beachfront property away from the city.For me, the weakness of this book was in its plot. The title of the book itself turned out to be a big clue, and the solution was clear to me early on-- including the answer to the DNA question that was stumping all of the police. Fortunately the plot was only a minor irritant to me because what I like so much about L&auml;ckberg's books isn't her plotting, but her marvelous cast of characters.Although it was disappointing that Erica Falck took a backseat in this investigation, she was left in charge of the comic relief. Her reactions to some of the freeloaders showing up at her house made me laugh and cheer (and be extremely thankful for having family and friends who never just "show up" for free room and board).L&auml;ckberg's cast of characters is a large one, and even though they're not all likable, they are all very well drawn. During the course of the investigation, I came to know about their lives and personalities, and I have definite favorites as well as a character or two whom I believe just has to go.The Preacher may be the second book in this series, but it stands very well on its own. If you're a character-driven reader, as I am, and if you're willing to overlook a weak bit here and there in the plot, you're going to be amply rewarded with a wonderful cast of characters.
5 I fell in love with Camila stories and cant wait for the next book. I like that the main characters are the same, so we follow them, so to speak. Thrilling!
5 I have given this novel a five star rating because Lackberg writes in a way that makes it almost impossible to put the book down for too long. She engages the reader with her characters but most importantly, and similar to Agatha Christie novels, the reader really has no clear picture of the killer until very close to the end. I have read all of Camilla Lackbergs' novels and although some of the format is similar, she puts a fresh twist in each story that keep them entertaining.
5 fast paced story, enthralling from the start.  so many twists and turns, I never had the sense that I knew what was coming next...which is refreshing!
5 I was not familiar with this author before reading this book, but I am a new fan! This book has elements of a police procedural with a scary killer like something out of a John Sandford novel. The book takes place in a small Swedish village and I love the main characters of Patrik, the police detective leading up a murder investigation, and his girlfriend Erica, who is a writer. Patrik is an intelligent, caring person and his relationship with Erica is relatable and realistic. The book is suspenseful from beginning to and I didn't want to put it down. In spite of the serious nature of the crimes, there are moments of wonderful humor, such as the way in which Patrik and Erica deal with visitors who are overstaying their welcome.The supporting characters with which Patrik works are interesting and believeable. There are so many suspects that all seem to be hiding something and the solution was surprising and sad. This is the second book in this series, but I enjoyed this book from beginning to end without reading the first book in the series,The Ice Princess: A Novel. However, I plan to read that book as soon as I can to catch up on what I missed. I highly recommend "The Preacher" for anyone looking for a unique thriller.
4 ...satisfied my craving for a Steiger Larsson-type author and crime story.  This  is the second in a long series of books. I enjoyed the characters, even their mundane home lives provide background to better understand the Scandanavian cultural dynamics. This makes the more disturbing crime elements less alien. I will continue to read Lackbergs works.
5 I enjoyed Henning Mankell's "Wallander" series, so thought I'd try Lackberg. The plot was well crafted and intriguing. In addition I now am drawn to the detective and his girlfriend.
5 great book and part of a riveting series.  a real page turner.  read all three in this series.  you won't be sorry
5 Can't wait for Camilla Lackberg's new book coming in May which I have already preordered.  Her stories are always interesting and she lets you explore and get to know several towns in Sweden.
3 These books are interesting and compelling.I am getting really attached to the main charactersThe author portrays them well, warts and all.So I feel they are real people .A great read!
5 A review of a Swedish crime mystery author. Lackberg is a decent author. I am still annoyed that The Preacher  by Camilla Lackberg is actually the second book in her series with the police officer Patrik Hedstrom and writer Erica Falck. I didn't find out it was the second book in the series until I was in the middle of the book.I have to say the reason I picked this up in the first place is because I am having a writer's block right now with my series with the characters Jackie Miller and Honey Elizabeth. Jackie is a police officer and Honey is a teacher/writer. So, I picked up The Preacher by Camilla Lackberg for purely selfish reasons after I read the back cover.The Preacher by Camilla Lackberg takes place in Fjallbacka, Sweden. Erica Falck is pregnant with Patrik's child. These two are on vacation when Patrik gets a call from his superintendent Mellberg. In an area known as the King's cleft a six year old boy has discovered a woman's bloody corpse. Patrik now has to search for the murderer and two skeletons were found under the woman's corpse.Read more[...]
4 Recommended for mystery lovers as well as admirers of S. Larsson's work, this was a thoroughky enjoyable page tirner, with a nice twist at the end. Well-written (and translated), this is a page turner!
4 Once again L&auml;ckberg combines a race to solve three murders - two of them twenty years old - with the domestic travails of Patrick Hedstrom and Erica Falck. She weaves plots within plots, all against the backdrop of a Swedish heatwave. Un-put-downable.
3 Having read The Ice Princess first, and, seeing The Preacher compared to The Tattoo Series by Stieg Larsson, I bought it.The story starts out well, but really bogs down to a crawl when the protagonist and his girlfriend experience domestic difficulties. I feel that the plot gets too involved with these side issues. I admit it begins to gather momentum near the climax and the ending scene was a brilliant touch!It's not really in the same sphere as the Larsson series, not as quirky nor as deeply plotted, but a good read never the less.
3 I bought this book after reading a fairly glowing review in the Washington Post. Midway through The Preacher, I looked up the review again, thinking it could not have been as positive as I remembered but - no, the reviewer was in fact quite taken by this author.  I thought the plot was good but the quality of the writing -- and perhaps this was affected by the translation - was weak  and a poor vehicle for the better storyline.  And for pity's sake, did anyone bother to edit?  Practically every other page revealed sentences with words dropped. I read this on Kindle and wondered if the hard copy was as replete with these text errors as the digital edition.
4 In Fjallbacka, Sweden, police detective Patrik Hedstrom is on vacation spending time with his eight months pregnant mate Erica when the call comes from Superintendent Mellberg.  A six-years old boy exploring the mouth of the King's Cleft discovered the corpse of a naked lady.  Patrik arrives in time to get his boss away from contaminating the crime scene.  When Forensics lifts the body, they find the skeletal remains of two more victims.  Mellberg asks Patrik to lead the investigation as his other detectives, Martin lacks experience and Ernst lacks imagination; Martin resents not getting a chance to lead and Ernst rages over the Kid getting another case.Patrik believes the older skeletons are female teens, Siv Lantin and Mona Thernblad, who vanished in 1979.  The autopsies affirm that each victim was tortured in a deliberate simmering manner until death provided relief.  The latest deceased is identified as German Tanja Schmidt.  Time becomes precious when a young girl vanishes without a trace while evidence points to the Hult family.The keys to this strong Swedish police procedural (see The Ice Princess) are the profound look inside the souls of the key players to learn what motivates each them; including negative incentives and the discerning glimpse into group dynamics when time is running out.  Using flashbacks to 1979 to tell the tale of the Hult evangelical healers who are involved in the present day investigation enhances the overall tension.  Although Erica's sister Anna's domestic problems with her ex add to the look at what moves people, this subplot takes away from an otherwise taut Swedish whodunit.Harriet Klausner
5 Absolutely a great book. I have recommended it to many people. Takes up where the Ice Princess left off. Thank you.
4 Keeps reader in solving not one murder, but 3 more. Family feuds over inheritance and fingers point to different members will keep you guessing till the very end! Years of shame and disagreement comes full circle and proves to be a worthwhile read!
4 She knows her Swedes.A lot of performers to keep track of which keeps your interest.  Her description of the area is accurate.  I feel as though I have been there.
4 This book, along with the Ice Princess, are well worth reading.  The characters are interesting, the social issues being dealt with in the country are behind the scenes and you learn much about a different area of the world, along with solving interesting crimes.
5 My husband and I could not put this book down.The characters, the storyline, she's a brilliant writer.Right now he's reading the "Stonecutter" and I'm reading "The Abominable Man" - as soon as he finishes, I'm grabbing it.
4 This is a solid Scandinavian crime novel,which weaves together scenes of domesticity and scenes of horror, in a social democratic context that manages to have its fair share of religious fanatics. I would have rated it higher, but I felt that the use of the "omniscient" narrator sometimes got in the way of the story. I prefer to have everything necessary to the final understanding of the plot emerge from the story, rather than have the omniscient narrator come up with a lot of extra, missing material right at the end of the book.  This was the first of Camilla Lackberg's novels I have had the pleasure to read.  I will certainly read more of them.
5 In a word: Excellent!Clever and intricate plot, great character development.I look forward to more works by this writer.
4 This was another great book.Better than the first one.I was so turned around I didn't know which end was up. I enjoyed it very much. Would recommend to my friends.
4 Pleasantly engaging sequel to The Ice Princess, well-written, and furthering the reader's acquaintance with the two main characters. Worth pursuing!
5 Happened upon Lackberg on an Amazon reduced price hit and found her stuff fun to read.  A great addition to the Swedish mystery novels.
3 Love Camilla. This is not her best work, but worth the read.
5 This is my third read by Lackberg.  She is a wonderful story teller and  I love the theme of her book.
2 I didn't  like The Preacher,  Camilla Lackberg's books  are all very similar, badly written, and rather trite, all with a very similar  story outline.
2 This book started off well; I enjoyed the characters of Patrik and Erica, the setting was well portrayed, and Lackberg is a talented enough writer (even though at times her descriptions are repetitive and uninspired). But at a certain point the story began to lack credibility, and the characters behaved in cartoonish, stock ways. In one scene, for example, a primary character is returning to his childhood home and experiencing an array of emotions as a result. That's well and good, but when his girlfriend makes a comment along the lines of the house not belonging to him anymore, he absolutely flips out and the two characters rage in a way that did not seem believable. And the ending....well, let's just say that I'm not someone who demands colorful sunsets, rosy resolutions, or anyone living happily ever after, but this book ended on too depressing of a note considering how overall mediocre the story was.
4 I read the first book as well, Ice Princess, which was a gift. Very enjoyable. Good characters. Good story. Satisfying.
5 I really enjoyed this one.  In her first book of the series, I found that the translation was a bit flat at times, especially in the early chapters.  This one did not have that problem at all.  Her characters are interesting and capture the reader's interest.  The plot was intricate and kept the reader engaged throughout with enough main character personal development to make them realistic.If I had a complaint, it would center around the lack of a powerful, well developed local color.  It is there, but not as full as I would like.I'm looking forward to the next book in the series.Kittynix
4 A boy, at the crack of dawn, discovers the naked corpse of a young woman in the otherwise serene Swedish seaside town of Fj&auml;llbacka, and rushes to inform his parents. As expected they call the police, and since because of the holiday period the local precinct is undermanned, the chief calls in detective Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m, who's the only cop on leave readily available. He, somewhat reluctantly, since his girlfriend is eight months pregnant, agrees to visit the scene of the crime, but once he arrives there he comes to realize that he did the right thing, since apart of the body of the woman they also recover the bones of two other females who presumably died many years before.As the mystery deepens and the plot thickens, and some ghosts from the distant past come out in the open again, we spend some time watching Patrik's girlfriend Erica, a usually overactive soul as she tries to come to terms with her boredom, but also survive the visits of some of her relatives that only remember that she exists when the holiday season arrives. At the same time we take a look at the everyday lives of the members of an unusual family who, one way or another, have a lot of secrets to hide and are not in good terms with the police, or with anyone at that.Patrik, despite his constant worrying about Erica, has to work hard and fast to get results, because there's pressure on the cops from everyone; from the local politicians and the media, as well as from the shop owners who see their businesses suffer big losses, as the tourists start to leave the town in a rush. But no matter how much he wants to solve the case as fast as he can, luck will not to prove to be on his side, as a young woman will soon disappear from the face of the earth, leaving behind no trace, and everyone will think that the killer is behind the new crime as well. As one would expect tensions rise and the police has a lot of explaining to do. Patrik, keeping a cool head, couldn't care less about the press and the politicians but he knows that things have to start moving faster. And they do. And it's exactly then when he comes to realize that these two crimes are somehow connected with some others which took place twenty five years ago. But, how could that be? The prime suspect for those incidents is dead, so it really doesn't make any sense. Or does it?Through the thoughts and the memories of her heroes, and through official and unofficial documents, the author takes us back in time and brings to light some appalling secrets, she talks about religious zealotry and the deceits that go with it, and she points out the fact that some people are simply too weak to escape their past and come to terms with modern day reality.This is not so much an action packed thriller as a mystery story. The author simply takes a dive into the minds and souls of these characters in order to present them as they really are; weak, and wicked and full of faults. Everything happens for a reason, she seems to think, and as the story progresses she proves just that, by bringing together the various threads and leading the reader to the grand finale.However, she's not only interested in crime and the darkness of the psyche, but also in love; especially the forbidden love, but also the love which can only reach its peak by following many different and hard travelled paths. Everything is fair in love and war, the saying goes, and the good author seems to agree with that. But she also seems to think that even in love there are some gray areas.The Preacher is yet another great crime novel by a Swedish writer.
5 This is the second book I've read by Camilla Lackberg; I really like her style.  What distinguishes her from so many other good crime writers is the way she develops the characters; solving the murders is only one component of the overall plot.  This novel has a slightly more predictable ending than the Ice Princess - though I only guessed one part of it, and the other part was a surprise.
5 I just love Camilla Lackberg's books, and this one in particular is pretty intense. I find her main characters very enticing.
2 This writing in this book is terrible. Conversations are very stilted and forced. The story itself is not bad, and quite compelling at times. I have not read any of Lackberg's other books and am not sure I will now, although reviewers here say that the Ice Princess is a better book. It was not clear to me throughout this book why detective Patrik's wife Erica is included at all.  That side story goes no where and is not very interesting. Again, it sounds like in other books she is more important to the story. Overall, very unimpressed.
5 I enjoyed "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" tremendously, but I wouldn't compare it to "The Preacher" except for the fact that they are both set in Scandanavian countries. I absolutely loved "The Preacher". Though the plot was dark, the main characters were wonderful, normal acting people. Patrik Hedstrom, the detective, is not an alcoholic or drug addict, and he loves his pregnant Erica. When he's faced with a most complicated case he sets about solving it in the old-fashioned way--going from place to place and talking to many people. Besides the strange family who are tangled up somehow with newly discovered but old skeletons and missing girls from the past and present, Patrik must deal with the pressing problems Erica faces when unwanted company arrives on their doorstep. The author has done a great job creating believable characters and giving us a peek into a part of Sweden. Terrific story with a tangled plot and most surprising ending.Marilyn
2 Fluffy story: not much really happens... too many filler events.This novel is very readable but do NOT expect a thrill like "the girl with the dragon tattoo".The end is so unbelievably farfetched that it leaves you almost saying aloud: "what???..."When the entire premise of the novel is finally revealed and you think back at all the characters, this whole book does NOT make any sense.
4 (3.5 stars) As readers of Camilla Lackberg's previous novel, The Ice Princess, have discovered, Fjallbacka, Sweden, a small fishing village in western Sweden, holds many secrets, some of them involving murder.  Chief Investigator Patrik Englund is enjoying a much-needed vacation when he learns that a six-year-old has discovered a woman's naked and beaten body near a ravine.  Underneath that body are the skeletons of two more women who disappeared in 1979.  Autopsies prove that all three had been slowly tortured over the course of many days before merciful death interceded.  Through flashbacks to 1979, when the first deaths occurred, the story develops into a murderous saga which may involve the Hult family, whose family patriarch, Ephraim Hult, was a highly successful evangelical preacher, and whose two sons Johannes and Gabriel had supernatural healing powers when they were children.  Ephraim is now dead, and his sons are enemies as a result of Ephraim's will.The author spends as much time on the lives and motivations of her characters as she does on plot development, and when yet another young girl disappears from town, Patrik and his crew (which also has their own frictions and rivalries) realize they may have a chance to find her before she dies of the same tortures which were inflicted on the previous young women.  Dozens of complications, which are revealed through the family backgrounds, psychology, and interactions of the police officers, the victims, and the various members of the Hult family keep the tension high as Lackberg involves the whole community in a wide assortment of clues and red herrings.Although the dialogue is often wooden and clich&eacute;d, the author's emphasis on characters and why they behave as they do give a depth to this novel that straight action-mysteries do not usually have.  Flashbacks in italics inserted throughout the present day action reveal the thoughts of an imprisoned female victim from 1979, held in a cold dark place, as she tries to cope with another day of torture. Blackmail, revenge, an obsession with power, seething resentments spawned by injustice, and love and passion are all motivating forces which one sees here through the various characters.  There are, however, many implausibilities in the plot.  A number of characters, some of them repeating, add little to the story line except diversion.  Erika's sister's problems, a big part of The Ice Princess, for example, continue here as a distraction, and the late addition of the character of Kennedy Karlsson, with his unusual background, seems to be a convenient way out of a messy plot issue.It is easy, however, to see why Camilla Lackberg is the best selling author in Swedish history, outselling even Stieg Larsson in number of books sold:  She has written nine #1 sellers in Sweden, good escape novels (of which the Ice Princess is #1 and this is #2) that keep the reader entertained, involved in the action, and willingly "suspending disbelief" throughout.  Two more of her pop novels are already being translated for the US market (by Steven T. Murray, translator of the Stieg Larsson books and those by Henning Mankell), and one would hope that her later novels will show her increasing growth as a novelist.  Mary WhippleThe Ice Princess: A Novel
5 THis book got off to a great start, and kept up the pace very well. The atmosphere was well drawn, the characters likeable, the story believable. I'm waiting for the next one!
3 I love Lackberg's books but this one has to be to read after &#34;The Ice Princess&#34; and that way you may enjoy allowing yourself to be surrounded by the Swedish people, customs and society at large. This is a thoroughly enjoyable book, but I loved the Ice Princess more.
5 This is the first of two of her books and loved....if you can say that about crimes so horrendous.  I preferred this one to her second, but it was good as well.  The style is crisp and the plot moves along at break-neck speed.  I won't get &#34;flowery&#34; with words since this author certainly does not. Excellent. Enough said.
3 There were lots of switching back and forth with the people in this book...plus it takes awhile to get into the story It gets better as it goes and you finally get drawn into the plot....I get a little confused with all the people...sorry
4 I recently read Camilla Lackberg's first published (in America) book,The Ice Princess: A Novelafter reading a positive review of The Preacher and learning that it was her second book. I greatly enjoyed The Ice Princess and quickly picked up The Preacher.While not as engaging as The Ice Princess, The Preacher is a worthy follow up. The biggest change is the switch of main protagonist from Erica to Patrik. While I find Patrik a great character, I wish that Erica had been given more to do this book than just be pregnant and frustrated with guests. The murder mystery in this book is much more gruesome and immediate than in The Ice Princess, but there was not the personal connection to the subject as there was in that book. I do like that the mystery spanned multiple years, both past and present, much like The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo. The Hults are a very interesting family, almost too big as it took a while for me to grasp who every one was.Overall, I sped through this book just as fast as the first, and I eagerly await Camilla's next book.
2 This story was actually quite good, comparable with The Ice Princess. However, if a publisher is going to the trouble of translating a work from Swedish to English, they ought to make some attempt to get a competent translator. There is also no evidence that there was any proofreading. This coupled with the lousy e- book formatting make this book almost unreadable. The author should  think seriously of firing the editor/publisher of this work.
1 I read this after liking The Ice Princess very much.  This seems written in a rush after the flush of early success.  Consequently, it is not well crafted.  It's predictable; the characters have now become two dimensional and annoying.  I found it frustrating to read and quickly skimmed to the end just to learn how the story would be resolved.  Skip this one.  Hope her next is better.
3 I seperate Camilla Lackberg from most other Nordic Noir authors because she brings much more "dramatic flair" into her books than most of her other counterparts and I think it detracts from the book. When I read NN, I focus on the "darkness" of the crimes and the ability for Scandanavian authors to write around that crime. I have not scene this with any other mystery authors from any other country. Camilla Lackberg hasn't really "grasped" this concept though and I felt too much focus was put on the drama going on in the main character's personal life vs. the crime itself and that the crime actually became secondary to the story. I did prefer this book to CL's book, The Ice Princess. Although, I did give it the same rating, I would love to see her go more dark and twisted as I have become quite spoiled with that in other NN authors.
3 "The Preacher" (Predikanten) is the second of Camilla L&auml;ckberg's mystery novels. I haven't read the first one, The Ice Princess, but that didn't cause any trouble for me as this works as a standalone novel.A young girl is found murdered together with the remains of two young girls who were reported missing 24 years ago and never found. Patrik, a local police, tries to find the murderer and figure out the connection between the murder and the previous disappearances. Meanwhile, his wife Erica is at home, pregnant, and there's quite a lot of focus on their family life and especially a subplot involving Erica's sister Anne's problems with the men in her life that takes a bit too much focus off the main plot, the murder mystery, without adding anything to the novel. It's still a decent mystery novel with a well constructed mystery, although I can think of some minor plot holes that I won't go into so as not to spoil anything.The Preacher is a readable but not great mystery novel. 3 stars.
5 After reading the Ice Princess, I really wanted to read book 2 - the Preacher - and I must say it didn't let me down! Excellent plot and characters!
5 Another great story I love the way she writes.  I find it hard to put the book down and just want to read all the time.
4 The Preacher is a larger-than-life ancestor, a free-church preacher and healer who inherited a fortune by charming a rich old lady. As usual, money causes problems. The sons of The Preacher and their families have been feuding for generations as at the start of this book.Meanwhile, the remains of young women have turned up in the neighborhood. The head of the homicide investigation, Patrik Hedstrom, suspects a connection to the Hult family. There are some very weird characters among them. The plot revolves around finding a connection, if there is one.This is a good police procedural. But there's always another level of interest in these books set in a small town on the coast of Sweden. Lots of family dramas. Patrick's wife Erica is a true crime novelist, and her curiosity is strong. She always gets involved in Patrick's cases, researching angles the cops haven't thought of. In this novel she's pregnant with her first child and quite uncomfortable. She's also plagued with unwanted guests, which gets pretty amusing.I enjoyed this book, although it's not my favorite in the series. But I advocate reading all the books, because the characters lives are so interesting as they develop from story to story.
3 After reading the Ice princess and The stonecutter I was a little disappinted with the preacher. The story is not as gripping as the others and dare I stay predictible...
3 I read Ice Princess in Norwegian. Read the Preacher in English. Read the Stonecutter in Norwegian. Every book is probably 20% too long. An editor would not be so buried in the act of writing to notice that the same rhetorical figure appears five times in 15 pages, like in 'the Preacher'. One is reminded of the phrase, "great writing comes from rewriting". Similarly, some character imagines him/herself pouring food over the head of a person s/he scorns/dislikes/despises three times in all. We need a different revenge scenario than a one-sided food fight. A real editor might pick up on this too.Even the translation needs an editor. It rattles between the American and the English vernacular, often in the same sentence. It is unbelievably annoying inasmuch as it hews very closely to the original text, such that every Scandinavism shouts out from behind the English prose. The leaden 'f' words are forced and other profane tropes are glaringly unidiomatic. Now I know that Norwegian is not Swedish. However, I read Swedish as well and the difference is not so large. In Norwegian, the author lards her prose with Americanisms. I have to assume that this is what she does in the Swedish original. In fact, she does this to such a degree that it is not really Norwegian [or Swedish] at all. It is all American phrases using Norwegian/Swedish words.This author is no wordsmith. Mankell uses the very words themselves to create a feeling, an atmosphere, a reflection of the character's mind. Jo Nesbo is a clever verse maker; his songs for his rock group 'De Derre' are witty and thoughtful. L&auml;ckberg writes flat, colorless sentences, copied from American TV and middlebrow magazines. The translation is cut and paste, blocky rock hopping.I understand why she is getting so much press. Mankell sent Wallander to Alzheimers' limbo. Stig Larsson is dead. Jo Nesbo is Norwegian. They need a follow-up author and they are MAKING her the one. And not by dint of skill or inspiration.Three stars because I HAVE read worse - in English, Norwegian, Swedish and German. Camilla, honey, with the money from the American editions, please hire a private editor if your publisher won't pay for one.
5 This is the best novel I have read in a very long time. The author kept up the pace and the plot was not the usual formula.I highly recommend.
2 Lackberg's "The Ice Princess" is a book that I rated at five stars because I loved the interplay between all of the different stories that were going on in the town of Fjellbacka that coincided with the main murder mystery plot.  It was a really well rounded cop-solves-a-murder story that felt like a real-life account and had well-rounded and developed characters and a plot that moved along at just the right place."The Preacher" tries really hard to hit the same mark, and simply falls short.  In this, Patrik and Erika are back, but unlike last time Erika has absolutely no connection to the murder being solved whatsoever, and so her entire plotline as the expectant mother adds nothing the much more engaging investigation going on. She feels tacked on, and has no relevance to the case, unlike last time when she was an active participant in the investigation, and worked closely with her now-husband.  In this, she takes up a lot of pages, but really doesn't add anything.And the thing about it is, if you were to simply take her out of the equation entirely, "the Preacher" wouldn't really be half bad.  Unfortunately, Camille is trying to make a series out of something that really should have been done and over with after "Ice Princess" because of the serious problems in this book. The stories simply don't work with a great excess of characters who aren't related to the primary plot.
3 I'm not sure why this author is continually put in the same category as Stieg Larsson, but she doesn't even come close. I've read both &#34;The Ice Princess&#34; and &#34;The Preacher&#34;, and while the characters can be somewhat engaging, they have none of the depth Larsson's characters did. The plot in these two books also seems to be completely manipulated. This isn't an awful book, but if you pick it up expecting something as well-written, intricately-plotted, and rich as the Larsson books, I think you'll be very disappointed.
5 I love the thriller genre.. i dont think this book will disappoint....I like ones that grab your attention and keep - i hope this book will..
5 If you're new to Scandinavian crime fiction, Camilla Lackberg's Patrick Hedstrom/Erica Falck series is an excellent place to start. Not as dark as Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy (Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, etc.) but similar themes and the wonderful tour of northern Europe as you read.
4 A small boy plays among the rocks of a well-known Swedish tourist spot. A policeman sleeps beside his heavily pregnant wife. A rebellious teen heads home. There's an oppressive summer heat hanging over all, and then there's a dead and very curiously positioned body. The scene is set for an exciting Swedish mystery, and the reader is pulled into the lives of a large and varied assortment of characters, each viewing the world in their own different ways, each hiding secrets as they navigate the world of conventional, and unconventional, courtesy. Twisted relationships reveal themselves smoothly, each hint and detail leading to the next, keeping the reader glued to the page. And the Preacher, past or present, is a complex, conflicted character.As Patrik investigates death, Erica struggles with the weight of new life inside and old relationships intruding on every breath. Recent murder contrasts with long-forgotten crime. Sodden rain contrasts with oppressive heat. And families, with all their attendant tribulations, become a recurring theme. Meanwhile the family once famous for miraculous healing proves inadequate to the task of healing itself.The novel grows darker as clues appear and disappear, like sun between clouds. The story is satisfyingly twisted, the characters complex, and the sense of time and place very real; an enjoyable dark suspense with a well-drawn Swedish setting, solid police-work, and a cast of characters well able to support a series. I suspect from some comments in the story that this isn't the first of the series, but it's a perfectly good place to start.Disclosure: I received a free ecopy of this book in exchange for an honest review; I enjoyed the read but struggled with some formatting errors, hopefully fixed in the final copies.
5 This series of books has establised Camila Lackberg as one of my favourite writers.  She manages to keep me guessing with gripping stories and this one is no exception.  I like books that keep you entertained right up until the end.
5 What a wonderful series! These can be read separately but should be read in order. Readers are transported to Sweden and into the hearts and minds of the best people. the average citizen, the most evil doer. We rejoice, endure and suffer with the people in Camilla Lackberg's outstanding series about a small town police force in Sweden and the people who man it, who make it necessary to exist. Get ready to put time aside because you are not going to be able to put these books down. They are mesmerizing and breathtaking in their detail and focus.
2 I found this book difficult to stick with. Whether it's due to Lackberg's general ineptitude or just a poor translation, the writing barely held my interest. The characters are stick figures--so one-dimensional that I was confusing them with each other. The plot is fragmented and meandering. "The Ice Princess" was a bit more compelling, although only marginally so. Bottom line: There are much better mystery writers to choose from.
4 throughly enjoyed this very well written book and will continue on to read the rest of the series featuring these two protagonists
1 I liked the Ice Princess, but this sequel is just bad. The good guys are all doormats; I wanted to shake them. And the plot is the most convoluted and ridiculous one I've read in a long time.Add to that the unbelievably poor editing of the Kindle edition.  Words dropped, run together. I highlighted over 300 before my fingers got tired.
5 I really liked this one. the author really outdid herself. This ending left you wondering what the reality actually was. Strange!
5 I bought this book because I was looking for a good mystery novel.After reading the Amazon reviews thought it sounded like something Iwould enjoy reading.  I like the characters and enjoy this first book bya new Swedish author.  Her books a being translated into English andI can't wait to purchase some more.
5 I loved all three of Camilla Lackberg's novels in this series.  I enjoyed seeing how alike we are even though the stories and characters are in another country.  Trying to figure out 'who done it' before all was revealed made it all the more interesting.
4 This Swedish author has written seven novels, of which this is the second to be published in the United States.  The first, "The Ice Princess," was widely accepted as on a par with the best of the recent Scandinavian noir novels.  As with that debut book, this novel also is set in the small fishing village of  Fjallbacka and is a police procedural that seems to drag until the miracle of science, rather than good old-fashioned footwork, brings it to a conclusion.The plot is relatively simple:  A body is discovered, with the remains of two skeletons over 24 years old underneath.  It's up to the local police, led by detective Patrik Hedstrom, to conduct the investigation.  Customarily, they usually look into bicycle thefts.  Then two more women go missing, increasing the pressure.  Attention centers on one family, the offspring of a man known to all as the Preacher:  misfits, religious fanatics and criminals.The length of the novel seems overly long, and probably could have used some judicious editing.  And the translation does not seem to be up to the level of "The Ice Princess."  Nevertheless, the story is clever, and the plot twists, which in a sense were somewhat obvious, keep the reader moving ahead.  Despite these misgivings, the book is an enjoyable read, and one hopes for US editions of the author's other five novels.  Recommended.
5 This is a good &#34;whodunit&#34;. With good police work a family built on fraud and deceit comes tumbling down. This is also about our need to believe.
5 The cast of characters that recur - Patrick, Erica, friends and famiy - are engaging, easy to identify with and to like.Their personal dramas provide a welcome contrast to that of the crimes we are told. I like it that the two experiences are described side by side. And that the police are &#34; real people&#34; who work hard at solving the crimes, not someone(s) with exotic powers or skills. The setting is interesting. The murder here is horrific, and this is communicated strongly, via the &#34; voice&#34; of the victim(s). But but the horror is not  too far fetched, or depicted in an overly dramatic, sensational way. Which would have made the novel too cheap, &#34; pulpy&#34;. This is my second Erica & Patrick story and I will look for more.
5 I haven't read the first book but the crime story stands alone and stands nice. The difference with other crime novels is that the author gets us to know the characters and the relations of so many people in Fj&auml;llbacka village and elsewhere (Erica's sister) and though you wonder how all these people can finally be embodied in the mystery solution, they don't. It's the author's writing attitude like snap shooting into the social lives and moments taking place in actually one week (more or less). Until the end of the book you can also imagine you are a citizen there and you've met and known Patrik and its team.
3 This starts when the body of a girl who was recently murdered and was found buried ontop of two other corpses that were 25 years old. The murders tie back to the Hult family with the Grandfather (The Preacher),sons Johannes and Gabriel and Grandson Jacob.The story surrounds the idea of the grandfather being the preacher and able to heal people in the past which was all an act but Jacob believes it is true as he thought his Grandfather healed him from cancer.Who is the murderer and why??After reading "The Ice Princess" i expected a another good read but couldn't wait to get to the end of this book as it got too complicated and twisted.Too many loose ends along the way so i spent lots of time trying to remember and recall them as clues found their way back into the story rather than enjoying the book.Also as another review pointed out that it kept returning to Patrik private life with Erica and her pregnancy and conflict with visitors when i just wanted to get on with the actual story.I may read "The Stone Cutter "but if another plot and story that doesn't flow well then it maybe my lot.Even when the murderer was caught there was 15 pages at the end going back in time to 1979 to tidy loose ends.
4 I am not really into mysteries,detective type novels,not my genre at all,but both the price and introduction intrigued me,my only regret is that I did not order the next one at that great price.  This book totally entertained me,I think she is a good writer and I look forward to reading more of her stories.
4 I liked the continuity with the characters Lackberg established in &#34;Ice Princess&#34;. Lackberg is skilled at building the plot, adding to the suspense and keeping her readers online until the end. Good writer! Good books!
2 I read Ms. Lackberg's novel &#34;The Stonecutter,&#34; and even though I don't like novels that center in other countries (it's just too hard to put myself into the surroundings described in the book)...I did like this book.  The ending was a true twist.  I can't say the same for &#34;The Preacher.&#34;  I had guessed the ending early in the book, and there were so many uninteresting side stories, I found myself actually wishing it would all just end.  I can't relate to any of the characters.  Sorry, wish I could have said better things, because I liked her other book a lot.
4 I enjoyed reading about the lives of the same characters that were in Camilla Lackberg's first book.  This book had good twists and turns with a surprise ending.
3 "The Preacher" is Swedish author Camilla Lackberg's second police procedural mystery, and I have to say that I preferred her first, "The Ice Princess". In this follow-up novel,also set in the Swedish coastal town of Fjallbacka,  a female German tourist's body is found atop two skeletons which turn out to be the remains of two young women who went missing in 1979. Patrik Hedstrom, the policeman who helped crack the murder case in "The Ice Princess" returns in this second novel with a much more prominent role. He is now married to Erica, the author from the first novel who played a major role in solving the murder in "The Ice Princess". Though it isn't necessary to read "The Ice Princess" before this second novel, there is quite a bit of background information provided in the first novel about some of the recurring characters such as Erica, Patrik, and Erica's sister Anna. Patrik is put in charge of the investigation, and as the investigators dig deeper, they find that all clues point to the Hult family, comprising patriarch Gabriel, his wife Liane, children Linda and Jacob, and also Gabriel's estranged nephews Robert and Stefan and their mother Solveig. When another young girl goes missing, Patrik and his team find themselves racing against the clock to locate the girl, even as they find themselves faced with dead ends and false clues."The Preacher" is quite weak in comparison to "The Ice Princess" - firstly, I was disappointed that Erica does not play a major role in this investigation. Instead she is relegated to playing the expectant mom and wife who has to deal with pesky relatives invading her home during the hot summer months. In "The Ice Princess", Erica played a very important role in the murder investigation and I had come to genuinely like her character so it was underwhelming to see her character take a backseat to Patrik's role as chief investigator in this second installment. Though Patrik is a likable enough character, he lacks the charisma of other major characters in series such as Inspector Sejer in Karin Fossum's novels which are far superior than Ms. Lackberg's novels (the quality of writing, characterization, etc). The story itself could have benefited from better editing, it tends to plod at many points in the novel, and some story arcs could have been omitted. One in particular is the story about Anna, Erica's sister - her domestic problems continue in this second novel, but prove to be more of a distraction and annoyance than an engaging story arc. Final verdict - "The Preacher" is not as engaging as "The Ice Princess", and there are other Scandinavian mystery authors whose works I find more interesting, such as Karin Fossum, Johan Theorin, Arnaldur Indridasson, Henning Mankell, Steig Larssen, etc.
5 I have read all of this series from the beginning.  If you like police mysteries with plenty of twists and turns, without gratuitous violence you will love this series.
4 If you are the type of reader who prefers police procedurals to remain focused on the investigation and to have little to say about anything else, Camilla L&auml;ckberg's series is not the one for you. In these Hedstr&ouml;m and Falck novels,  the lives of the police officers are every bit as important as the investigations they work on. For character-driven readers like me, they're perfect to immerse myself in when I'm in the mood to spend time with characters who've come to feel as though they're friends. You also never know just what's going to happen, because the lives of these characters do not run smoothly.Hedstr&ouml;m and Falck have had to learn how to be a couple, how to juggle their separate careers, and how to be parents. Erika's sister and her two children have had a very difficult time of their own, and we get to see them adjusting to a new chapter in their lives. We know what's going on in the lives of each person who works with Patrik-- even Melberg, the boss who drives everyone insane. Melberg's private life comes into the spotlight for a while in The Stranger, and this glimpse gives him an added depth that the usual pain-in-the-neck boss just doesn't have in the typical police procedural. The individual cast members of the reality TV show also come under scrutiny since they are all considered suspects. It does sound like a huge cast, but I had no difficulties in keeping everyone straight.The only thing that kept The Stranger from becoming one of my top reads for the year was the fact that the identity of the killer was crystal clear to me very early on. However, I certainly did enjoy watching Hedstr&ouml;m and his team conduct their investigations into the two deaths, finding clues and piecing them together in this strongest book of the series so far.If you like to learn a bit about another country, be a part of intricate investigations, and immerse yourself in the lives of fictional characters, then I certainly recommend crime fiction written by Camilla L&auml;ckberg.
4 First of all, I would like to say the the reviews that have given this book one star are unfair and should be ignored. They have given that low rating because of the formatting in the Kindle version. No remarks on the book, just complaints about Kindle. If they had read the book as written, they probably would have enjoyed it as much as I did. I really like this series with Erica and Patrick which includes their life and family situations as well as the crime that Patrick is investigating at the time. They and their friends and the other policemen andfamily continue to change along with the times. I like that personal touch.
3 This book could have been much shorter.  It seems that the author was asleep during half of the book then woke up at the end.  The domestic scenes were really overdone.
4 This book was previously published as The Gallows Bird, and I am not quite sure why they changed the title. I just know there were a lot of cranky people who bought a book they already read! So if you have one or the other, they are the same.This is the fourth book in Lackberg's Patrick Hedstrom series, which is set in a small Swedish town plagued with big city crime. The mystery plot was interesting, about a string of killings that may be the result of a serial killer, but no one is really sure, and the companion "at home" story line of Patrick and Erica preparing for their wedding and dealing with other family issues was also good. There are also a couple of good storylines involving some of Patrick's co-workers.I don't know if it was the story or just that this is the fourth book I have read by this author and in this series, but I was able to figure out the twist really soon. It didn't spoil the story--it was fun seeing everyone else figure it out--but I wasn't as shocked by how things turned out as I have been with her previous volumes. I am looking forward to reading the next book, The Hidden Child, which was set up at the end of this one, so time will tell!
5 This is the 4th in Camila Lackberg's series and it was just as good as the first three.  She keeps the reader going and wondering what's going to happen next.  Her first 3 books were super.  Excellent writer.
5 I love the characters Patrick and Erica.  They are smart likeable real people.  The case was really interesting and like to read about the town.
5 I have read all the other books in this series and have throughly enjoyed them.  This book is no exception with Camila being able to keep me guessing who is to blame right until near the end.  Only a good writer can achieve this.
3 Another murder mystery whereby Patrik must link the murder of a live TV show girl called Barbie to a woman murdered while drink driving.This links to 3 other murders that occured over a period of 20 to 30 years.It links to Hanna a new police recruit and her husband Lars.Slow at the start but gradually picks up but the reason for all the murders and link is not logical. Story plot is good but final conclusion is just ok.
4 This fourth novel by Camilla Lackberg is another extremely well written grown up mystery set in the cold north of Sweden. This one follows a serial killer who uses the tale of Hansel and Gretal as his backdrop for murder. I will not tell you how the killer murders or why because that will give too much away. It is better if you allow it to unravel for you as you read this tale.Lackberg writes effortlessly, the relationships between her characters build throughout the novels as the tension builds in each and every book.Another great read.
2 Not up to par with her previous book.. True that the Kindle edition made it confusing by jumping  back & forth between characters and scenarios within chapters - but even allowing for that - the book just didn't grab me. Pretty good idea for a plot, but took so long to get there, I didn't really care who did it by the conclusion, (also guessed the culprit way before the book revealed it.) Writing was very stilted, boring and unsophisticated at times- maybe due to translation?  Sorry - can't recommend this one - but the set up for the next book sounds intriguing, so I haven't given up on Ms. Lackberg!
4 Every since I read The Girl With the Dragon Tatoo Series, I have tried to  find authors similar to Stieg Larsen,and Lackberg does not fail!  She weaves very intricate plots with clear story direction.  You want to keep turning those pages to see what happens.  She also uses rich settings, gives you a clear picture of the settings and where the story is going.
1 I will try to finish this book in a paper copy as it is just impossible to follow in the Kindle edition. Lackberg usually has two or three different  but parallel story lines, sometime in dfferent  years. In the paper books these are indicated by page breaks and chapeter subheadings, or years as headings. The Kindle edition has none of this  and different story lines simply continue on the same page with nothing at all to signal a change of  plot line. It is hopelessly confusing.This book should not have been released to Kindle without  professional editing and at least retaining the features of the paper copy. Any one who has bought it should ask for a refund or a proper copy of the paper book.
4 It took me a little longer to get into this book, but in the end it proved to be just as good as the previous 3. I am a committed Camilla fan and have to pace myself not to read them all in one go. Each plot is different but the ongoing relationship between Erica and Patrick holds the whole story together. Another excellent read which loses nothing in translation
5 Another of Lackberg's tales of the damage inflicted long in the past continues to haunt the victims.  Again a tale well unwound as the story proceeds, linked together with presentations of ordinary domestic life.  She compels me always to want to read her next book.
4 "The Stranger" intertwines two, maybe three, good plot lines into a suspenseful single story.  The characters are interesting as always in a L&auml;ckberg novel, and this time especially G&ouml;sta, an elderly, usually unambitious, detective. While I think "The Stonecutter" is L&auml;ckberg's best work, this one is a captivating read also.
4 I normally like everything about the characters and the plots in this series, but in this particular book Lackberg uses a devise way too much so that it becomes irritating. The characters routinely &#34; have a thought, memory, that they can't quite place&#34; that is inevitabley an important clue. Again and again with every character so that it becomes unnatural and an obvious device. Hopefully this won't continue in the following books.
2 The plot is complex, but I figured out the perp too soon to be really enjoyable. Also, just not a big fan of the writing style or the characters and way too much focus on their home lives for me. Every person in this book had some huge drama or tragedy in their past, which seems unrealistic. And the ending leaves open for another whole weird drama, which is probably on purpose, to be used later, but to be honest, I don't think I will go out of my way to find more by this author.I did not get the same feel for Sweden as I have from other authors of similar type books. This could have taken place anywhere. And not in a good way. But obviously, most people really likes this book and the writing, so maybe it is just me.
4 I have read and enjoyed many Swedish police thrillers of which "The Stranger" is one. All these have elements in common- primarily the twisted thread of painfully accumulated evidence from interviews and combing records eventually leading up to the capture of the murderer after a violent denoument. Along side the procedural details there are one or more subplots usually involving the policeman's hard lot in maintaining a happy home life in the face of all the long hours he spends on the murder cases. All these elements are present in "The Stranger".Parts of the story read like a soap opera as we follow the hero's girl friend planning her wedding,choosing a dress, music for the reception etc.Something that sets "The Stranger" apart from many others is the large number of named characters-I counted 80 in a 370 page book- many of the 80 were children,or minor characters, but surely this must come close to the records set in Russian novels.The serious part of the plot concerns a rather far-fetched series of revenge murders seemingly unrelated but which the detectives manage to link together and zero in on a very surprising conclusion. Altogether a satisfying read.
4 I recently read 4 of Camilla Lackberg's books and ebjoyed all of them. Her style reminds me of Elizabeth George . She has created a cast of characters I want to know more about and each book had an interesting plot.
4 A "Big Brother" type reality show comes to Tanumshede bringing with it publicity, as well as problems. The producers encourage drama and conflict between the cast members for higher ratings, but now there has been a murder. The crime continues to take center stage, overshadowing the death of a local woman which at first appears to be an accident and then looks to be something more sinister. Now it's up to Detective Patrik Hedstrom to get to the bottom of both cases, while still finding time for his fianc&eacute;e and daughter.I began reading this series last year and have been looking forward to reading "The Stranger" for several weeks. I love this series because of the two main characters, Patrik and his fianc&eacute;e Erica, as well as for the complex plots. The books in this series do a great job balancing the details of crime investigations with the personal life of the characters. There are also flashback scenes from the past that tie into a current crime that lend an added element of intrigue to the story.I was mesmerized by this novel from the beginning, but it's not my favorite in this series. Unlike some of the prior books, I was able to piece together many parts of the mystery before the detectives. I still enjoyed the book; both cases held my interest and I liked reading about the wedding plans Erica was making with the help of her sister Anna. However, I wish Erica would have had a more substantial part in the main story of the book. There are some great scenes between Erica and her sister, but not enough with her and her best friend Dan or between her and Patrik, but Erica is too strong of a character to be a mere subplot.  I am pleased that an event at the end sets up the plot of the next book and seems to guarantee Erica will be a major part of the story. I am glad to see some of Anna's problems have been resolved, but I'm not sure if I like the direction the author has taken with her love life. I'm curious and a little anxious to see how that changes the dynamic between the characters.Patrick does a wonderful job in the investigation by tracking down clues and in leading the other detectives while Chief Mellberg is predictably too pre-occupied with his own personal life to lead his team. While obviously incompetent as a boss, I actually feel sorry for Mellberg in this book and am curious to see what happens next for him in future installments.Most of the characters connected to the reality show are interchangeable. However, I still think their stories end a bit too abruptly. We get glimpses into their lives and their problems, but I was surprised there wasn't more of their reactions after the case their fellow contestant is finally solved. I would have also liked to have seen more of what Jonna will do next, but I was pleased that based on the ending, there is a chance one of the young men could be seen in future books."The Stranger" was a bit more predictable than other books in the series, but also thankfully, less gory. I was a bit disappointed mostly because I have grown to love this series so much, I had higher expectations for the book. However, I still found it to be a page-turner, and I think fans of the series will enjoy the book in spite of its faults. Even though parts seem rushed, the story still captures the reader's attention and doesn't let go. New readers who like the Scandinavian mystery/thriller genre or like to see a blend of police procedural and family life of the detectives as in novels by Cynthia Harrod-Eagles or Deborah Crombie, will like the latest by Camilla L&auml;ckberg.I received this book from NetGalley through the courtesy of Open Road Integrated Media in exchange for an honest review.Note:  This review is of the 2013 Kindle version for the United States.
2 Synopsis/blurb......To avoid disappointment, please note this book was previously published under the title THE GALLOWS BIRD. Swedish crime sensation and No. 1 international bestseller, Camilla Lackberg's fourth psychological thriller - for fans of Stieg Larsson and Jo Nesbo. A woman is found dead, apparently the victim of a tragic car crash. It's the first in a spate of seemingly inexplicable accidents in Tanumshede and marks the end of a quiet winter for detective Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m and his colleagues. At the same time a reality TV show is being shot in the town. As cameras shadow the stars' every move, relations with the locals are strained to breaking point. When a drunken party ends with a particularly unpopular contestant's murder, the cast and crew are obvious suspects. Could there be a killer in their midst? As the country tunes in, the bodies mount up. Under the intense glare of the media spotlight, Patrik faces his toughest investigation yet...My wife read this about a month ago, and was quite insistent that I get to it. After all I had inflicted it on her. Suffice to say she didn't particularly enjoy it much; ok - not at all then! I've been avoiding it for a couple of weeks, in the hope I could delay it until May and count it as my Scandinavian read for the month which is one of my own personal reading challenges in 2013. One of the many things I love about my wife is her persistence!This was a 390'ish page book where not very much seemed to happen at the beginning, other than we spend a lot of time with the chief investigator's family. In fact throughout the book we spend a lot of time with Hedstrom's wife, Erica and sister, Anna......who I'm guessing suffered some "event" in one of the author's previous books. Most of the time, I enjoy stories where detectives or investigators personal lives are shown to us. I need to see another side to them, apart from the job. It adds flesh to their bones and gives them substance. Here it bored me unfortunately.After maybe the halfway point the pace picked up a bit and there were some interesting developments. The investigation into the car crash victim developed with other similar cases uncovered. I did guess the identity of the killer early, and as I'm no Sherlock Holmes perhaps it wasn't concealed as cunningly as the author thought it had been. Conversely, it could have been her intention to telegraph the culprit to the reader. She did cleverly link the two crimes of reality show murder victim and drunk driver together.The supporting cast of police investigators were on the whole likeable and fairly believable. Perhaps my favourite was Gosta. Initially jaded and uninterested, counting down the days until he could get out on the golf course; he became invigorated and brought his A-game to the investigation. Maybe his transformation stretched the bounds of credibility a little bit, but as I liked him I'll buy this one.There were a couple more downsides to the book in my opinion. I felt the minor back story with the chief of police, Mellberg was clich&eacute;d and predictable. The ending where she served up a hook for her next book was annoying, irritating and blatantly unsubtle and patronising to an intelligent readership.I enjoyed the second half of the book more than the first, despite the gripes mentioned above. I do have another book of hers to read, The Drowning. It won't be something I'll be rushing to in a hurry. As a further sidenote, my 2012 edition states that the author was the 9th best-selling author in Europe in the previous year. She must have a very big family, I reckon.2 from 5I bought this new for my wife earlier this year from Buzzard Books in my hometown. Perhaps I need help when shopping for my wife?
3 Enjoyed the book.  Sometimes a bit disjointed; probably due to bits lost in translation.  Lots of loose ends with the characters - will hopefully be tied up / cleared in following novel.  Definitely an author to watch out for!Recommended to all lovers of Scandinavian crime/love stories.
5 I read this book first and then had to find the others to catch up and then read all the rest without stopping, they are a truly good read.
5 I love Camila Lackberg's style of writing. I feel i know the characters. Her books are hard to put down
5 Lackberg's characters grow with each novel she writes and she is a great storyteller.  The plots are always so interesting that you are formulating questions as you read on.  Just a great author.
4 I will look forward to her next book. Her description of that part of. Sweden has left a clear picture in my mind. I hope there is a future for Sophie,And for Kirsten.
4 As Erica Falck and Patrik Hedstrom's relationship progresses (relatively) smoothly, Hedstrom's small police station once again has to solve first one, then two murders, at the same time that a 'reality' TV show is being filmed in town. Lackberg's characterisation (even of minor characters) is spot-on, and her plot sufficiently convoluted to keep the reader guessing to (almost) the last page.
5 A year or so ago, I was pretty much ready to give up on Nordic crime. Harry Hole was too drunken, Salander was too weird, and frankly the whole genre seemed too angst-ridden and downright miserable to be enjoyable...and I say that as someone hardened by years of dealing with drunks and screwed-up mavericks - all fictional, of course! At the time of my disillusionment, a fellow Amazon reviewer tried to get me to read L&auml;ckberg, promising that she was different. Finally, I've followed that advice - and I'm so glad I did! Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m is that rare and precious creature - a sober, likeable, intelligent detective who works within the rules and has a happy home life. And in this story he proves that that can be considerably more interesting and much more enjoyable than reading yet one more description of binge-drinking, hangovers and cowboy policing.When Patrik is called to the scene of a fatal car accident, it looks like a straightforward case of drunken driving. But the woman driver was teetotal and Patrik suspects that there may be more to the accident than meets the eye. Meantime the town has been invaded by a reality TV show starring a group of C-List celebs whose claim to fame is that they are willing to get outrageously drunk, party all night and have sex as often as they can, and all with the cameras rolling. This is problem enough, but when one of the celebs turns up dead in a bin, Patrik has two cases to deal with. So it's lucky there's a new member of the team - Hanna, an experienced and efficient officer has transferred to the district - especially since more deaths are on the way...Well written, and well translated by Steven T Murray, this is an intriguing police procedural with a dark and complex plot and a satisfying conclusion. Although Patrik is the lead character, we get to know the members of his team too and their interactions add an extra layer of depth to the story. The picture L&auml;ckberg paints of contemporary Sweden is as misery-laden and angst-filled as the most ardent Nordic fan could desire, but is lightened by Patrik's family life as he and Erica prepare for their forthcoming wedding. Although there's clearly a running story in the background about Patrik and Erica's relationship, this book works well as a standalone for anyone who, like me, hasn't read the previous ones in the series - an omission I now intend to rectify. Recommended.NB This book was provided for review by the publisher, Open Road.
5 I purchased this book from a selection of discounted books which Amazon offered.  I like the characters the author invented and the depth of their personalities.  The fact that the story switches frequently from one character's scene to another gives the picture of  them all participating in the current problem.  I plan to read other books in this series.I would recommend this author to anyone who enjoyed the &#34;Tattoo&#34; books.
4 Erica and Patrik are in the midst of planning their wedding.  Erica (like many brides) thinks that she still looks like a &#8216;zeppelin&#8217; having given birth nine months ago.  Erica&#8217;s sister, who had to shoot her husband, is living with Patrik and Erica with her two children, but has been in a bad funk.The Police have just had the addition of a new Detective.  She is accomplished and &#8216;gung ho&#8217;, and good looking, but married.  In fact Patrik wonders why, with her credentials she would want to come to so small a town as Fjallbacka.  At the same time a reality show is to begin filming in the town.  The six members of the show are expected to be drunken and rowdy as are the teens and twenties who are there fans.Just before the reality show roles into town, there is a late night fatal one car accident.  The driver turns out to have a blood alcohol level of .61 (DUI in most states is 0.08) which is enough to cause convulsions.  When the go to interview her ex-husband and her current female partner, both swear that she never touched alcohol.  Then when one of the reality kids turns up dead, Patrik and his team have to work flat out.The rest of the story unfolds like most of Lackberg&#8217;s,  through determined and time grinding work.  People are interviewed time and again, all clues and the lives of the two murdered woman are put under a microscope.  But as always, it&#8217;s a freak memory of a long ago occurrence that put them on the right track to solving the murders.  Once again Lackberg presents her characters in great style and detail.Zeb Kantrowitz
5 Once I got into 'The Stranger' (not long at all), I was hooked. Following on from the previous Camilla Lackberg novels this was once again a fast paced and unique plot. The characters were well described and the plot intriguing. I like the way the back story continues yet the main focus of the story remains the solving of the crime/crimes that were committed. I love the way it is set in a little Swedish town. Quite different to my usual reads. I would highly recommend this book.
5 I love reading novels by Camilla Lackberg.  Have read all her novels to date.  Wish she wrote faster!!  She's fantastic.
2 This was my second book of Camilla Lackberg's. I greatly enjoyed the book preceding this one, although I guessed the end 3/4 of the way in. This one I guessed immediately! I continued reading, hoping I was wrong, only to be disappointed to find I was correct. I think this will be my last Lackberg book.
3 I started out being very impressed with Camilla Lackberg's books.  However, this last one, The Stranger, was not up to par with the previous three.  Patrick is becoming  stronger character but the entire scenario is losing steam.
4 I enjoyed this book immensely.  From the beginning each character was intriguing. I do have to say that I figured who the killer might be, but wasn't certain until just the right moment.  This was a hard one to put down.
5 can't say enough about Camilla Lackberg and her mysteries.  I enjoyed this mystery totally as I enjoy all of her books
5 This has been my favorite Camilla Lackberg book to date. The murder mystery aside, this was a wonderful take of the characters I have grown to love. I found myself smiling at the personal developments for Erica, Anna, Melberg. Great!
2 Although I'm a big fan of Camilla Lackberg , Gallows Bird wasn't up to the standard of the earlier 3 books  which were all much better written, far  better plots / better story lines , this couldn't compare to her other books, plus it was so confusing and overly wordy and  it  didn't make that much sense.  I'll still read Camilla Lackberg, just that  this book wasn't as good as the earlier  3  books in the series, but I have great hope for Book # 5.This book , number 4 could be missed, read 1, 2, 3,  and start again with 5.
4 A  rather complicated mystery but it held together well. I still feel this author likes to tie up items that a reader could figure out on his or her own. I do like the interplay between the police officers.
5 You won't be disappointed if you like thrillers. You never know who it is until the very last chapter and there is always a twist
4 As it is usual the case with Scandinavian crime fiction what the authors seem more interested about is talking about the local societies and their many ills than crime itself. Camilla L&auml;ckberg is one of those writers who have started becoming more and more popular in the west mainly because of her characters. Detective Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m and his writer wife Erica, do not only seem to be everyday people, but also people with big hearts, who can feel the pain of the others, whose psyches are deeply scarred by the past, and who care more for justice than anything else.In "The Stranger" there are too many people circling around them, but also around the rural area where they live, and mostly where Patrik works: the chief of the Tanumshede police station who's as lazy as they come; a cop who lives and breathes in boredom; another cop who's finally got a lucky break; and finally a new transfer, an ambitious woman who at some point in the future wants to become chief of police herself.And these are the people that only reside in the police station. Add to them an ambitious politician, a mysterious psychologist, the cast and the production team of a reality show, an old woman desperately in love, as well as another old woman that lives all alone in the wilderness, and you almost get the full picture. I say almost, because most of these people have a lot of secrets to hide and a lot of pain that weighs on their shoulders.L&auml;ckberg seems to be more interested in dissecting the society than giving the readers a mystery; in making them think about everyday life, instead of trying to solve the puzzles. A road accident turns out to be a murder. Then another murder takes place that puts the city and the cops on the spotlight. And Patrik is caught in the middle of two investigations that seemingly have nothing to do with each other, even though there's a chance they do. One can feel sympathy for some of the characters and their strife, but this is not an angelic world we live in, so most of them simply make him dislike them.The author seems to enjoying playing with the reader's perceptions. What is good and what is evil? Would you act any differently if you were in the perp's shoes? Can you really judge a person by his or her looks? Can somebody escape the past unscathed?If you are looking for an overcomplicated mystery, you'll like parts of this book; but if you're searching for a novel that speaks about damaged people and the many evils of modern society you'll simply love it.
3 Not as compeling as her previous novels but still a good read. I didn't leave me wanting more. 2 more words.
5 I particularly love Camilla Lackberg and am sorry that there are so few books of hers in English.  My family is from Sweden and have the privilege of reading so many of her books.The west coast town of Fjallbacka plays prominent in her books and it is wonderful the way she describes the town and the surrounding area.
5 I really appreciate the inside view of life in a small town in Sweden. I think is fascinating and Camulla Lacberg does a great job at portraying it.
4 Very character driven-  -have read the preceeding books by same author with same characters. Liked the whole atmosphere of the story & the actors! In Sweden, we learn a bit of local culture, habits, ets. along with a good mystery!
5 Well written, continues with the same characters as her earlier books.  I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good Swedish mystery.
3 Synopsis: A teetotaler woman is killed in a drunk driving accident. Problem is...she was the drunk one. When more bodies start to add up, including the unpopular star of a reality star filming in town, things aren't adding up. Poor Patric who is trying to plan his wedding to his longtime love and mother of his daughter must now try to solve this baffling mystery with cameras rolling and the country watching.My rating: 3 StarsMy opinion: In my previous reviews regarding Ms. Lackberg's works, I have referenced the "lightness" and focus on emotions of her books compared to her contemporaries in Nordic Noir. I have stated that I thought that her books were too almost Americanized than the darkness and twistedness that is seen in other Nordic Noir books. I thought she was getting away from this in her book THE STONE CUTTER. However, it was back with a vengeance in this book. As a reader of heavier more twisted Nordic Noir books, I have difficulties with this, but do read her works regularly as I am frequently asked for NN recommendations.Source: Edelweiss for PegasusWould I recommend? : I regularly recommend Ms. Lackberg's novels for those either new to Nordic Noir and need a gentle introduction or fans of authors such as Lisa Gardner.
3 This mystery/police procedural is complicated, and is presented in a complicated fashion. An unknown character permeates the story as Patrik Hdstrom is the chief investigator in a case that started with vague clues that eventually came together to tell the story of a murderer's childhood&#8212;an extremely psychologically damaging childhood. The psychological theme of motherhood and its effects on both mothers and children&#8212;for good and for bad, is also a huge part of the storyAnd then there is an annoying aspect, from this reader's perspective. Obnoxious characters from a reality show that is being filmed in this town of Fj&auml;llbacka, in Tanum Municipality. Their contribution is mostly like a distraction, and an uninteresting one, at that. There must have been another way to write their part; but, I digress&#8230;And finally, some characters are a true testament to narcissism, obnoxiously or sadly so. And some are not bad, per se, just narcissistic. So there is a mix of joyful and tragic, happy and gloomy. Some characters work through their tragedy in a good way, some do not. Some you will worry about a little, others will pass by quickly. The pacing is a bit choppy. The murder is definitely a mystery that manages to cling to your attention.
4 Another thriller I liked about detective Patrick Hedstrom and his wife, because you can enjoy a thriller and read the detective's private life too. I think I am going to try book 5.
3 I thought there were too many characters with too many names.  The story was also complicated.  I usually like her work.
5 Another great story.  I love the way she flips from present to past and back again .  I find it really makes my try harder to figure out who did it..  Also, I get quite caught up in the police person's lives.
5 I'm trying to put my finger on what made this crime novel so much fun to read. For one thing, it's a feast of life stories and love stories. There are a great many characters, and their lives are fascinating to follow. There are various couples in various states of bliss, suffering, deception and crisis. And happily, the lead detective, Patrik Hedstrom, is an intelligent, purposeful and essentially happy man in love with his partner, about to marry her, and crazy about their little daughter. This gives an upbeat quality to the narrative, which is very welcome in a mystery full of distressing murders.Yet despite all the human interest, this is a nitty-gritty police procedural replete with autopsies, interviews and research, all well described. The several cops at the Tanumshede police station are engaging and some of them surprise the reader with unexpected insights. I liked them all. Even the unpleasant boss is somewhat sympathetic.While two murder investigations keep the cops busy, a reality show is being filmed in Tanumshede. This adds a nice touch of chaos to the plot.The denouement is full of surprises. I admired the inventiveness of the author in developing the backstory behind the killings.My husband gave me this book. He liked it a lot, so it's not chick lit, despite the presence of some highly romantic episodes. I found The Stranger a very satisfying read, so much so that I've ordered four more books by Camilla Lackberg.
4 Fjallbaca, Sweden, the home of Detective Patrik Hedstrom, is about to receive it's first group of Reality TV stars.  A local entrepreneur has arranged this group of unconventional people to live and be televised in his home town, expecting a lot of good PR and finances to make this an excellent adventure.At the same time Patrik has received a call about a body found in a car. Just as he is to go out the front door, his new policewoman shows up. She is pretty and blonde and very energetic, her goal is to become Chief in a large city. At the scene Patrik feels something is off but can't quite place it. A local woman, with a strong smell of alcohol is dead behind the wheel of the car. As the investigation moves on, Patrik's 'gut feeling' is born out.  His boss, Mellberg, the man who does nothing, finds a new outside life and Patrik proceeds with his investigation the way it should be done.At home, Patrik and Erica are planning their wedding, or, at least, they are planning to be married. Erica's sister, Anna, and her two children live with them. Anna has had a tragic event take place and is deep in depression. The one unusual event that takes place that jars Anna out of her depression is so far fetched that it is not believable.As the Reality TV series amps up, many unpleasant events occur, and another body is discovered.  Patrik is the man of the hour, and one of the best detectives in a series. He has a sixth sense when something is not right, and he goes to great lengths to follow up on every lead. He and Erica are the personification of a real couple, loving, supportive, and tired, all the time. A new baby, Maja has brightened their lives, and left them exhausted. A true representation of the life of new parents.Camilla Lackberg has given us another excellent novel. Lots of twists and turns, and ethical dilemmas to discuss.Recommended. prisrob 10-19-13
3 This is #4 for the Camilla Lackberg series (also called The Stranger) and is the lesser of her mysteries. While I enjoyed the first 3 very much, sometimes for the flashback sub-plots more than the mysteries, this one had a sub-par plot and mystery. More interesting for me in this one, and I have read the whole series, was the relationship between Patrik and Erica and family. Lackberg continues the Peyton Place like atmosphere of the small Swedish town and all of her books have something to do with parenthood, on some level, and this is no exception. She does an excellent job of setting the reader up for the next in the series, which is also good but somewhat predictable. A strong series but, for me, most of the interest comes as much from the plot lines of the characters (her sister, the police captain, Erica & Patrik, etc.) as it does from the mysteries. My suggestion would be to read the series in order (The Ice Princess, the Preacher, The Stonecutter) to enjoy them the most.
5 Again Camilla Lackberg is able to weave multiple stories from the past and present with drama, humor, and sensitivity. I love the characters and the surprises.
4 This is not my favorite Lackberg novel. the story did not flow like her previous novels. will wait for the next one,
4 This is number 4 in the Patrik Hedstrom Series, I have enjoyed this one the most,  story line was great, came together well and kept me guessing until the end. I like this writers novels
4 This was a great little mystery set in Sweden. I loved the way the author built up the mystery and kept adding to it so you got a nice rounded story.  There was no pulling out a mystery character at the end, the author drew you toward the final conclusion.  Each of the characters in the story were well thought out and gave their own bit of personality to the complete story.The author had several different stories going on at once and I wasn't sure how they were all going to be connected at first, but the author did tie everything together gradually through the book so you weren't left out in the field wondering which path was going to lead you to the chocolate prize at the end.Even though this was book 4 in the Fj&auml;llbacka stories, I felt that you could read this as a stand-alone without having read the other three. This book was not originally written in English, the translator, Steven T. Murray, did a great job getting the translation correct so it did not feel like I was listening to a book with incorrect English terminology.The Narration ReviewThis audiobook was narrated by Simon Vance and he did a great job with the characters and the accents in this story.  One good thing about a narration is when the narrator makes you forget that you are listening to a single person narrating a book and completely draws you in so it feels like you are listening to a group of people.  Simon Vance did that.  His voice was clear and his narration had good inflections. He didn't just read the story it was more like he was feeling the story and his voice reflected the feelings and emotions of the characters right to me.** Note **I received this audiobook free from the Audio Jukebox Solid Gold Reviewer Program and HighBridge Audio in exchange for an honest review. I received no chocolate or any other compensation in exchange for my review.
5 I definitely disagree with other readers who are saying this book isn't as good as what's come before. I find all of these books equally intriguing, and equally entertaining. Okay, they're not Stieg Larsson level, but quite entertaining. Definitely worth the (inflated) prices!
5 Unlike some other Scandinavian authors, Camilla Lackberg&#8217;s protagonist, Detective Patrik Hedstrom, is a relatively normal person, about to be married and living with Erica and their baby girl, surreptitiously running the small police station in a little western coastal town in Sweden, Fjallbacka nominally headed by a superior.  Three things happen in the town to set off a wide-ranging investigation.First, Fjallbacka is invaded by a reality television show, with all the attendant problems and a cast motivated to drink, have sex and act in public to excess.  And then, there is a local woman, known to abhor alcohol, who dies in a car crash with a blood level containing enormously high levels of alcohol.  Then one night, after a drunken orgy, one of the contestants on the show is found murdered.  Plenty to keep Patrik and his team occupied with few leads and plenty of questions.This is the fourth novel published by the author in the United States, and each has been consistently high quality, well-plotted, carefully translated and well written  Perhaps most importantly, the characters are natural, every-day type of people, living typical lives and working hard.  The plots move forward with logic, and the loose ends come together at the end smoothly.  (It should perhaps be noted that this book was originally published in the UK and Canada under the title &#8220;The Gallows Bird.&#8221;)  Highly recommended.
4 Camilla Lackberg has extended the great mystery writing from Sweden first brought to us by the late Stieg Larsson. Enjoyable reading.
1 Actually wanted 3 stars not 1. Not up to her first 3 books. Not much real suspense this time around
5 You have to have a stomach of steel to read this book. The abuse that takes place is disgusting, nauseating, and just plain evil. There some interesting things that happen in this story revolving around auras and the such but I won't say more.
3 A good read but at times unbelievable why would someone so severely abused ever go back to live with their abuse while pregnant?  And why in the end was the father home more.
5 Where do I begin? Throughout this whole book I was teary eyed and felt extremely sad for this little girl Vanessa. I finished this book in two days and it was the most emotional book I have read in my entire life. It is a great book, but be prepared to grab some tissue because what this little girl went through was undescribable. I found myself telling my coworkers and friends about this book and what she went through, by the hands of an evil woman, her mother, who should by now be burning in hell. This book moved me not physically, but emotionally and thoughtfully. If you have not read this book you definitely need to. Vanessa's survival is a true testament that God is love and God is real.
5 At times it seems like fiction, as the sessions with spirits and auras seem unbelievable. However; I don't have any question about whether or not being psychic is a true concept. I cannot be a judge to the author's childhood and I wish her years of happiness.
5 through the whole book it is a very good , don't wanna put it down kind of read! opens your eyes to great strenght people can have amoungst such hate and evil! and to the  help and love from others past lives on! really enjoyed this book alot!!
5 I was often outraged at the horrors Vanessa's mother and maternal grandparents put her through. I wanted to just reach inside the pages and stop what was happening. How can some people be so sick? I hope they realized the evil the had done once they passed on. The spiritual side to the story is amazing to me. I have a little bit of psychic ability but no where near the author's. And it amazes me at this day and age some people are still so closed off to the idea of sixth sense. But awesome book and many blessings to Vanessa Steel
5 I could not put this one down! It made me cry and parts of it brought back some nasty times in my own childhood..I could so relate to Vanessa and her struggles for approval from the ones who hurt her! I found myself rooting for her and praying for her to get a break the whole way through the book..I'm so glad you overcame your past Vanessa..God bless you!
1 I'm only on page 36, but already a question and other comments I have is ruining the story for me.I don't understand how the father, since he played with her and was in contact with her, couldn't see the whip marks on her body. She was struck with that cane on the legs, too.Also, the grandparents... how couldn't they possibly see some of the marks that I'm sure didn't go away any time soon?Hopefully someone can answer these questions.This is very difficult to read; I'm getting very angry already and I've cried enough after only 36 pages.I placed the one-star rating only because I couldn't post comments without giving a rating.
5 Well written and very emotional. This is not just a vivid account of emotional, physical, and sexual abuse, but a story of survival and the over coming of terrible mistreatment. I could barely put it down, and yet at times, I wanted to throw it in anger. If you can brave  through it, you should read it. But be forewarned that it can be quite triggering.
4 Wow. This book was very hard to read at first with all the punishment that Vanessa had to endure. Why a mother would do anything that Vanessa had to go through is beyond me. Seems like there was always a new punishment Vanessa had to face whenever her mother felt like it.All's I have to say us what a gut wrenching story.
5 This book was such an emotional journey for "Lady Jane" to have to endure. I cried with her, smiled with her, laughed with her and was scared terrified with her.I would recommend this book to everyone that I know for the simple fact and or reason that it touched my heart so.....
5 The book was awesome! I liked that it ended up having a nice ending, even though she went through so much as a child. Very inspiring!
3 This book, written by an adult survivor of child abuse, is an okay book, but it gets a bit odd as the author claims she can communicate with spirits, who sometimes tell her about future events. You have to either be very open minded, which I am, or pass her off as schitzophrenic when you read this book.
4 So very sad to think life for some exist as shown in this book.  Box of Tissues required during this read.
2 It was a sad memoir. I'm not sure how I feel about the whole book. I am glad that she was able to over come the terrible things that her mother did to her.
5 This story is so intense that I really cant believe Vansessa survived. I believed she survived in order to tell her story so others can children of abuse know they are not alone- Vansessa seems to be at peace and to be admired!
4 A bit long but written well with vivid descriptions. A very sad story but amazing to read what she's survived
3 A beautifully written story, yet very shocking events that this woman was subjected too. It was an easy read yet hard on the heart.
3 The only reason I only gave it 3 stars was because of the book content.  It was a hard book to read as a parent.  Unbelievable how cruel and sick that some people are.  I read parts of it with my hand over my mouth and tears in my eyes.
4 This book takes you through every emotion heart breaking, think the spirits were a bit much though made it hard to believe,so that part kind of ruined it for me. but other then that it was an awesome book
5 This is one of the most gripping memoirs I've read yet.  How the author endured, and blessedly, LIVED to tell her story blows me away.  It is shocking, enlightening, heartbreaking, heatwarming, and most of all hopeful.  I could not put it down and there were times I wished I could reach into the book and rescue her.Steel writes prolifically well and conveys her horrid past so believably  -  she is an amazing woman.  There is no doubt to anything she writes about.  The reason I was attracted to this book is because I lived in a very physically/emotionally abusive household growing up and experienced some of what Vanessa went through.  I wanted to see if anyone else suffered quietly like us and managed to move forward and have a happy life after all.May God Bless Vanessa Steel with the best life ever!
4 I had a difficult time with this story. I had to keep putting down until I could get myself under control. I so wanted to go and find the mother and do to her what she did to her daughter. I can not understand how a mother could be so cruel to her daughter.I could not believe that she allowed her father to sexually abuse her daughter and not try to stop it.  I did not understand why her father did not try to help her.and listen to her when she tried to tell him what her mother was doing to her. Finally the truth comes out. I was upset that she never truly found out who her birth mother was. I would caution anyone reading this story to be sure they had a box of tissues nearby.
5 That anyone could do this to a sweet little girl, who had done nothing but be born. This woman had no heart & noconscience. I'm so proud that she went on to have a good life. That's the best revenge.
5 This was an unbelivably hard book to read as in I felt that I knew the girl personally so I felt her pain, can't imagine how she came out the other side a sane & functioning adult, a must read
5 As growing up myself in an terribly abusive home, I could really relate to this story so much and couldn't put it down until I finished the whole thing!
4 Just finished this book today. Couldn't put it down towards the end. Very, very sad memoir. Sometimes I wonder why I choose the books I choose to read. However, it was a cheap (or free?) book that was rated well on Amazon so I read it on my kindle. I'd recommend. It's shocking, sad, and made me angry reading it.
5 Great book, love reading these kinds of books, they help me in my studies for psychology !!  Love that I can read it on my ipad !!
5 Very good book that held my interest from the beginning to the end.  Very emotional that I cried at times when reading.
4 This was a long story of a young girl abused brutally by her mom. The brutality was continued for a lengthy part of the story during adolescence. At the end it did not seem quite finished as the reader wanted the answers that the child was looking for.
2 It is amazing to me that this "mother" truly got away with the continual savage abuse of her daughter. This woman should have been prosecuted and ended her life in jail. Other people knew about the abuse but still the criminal woman was not arrested.  I find the story hard to believe and even more difficult to know that the victim continued to see her "mother" until she died.  Incomprehensible.
5 What a book! Amazingly written. I read it in two days. Worth the read and the money! In this book the little girl Nessa does describe her life growing up as a medium as well as a child abuse victim. Very interesting stuff!
5 Really good book! I like reading books about true events, this one was a good one! I feel sorry for the girl who had to go through this.
5 I loved this book, heart breaking and inspiring. But not for the weak hearted. I could not put it down.
5 It makes me shudder to think parents can actually do these things to a child, it is absolutely sickening. But it is truly amazing how resiliant this woman became.  I don't think I can ever understand how she could even remotely forgive these people.
5 One of the most touching books I've ever read in my life !!!!!  I couldn't hardly put it down & wouldn't had if I'd had a chioce. Highly recommend. Thank you Vanessa steel for such a prize book. You're awsome  !!!!!!!
5 This is one book I read through in a single day. It was terribly sad, but also terribly all too real. There are people in the world like Vanessa's evil step mother, and their victims all too often cover up the horror and dread they face each day, fearing an even greater punishment if they tell anyone. And worse, when they do break their silence, they are not believed by the very people who should protect them. I'm glad Vanessa found happiness at last, although she did take care of her insane step mother til the end and even facing death, this crazy evil woman would not give Vanessa the answers she sought. This book is a testament to the will of the human spirit to survive.I had to wonder, however, if the memories of foretelling the future weren't Vanessa's rewriting of her memory (not intentionally) and the zoning out in a daze sounded like disassociation to me - a precursor sometimes to multiple personalities. The visions and imaginary companions were a little schizophrenic. Not denying that premonitions and communication with spirits do exist, however, the human mind will conjure up whatever it has to to survive. It would be understandable, under the circumstances, if this is how she dealt with things, to keep her sanity (sort of).None of that matters, however, as this book is a great look inside the more dysfunctional of families (although I'd faint if I met a *functional* family.) I'm a RN who works with families in crisis when all the secrets and skeletons fall out of the closet and you have to wonder if these people are putting you on. Sadly they are not. This sort of thing does exist and happens more often than you'd think.
5 I just hated this little girl's mother and her parents.  They all should have been sent to prison for what they did to her.  And the father should also be punished for being so stupid!
5 I can be honest when I say this is the best book I have ever read before I had to pass it to my mother to read and order me another one!!!  awesome book great job
5 This is another one of those books that I got into and felt for the kid in it and would recommend it to anyone and could reread it a million times
4 This was a good book, but I'm not sure I believe the story. It's been a while since I read it, so I can't say what made me not believe it. I do know that there seemed to be an awful lot of torture going on that could not have gone unnoticed, even if the abuser is a very good liar. I'm not saying the author is making it up, because I know from experience things can happen and no one notices or cares. I'm thinking maybe the author should be looking into a lawsuit for people not getting her out of the situation. Someone had to know what was happening to some extent and they should have done something. If I remember correctly the father in this story knew what was happening and chose to ignore it yet the daughter forgave him as though it was just a one time thing. I'm sorry but, something doesn't seem right about that. To me he was as bad as the mother if not worse. I'm not an expert on child abuse though so forgive me if I'm being rude. I do remember what it was that made me not believe it now. It was when the mother puts her in a bucket of ice cold water and then makes her sleep outside in below freezing weather. The child would have froze to death. At the very least would have suffered from hypothermia and frost bite. It was a good book though, it kept me reading.
5 Great book, couldn't put it down. Vanessa Steel is a survivor of the worst kind of cruelty. She's an amazing woman!
4 I bought this and read it on Kindle during a very stressful time in my life (last month) and it was about as good an escape valve as I could have wanted.  I hadn't bought it for that reason but it was, nonetheless.I felt awfully sorry for this person and was glad to learn in the end that she's doing well now.I wrote her a short note at Facebook telling her how I couldn't put the book down and how happy I was that she managed to find a happy life when she grew up. She hasn't written back - not even a quick "thank you" all these weeks later like most authors do - so I hope she's okay.
5 This is an excellent first hand account of a terrible time in world history.  As the reader, you can empathize with Corrie.  There is such detail.  Even though you know she survived the horrors of the concentration camps, you are frightened for she and her sister.  Some of the scenes described are so graphic, giving the reader a realistic perspective of what actually occurred.  Great read!  Kudos to my grand daughter for introducing me to this book!
5 This little girl was severly abused by the people closest to her. Despite the years of torment and punishment she beared, she stayed true to herself. I admire Vanessa for sticking it out to the end with her mother and making peace. Not everyone is able to do that, especially when someone was as bad to you as her mother was to her. You have true resolve Vanessa and may God bless and keep you well.
5 A very very sad book. How could a human being be so cruel. A very moving story. First time I have read a book by Vanessa Steel.
5 Thank you for sharing your story! I started reading and couldn`t put it down. I believe sharing these experiences gives those who have had a loving life incite into those of us who have not. And those who have gone and are going through abuse can see they are not alone learning ways to cope with the aftermath. Congrats to you Nessa!
2 The abuse Vanessa endured is horrible by any standards.  Although I admit I was drawn into the story, I was left feeling angry.  The fact that after enduring horrible abuse you would continue to care for, let alone be involved with your abuser is just unthinkable.As for her ability to talk to the spirts........if I was hit in the head that much and that often I too would probably be hearing voices too.I don't think I would recommend the book to anyone.
5 I am drawn to these books because I am amazed at how some people can overcome abuse. This child was tormented from a very young age, and still found love in her heart.
5 This is the first book I have read from Vanessa Steel.  I had feelings of sadness and thought about Vanessa&#8217;s story for several hours.  I believe her story because I am 60 and can remember the lack of discussions about sex in general and I never remember hearing about child sex abuse in 1960s or early 1970s in the United States.  I saw children beaten with extension cords and 2 by 4s, and I remember hearing stories about things that happened to certain young girls.  I highly recommend this book and I will read other books by this author.  I also learned the hard way that it only takes one time to make a child.
4 Very well written. Hard to imagine a child could endure such physical and emotional abuse. A fascinating read. Makes a person grateful for a better life.
4 This book was hard to read, but harder to put down. If you liked "A Child Called It", you will probably like this book.
5 I read this book  out of curiosity  because I believed for a long time that I was the only one with a mother like mine  though she was living in hell with her adoptive mother I drew strength from her story and  I was happy to see like myself she has find her way , has a family  and most importantly she is HAPPY  her ordeal is over and she is in charge of  her life . If I could say one thing to  Lady Janne it would be God loves you and you are not alone I have lived the same life with the exception my mother did not adopt me and my father was never in my life other than that I identify  with your torments 100%  lot of love a sister from afar
4 I don't usually read abuse books. But this brings out the reality of abuse and it is horrific abuse. My mother was an angry person that often slapped me around. My brother and sister were sickly and she left them alone. She would make comments when she was hitting me that my father loved me more then he loved her, I really hesitated to read this. I understand the not telling anyone because if no action was taken you were going to still be there and now she is mad. I understand Vanessa looking for love from "anyone". I felt the book left you hanging because there were obviously family members who knew the truth and to me that would have been needed to complete the healing process. I did feel that most of the visions were Vanessas' way of coping. Overall the book is very well written I just didn't like the unfinished ending.
4 Interesting, we'll written.  I only wish the author spent her time in therapy healing as opposed to taking care of her sadistic, sociopathic mother.
5 Such a great story , love the way author Vanessa Steel has written her story. I could not put this book down!
4 This book was very sad but a good read.I can't believe how many people out there are mean to there children.It broke my heart to read everything this child went threw. No child should endure this much pain.
5 The pure torture that this little girl went through was something you would think would be in a fiction book. She survived this pure hell and went on to lead a good life.
5 How cruel can one person be,OMG I"m glad she came to terms with what happened,I wonder how many other children went through something like that.I don"t believe I would be able to forgive either parentNo one should experience such horror
3 A mother is a beacon and protector. She is the one that will always stand up for you, sacrifice herself for you, and give you everything that she is able to give you. Not so in &#34;Punished: A mothers's cruelty&#34;. Imagine pasting the face of a devil on the body of an angel. This is how this book feels: All wrong. You feel it in your guts, in your bones, in your soul. I could hardly finish it, and I don't really know what made me, but I can truly say that it left me devastated and broken-hearted. For real.
5 This was a true story and sad all those people who could have helped her but didn't and i wish i knew the secret they never told your a great women and wish you the best of luck
2 I was looking for a non fiction account.  I found this book compelling and well written. I did however feel the author went over board when it came to her accounts, even if everything did happen exactly as told. It was to much sadness. I put the book down.
4 I really enjoyed reading Vanessa Steel's memoir about her childhood. Her writing is very soothing and there is a mystery to her story!
5 This book was hard to put down.  The writer kept me so engrossed that I felt I was there through all the horrors she endured and how she felt as a defenseless child who endured and survived to go on to find and give love after all she had experienced. She never gave up her hope that someday she would be loved.  This book makes me wonder how many other children are going through the same things and what we can do to help them.  It is thought provoking and engages the reader as they feel her anguish and hope.
4 What a horrible family it was that Vanessa ended up with - including her father!  I hated him throughout the book.  It seems almost implausible how oblivious the father was to everything that his beautiful, and most evil, wife was doing to Vanessa.  This is a very sad and touching story and it will stay with you for a long, long time.
4 This was a very well written book.  It was as much about abuse as it was about mental illness.  Sad that it was a true story, but it was gripping and powerful, but does cover the darkest aspects of cruelty.  I would recommend this book to anyone.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this story for no other reason but this child had the fight to survive everything that was thrown at her.  I could not imagine ever having such hate and distaste for another human let alone a child.  Vanessa Steel is a brilliant author.
5 This was a heart-wrenching tale of surviving (and even prospering!) despite overwhelming odds. Really made me appreciate my upbringing.  I heartily recommend this to any and everyone as a lesson in human cruelty, survival, and the power of the spirit realm in all of us.To the author: THANK YOU for including your not-so-common spiritual gifts in this work.I couldn't put this book down once I started reading it, and read it in 3 days after opening it. It's very well-written, the story flows and is heart-wrenching and quite emotional. Not for the faint of heart.If you enjoyed this story, I'd heartily suggest picking upMurphy's Boyfor a more male-oriented tale.
5 This book was a great read. It broke my heart and I cried a few times. Was worth the price. I'm glad Vanessa found a wonderful life. Sad her mother was never charged for the abuse
5 Its so sad to know that a mother can be so cruel to her daughter. I wanted to go back in time to save from her awful mother.
5 As horrible as the cruelty she endured, this is a testimony of God given character that can not only survive, but conquer the effects of evil.
3 tragic story. I will never understand how you can love those who torment you.  the fact that people can turn a blind eye and those that are so sadistic just as much now as then is disturbing.
5 I like this  type of book. it holds my interest and makes me wonder how people can be like this. I have recommendedthis book to several people I thought would enjoy it.
5 One thing: BEST BOOK EVER&iexcl;!!!!!!!!! Read the first one last year so cool. i chose the rating because there are not many sequels that are as good/better than the first. Everything I expected from this amazing author.
4 Once again a really good book. But this one had a bit more of the &#34;horror&#34; factor. And I'm not a huge fan of horror. So it's only 4 stars this time. And the rest of the series will remain a comfortable mystery to me.
5 When I enjoy a book as much I enjoyedSkulduggery Pleasant, it is only natural that I would be excited for the next one in the series. But with so much to live up to, there is also the slight worry that the book you are looking forward to will suffer from the unfortunate affliction dubbed sequelitis. Playing With Fire though not only matches the first book but - if this is even possible, considering the high standards of Skulduggery Pleasant - exceeds it.Playing With Fire opens with a bang of a scene, making it very clear that the action and (most importantly to me) the humour of the first are still very much there. The moment I had to set the book down for a minute in that opening as I was laughing so hard I knew that I voice I loved from the first book was still very much there. That wit and snark and all-around humour is one of the most appealing things about this series, so when it is in full form (like it is here in Playing With Fire) it makes for a wonderful read.While Skulduggery himself is a wonderful character - and really, how could he be anything but? - I must confessed that young Valkyrie Cain has swiftly taken over the position of first place. She is a brilliant character - strong, intelligent, brave - and overall a delight to read. After reading a number of books with "heroines" that have no personality or anything to bring them to life Valkyrie is impressive and that is putting it mildly. Likable characters can make an otherwise average book into a good one, but brilliant characters like Valkryie, Skulduggery and the rest of the cast turn a book with an exciting plot and great world-building into something that is hard to top.Speaking of plot, Playing With Fire's is nicely-paced and packed with great moments of action and character development, plus some nice twists and turns to keep things interesting - I don't think I can say much more for fear of spoiling. Just know that if you enjoyed Skulduggery Pleasant, then I think you will enjoy the way the series is continuing and growing. If you haven't read Skulduggery Pleasant, I suggest you run out and get yourself a copy so you can get onto Playing With Fire.
5 good book love skulduggery . Good stories.  Listen on the MP3 and in the car on my way to work
5 I liked it just as much as the first, and I've read that one like five times, so I wonder how often I'll read this one. . Great book, you go dereck landy
4 Book two in the Skulduggery Pleasant series.  It's still an awesome and unique read.  It's just not quite as amazing as the first book, which is generally to be expected in any series.Stephanie is now living primarily as Valkyrie, Skulduggery is still fired.  They're still working together to solve mysteries and save the world.  This time their main enemy is  Baron Vengeous who is determined to raise the Grotesquery from the dead .  The Grotesquery is a very very very bad monster who might even be a bit much for Skulduggery to take on, especially give he no longer has the resources that he once had -- you know since he was fired.Oh, and if that is not enough everyone seems to be after Valkyrie and as Stephanie she has a family reunion to attend - and nope, the mirror image can't get her out of that.And then there's Stephanie's uncle... Yes, the dead one.Overall, an enjoyable followup.  Perhaps a little too much going on.  Not enough of the Valkyrie and Skulduggery interactions which make the series so enjoyable. Still a series worth continuing on with.  A little bit of everything from the bully family members at the reunion to vampires to living skeletons to rocker wax figures come to life.  Original and witty.  Good for all ages.
4 Oh how excited I was to get back to Dublin to see what Skulduggery and Valkyrie were going to be up against in the second book in the Skulduggery Pleasant series!  I have to say, Landy didn't disappoint me: he kept the action coming and placed enough intrigue into the book that you just knew something else was going to happen, but you're just not quite sure what.Needless to say, when the pair realize that Baron Vengeous is out to bring the Grotesquery back to life to call the Faceless Ones they know they have some serious damage control to take care of.  Why you ask?  Because if the Faceless Ones return that will be the end of the world.  Nothing major, you know!I am totally loving these books and can't wait for the third one to come out in August.  Landy really keeps you on the edge of your seat with the situations he puts his characters in and the way he paces the story.Notes on the Cover:Skulduggery and Valkyrie running with fire in hand is visually appealing, but I have a problem with Valkyrie smiling.  Not that I begrudge the girl a smile, but when she's running with fire like that, she's generally a little more worried about how to beat her opponent and her own survival to really think about smiling.  Minor detail, but anyone who reads these books will know that she is definitely not smiling during her fights!  (Okay, maybe at the end when she realizes she's still alive for the moment...)
5 Great sequel. I read this first tonight and couldn't put it down. Can't wait to get the next book in the series.
3 I think his audience would have been better served with less swearing. engaging characters, easy to follow plot, the fact that the protagonist's family was not in immediate danger placed another star on the rating.  the suspense and possibility of danger was there without actually causing fear or anxiety for the mom and dad.
5 a great comedy  and action book should read it is totally worth getting and so are the rest of the skulduggery pleasants
5 My 14 year old has been 'too cool' for anything other than pewdie-pie and homestuck for over a year. Her teacher had her read this for an assignment and she wouldn't put it down. She asked if she could go TO THE LIBRARY for another of the series and I nearly had a heart attack. I had to see what made this book more interesting to her over harry potter or twilight and it really is entertaining. She loved it. That says more than any review I could write. My anti-book, too-cool-for-school teenage daughter now wants every book in the series. THANK YOU for pulling her away from YOUTUBE. HIGHLY recommend. There's just something to these. I had to read a chapter in, in order to be pulled in, but it was worth it. I can't wait to read the whole series now!!
5 The cover of Derek Landy's inaugural SKULDUGGERY PLEASANT novel shows the eponymous skeleton in his trademark hat and sunglasses next to the legend, "And he's the good guy." Good doesn't even begin to describe the fun to be found between the covers of that book and, fortunately for readers, the second installment in the series, SKULDUGGERY PLEASANT: PLAYING WITH FIRE, takes the fun to a whole new level.Well into her apprenticeship with Skulduggery, Valkyrie Cain --- the girl formerly known as Stephanie Edgley --- is fighting alongside her sardonic teacher. As the story unfolds, the pair defeats a homicidal villain known as Scapegrace, who sees his intended killing spree as a form of art. But the victory is short-lived as a new, far more powerful adversary appears on the scene.Baron Vengeous, a terrible baddie from Skulduggery's past, escapes from prison. (In a clever nod to This is Spinal Tap, Skulduggery notes that on the villain scale of one to ten, Vengeous "turns it all the way up to eleven.") The Baron, much like Serpine from the first book, is on a mission to revive the Faceless Ones from the dead. His plan involves summoning a beast known as the Grotesquery, a Frankenstein-like hodgepodge of body bits. With the Grostequery and the magical armor of the powerful necromancer Lord Vile, nothing can stand in the Baron's way. Except, perhaps, the fire-flinging Valkyrie and her dead mentor.In their quest to stop the Baron, the pair encounter Springheeled Jack, a creature who strikes fear into the hearts of Londoners at night and an infected assassin called Billy-Ray Sanguine. The lightning-fast story offers plenty of twists and a touch of paranoia as Valkyrie and Skulduggery come to understand that there's far more to this plot than they originally imagined.Fans of Landy's initial outing will be very pleased with the second book, which, I'm happy to say, is even funnier than the first. Landy has a talent for the snappy banter between Valkyrie and Skulduggery, perfectly framing their relationship as both friends and teacher/student. Valkyrie is settling in to her role as a descendent of the Ancients who can control elements. It's fun to watch her grow more confident in her abilities but, at the same time, acknowledge that she still relies on Skulduggery's knowledge and assistance. Although the story moves along briskly, Landy manages to breathe life into all his characters and allow them to grow as events unfold.Realizing that there was a higher force controlling the Baron, the book ends on a pleasantly ominous note: "Bad things are coming for us, Valkyrie." Bad things for Valkyrie and Pleasant perhaps, but only great things for readers, who will be eagerly awaiting the next book in this increasingly entertaining series.
5 very satisfied with her purchase her son was very happy with these books and is readying them now will enjoy
5 Book received quickly and in great condition.  Price was great and son loves it.
4 Everyone's favorite skeleton detective/wizard (and snappy dresser) Skulduggery Pleasant and the precocious Stephanie Edgley are back in Playing with Fire (2008) the action packed follow up to Derek Landy's debut novel Skulduggery Pleasant (sometimes called Scepter of the Ancients presumably to differentiate between the novels in the series) (2007).Playing with Fire picks up about a year after the first novel. Stephanie is officially apprenticed to Skulduggery Pleasant, learning more elemental magic, and helping Skulduggery fight crime under her taken name, Valkyrie Cain. Throughout the novel, it was impressive to see how deftly Landy handled the unusual name change of his main character as well as her negotiation of people who know her as both Valkyrie and Stephanie.Skulduggery and Valkyrie are dealing with the usual mayhem and misfits when news of something really unpleasant comes their way. Baron Vengeous, one of Skulduggery's old enemies, is back in town and dead set on bringing a monster called the Grotesquery back to life to wreak some havoc. Cobbled together from pieces of the most feared, not to mention brutal, monsters ever seen the Grotesquery has to be stopped before it becomes invincible. Oh and before it calls the Faceless Ones back to Earth to destroy everything.With the help of Tanith Low, the two detectives set out to find and destroy the Grotesquery. But, as often happens, complications get in the way. In addition to possible corruption in the Council of Elders, Valkyrie and Skulduggery have to deal with Billy-Ray Sanguine--simultaneously one of the most likable and most horrifying villains of the series thus far.On top of that, Valkyrie is beginning to feel like a stranger in her normal life as Stephanie Edgley. Using an enchanted reflection to go to school and otherwise act as her proxy, Valkyrie keeps telling herself that is the price for a life of adventure and magic. Still, as the problems mount and Valkyrie finds more twists and danger, it starts to seem like there will be a higher price to pay.The important thing to remember about this series is that Skulduggery Pleasant was an insanely awesome, utterly original book. Given the high bar set by its predecessor, it was perhaps unavoidable that Playing with Fire would not be as good.There is an old adage that before leaving the house a person should take off one accessory; if this book were a person, it would instead add one more. Landy piles villains on top of villains so that names begin to blend together and necessitate rereading. This novel is also rife with battle scenes--too many, really, in relation to the plot. Finally, and this one can be fixed, the end of the book left a lot of questions unanswered.Taken together, these things lead to the possibility that Playing with Fire is a bridge book which serves more to transition from the first book and pave the way for the third book in the series than to stand on its own. (Clarifying example: Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest was a bridge movie.) Thus, while much of this book was not as marvelous as the first it is still entirely possible and even likely that the third book The Faceless Ones (due out in August 2009) will be another powerhouse of a book.The emblematic banter and humor were still present, but not often enough. Ironically, given the name of the series, Skulduggery Pleasant really did not have enough page time in this book.
5 I am a great fan of the entire Skulduggery Pleasant series. The dialogue is witty in a noirish sort of way, and well beyond what you usually encounter in books of this type aimed at this audience. The characters are better developed, the plots are more engaging, the action pieces flow well, and the overarching series story is satisfying. There is an awful lot of violence and mayhem, but is more cartoonish than disturbing.These can be hard books to find, and they never appear on anyone's recommended lists, but they deserve to be more than cult items.
5 dont believe anyone who doesnt think these are the best books in creation. Derek Landy has worked his writting magic yet again and you would be a fool not to read all of his books.
5 My kids and I read this book together.  Skulduggery is a great character.  It is a fun book- my kids and I recommend it.
5 Amazing I love all of the books I love the punctuation and the grammar that is used in this magnificent book
5 I'm really glad I got this book! I can't wait to get the rest of them!! I highly recommend this series.
5 We ordered the first Skulduggery Pleasant book from Amazon.co.uk and my daughter really enjoyed it, so I decided to get her more of the series as a gift. I have not read them personally, but plan to start soon.
4 Stephanie Edgely never could have predicted the death of her beloved Uncle Gordon would lead to her rebirth as Valkyrie Cain, magical apprentice to the world famous skeleton detective Skulduggery Pleasant.Instead of attending school, doing homework, and spending time with her family like other thirteen-year-old girls, Valkyrie sends her reflection to carry out the mundane duties of everyday life, while she prowls the streets of Dublin with Skulduggery, honing her abilities and hunting down villains by order of The Elders back at Sanctuary.Skulduggery harbors suspicions about head and (presently) sole council member Thurid Guild, suspicions that only increase when one of the Malevolent's most fanatical, intelligent, and powerful generals, Baron Vengeous, escapes from his secretly located prison. Aided by the vampire Dusk and razor-blade wielding U.S. import Billy-Ray Sanguine, Vengeous plans to complete a mission Lord Vile set in motion years ago.With the help of China Sorrows and Tanith Low, Skulduggery and Valkyrie must put together the various pieces of the Baron's plot before he resurrects the Grotesquery (a monster assembled from the most fearsome beasts of legend) and brings the Faceless Ones back to life.PLAYING WITH FIRE is a swiftly paced novel that delivers adventure and suspense without sacrificing character and relationship development. The relationships between Valkyrie and her mentors have deepened in this second novel, yet we also see a distance being created from her family and old life.Readers will be satisfied with the novel's plot wrap-up, yet still hunger for the next installment thanks to Derek Landy's overarching hints and teases of a much larger conspiracy. To sum up, PLAYING WITH FIRE is a clever, snarky, satisfying read.Reviewed by:  Cat
4 Fast paced action and laugh out loud humor make this a great read for all ages and genders. Can't wait to read the next one in the series.
4 I have waited a bit too long to read this I think. I did enjoy the stories and Roverandom was ok but I bought it because of Tom Bombadil. I thoroughly enjoyed that! The rest of the book was more a literary experience than story telling but coming from Tolkien I just couldn't stop reading.
5 Finally! All of Tolkien's shorter works in one volume! This collection is great. Wonderful illustrations. Nice quality hardback. Don't settle for less!
5 Many people do not realize that JRR Tolkien wrote both an extended set of books about the "Lord of the Rings" world (most of them assembled from notes and published posthumously by his son Christopher), but also several short stories separate from that mythology. These are the stories presented on this audio disc. The "exception to the rule" is the Tom Bombadil section, which is a direct reading from the Fellowship of the Ring", where the four hobbits go into the Old Forest.The books are rendered in the form of BBC dramatizations, so if you are expecting a word for word reading, this is not the edtion to use. It seems particularly fitting that Tolkien should be delivered with English accents! This disc has sound effects and different voices portraying the various parts, so it listens more like an old-time radio show rather than an audio book. A long time Tolkien fan, I am familiar with these works, and enjoyed them immensely. My kids also enjoyed the stories.As would be expected of Tolkien, there is no bad language or adult themes; these tales are OK for family listening.
5 Tales From the Perilous Realm is a great compilation of short stories, poems and essays that were written during various periods of his life.  If you are choosing between this and &#34;The Tolkien Reader&#34; I would definitely recommend you go with this book.  The only thing you are missing out on is the Homecoming of Beorhtnoth...and that's ok.  In brief:  Roverandom was a charming story (would be a great bedtime story for kids) about a dog that runs afoul of a wizard.  Farmer Giles is a fun tale of an unlikely hero and a dragon.  The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is a wonderful collection of &#34;Middle-Earth&#34; poems and tales.  Leaf by Niggle is very thought-provoking.  Smith of Wootton Major is a great reminder to never judge a book by its cover.  Lastly, the book also includes the full On Fairy-Stories essay/speech if you want a view into Tolkien's mind.  Definitely a required read for Tolkien fans.
3 With no disrespect to Professor Tolkien, I am a long-time reader of Tolkien, as so many of my generation, these stories are just not quite my &#34;cup of tea&#34;.  I may not be the best judge, for I come to them expecting stories found in that First American edition of the Silmarillion, I begged my parents for, as young teen.  These are not they ... and I can't quite get through that ... So, I read the Silmarillion again, and sated my yen for more of the master story teller that way.
4 Having never been a big fan of Tolkien's works, as I generally view them as wordy and dry at times, I was surprised at these tales.  The Tom Bombadil poems were my least favorite in the collection, partially because I never cared much for the character.  While not poor, these are the weakest of the four in this collection."Leaf by Niggle" was the best of the bunch with its a allegorical tale about life and death and what follows."Farmer Giles of Ham" was the second best of the bunch, the story of a farmer who is given a powerful dragon sword, named Caudimordax, for scaring away a giant.  A dragon named Chrysophylax shows up and Giles is expected to handle the situation."Smith of Wootton Major" tells of a boy who is allowed to exit the real world to view the faerie world.The voices and sound effects in the CD set are very good, which is typical of many BBC Radio productions.
3 A few decent stories rather in the style of fairy tales, but nothing terribly exciting...and I still don't like Tom Bombadil.
4 How exciting to hear all these J. R. R. Tolkien fairy tales on audio book! I feel like I am back in my childhood with my mother reading to me. The difference in this audio book however, is that there are different voices for characters and background sounds and music, thus making it more of a production than just a normal audio book read. The stories are enchanting, while intelligent of course, and it is so good to hear more from a master storyteller like Tolkien. I was not familiar with any of them so each one is a treat.  I do think I will even share some of them with my reading students in middle school!One of the "stories" actually contains a couple of long poems as well as some others and I enjoyed them very much. It was a nice change of pace in THE ADVENTURES OF TOM BOMBADIL. I think this one can be listened to many times to get more out of each poem as you listen again and again.  I think "The Shadow Bride" can be discussed more than the others, as it seems to have a deeper, not so light, feel to it.FARMER GILES OF HAM would be the story I would most like my students to listen to. It is light and has a grand, although not so willing, hero. It has the requisite dragon and brave knights who should slay him in ordinary tales, but in Tolkein we don't look for ordinary. Here we find a chubby farmer who seems to be the only one who can do battle with the dragon. There is also a talking dog that the students would enjoy.  It is charming and funny and one people of all ages would enjoy.LEAF BY NIGGLE is a tale with a much deeper meaning to it. The memorable presentation brings life and death into it in subtle ways, which make for a second listening, or third, to try and see what Tolkein really meant by the subtle use of symbolism in the tale. All of this in what in simpler terms might just be about an artist who is painting a picture of a tree.Finally, SMITH OF WOOTTON MAJOR delightfully tells about a special gift to a not so special person and what this gift does for him. I think this might have been my favorite but then again, each time I listen to the wonderfully written words of Tolkein, I find more in the stories to like and change my mind again. This is an audio book, or if you get the book, that you will read and read again and be anxious to share with others as I was, and as I did, and I am sure will continue to do for years to come!Submitted by Karen Haney, September, 2008
5 I love these books from Tolkien.  They are so wonderfully entertaining and easy to get caught up in. I know its fiction but I just love his writings.
4 I am an avid Tolkien fan - so I jumped at the chance to hear this audio presentation.  In essence, it contains much of 'The Tolkien Reader' - and an embellished recount of the meeting of the 4 hobbits with Tom Bombadil in the Old Forest.  These are all older BBC recordings that have just been re-released.Although my copy didn't include at cast reckoning - I distinctly heard the voice of Michael Hordern as a narrator - and if I am not mistaken Farmer Giles sounded like Brian Blessed to me.This is a 3-CD set.  I don't think it will appeal to a broader audience, but any Tolkien fan will get a few hours of enjoyment.
5 More from the infinitely creative mind of Tolkien. These tales are great for LotR fans, but stand alone as fun reading for anyone who likes fantasy. Don't miss &#34;Leaf by Niggle.&#34; The style of this piece is different for Tolkien and it's masterfully written.
5 If you like Tolkien , you will want to add this to your collection. Some of us can't seem to get enough material about this wonderful land of imagination.
4 "Tales from the Perilous Realm" is a collection of short stories and poems by J.R.R. Tolkien. All of these stories have been presented in other written collections, but my family enjoys audio books and this set from the B.B.C. Is a great addition to my collection."Farmer Giles of Ham" is an story about a farmer who is a lot of talk, but yet has even more substance than he lets on. It is a fast tale of giants, dragons, and (surprising) human nature."Smith of Wooten Major" is a little rambling but the favorite of my two children. This story give a brief glimpse in the the fairy world and perhaps instills a sense of the extraordinary about seeming ordinary people and day to day life. Very enjoyable."Leaf by Niggle" is a more difficult story, especially for the younger listeners. Enjoyable and meaningful for adults."The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" is the odd addition to this collection and includes poems from "The Lord of the Rings". While entertaining and interesting, they just didn't seem to fit with the rest of the set. Still I'm glad they were included.The quality of the CDs and the recordings were very good and I expect to get may years of enjoyment from this set (with my kids and grandkids, as well).Highly recommended for fans of Tolkien and Fairy Tales!
5 Production values are high as with all BBC full cast recordings, though I would only recommend this to diehard fans that want to delve deeper into the Tolkien mythos.
5 After reading Lord of the Rings many times over, and wearing out more than one copy of The Hobbit (with help from my boys, now), one can only wish that our old friend, J. R. R. Tolkien, had written more.  (I long since tried the Silmarilion, but it seemed to be made for another race of readers.) How pleasant, then, to happen upon this book in the library.Roverandom is a dreamy story about a dog who goes to the moon and under the sea.  Told originally to Tolkien's children, I felt it was softer, less polished, in fact very nice to read to a child who likes dogs. (But I repeat myself.)Farmer Giles of Ham was for me a delightful story.  The cowardly, boastful talking dog is alone almost worth the price of the book . . . I found myself reading part of that story to my boys, though they are well past th age of being read to, or have not yet reached it again.  Funny and delightful, including Tolkien's faux-scholarly introduction.I didn't read Tom Bombadil; sorry, I had enough of him in the Fellowship of the Ring.  I did read the intro, which was mildly amusing, more false scholarship of the kind that Tolkien and Lewis and friends liked to engage in in their letters.Smith of Wooton Major is again quite good, about an obscure fellow who likes to go to Fairyland, and his adventures in the "real world."  If this really is autobiographical, that makes it especially touching; one almost wants to read allegory in at points, but refuse, in respect for Tolkien's feelings about the matter.Leaf by Niggle touched me.  Tolkien expresses what life is about, how little of what we dream of comes true, what is real and what seems real, and the hope he had that more would come of our paltry works than we now dream.  It reminds one of Thomas Aquinas' statement that his great work was only so much straw; and yet, knowing how Tolkien loved trees, it is a more positive statement than that.On Fairy-stories is much the most difficult read in the book, but well worth reading.  Here is a great story-teller and scholar's philosophy of imagination.  He interacts with other great story-tellers, like Lang, Grimm, Chesterton (a major influence, I think) and Shakespeare (he had his criticisms!), and offers a fascinating theory of fantasy, "sub-creation," and the work of God in this world.  This essay is ultimately a theology or Christian map of reality as well as a theory of fairy tales.  Having written a couple books on how the Gospel fulfills truths in other cultures, I find his thoughts deeply significant for themselves, as well as for their influence on C. S. Lewis.You don't have to read each of these pieces, of course; but it's so good to hear from this old friend, again.
5 Tolkien's four greatest short stories (well, three acutally, plus the poetry) together in one volume.&quot;The Adventures of Tom Bombadil&quot; involves two long poems with Tom as the main character, a number of poems from &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; as well as other assorted poetry concerning Middle Earth.&quot;Farmer Giles of Ham&quot; is an extraordinary tale about a wise farmer who outwits a wicked (but not overbold) dragon.  A wonderful story for children -- and full of delightful (and deliberate) anachronisms for the alert adult.&quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot; is a profound and powerful story about death, life, Purgatory and eternity.  It should be read in conjunction with Tolkien's non-fiction essay &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot;.&quot;Smith of Wooten Major&quot;, one of the last works by the Master, tells the story of a very ordinary person who is given a very extraordinary gift.  (The story also suggests the presence of the sacramental in the act of feasting).Altogether, a wonderful collection, and one that is sure to delight.  Only those far gone in the desubstantialization of the human race could fail to appreciate these stories.
4 These stories are skillfully written and probably overlooked by many simply due to their brief length. Tolkien fans are used to the "epic" approach but rest assured his short story offerings are terrific indeed. Fans looking for more Middle Earth fare will be happy to see the inclusion of The Adventures of Tom Bombadil but all 5 are well worth the listen. And Derek Jacobi has a very pleasant voice, I must say! I love these types of audio books because they are good for short car rides (just listen to one story!) or long road trips (listen to the whole thing!).
5 In this wonderful volume (small and inexpensive enough for frugal hobbits to give away on their birthdays) three short stories and one collection of poems are to be found. The collection of poetry, &quot;The Adventures of Tom Bombadil&quot; is drawn from the many poetic examples found in the Red Book of Westmarch and were written or compiled by Bilbo, Frodo, Samwise, and their families. Tom Bombadil is, of course, a well-known figure to those hobbits living in Buckland, and is a figure providing much comic relief. Some of the other poetic examples, however, are darker and more serious in nature. &quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot; is a wonderful short story about a little man (very hobbitlike in his habits) who is a painter whose dream and ambition far exceed the level of his talent. &quot;Farmer Giles of Ham&quot; discusses the adventures of a small farmer living in a town not unlike Bree who gets the best of a devious (but not overbold) dragon. &quot;Smith of Wooten Major&quot; tells the story of how an ordinary man is drawn into the perilous realm of faerie. All in all, this is a book that hobbit fathers would love to share with their children in the evening in front of the fire. I highly recommend this volume.
4 This stuff goes under the listing of &quot;things most people don't know Tolkien wrote,&quot; along with things like &quot;On Fairy Stories,&quot; &quot;Bilbo's Last Song&quot; and the charming bedtime story &quot;Roverandum.&quot; It's a good collection of Tolkien's lesser-known material, including some cute short stories and poems.In this slim volume is: &quot;The Adventures of Tom Bombadil,&quot; a collection of poems. Some focus on the weird and wonderful Tom himself, and some are poems that are (or might be) in Middle-Earth, like the creepy &quot;Mewlips,&quot; the sweet &quot;Princess Mee,&quot; and melancholy &quot;Last Ship.&quot; There is &quot;Leaf By Niggle,&quot; the tale of a painter straining to live up to his hopes. &quot;Farmer Giles of Ham&quot; is a delightful mock-hero tale about a farmer and a not-so-frightening dragon, while &quot;Smith of Wootton Major&quot; is a deeper, more subtle story about fantasy in a person's life.As always, Tolkien's writing is entertaining and well-plotted if it's a story, just fantastic if it's a poem. (Although some of the poems have plots too). If you're expecting the depth or grimness of &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; then you'll disappointed; these are more like &quot;The Hobbit&quot; or &quot;Roverandum&quot; in tone, although there are hints of &quot;Rings&quot; in some of the short stories like &quot;Leaf&quot; or &quot;Farmer Giles.&quot;Why four stars? Well, the cover is a bit odd-looking, a bit smudgy for my taste. And the paper felt a bit odd, as if it could have been better. And buyers should be forewarned: If you have purchased the &quot;Tolkien Reader,&quot; then know that this book has some of the same stuff compiled in it. Specifically, &quot;Father Giles&quot; and &quot;Adventures.&quot;This is a good compilation of several of Tolkien's lesser, non-&quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; works, and fans shdould check them out. In fact, so should non-fans.
4 If you're a die hard Tolkien fan then this is a must read; however if you did not like "The Lord of The Rings" you will not like this one. This is from the CD. I think reading it is better than listening to it. I like some audio books better then others.I recommend this one to read.
4 Here we have an audio collection of some of J.R.R. Tolkien's lesser-known fantasy stories, ably performed by BBC voice actors.  Having read some of these when I was younger, I was excited to hear them, especially since I enjoyed books on tape when I was a kid too.  "Farmer Giles of Ham" is an enjoyable tale of an unlikely hero, with plenty of slapstick comedy as well as more clever tongue-in-cheek humor.  "Smith of Wooton Major" is probably my favorite; the mystery, wonderment, and yearning expressed by an average mortal's journey into the perilous realm gives me absolute chills.  "Leaf By Niggle" is curious, detailing a painter's struggle to work despite distractions around him, before spinning off into a surreal journey that blurs the border between truth and imagination.The "Tom Bombadil" portion of the collection is the only real let-down, for me.  Don't get me wrong, I do love Lord of the Rings, but what's included in this set is simply excerpts from those books describing the fellowship's interactions with Tom.  It's a bit jarring to be thrust in the middle of a much larger story, and it's often a bit difficult to differentiate between the voices of the four hobbits.  Other than that, the voice acting for these stories is great and very tastefully done.  I'll always have a soft spot for Tolkien and books on tape, so for me, this is a great set!
5 Tales from the Perilous Realm features 5 engaging stories by LOTR author JRR Tolkien: Roverandom, Farmer Giles of Ham, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, Smith of Wooton Major and Leaf by Niggle.Each of these tales reveal Tolkien's view about sub-creation and men in the land of faerie.
3 These stories are all good examples of Tolkien's non-Middle-Earth work. I'm not a huge fan of poetry, so the Bombadil poems didn't do much for me. Leaf by Niggle is one of my all-time favorite short stories, both poignant and thoughtful.I'm giving the book a low rating because once again Kindle underperforms. One of the selling points of this book is that it has illustrations by Alan Lee. However, there are no illustrations in the Kindle version. While you might still want to get this set so you can have all these stories on your Kindle, just know that it won't come with the illustrations.
5 The listener in this case should know that these are not straightforward readings; these are dramatizations, which means it's more like LISTENING to a play. That said, this dramatization produced by Brian Sibley and starring Michael Hordern is well worth your time and money. Included are "Farmer Giles of Ham," "Smith of Wooten Major," and the wonderful "Leaf by Niggle," which really is a thinly disguised portrait of Tolkien and his penchant for niggling endlessly with details, which explains why he's had so much posthumous work published: in his own lifetime, he wanted to get it RIGHT, to the nth degree, resulting in unfinished works. There's also "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil," which is catnip to Bombadil fans, who have rightly aired their displeasure at seeing this important character excluded from the Peter Jackson film adaptation of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. (Bombadil is one of the few people on Middle-earth over whom the One Ring has no power.)DIe-hard Tolkien fans will certainly want to read these in text form, but if you've got an iPod (and these days, who doesn't?), rip them on your iPod and enjoy an aural journey through Tolkien's timeless, and timely, Middle-earth.
4 In concert with the UK and US publication of "The Perilous Realm" compilation volume -- with sterling pencil illustrations by Alan Lee -- we have this audio compilation of BBC performances dramatized by Brian Sibley, a long time Tolkien Scholar. While my personal preference is to read -- rather than watch or listen to -- Tolkien's work, these shorter pieces are better adapted to the radio play form than the voluminous and sometimes consciousness-straining BBC version of The Lord of the Rings -- an audio file recommended only to those with an a-prior and crystal-clear comprehension of that work.Perhaps the greatest kindness here -- in addition to putting "Leaf by Niggle" within easy reach of those only casually familiar with Tolkien's body of work -- is a very approachable approach to the complicated and often daunting "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil". Bombadil is, of course, one of the more famously difficult to interpret characters in Middle Earth, viewed by critics as everything from a bumpkin-like distraction to a profoundly fundamental and elemental force of nature. The focus here is perhaps more on the passages dealing with Mr. Bombadil within The Lord of the Rings than with the epically long poem, so there still remains an agreeable measure of "daunting" to be dealt with.It's heartening to see these stories take their turn as the film craze both calms and gets set to rebuild. And while we're at it, completists should also check out the splendid Harper Collins facsimile edition of Mr. Bliss.
4 Again the BBC gives us wonderful production values and performances. Those looking to trod Middle Earth again may be in for a tiny let down but this collection of Tolkien's finest short stories will please new audiences as well as expanding the author's legacy with established fans.
4 This review is for the 3 CD audiobook version of Tales from the Perilous Realm, which includes Tom Bombadil (running time 54:52), Farmer Giles of Ham (54:53), Smith of Wootten Major (33:1), and Leaf by Niggle (34:28). Tom Bombadil is a must for any LoTR fan, while the lesser known allegorical works are no less than Tolkien's finest. Aside from Tom Bombadil, these are not Middle Earth stories, but rather Great Britain mythology from the time of kings, dragons, and fairies.Packaging/Presentation: I was disappointed with the packaging - there is a plastic spacer inside, and the CD's are in cardboard CD envelopes. For long-term usage and gift presentation, I would have preferred something a little slicker, more durable, and without a spacer. A little information on the stories would have been nice (written in...). Petty, I know.Quality/Performance: I have several audiobooks - and am well-used to straight narration (as in someone reading me the book). That is absolutely not what you get here. Rather, it is a true performance. With several different male and female speakers. They adopt middle earth accents and at one point, even a dog accent (it'll make more sense upon listening). Sound effects are plentiful, horse sounds, clanging keys, bells tolling, intro music - and surround sound is incorporated well.While entertaining, there is one caveat I would like to mention. As these stories are performed, you don't get "And then Pip said..." so at some points I was a little confused as to who was saying what. This was most evident during Tom Bombadil. At times, I also had difficulty understanding them when they were speaking from far off - this was a problem in the car, but less so with headphones.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil: Originally published as a series of several poems, the first poem is included in this audiobook. This story's purpose is to shed light on the mysterious Tom Bombadil and his wife, Goldberry. We know from LoTR that Tom was here before even the elves came and that gave aide to Frodo during the first book, but little else. In this work, the poems are amassed in story form. It picks up where Tom meets Frodo at Old Man Willow's tree and tells that story in depth. In addition, while staying with Tom, we learn more about how he came to be and what his role in Middle Earth is (although this is a subject of great debate). At times, the story will jump around from what seems like story to story - this is the nature of it being a series of poems I suppose. However, it is easy to follow and superbly performed. I felt as if I were listening to the audio of a movie. LoTR fans will enjoy this reading; however I do recommend the entire work, which is almost a history of Middle Earth told in folkloric fashion. If you happen not to have liked LoTR (blasphemy!), you likely will not appreciate this story as it does pick up in the middle of Fellowship of the Ring.Farmer Giles of Ham: Farmer Giles holds himself to be a most-distinguished person in the town Ham, but is really rather unimportant until he stumbles into heroics. Later, again by chance, he is sent on a quest to kill the dragon Chrysophylax and steal his fortune for the king. However, along the way, Giles outwits the dragon, tames him, and rises to greatness himself. The story may seem juvenile as his dog plays a large speaking role. Of all the stories, this one was not my favorite - but I like stories that make you think.Smith of Wootton Major: This story brings you straight into the Realm of Faery. In the village of Wootton Major, a great cake hiding a number of trinkets is made for the village children. The blacksmith's son happens upon a star (which he swallows) that later leads him to the Faery Realm. In this story, people are not always who they appear to be and should not be judged by their apparent station. This story also touches on themes of communal responsibility and the passing on of gifts. Younger listeners will enjoy this one and older listeners may appreciate the allegory.Leaf by Niggle: This was my clear favorite of the stories. Very allegorical, Leaf by Niggle tells the story of a humble painter, his relationship with his ailing neighbors, and his responsibility to the community. I believe this story also deals with profound questions regarding life, humanity, and heaven (but I could be reading into it too much). In any event, I appreciate the insights into Tolkien's greater philosophies of life presented in this story. Even if you take it at face value with no greater depth, it is a charming tale.Summary: Get this audiobook if you enjoy Tolkien's writing style, which is dense, allegorical, and fanciful. Don't get this audiobook if you are an Orc.
2 I generally prefer reading to listening to books on audio and this set did nothing to change my preferences. I had previously read Farmer Giles of Ham and was hoping to enjoy hearing it on a rainy afternoon. Unfortunately, having actors' voices replace my imagination didn't work. Though I am sure it was a well-produced set of CDs, in my opinion, it just didn't work.
4 I picked this up because I'm quite an avid JRR Tolkien fan.  I saw that it was some of his short stories but what I didn't know was that this was done with a cast instead of a single reader.  It made all of the stories much more enjoyable.  It seemed like they did a superb job of finding the right voice for each character.  I could not imagine a better Tom Bombadil!All except the story of Farmer Giles and it was because of one of its main stars, the dog, was voiced by somebody who was annoying the entire time.  Too much barking.  Too much growl in his voice.  Maybe it was a form of British Humor I couldn't identify with but I think they would have done a better casting job if they just had somebody scratching their fingernails over a chalkboard.  Yes, I found it that annoying.The stories themselves were great and made me long for the world of Tolkien all over again.  Any collector of Tolkien has to have this in their collection.
3 Is this collection worth purchasing?Tom Shippey's introduction is, as always, incisive and insightful, packed with quotable phrases and interesting observations placing these shorter pieces within Tolkien's oeuvre. But it is aimed at the new reader of these works - it is a guide to how to read them, not ground-breaking new scholarship.I am personally not a fan of realism in illustration of Tolkien's works; I find that a more stylized approach better suits the atmosphere of his writing.  This is perhaps purely a matter of personal taste, but I can't read the stories included in this collection without a deep longing for the original illustrations by Pauline Baynes - particularly for Farmer Giles, where Tolkien himself said he felt her artwork reduced his text to a commentary on the drawings. To my mind, Lee's pale, washed-out pencil drawings hardly hold a candle to Baynes' ability to convey the humor, enchantment, and melancholy of Tolkien's shorter works.All of the included works by Tolkien are readily available elsewhere. Roverandom, Farmer Giles, Smith, and On Fairy-stories have recently appeared in excellent stand-alone editions with critical commentary and, when applicable, the original illustrations by Baynes or Tolkien himself. All but Roverandom and Smith are included in The Tolkien Reader, which is still in print, though alas only in paperback; I imagine this collection is meant to replace it in hardback.If you are a fan of Alan Lee, the answer may be yes, though for most of the tales there are actually only two drawings each. But for the scholar or serious reader of Tolkien, the individual volumes with commentary are a wiser expenditure, and have the advantage of including corrected texts (I did not go through the texts in this volume with a fine-tooth comb, but I did spot at least one punctuation error). Is it a good introduction for the new reader of Tolkien, looking to read something beyond The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings? Perhaps; it gathers the most important texts conveniently in one place, but the Baynes illustrations (and Tolkien's own illustrations for Roverandom) add so much to the experience that I would hate to see the first-time reader miss them. I'm afraid Tales from the Perilous Realm won't be on any of my gift-giving lists.Here are the items I recommend instead for the serious Tolkien reader:RoverandomFarmer Giles of Ham : The Rise and Wonderful Adventures of Farmer Giles, Lord of Tame, Count of Worminghall, and King of the Little KingdomTolkien on Fairy-StoriesSmith of Wootton MajorThe Tolkien Reader
2 I purchased this book, not just for the enjoyment of reading Tolkien's shorter works such as Smith of Wooton Major and Farmer Giles of Ham, but also because I had wanted to see the illustrations by Alan Lee on the Kindle Fire HD 8.9 tablet. Lee has a real connection to Middle-Earth in the artwork he created for such works as the Silmarillion. Unfortunately, the Kindle editon of this work has none of his artwork included in it, despite the cover specifically used to market this edition featuring the words "With Illustrations by Alan Lee". I was deeply disappointed to find this level of deceptive marketing in use by both the publisher and Amazon.
5 In Tales From the Perilous Realm we have five short stories or novellas by J.R.R. Tolkien, plus his very famous lecture "On Fairy Stories".  Only one of the selections has a direct connection with Middle earth: the poems which make up "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil". The other four are "Leaf By Niggle", a short tale with deeply moving theological connotations which originally accompanied the Fairy Stories lecture; "Roverandom", a story written by Tolkien to comfort one of his sons who had lost a toy dog while at the seashore and not published until 25 years after the author died; "Farmer Giles of Ham," a rollicking tale set in early Britain featuring a bumbling farmer, a near sighted giant, and a dragon which was originally published in the late 1940s;  "Smith of Wooton Major", a beautiful story published in the 1960s which is usually interpreted as being Tolkien's acknowledgment that his life was coming to a close and his gifts must be returned or passed on to others.All of these stories have been published before in different formats, and I have loved them all for many years.  I purchased Tales From the Perilous Realm in the interests of completing my collection but with some trepidation, because I knew the illustrations would be different.  The late Pauline Baynes illustrated Farmer Giles, Smith, and Tom Bombadil, and her vivid interpretations  are so marvelous that I dreaded seeing any depictions by any other artist.  But as soon as I opened Tales From a Perilous Realm my fears were allayed.  Alan Lee's pencil illustrations are enchanting in their own right, allowing the reader to experience the stories anew with additional pleasure and delight.  I will always love Pauline Baynes' illustrations, but Alan Lee's efforts evoke Tolkien's worlds just as vividly.  This will be a book to be treasured.
2 Updated: 15NOV11: Lowered it to 2-Stars. I have to say that reading these inThe Tolkien Readeris the way to do this. What really kills this audio version for me is the Tom Bombadil section... it's just a LoTR FoTR rehash, and not particularly good acting or casting, either.Updated: 30AUG10: Sorry for the long time, but I just couldn't make myself listen to this. Finally finished it. All I can say is it's good, but not great. Want something great Tolkien? Try this:The J.R.R. Tolkien Audio Collectionor this:The Silmarillion.original review below:OK. I haven't listened to these yet. However, I am a radical, rabid  J.R.R. Tolkien fan. I first read the Hobbit when I was 31 studying for a B.S. in Zoology at UC Berkeley. I immediately read LoTR. I have since read both more than thirty times, seen the movies, cartoons, and listened to several variants of books-on-tape/CD (favorite of course is the CDs read by Rob Inglis... get them!!!). I have read all of these books. In fact, I've read all of the J.R.R. Tolkien and the Christopher Tolkien books. These stories by J.R.R. Tolkien are, well, just something to enthrall the reader, as are all his works. It's absolutely amazing. Tom Bombadil is, of course, the best and most interesting character from LoTR, so more about/from him is mandatory. The others are just fun, fascinating, and so very captivating.I will update this when I've listened to the discs, but the review will only be about the presentation... the stories stand by themselves.
5 Tolkien's ability to enliven a narrative with words is arguably unparalleled in the genre. So it was with great delight that I listened to the recordings on this Audio CD, for the lively narration brought added depth to something already outstanding.I'm a bit hard of hearing, and as the volume of the narrator's voice went up and down, I missed out on much, but my memory - from 20 years ago - filled in the gaps nicely. If you're a bit hard of hearing, I wouldn't recommend this. If you're not, then it's a bit thumbs up.
4 Middle Earth enthusiasts hoping for high sorcery and eleven magic may be a bit disappointed by J.R.R. Tolkien's Tales from the Perilous Realm. This collection is essentially a book of fairy tales, including:Farmer Giles of Ham - Reminiscent of The Brave Little Tailor, Farmer Giles of Ham chronicles the adventures of a curmudgeonly farmer (and his faithful dog) as a chance encounter with a giant leads to a most unwanted charge to rid the realm of a deadly dragon.Smith of Wootton Major - A fairy tale in the best sense of the term, and one that shows how a person's life can be forever altered by seemingly insignificant events.Leaf by Niggle - This tale is widely considered an allegory of Tolkien's life, and shows how profound the creative process can be on a person.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil - Lord of the Rings fans will rejoice at the inclusion of this tale, which was unfortunately omitted from the movie trilogy.AudioBook Details - Tales from the Perilous Realm audiobook spans 3 CDs, with one major story per disc (the second disc includes both Smith and Leaf). The dramatization was produced for BBC radio, so the quality level of the performances is quite high. I could listen to BBC types read the phone book. I normally don't go for audiobooks, but in this case I'm glad I did. The readers brought these tales to life in a very memorable and very appropriate way.
4 Not every word that Tolkien wrote was gold. Some were silver, and frankly, some might be considered to be bronze and brass.Tales from the Perilous Realm is a wonderfully produced BBC audiobook version of four of Tolkien's smaller works:"The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" is two long poems of the titular character, and a host of other poems as well.  Not being a particular fan of poetry, and not enamoured of the character of Bombadil, this was the weakest portion of the collection from my standpoint."Leaf by Niggle" is an allegorical story about the creative process, with some of the religious elements that are much more overt in Tolkien's counterpart C S Lewis.  It's an okay story, I suppose."Smith of Wooten Major" is the sort of story that the Encyclopedia of Fantasy by Clute dove into as an example of a tale that illuminates the barrier between faerie and the ordinary world.  Other readers and listeners might look for parallels, as I did, to Neil Gaiman's Stardust (either the movie or the novel)."Farmer Giles of Ham" is the real gem of this collection. I feel this is the one story that Tolkien fans, fat and happy on the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings, should try next.  Giles manages to drive away a Giant from his community, and this precipiates a visit from a dragon, Chrysophylax.  While the dragon is no Smaug, he's still a problem that, once again, only Giles turns out to be able to deal with...As I mentioned before, above and beyond my opinion of the stories themselves, their presentation by the BBC here is uniformly first rate, and you may find these works by Tolkien worth listening on that basis alone.
5 For Tolkien fans, the stories included here need no introduction.  They are delightful, whimsical, and a great introduction to the author if you are trying to introduce tolkien to say your 8 yr old like I am, and the lord of the rings is forbiddingly long. This is a BBC audiobook, so its british pronunciation all the way -- thats authentic too!
5 This excellent book is a collection of five stories written by that master of letters, J.R.R. Tolkien (1892-1973). Each of the stories is excellent in its own right, and together they make a great library.The five stories are:1) Farmer Giles of Ham tells the story of a farmer by the name of Aegidius Ahenobarbus Julius Agricola de Hammo &#8211; or in the vulgar form, Farmer Giles of Ham. A no-nonsense man was Farmer Giles, and when someone steps onto his property, he is there to meet him with his blunderbuss. However, when the next person to set foot on his property is a giant, Farmer Giles soon finds himself dealing with kings and knights and legendary swords and, worst of all, dragons!2) Smith of Wootton Major tells the story of a little town that has a wonderful tradition where a special cake is baked every twenty four years, and eaten by twenty four good children. But, when a magical Faery star is slipped into this year&#8217;s cake, it is eaten by the local smith&#8217;s son. And so the life of the younger smith is changed beyond anyone&#8217;s imagination &#8211; he is marked by beauty of face and voice, and (unbeknownst to anyone) he can even visit the land of Faery whenever he likes. It is a life of magic and giving.3) Leaf by Niggle is actually my favorite, telling the story of Niggle, a man with an artist&#8217;s soul, who lives in a society that does not value art. He does what he can, when he can, but soon he must go on a trip that he was not prepared for. But, on the far side of this journey is the true art and beauty that he only glimpsed before.4) The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is an extract of the story of the hobbit&#8217;s meeting with the magical Tom Bombadil and his true love, Goldberry, the Daughter of the River, taken from The Lord of the Rings.5) And finally, Roverandom, which tells the story of a young dog named Rover, who crosses a powerful wizard from Persia. (The wizard, named Artaxerxes, had become lost and asked for directions, the misguided guide was confused and given him directions to Pershore instead!) Artaxerxes turns Rover into a toy dog, and sends him off. This is the start of an epic quest for Rover, who meets a sand-wizard, the Man-in-the-Moon, the great dragons that live on the moon, the many merfolk living at the bottom of the ocean, and a delightful little boy.Overall, I found this to be a charming and delightful collection of stories. Do yourself a favor, and find out why Professor Tolkien is remembered as the great author that he is. I give this book my highest recommendations!
3 Fans of The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings are unlikely to find these works quite as satisfying as those two books. Except for the fourth narrative, the Adventures of Tom Bombadil, they aren't even set in Middle-earth. They are fairy-tale-like stories, half read and half dramatized by the BBC, and the productions can be a little hokey, almost like children's stories. If you don't mind that, and don't require the same level of seriousness as is found in The Lord of the Rings, they've very pleasant. Most are allegories of the imagination and creativity.The last disk is excerpts from the BBC's dramatization of LOTR, focusing on Tom Bombadil.
4 This almost 3 hour production by the BBC Radio is a great deal of fun.  I must admit, however, it took me a short length of time to get used to multiple actors recreating the stories, rather than simply listening to one actor reading the stories unabridged.After I realized how the stories had been produced, I had a marvelous time listening to the works.  I've been a Tolkien fan since I was 12 years old - usually focusing on the Middle Earth related works - and I had never read (or heard) these stories.  Listening to these stories (fables, really) provided me with new and interesting insights into one of my all time favorite authors. The actors voices are well-cast, and their parts are well-played.  Recommended.
5 One of the greatest joys of childhood is snuggling in your blanket while a parent reads a favorite tale.  Sadly, as an adult you are the one who must do the reading.  Since I have previously enjoyed the BBC full cast version of the Lord of the Rings, I hoped I would enjoy this as well.  I was not disappointed.There are four stories on three disks, each containing elements of fantasy and faerie.  "Farmer Giles of Ham" has almost everything you could hope for in a fantasy story: knights, dragons, enchanted swords, treasure, and of course, a talking dog.  The tale includes many lessons such as what happens when gossip gets out of control, why one should not push his responsibilities off on others, and how greed does not pay."Smith of Wooton Major" allows us a peek into the perilous realm (the world of faerie).  One of the lessons here is not to judge people by appearance and to respect everyone you meet because you never know who they may be.  There is also a strong message about the importance of sharing.  Sharing is what gets Smith his wife, his success in life, and eventually, the opportunity to give another deserving person the chance for such success."Leaf by Niggle" is a warning about what can come from literally not seeing the forest for the trees (or even not seeing the tree for the leaves).  Sometimes people are so wrapped up in the details of their own lives they forget the greater world.  In this case, there is a chance for redemption because Niggle was basically a good person.  There is a lesson there as well."The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" is not really a stand-alone story; it is more of a side story from the Lord of the Rings saga.  The hobbits manage to get into a little trouble (as hobbits often do) and Tom Bombadil rescues them and offers them shelter for a couple of days.  The story is interesting, if a little eccentric.The cast is wonderful and with the sound effects and music included, it makes for a magical story time.  I found myself reminded of story day at the library where, as a child, I was fascinated by the puppets the librarian used to act out stories.  She often enlisted the help of library assistants to provide voices and sound effects.  This brought back the joy of those days, not to mention letting tired eyes rest while still enjoying a good book.The only thing I really found to be missing was a cast listing.  There were several voices I thought were familiar, but I did not find a listing in the package to confirm my suspicions.  Other than that, I have no complains and have already recommended this set to several friends and family members.
5 As a child growing up in England, I remember when we went on long car rides we'd listen to the radio, often to radio plays (or dramatizations, I think is the proper term). One about a ghost train passing through a train station at the dead of night stuck with me for years.It was a pleasant surprise, then, to come across this BBC dramatization of some of J.R.R.Tolkien's lesser known tales. I'm happy to announce that their brilliant productions have not lost their touch, and makes me somewhat sad to realize that today's radio stations don't have such shows any more. These tales engage the listener's interest, and spark their imagination, and are a pleasure to listen to.Of the tales themselves, there is Farmer Giles of Ham (which reminded me of the fairy tale of the man who kills several flies with one swat and others believe he killed ogres). This was a light-hearted tale, and one I'm sure kids would also enjoy.Next came Smith of Wootton Major, about a boy who swallows a magic star, which enables him to visit the Perilous Realm (the land of faeries, to you and I).Darker and more disturbing was Leaf By Niggle. I would be a little hesitant at listening to it with children as it involves an obsessive-compulsive painter who is sent to some type of mental institution, yet later is released and gives free reign to his imagination.Finally, The Adventures Of Tom Bombadil is a side adventure of Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin, on their quest to destroy the Ring (from the Lord Of The Rings). In this tale, they encounter a mysterious character named Tom Bombadil, who in my eyes seems like a cross between a brownie (in mythology), faerie king and a male version of mother nature. Within his realm he is master of all woodland creatures, even sentient trees, it seems...and when the four hobbits find themselves in trouble, Tom is there to help them.I highly recommend this delightful set although caution the purchaser that the excellent production combined with Tolkien's masterful touch may cause the listener to fall under a spell and lose hours of time without realizing it!
4 Great production values, nice quaint stories and some quintessential Tolkien poetry.  I loved having stories read to me as a kid which is most likely the primary reason I enjoy audiobooks as much as I do, and this audiobook is no exception.  If you are unfamiliar with Tolkien, then these stories will serve as a basis or introduction for continuing your odyssey with Middle Earth.  If you're already a long-time Tolkien fan, you've probably already read these at some point, but you will most likely still appreciate having them read to you, just like beloved bedtime stories.  I will definitely be listening to these again.
5 This book contains all three of my favorite Tolkien short stories: &#34;Farmer Giles of Ham,&#34; &#34;Smith of Wootton Major,&#34; and &#34;Leaf by Niggle.&#34;&#34;Farmer Giles of Ham&#34; contains the best talking dog in all of literature, and is a hilarious story about heroism, magic swords, giants, and dragons.&#34;Smith of Wootton Major&#34; is a bittersweet story about a blacksmith who discovers the realm of Faerie, and learns there to make very delicate and magical toys and ornaments.And &#34;Leaf by Niggle&#34; is about an artist, Niggle, whose most major work is a wonderful picture of a tree.  Unfortunately, the original picture is eventually destroyed in a fire, and the only surviving piece of it is a single leaf, which is accorded an honored place in a museum.  A very sad story about artists, and the nature of art.
5 This three CD book on tape is an interesting collection of Tolkien's lesser-known material of poetry and short stories. These fabulous works make for fun bedtime narrative or those on the run. If you're a fan of Tolkien, you'll most likely find this compilation entertaining and thought provoking. Course, it's not LORD of the RINGS, yet still worthy of a listen. You and your children may be delightfully surprised. I know I was.
4 This is a delightful little audio collection of some of Tolkien's short works, presented quite well by a full-cast dramatization. I liked the different voices and sound effects. There are times during the audio that I found the background music to be shrill to the point of drowning out the dialogue; I had to continuously adjust the volume of my car stereo to compensate for the differences between music and voices. However, these remain charming little stories in a creative presentation.I especially enjoyed "Smith of Wootton Major." This is an engaging little tale of fantasy, faith, creativity, and simple goodness. I thought that the dramatization here was quite effective, and I could easily listen to this story alone over and over. It was also a treat to listen to "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" - I think any Tolkein fan will be happy to have additional doses of Bombadil, and this collection doesn't disappoint."Farmer Giles of Ham" is a sweet, humorous little story that reminds me of so many of the fairy tales I read as a child.For me, the weakest entry here is "Leaf by Niggle." I actually nearly skipped over this story because I found the narrative to be so tedious. I get the message of the piece, but I think a little less being hit over the head by the message would have been more effective.Although I like this audio version, I think being able to hold these stories and see illustrations would probably be a better way to absorb them. I missed out on some of the magic by listening rather than being able to use my own imagination during the tales. Still, this BBC Radio production is quite good, and I think that younger readers who can sit still for a short story reading would get a kick out of these little snippets of fantasy.
5 I don't want to come across as a gushing fan of Alan Lee's, but in the past few months we have enjoyed his "Black Ships Before Troy," and "The Wanderings of Odysseus") (both by Rosemary Sutcliff) and also his "The Hobbit" and Ring Trilogy.  I'm raising a family of boys, and the visuals Alan Lee provides for these classic adventures are something special.For an illustrator, Tolkein must be both easy and difficult to capture -- his descriptions are so good, the scenes are vivid already in the reader's mind.  But the settings are so fantastical that putting them on paper seems almost a diminishment from the story.  Alan Lee handles it.The stories in this book are:Roverandom (my favorite)Farmer Giles of Ham (my favorite)The Adventures of Tom Bombadil (my NEW favorite)Smith of Wootton Major (WOW! my favorite)Leaf by Niggle (Definitely my favorite)Every page weaves a spell.  These stories remind me very much of Vladimir Nabokov's "Pnin" or "Pale Fire" -- layers and layers of meaning and clever word play, all wrapped up in a readable story.
4 First let me say this was my first audio CD, and for the most part I was very happy with it. The actors were a bit too enthusiastic at times, and it is difficult to believe, but I often found them over-acting, or overly animated....when you listen you will see what I mean. This being the case, lets get to the meat.....3 CDs with stories I had never known about, the worst, IMHO, being, "Leaf by Niggle." It just didn't grab, however, I can see how some would enjoy it. "Smith of Wooten Major", was enjoyable, and though a bit slow at times, was more than tolerable, and I did like it. "Farmer Giles of Ham," was very enjoyable. In both I liked the interactions, as well as some of the characters....."The Adventures of Tom Bombadil," was just great. I loved it! It is probably why I gave this entire set a 4 and not a three. You can read all the descriptions above, so there is no point in my repeating it. What I would like to point out is that this is actually a great story, and I have listend to it twice, as it is by far my favorite. I don't want to give anything away, but if you are a fan of Lord of The Rings, you really need to hear this. Get it, you will love it, I am sure. If you are a fan of Tolkien in general you will likely appreciate the others stories as well. At times the audio is a bit difficult to follow, but that happened rarely. All-in-all it made a 3 hour drive go by very easily. You will just have to turn the volume up loader than you are used to, as this is much lower than normal CD's.
3 This is an audiobook of some less well known Tolkien stories.  The quality is good, but do to the pacing of the stories it can get a bit slow.  Probably only appropriate for big Tolkien fans.
4 This is a set of Three Radio Plays from the BBC based on the Tolkein stories. All are reasonably well done, they seem to be aimed at a younger set, and are entertaining. Almost as good as the BBC "Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings".
4 This is the first time I used an audio book. The results were pleasantly surprising. The stories are told in a very interesting manner, with various sound effects and actors playing their parts to perfection. Young children would be especially interested too.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, this chapter I found the most enjoyable, maybe because of my affection with the Lord of the Rings. Those who have watched the movies only, would not know this character. Tom is the "Master", he is much above the Ring, the dark lord, the elves, the forest or any beings. This wonderful character is given great place in the actual book, but not in the movie. Please listen to and also read the book 'The Lord of the Rings'.The second one I found very enjoyable as a children's story, almost in the league of 'The Hobbit' was Farmer Giles of Ham. It is very well narrated and is a tale about a jolly simple farmer of a town called Ham, who goes ahead and "defeats" a dragon, and becomes a Lord in his own right.The Leaf by Niggle, Smith of Wootton Major, these ones I personally found a bit lost in between, to catch up with the story. These have touches of what would in future lead to ideas like the "One" you cannot resist, fairies, realms, towns folk and the usual Tolkien fare. Maybe this one required a read in the book by me, not through audio. But yet, given patience, and more careful hearing, the story can be followed.All in all, good audio story telling by BBC.
5 The BBC does a great job with audio productions - the readings and sound effects are top notch, which makes the stories even more enjoyable.  The wildly humorous Farmer Giles of Ham was my favorite by far, the story of a common man with greatness thrust upon him.  Smith of Wootton Major and Leaf By Niggle were both of the magical-awe fantasy sort of tales, one mixing with the world of Faerie, the other with a version of Heaven.  The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is really the only story of the four with clear ties to The Lord of the Rings, as it stars the Hobbits.I only wish the collection was larger - four stories on three CDs went by so quickly!
5 I will read anything Tolkien, and this is a nice addition to any fans library, if you love Tolkien then buy this book.
3 To begin with, I will admit that this is the first audio book that I've listened to since I was a small child.  Although I am an avid reader & a fan of Tolkien, my experience is limited to The Hobbit, LOTR, & The Silmarillion.  I have been wanting to read his short stories and other works, so I jumped at this volume, when I saw it.I will not bother with summaries of the stories, since that has been done in other revies.  I will focus on the production quality.Disc 1 contains the Farmer Giles tale.  This story is entertaining & suitable for all ages.  The voices seem to be well-cast & the sound effects were believable.Disc 2 contains Smith Of Wootton Major, an interesting story with a hint of magic & mystery.  This is also suitable for all ages.  The voices, again were enjoyable & well done.Also on disc 2 is Leaf By Niggle.  I think children would have trouble understanding this story & there may be content that's not appropriate for them, anyway.Disc 3 features The Adventures Of Tom Bombadil, a title which was somewhat misleading, at least for me.  I was hoping for & expecting a little history or backstory on the interesting character of Tom Bombadil.  This production is not really about Tom, at all, it merely recounts the chapters in The Fellowship Of The Ring where the Hobbits meet Tom Bombadil & their experiences with him.  Having read this story before, I had some preconcieved ideas about the voices of Tom & his wife & did not care for their portrayal in this volume.  The voices of the hobbits were well-done, however.Overall, the dramatizations were well-done.  The 3 discs come packaged in a box.  The front of the box is pictured on the product page & the back contains a summary of each story with a very small list of credits.  I would like to see a booklet added to the packaging that includes the cast list for each story & perhaps a "chapter list" to make skipping ahead a little easier, when necessary.  I listened to these before bed, so I often fell asleep during the tales.  A chapter list would have been helpful when I went back to finish the stories.
5 This is a great collection of Tolkien 's Faerie stories.  It includes the appendix On Faerie Stories and Roverandom the story Tolkien wrote for his children after his son Michael lost his toy dog whilst they were on a holiday.  The Adventures of Tom Bombadil is a collection of poems about the beloved but under talked about character from Lord of the Rings.  I recommend this to anyone who would like a great collection of stories to read to their children, or if you are a completely like me.  Either way it is just a great little read.
3 "Tales From the Perilous Realm' is a collection of five (5) storeis by J.R.R. Tolkien. This is a great book for a lover of Middle Earth. For the more casual fan these stories may leave you wanting.The five stories (four short stories and one book of poems) are enjoyable. For me, some more than others. I really liked the stories 'Leaf by Niggle' and 'Smith of Wotton Major'. The tales were well told and the characters were interesting. 'Farmer Giles of Ham' and 'The Adventures of Tom Bombadil' were nice, but not my favorites.The only story I really did not enjoy was 'Roverandom'. I just thought the story was like the title. It just wandered around. The story was cute, and written more for children.If you are looking for stories more in line with 'The Hobbit' and 'Lord of the Rings' I would suggest that you read 'The Children of Hurin' and 'The Simarillion'. Great books that continue the theme and history of Middle Earth. 'Tales of the Perilous Realm is a great additio to your collection, but not my favorite in the Tolkien library.
5 I'm not sure I could fairly review the stories themselves. Tolkien was a masterful storyteller and these short stories lack none of the magic I've experienced in his other works.Since the copy I received was the audiobook version I have to say that I want to review that. A dramatized version it's very easy to close your eyes and imagine that you've left a film on in the other room. When birds are chirping you hear them and the voices have just the right emphasis at the right time. I really enjoyed putting each story on during an afternoon of household chores.What more can I say? If you're a fan of Tolkien's works and looking for an audio version for a car trip or to share with someone with a sight impairment Tales from the Perilous Realm is very entertaining and well priced.
5 There is a passage in one of the stories collected here that accurately sums up the content of the book itself. In "Leaf By Niggle," Tolkien describes a painting that the artist Niggle has been working on: "It had begun with a leaf caught in the wind, and it became a tree; and the tree grew, sending out innumerable branches, and thrusting out the most fantastic roots...Niggle lost interest in his other pictures; or else he took them and tacked them on to the edges of his great picture. Soon the canvas became so large that he had to get a ladder, and he ran up and down it, putting in a touch here, and rubbing out a patch there."If the great tree on the canvas is Tolkien's master-work,The Lord of the Rings, then the other little pictures that are "tacked on" to the edges of the bigger one are the stories that are contained within "Tales from the Perilous Realms." Although they are written in the same style and often contain the same themes as the famous trilogy, they are not directly related to Middle-Earth itself. Instead they are self-contained short stories that shed further light on Tolkien's ideas concerning the importance of fairytales, or more specifically, his love of Faerie (not the species, but the place) as a setting for adventures.Contained here are four short stories, a collection of poems and an essay that explore Tolkien's work outside "The Lord of the Rings," supplemented by illustrations by Alan Lee. Although older editions of the stories were illustrated by Pauline Baynes (better known as the illustrator for C.S. Lewis'sThe Chronicles of Narnia), Lee's art is not just an acceptable exchange, but somehow even more fitting. Thanks to his work on Peter Jackson's film adaptations of Tolkien's work, Alan Lee (along with John Howe) has come to be affiliated with Tolkien's work in the same way that we link Quentin Blake with Roald Dahl and John Tenniel with Lewis Carroll, and his beautiful pencil sketches (or watercolours, depending on what version you get) manage to capture the text's blend of whimsy and realism.The story of "Roverandom" was born out of Tolkien's desire to comfort one of his sons after the boy's favourite toy dog went missing on a holiday to the seashore. Tolkien speculates that the toy was not a toy at all, but rather a real dog that had been transformed by a grumpy wizard, and who was now attempting to find his way home again. Journeying from the moon to the depths of the ocean, and meeting a host of magical creatures on the way, Roverandom's various adventures contain aspects of the ancient mythology that Tolkien admired so much. As the introduction by Tom Shippey points out, the dragons, serpents and wizards in the story all have their counterparts in later works; it is all "connected with the bigger picture.""Farmer Giles of Ham" is distinctive due to its narrative voice, in which an imaginary editor translates an imaginary narrator, wherein the editor is more interested in the tale's scholarly value on historical place names. With a rather disdainful tone of voice, the editor is ultimately undermined by the spirit of the story itself, which pits a hapless farmer against a wily dragon, entirely against his will. Sound vaguely familiar? Clearer than in any other story we can glimpse Tolkien's love of hearth and home, and the supremacy of simple pleasures and old traditions.Midway through the book is a segment titled "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil," named after one of sixteen poems included here, some of which were included in "The Lord of the Rings" and only two of which involve Tom Bombadil himself. As most readers already know, Tom Bombadil appears within the trilogy as one of its most mysterious characters, most widely regarded as a sort of embodiment of the English countryside; someone who is immensely powerful, but not interested in exerting that power. Tolkien's powers of creating mood and melancholy are at work here, particularly with the poignant "The Last Ship," which involves the passing of the Elves from Middle Earth.Tolkien presents these poems as the "marginalia" of writing that was found in the Red Book of Westmarch, which most will recall as the book authored by Bilbo, Frodo and Sam at the conclusion of the trilogy, and from which Tolkien himself purported to gather his information on the War of the Ring. It is a clever way of including several of his early poems (many of which were composed before his great trilogy was properly conceived) into the framework of his greater story, and Tolkien even includes a foreword that speculates on which of his characters wrote which poems. This means he has to retcon a couple of details, as when he blames the fake Elvish names in the poem "Errantry" (which was written thirty years prior to the trilogy) as Bilbo's poor grasp of the Elvish language, but also provides intriguing details such as speculation that "The Sea Bell" was written not by, but in memory of Frodo, regarding to his disturbing illness after returned to the Shire. Needless to say, it all adds to the rich tapestry of "The Lord of the Rings.""Smith of Wootton Major" is my favourite story in this collection. Despite its humdrum name, the tale is one of the deep enchantment that comes with passage between this world and "the Perilous Realms," after a lowly smith swallows a star concealed in a celebratory cake. Endowed with the ability to traverse the Faerie world, the story tells of his experiences there, until the time comes for him to pass the gift onto another. Sad and sweet, the story contains themes that permeate Tolkien's other work, such as the diminishing powers of the Elves due to people willingly reducing them to pretty little dolls, stripped of all their potency. Yet, as the Elf Queen says: "Better a doll, maybe, than no memory of Faery at all."As mentioned above, "Leaf by Niggle" can be interpreted as a metaphor for the creation of "Rings", with Tolkien as the artist Niggle, a man who is desperate to get his life's work finished. Shippey describes it as an "otherworldly Divine Comedy", in which Niggle is constantly interrupted, first by his own habits, and then by outside forces, finally enduring a sort of Purgatory, before advancing on into the world beyond the frame of his his own work. Although all the stories so far can easily be read to and by children, this is one that may very well leave them baffled. However, this shouldn't stop anyone from actually reading it to them anyway, though it may take a few reads by adults as well in order to derive the full meaning of Niggle's mysterious journey. Having apparently coming to Tolkien in a dream, this story is one that transcends both our world *and* fantasy realms, taking us past death and into the (possible) afterlife.Finally, the collection is capped off with Tolkien's famous "On Fairy-Stories" lecture, which essentially contains much of the ideology behind "The Lord of the Rings," and the blueprint for its themes and plotting. Here is where Tolkien coined terms such as the "eucatastrophe," and "sub-creations" and argues the full importance of fairytales in the world: "we get a piercing glimpse of joy, and heart's desire, that for a moment passes outside the frame, rends indeed the very heart web of story, and lets a gleam come through.""Tales from the Perilous Realm" will most likely appeal most to Tolkien enthusiasts, particularly in its inclusion of the poems, but anyone with a passing interest in fairytales will most likely appreciate and enjoy this collection. Inevitably there are glimpses and echoes of "The Lord of the Rings," which add depth to Tolkien's later work whether it is read before or after this anthology. If you squint, the star in "Smith of Wootton Major" is almost like a benevolent Ring, which grants insight and a certain degree of power; whilst "Farmer Giles of Ham" has the warmth and familiarity of the Shire in its portrayal of the English countryside. And when Roverandom gets a glimpse of the Western Isles of the edge of the world, I felt a little shiver, knowing that in another time and place, Frodo would be glimpsing them too.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien's legacy to the world was a tale of Hobbits and Rings.  In Tales From the Perilous Realm, four short stories are added, only one of which is clearly a Hobbitish tale:*  Farmer Giles of Ham:  A farmer gains courage as his dog loses it in search of a dragon.*  Smith of Wootton Major:  Mysterious processes are afoot regarding cooks, travelers, children, and fairies.*  Leaf by Niggle:  A relatively dark dramatization of an artist's creative focus.*  The Adventures of Tom Bombadil:  Straight from The Hobbit!These "short" tales (the 4 total almost 3 hours of listening) are the product of a BBC Radio dramatization.  Expect a variety of sound effects, background music, and powerful, expressive voices, all very well done.The order of delivery is interesting in this collection.  Farmer Giles is almost comedic, while Smith of Wootton Major is thoughtful, and Leaf by Niggle is dark.  Thank goodness the collection ends with the joyous enthusiasm of Tom Bombadil!Try this CD collection during your morning commute, particularly if you are a fan of Tolkien's work.
5 So nice to have all these stories in one book and the illustrations are fabulous.  A great bonus when shelving is at a premium due to all the other books written by this amazing author.  Also there are plenty of notes to help put the tales into place with Tolkien's other writings.
5 Except in very broad terms, I am not going to comment on the plot lines of the stories themselves.I rank the following areas:Stories ............... 4.5 starsAudio ................. 5 starsVoice Acting ........ 5 starsOverall...........5 starsTHE STORIES:  They were written by Tolkien after all; that alone probably starts them off with a one-star advantage.  Additionally, there are talking dogs, and fairies, and magical things, and hobbits - a smorgasbord of fantasy.  My favourite was Smith of Wootten Major (so called because it was larger than Wootten Minor).  I thought that acting and story came together best in this story. That said each of the stories was worth the listen.The AUDIO was clear and the actors enunciated well.  There was only one spot in which I had to replay for one word that I did not catch.  On the second play, I understood it clearly so the error could have been my own moment of inattention.The really lovely part though was that in usual fine BBC fashion, the VOICE ACTING was excellent!  Each story was brought to fascinating life; and in a manner that makes it clear why in times past families gathered as a unit around the radio to listen to serials.The actors managed to capture the nuances of each of the stories; the dog especially in the very first story grabbed my attention.  I also confess that after a while his 'dog voice' began to grate on my ears.  So much so that I considered giving 4 stars because of that.  I decided however that there was nothing in the other stories to cause the deduction of an entire star and many things to recommend 5 stars.  So here we are.The peripherals - the slam of a door, crunch of footsteps - all added to the experience.I predict that the CDs will be played over and over again in any home in which they reside.
5 Tolkien is a classic writer but beyond that he is a writer that takes you to different realms. The realm of faerie that is. Five of his classic tales involve traveling into the faerie realm. Roverandom involves a small dog who annoys a wizard who turn him into a toy. From there he is sold to a family and then getting into contact with a sand wizard named Psmathos, who restores him back to life but he is still small. His journey by both bird and whale take to him to the moon and the under sea kingdom. In the undersea kingdom the wizard who changed him over fails miserably at his job. At the end the dog is changed back to who he was. Lesson always be nice to people.Farmer Giles of Ham is about a farmer who chases giant off his property by shooting a giant full of buckshot. The giant flees and farmer Giles is rewarded and treated like a hero. All is well until a dragon comes by. Farmer Giles is afraid. but his sword is magic adn teh dragon is old. Eventually they strike a deal that makes Farmer Giles wealthy and powerful.Adventures of Tom Bombadil involve a wizard who gets on well with nature spirits , even marrying a water maiden. But he soon disappears after a boat trip. There are adventure with ogres that try to eat Tom but fail. Tom gives him a good swift kick and ends up getting a lame foot. One ogre feeds kids and a maided sees the final elf boat heave off to the elven island.Smith of Wootton major starts off with a master cook taking sudden leave. His assistant Alf is left behind. Nokes is brought i to replace him. Alf and Nokes put a faery star into the Great Cake. The smith gets it and he ventures into faerie fror 12 years . But after that  he must give it up and pass it on to someone new.Leaf by Nigle is about a failed artist who lives in a Russian like state of being. He ehelps neioghbors out of weekness and never gets his artwork finished.. He is transfereed to country wear he must build up teh country side.THe book finished off with Tolkiens discusson of faerie. Enchantment subcreations and secondary belief. Worth delving into.
5 Fabulous as usual. I hope Christopher knows that his painstaking work, is so gratefully appreciated by all of us that love Middle Earth, Valinor etc.... Thank you for giving us, books that will be read and re-read for years. Christopher's writing prowess should not be overlooked. He used notes, many nearly illegable, to produce these masterpieces. I think he is a great author in his own right. His Father would be very proud of him. I hope everyone who loves these books, writes a review, and remembers to thank both JRR & Christopher.
5 This is like an updated version of The Tolkien Reader from the 1960's which encludes short stories releasd since that time.
4 I consider myself a big fan of Lord of the Rings (LoTR).  I own lots of LoTR memorabilia, and I have seen all three LoTR movies many times, plus I have read and enjoyed The Hobbit and all the books in the LoTR trilogy.  Because I am such a fan of Tolkien and LoTR, I was really eagerly anticipating listening to Tales from the Perilous Realm.Unfortunately, I found most of the stories boring.  Several times during each story, I discovered that I had lost the narrative thread, and I had to listen to each story at least a couple of times in order to understand the plot.  I also found every story, but one, very boring.  The story I enjoyed was Farmer Giles of Ham.  The best part of that story was the dog.  I found Gorm, the dog, to be hilarious.  Gorm's voice is done very well.  I think the person who did his voice must understand dogs very well.I did find the production values of the CDs to be excellent.  The CDs come in a nice protective case, and the sound effects are very good.  I also enjoyed the background music and listening to the different voices.Personally,  I feel that these stories would be better read than listened to.  It was just too easy become inattentive when listening to the stories.  I would give this product 3-1/2 stars.
5 What better way to enjoy Tolkien than to have it performed for you. Four wonderfully written and thoroughly entertaining stories are just waiting to join you and the kids for a car ride, or an evening of imagination instead of television. Four stories are told over 2hrs and 55 minutes. The first, "Farmer Giles of Ham" has you laughing hysterically from the get go. It starts with an introduction of some of the characters (the dog, Gaum, is a favorite of ours) and a background to the story. As the story plays, you hear great sound effects that transport you into the adventure. The story starts with the farmer's dog, Gaum, discovering a Giant smashing crops and eating livestock as he travels. Farmer Giles falls over and accidentally shoots the Giant. Since he's so big, the Giant just thinks there are biting flies there and meanders in the opposite direction. Of course, rumors spread and the story gets exaggerated to the King who then sends the sword, "Tailbiter" to Farmer Giles. (Remember the sword in the Hobbit story?). A dragon then comes to the area burning crops, eating Parsons and "people of small stature" and wreaking havoc on the citizens. The Knights are all busy with a tournament, Christmas and then New Years, so it's up to Farmer Giles and "Tailbiter" to take care of the dragon. From there it's laughter to the listener. To tell anymore would spoil the story.The next three stories: Smith of Wootton Major, Leaf by Niggle and The Adventures of Tom Bombadil are just as entertaining. It's very obvious that the players had a lot of fun with the story. They keep it fully entertaining & engaging for my children - Ages 10 and 7 - who had fun imaging what the story would look like if played out before them.This audio rendition would be a great gift to any child or adult be they a Tolkien fan or not.
5 The poem on man as a sub-creator that occurs in his essay on fairy-stories is worth the price of the book.  As are his thoughts on man as a sub-creator.  We make in the manner with which we are made. This is why poetry, anthropomorphic interpretations of the world, mythology, and other forms of Freudian "wish-fulfillment" cannot be really regarded as distortions of reality at all.  Insofar as our minds work in alliance which Nature itself, we are making in the same manner in which we are made, and we are so reflecting God's created world back on itself.The idea is Neo-Platonic in its significance and really does a lot to give artists and myth-makers and Pagan peoples in general a great amount of dignity that cannot be fathomed from the perspective or atheism or other religions.In Leaf By Niggle, all tales do indeed come true, and Niggle spends a short purgatory in one of his own paintings!
4 These are great stories. They move along at a nice pace. They draw upon Tolkein's knowledge of folktales. They have that gentle view of humanity that so charms readers especially in this jaded time of splatterpunk and Grand Theft Auto.However, only two of these stories surpass themselves. Leaf of Nigel is a surprisingly modern story about a painter who is constantly harassed by his neighbors. One finds echoes in the stories of Peretz and O. Henry. Nigel is a painter but never feels like he's good enough to paint. ANd his neighbors constantly come to interrupt him. At the end, it's realized that he was worthy all along. Much of the story feels like an artist talking to himself and telling himself that he is worthwhile, darnit. But it's still rather effect.The other great story in the collection is Farmer of Ham vs. the Dragon. Very much like the Hobbit, this tale invokes the medeival politicking without hitting you over the head (like say Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court might do). Farmer doesn't so much fight a dragon as annoy him but annoy him in such a way that he really can't do anything about it. There's also a dog, but that's a trifle.The fairy story is a bit too predictable. Hate to say that Neil Gaiman did it better, but Neil Gaiman did it better. I suppose Neil Gaiman would have read the story somewhere along the lines and it may have influenced him, but that doesn't change the fact that no one does fairy stories like Neil Gaiman.The last story in the collection probably shouldn't be in the collection at all. Tom Bombadil is an annoying character, written solely to tie LOTR to The Hobbit and even he doesn't do a very good job of it. Bilbo, the ring and Gandalf are all on hand so why use TOm Bombadil? I don't know, but Tolkein likes the character so much that he expands his scenes into a long story.So good stuff. Not great. No LOTR but definitely worth a listen.
5 This work contains four short stories by Tolkien, as well as my favorite non-LOTR work "Leaf By Niggle."  "Leaf by Niggle" offers more insight into Tolkien than any biography written; it is key to understanding Tolkien.  These stories and, in the case of "Tom Bombadil," poems, are delightful side trips into Tolkien's creativity.  "Farmer Giles of Ham" is the best of the lot, but they are all very good.  The soft pencil sketches by Alan Lee are a welcome addition.  If you enjoy reading Tolkien, you should buy this volume.
3 This product falls into the category of an audiobook, because the production is based on Tolkien's works, but it is more of a radio dramatization than an audiobook. The production includes music, stereo sound effects, and a full cast. Overall, the production is very well done. However, the overall collection lacks excitement.There are four stories in the collection.  The collection is contained on three CDs. The running length is about three hours, so this can easily be digested in a single sitting. You can easily split the collection and listen to individual stories whenever convenient, since none is more than an hour in length.Although these are short stories, I found it somewhat difficult to pay attention, and each of the stories lost my attention several times, requiring me to replay tracks or repeat passages.  The stories themselves are engaging -- I found that I really wanted to know where they were headed and what was going to happen. In the end, however, most of these stories fell flat for me, and I either ended up confused or disappointed."Farmer Giles of Ham" is quite entertaining, and is probably the best story in the collection. It includes the farmer, a giant, a dragon, and a talking dog. It runs for about an hour and is quite whimsical, but disappointing in the end -- what you think could happen never happens."Leaf by Niggie" is perhaps a story about obsession, friendship, journeys, life, and death. Niggie, a painter, becomes obsessed with his painting of a tree. After some mishaps, the tree becomes reality -- or does it? As a listener, it's really up to you to decide what happened in the end. I thought this story was thought provoking, and it deserves more than one listen. A gem at about 30 minutes in length."Smith of Wootton Major" was completely lost on me, and I honestly did not enjoy the story or its outcome. It lost my attention quite a few times. It was extremely hard to follow, even at only about 30-35 minutes.Unfortunately, "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" are simply "deleted scenes" from the BBC Radio dramatization of "The Lord of the Rings". If you're familiar with the story, you'll recognize the characters and themes. For me, however, this was merely "filler" in the collection, running about 60 minutes.I've never read any of Tolkien's works, and have only been exposed to his works through "The Lord of the Rings" movies. To say the least, I expected more. For the average person, these stories will be "average", although I suspect fans of Tolkien's works will be pleased.
4 Since they were first published, THE HOBBIT and THE LORD OF THE RINGS have always been popular.  Those two works combined guaranteed that Tolkien would always have a place at the top of fantasy fiction.  Publishers and film studios know that if you just put Tolkien's name on something, you're guaranteed to have more success than without.  Not long ago, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt became the prime American publisher of "new" Tolkien works.  A couple years ago they published THE CHILDREN OF HURIN which was a very successful book and this summer they will be publishing a new edition of Tolkien's translation of THE LEGEND OF SIGURD AND GUDRUN.  Last fall (2008), this volume TALES FROM THE PERILOUS REALM was released.  The book is a collection of four short stories, a collection of poems, and an essay.  Each of the works is available elsewhere, either as a stand alone volume or a part of larger collection. However, this is the first time that these pieces are together in one book.  The stories share no characters or settings and are only connected because of theme: each one is a fantasy or "fairy story".  TALES FROM THE PERILOUS REALM includes:"Roverandom"--a story about a toy dog that comes to life, flies to moon, and travels to the depths of the oceans."Farmer Giles of Ham"--a tale about a simple early British farmer who using his wits and common sense defeats a giant and a dragon."The Adventures of Tom Bombadil"--this is a collection of poems and the only piece that has any association with Middle Earth.  A few of the poems are about Tom Bombadil, but most are just poems that are a part of the culture that citizens of Earth probably would have been familiar.  Included is the poem about the Oliphants that Samwise talks about in THE LORD OF THE RINGS."Smith of Wooton Major"--a true fairy tale about how deceiving appearances can be and the passing of gifts from one generation to the next."Leaf By Niggle"--an allegorical story about a painter who goes on a long journey."On Fairy-Stories"--Tolkien's essay about what is and isn't true fantasy.The book also includes an introduction by Tom Shippey and the stories are accompanied by illustrations from Alan Lee.TALES FROM THE PERILOUS REALM is a pretty decent collection of Tolkien's shorter works, especially that not connected to Middle Earth (except for "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil").  Those who consider themselves Tolkien scholars might not get as much from this book as a casual Tolkien fan or reader.  The illustrations are nice, but Alan Lee is a different artist than Pauline Bayne and some readers might not like that.  However, if you are just a basic fan of Tolkien, are interested in reading more of his work, or have never read any of these stories before, you might want to spend some time curled up under a blanket and reading TALES FROM THE PERILOUS REALM.
4 It was not what I expected.  I thought it would be an expanded work of the Lord of the Rings but it's not.  However, the stories were well written and imaginative.
5 I have never listened to a book on tape, or CD.  This was my first time.  I enjoyed it, and think I very well may try it again.The compilation of these short stories were put together in a book called "A Tolkien Miscellany". It was published in June of 2002.  This book has Smith of Wootton Major, Farmer Giles of Ham, Tree and Leaf, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.  I read this book 3 or 4 years ago, and it was a great read.This book to CD called Tales from the Perilous Realm does NOT include Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.  It includes the other 4 titles.  It comes in a 3 CD set.  Those of you familiar with the books to CD know the CD can include sound effects and music, which is an very interesting addition to a good story.A Tolkein Miscellany is currently listed as a used paperback for 16 cents on Amazon.  If in doubt, buy the paperback before....to see if you want this on CD.  I definitely recommend the book.  I will leave the CD decision to you without a recommend as I feel you need to buy into the concept of a book to CD first.Hope this helps.  I think Tolkien is a fabulous writer, for what it is worth.  Happy reading.
3 Not sure if I'm supposed to review the performance of these dramatizations or the actual tales themselves.  For the latter, this is Tolkien, but definitely not Lord of the Rings.  These are earlier stories, and smack of Tweed England - they are funny, and homey, and sort of proper in that old fish n chips sort of way.  For the former, the dramatizations are standard BBC, which isn't bad at all.These are really fun for passing a car ride, especially if you have kids along.
4 "Tales from the Perilous Realm" is a wonderful demonstration of that bygone era of radio storytelling that America no longer remembers but, fortunately, the BBC does.  The production values are exceptional.  The acting is always lively and true--even if sometimes the quality of the voices sometimes sounds incongruous with the characters they represent (Should Goldberry sound like a heavy smoker?).  Sound effects are appropriate and never overused.  The music is perhaps more synthesized than any production from the last decade has any right to be, but the story nevertheless benefits from its addition.The adaptations of the stories are, for the most part, quite well done.  I don't know if Tolkien's original tale for "Farmer Giles" had a talking dog, but the story is better for the BBC's hilarious portrayal of the pet.  While pacing sometimes seems rushed, and the passage of time often seems to move too quickly, the production is operating as best as it can under the time restraints of modern media.  Having read more than a little of Tolkien in the past, I am assuming that much of the actual dialogue was scripted directly by the BBC, but it all seems to meld seamlessly into the Middle-Earth that so many of us have come to love and appreciate.The tales themselves are respectable additions to the Tolkien canon, all demonstrating the professor's love for nature and Faerie.  "Farmer Giles of Ham" is an amusing story about a "dragon-slayer"; it is perhaps the most cohesive and accessible of the tales.  "Smith of Wooton Major" follows the tradition of many of our most popular fairy tales--the kind of tale where, after reading it, certain aspects of morality still remain ambiguous.  "Leaf by Niggle" is the most unique story for its allegorizing of the afterlife (yes, I am aware Tolkien hated allegory) and its study of the artist.  And "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil" will offer no surprises for fans of The Lord of the Rings; it is faithfully reproduced here for anyone slighted by its omission from Peter Jackson's films.All in all, these are wonderful adaptations of some great narratives.  They will probably only appeal to the most ardent of Tolkien fans, but those interested in weaning themselves into his universe will find no better primer than these CD's.
3 This read like a Young Adult romance book rather than history.  The young characters were too modern in their speech and manners.  They said things like &#34;Yup&#34;, &#34;you bet&#34;, and Katherine as Queen even used the F-word.  Even though I was put off early in the book, I forced myself to finish it.  Not sure it was worth my time in the end.
4 What with the torrent of movies, miniseries and novels set in the age of Henry VIII, the monarch's ill-fated queens have become a media industry in the last few years. There are high points, certainly. Hilary Mantel's prize-winning WOLF HALL is a masterly evocation of Henry's reign, as are the superb historical mysteries by C.J. Sansom. And Philippa Gregory's many novels of the period are colorful, absorbing reads with a satisfyingly authentic feel.If Suzannah Dunn's latest historical novel, her fourth, isn't quite up to those lofty standards, it is an entertainingly frothy gloss on the story of Henry's unlucky fifth wife. THE CONFESSION OF KATHERINE HOWARD's particular distinction is its emphasis on the youthfulness of the queen and her friends (her precise birth date is disputed, but in Dunn's book she is 17 when she marries Henry). Katherine is that recognizable Popular Girl --- there's one in every high school class; I can remember mine with dead accuracy --- whose enigmatic cool and sexual sophistication other girls envy and admire, love and hate. Kat Tilney, the novel's narrator, positively radiates ambivalence. A girl from a solid but hardly aristocratic family, she meets Katherine when both have been farmed out to the Duchess of Norfolk's household to be educated and made marriageable.Kat is a good foil for Katherine. She is much more nave, her rather medieval notions of love ("A lady could only love one man --- romantically --- at a time") colliding with her friend's taste for sexual variety. Although she is able initially to resist the Howard girl's seductive powers, ultimately they become close friends (they even fall in love, consecutively, with the same man). When Katherine becomes queen, she appoints Kat as one of her ladies-in-waiting.Dunn makes the dramatically effective decision to start the novel at the point of maximum danger, as Katherine's enemies are gathering. Her premarital sex life is the issue, so the queen's peril leads quite neatly to a series of flashbacks to her girlhood flirtations and bedroom romps. When Francis Dereham --- Katherine's secretary and former boyfriend, and Kat's current swain --- is pulled in for questioning by the king's secretary of state, the wheels of fate begin to turn.We all know how Katherine ended up (hint: it rhymes with wedded); the suspense in THE CONFESSION OF KATHERINE HOWARD lies in which side Kat comes down on. Will she try to protect her boyfriend or remain loyal to her friend and queen? Adolescent girls being what they are, despite the vaunted sisterly values of feminism, there's no telling....And make no mistake: Teenagers, with their inimitable mix of innocence and knowingness, vulnerability and opportunism, are what Dunn's book is all about. She has written an easy-to-read, diverting novel with some attractive prose, particularly when it comes to descriptions of clothes ("England: firelight and fireblush; wine-dark, winking gemstones and a frost of pearls. Wool as soft as silk, in leaf-green and moss; satins glossy like a midsummer midnight or opalescent like winter sunrise"). She is assuming, apparently, that girls then, as now, were fashion-mad, and frighteningly frank about sex. My main quibble is that Dunn also assumes that people spoke the same way in Henry VIII's time as they do today. Just a sampling of anachronisms: "Kidding"; "Nice one"; "Amazing." It's not that her characters have to be uttering doths and forsooths at every turn, but this is a bit much.Historical fidelity isn't its strong point, yet THE CONFESSION OF KATHERINE HOWARD does bring the young queen's poignant story to life. Katherine may not have been a true innocent, but she hardly deserved so cruel a death. As for Kat, the good girl to the queen's wanton diva, I rooted for her and Francis to survive, marry, and have a family. You'll have to read the book yourself to find out if they got their happy ending.--- Reviewed by Kathy Weissman
4 This book is not much longer than the life of Katherine Howard herself.  However, it does present Katherine in a different light.  In previous biographies and historical fiction, Katherine seems more of a pawn for her family than a woman who is capable of making calculated decisions.  Philippa Gregory captured this very well in The Boleyn Inheritance.  However, Susannah Dunn portrays Katherine as a very calculating girl - at least as far as calculating her own effect on others and what it will bring her.  While the book is entertaining, since it concentrated on Katherine and her relationship with her friend Cat, it downplays Jane Rochford, who surely had a bigger role than she was given in this book, given that she was executed for her role in Katherine's downfall.  But the scenes of Katherine's arrest and confinement, and her reaction of fury and fear, are believable, and make a character who is not altogether sympathetic throughout the earlier pages someone to be pitied in the end.
4 The Confession of Katherine Howard is a retelling of the rise and fall of Katherine Howard, the fifth wife of King Henry VIII by her girlhood friend and later Lady in Waiting, Cat Tilney. As I hadn't previously read a lot on Katherine Howard I was very interested in learning more about her brief stay as Queen of England. The Confession of Katherine Howard takes us deep into the world at court where treachery, lies and betrayals run rampant.At the young age of twelve, Katherine is sent to live with the Duchess of Norfolk. She comes across as aloof to the other girls yet they all want to befriend her. At first Cat Tilney resists Katherine's pull but even she succumbs and they become best friends. Cat is horrified at much of Katherine's behavior because even as a young girl Katherine had a real hankering for the boys. While with the Duchess, Katherine makes her way through a few boys, one being Francis Dereham. She seemed to be quite taken with him but ultimately was called away to King Henry's court at the age of seventeen. I'm not entirely sure that Katherine ever really loved anyone as much as she loved herself.In the meantime Cat is left at the Duchess's and becomes involved with Francis herself. Later on when Katherine is made Queen, Cat is called to court as is Francis. Katherine however has not been idle and certainly not devoted to King Henry. Again Cat is horrified when she learns that Katherine has been carrying on an illicit affair with Thomas Culpeper. Cat warns her that she is going to be found out and that it would mean certain death if she was. Queen's were supposed to be virgins which Katherine was most definitely not. In a time when Queens seemed to be coming and going, Katherine was really playing with fire.Ultimately her background is looked into and it is believed she was pre-contracted to Francis Dereham which back in that day was like a marriage contract. Not being a virgin was alone enough reason for her not being worthy of the King but lying to him as well was treason in its highest form. In the meantime Cat, desperate to help Francis who she loves, gives away a few clues as to more of Katherine's behavior and this is what eventually is the last straw for Katherine. While Katherine does try her best to get herself out of trouble and especially out of being executed, she doesn't succeed.Overall I really enjoyed this book. It's written in a simple and straight forward way that I really liked and it made for easy reading. My biggest complaint about this novel is that I thought, from the title, The Confession of Katherine Howard and even the description of the book, that I would be reading an account from Katherine's viewpoint. The book is told entirely from Cat's viewpoint and really I learned just as much about Cat's life as I did Katherine's. This did take away from the book for me because really it was just Katherine I wanted to read about, not her friend. That being said though the novel is really good and is a very enjoyable read for those who love historical fiction, especially those who love anything to do with Henry VIII as I do!
3 When 12 year old Katherine comes living with the Duchess of Norfolk, she meets  Cat Tilney and they become friends despite having very little in common. From early on Katherine is more interested in boys and clothes tan anything else and Cat is more reserved. One of the boys living there is Francis Dereham who soon falls for Katherine but when she leaves to court, Francis is left behind with Cat and they slowly start to become more closer than before.First of all I don't know any other author who's book title and synopsis is as confusing and misleading as Dunn's. Every book I've read so far sounds like it's telling the story of someone else than it really is. You could think this book is told from Katherine's point of view but it's told from Cat's pov the whole time.I think I liked this best from the books I've read from this author. It was rather quick read and while the little too modern writing with "could've", should've  and the like. I'm also not sure if they would have said that  "What goes up must come down".Katherine is usually described like she has no brains whatsoever so it was refreshing to read this version of her, even if she wasn't very likeable person. It gave the feeling she was too self-centered and didn't love anyone else besides herself.All in all it was enjoyable and rather quick read. But you will most likely learn more about Cat Tilney than Katherine Howard.
2 I have no wish to hurt the author's feelings but I did not enjoy this book at all and got very little out of it.The writing is so dull that I actually lost concentration many times. The author is trying hard to be the new Philipa Gregory but the dialogue and characterization is poor.In fact I never liked Philipa Gregory's hatchet job on Anne Boleyn, I like Dunn's hatchet job on Katherine Howard even less.I personally believe that Katherine Howard, while indeed was a sexually promiscuous girl and perhaps simple ,  had a loving heart which was why she loved more than one man . But she was NOT the pathologically selfish schemer that Dunn paints her as and various other books and films have done.At any rate its time we dropped the portrayal of sexually adventurous girls as being wicked and deserving a nasty fate while men who do the same are seen as much admired and many rakes. It should have no place any-more , though it seems to be being imported back into Britain by Islam. Now the best novels about Katherine Howard isMurder Most Royal: The Story of Anne Boleyn and Catherine HowardandThe Rose Without a Thorn: The Wives of Henry VIIIby Jean Plaidy. Read that instead.
4 In childhood, Catherine Tilney and Katherine Howard became best friends when both were wards of the Duchess of Norfolk.  They remain close through their teen years as their families ignore them.  Katherine falls in love with Francis Dereham.  However, King Henry VIII makes the teenager his fifth wife.  However, her time as queen is short because of accusations that she had an arrangement with Dereham prior to marrying the king; her best friend, a lady in waiting, is also considered for execution due to guilt by association.The Confession of Katherine Howard is made fresh by Catherine, as the narrator Tilney provides a unique perspective that in many ways turns the exciting story line into her tale as she paints a picture of her friend as being intelligent rather than an inane flirt.  In order for Howard to have achieved what she did in a man's world where she was abandoned as a child, she would have needed some smarts.  Ironically what beheaded her was her childhood attraction to Francis Dereham, which no evidence supported the contention that this continued as an adult but was used as if it was alive during her marriage to the king.  Although the wives of Henry have been featured in many biographical fictions including by Suzannah Dunn (see The Queen of Subtleties, The Sixth Wife and The Queen's Sorrow; and The King's Rose by Alissa Libby), this is a unique look at a woman unfairly judged during her life and since; perhaps Henry in his gut knew as he aged rapidly after her beheading.Harriet Klausner
4 Amazing. Simply amazing. I loved this book. It was a fast read for me, as I became so completely one with the story, that I found it impossible to put down. Suzannah Dunn has the ability to take a fiction novel and pen it a way that is real to the reader. It becomes a fascinating reality to the person holding the book. The characters aren't characters; they are real. The plot isn't a plot; it's actuality. That is, as I said, simply amazing.Katherine's story is vibrant and full of so many emotions. From happiness, to hurt, to anger and love. As a young orphan, Katherine's story is full of ups and downs. She meets her best friend, and  finds a love with Francis that she thought would be true, yet she can no longer hold that love true, but has to leave it behind. She becomes Henry VIII's 5th wife, and takes on that new life of being a queen. But, then rumors fly and things happen to cause her concern about her safety and her standing. What will happen if the truth about Francis, her young lover? Will he be executed so she can live? Will the truth be set free through Katherine's friend, Cat? And what of Katherine's life....is it over before it truly begins?This is a story of love, hope, and betrayal. A powerful novel of an era long forgotten. It's filled with mystery, as the rumors fly, it's suspenseful grip on the reader is tight. The research that Suzannah Dunn did in order to create this historical, fascinating and wonderful novel is beyond fantastic. The emotions she set forth in this book, and the actions of not only Katherine Howard, but also in Francis, Henry VIII and Cat, is all consuming.I highly recommend this novel to everyone who loves the era gone by. It's a 4 star novel that will leave you wanting more, and to find out the fact from the fiction, as this novel is written in a way that you will never know the fiction aspects are just that: fiction. If you are new to this kind of novel, then please, don't hesitate to click the link below and buy a copy. Suzannah Dunn's skills are masterful and you will be transported back in time to live out your reading days as a member of Henry VIII's court. Dunn definitely has a new fan in me!*This review is based on a complimentary copy which was provided for an honest review*
5 I realize that being a queen in medieval England was the dream of many a young lady.  But the thought of being queen to Henry VIII should give only nightmares.  Yet, Katherine Howard lived that dream and turned it into a nightmare.  But for the queen to take a lover requires guile on he part and Katherine had none.  Ms. Dunn captures the innocence of Katherine and the political greed of her family.  It is another glimpse into Tudor England.
2 There are two approaches you can take in assessing the life of Katherine Howard. Either she was a silly little girl who got led out of her depth, or she was a knowing, sexual girl - a sort of Tudor Ladette if you like. The former approach is more usually taken by the history books, but with some foundation, Dunn takes the latter view. I don't have an issue with that. Neither do I particularly object to the modern language used - in fact I think it can help to bring these lives to life in a fun way - the use of nicknames for the servants is mildly amusing. This is much like the BBC's Tudors TV series, but without all the heaving bosoms.But the problem with this book, which combines the final days of Katherine's position as Henry VIII's fifth wife with flashbacks of her upbringing, is that it's told from the point of view of Catheryn Tilney (a real life member of Katherine's household) although the depth of friendship and Catheryn's relationship with Dereham is Dunn's own creation. And, as if to emphasise the shift away from seeing Katherine as a silly little girl, here Dunn makes Tilney so desperately dull and nave that the bulk of the book, instead of being about Katherine, is a poor romance of Tilney's sexual navity and her wondering about sex.Given that what we know about Katherine is so richly lurid (her relationships with music teacher Manox and Dereham prior to her wedding and then, while married, with Culpeper) due to the investigation that took place, it's a heck of an achievement to make this such a dull read. Perhaps there is just too much known about this aspect of her life (but little else of it) to excite Dunn's imaginative juices. So she concentrates on her fictionally enhanced Tilney - who is a crashing bore and a drip of the highest order.Dunn invents a friendship that is unbelievable because she paints the two girls as so different - Tilney is bemused how people manage to breath while kissing while Katherine (or Kate as she's known) is spouting wisdom on contraception apparently picked up from her older half sister Isabel Leigh, telling Tilney at one point "well anyway, Izzy says it's either the lemon or you let them do it up your backside".I didn't find either brought the characters to life. I was expecting historical fiction - what I got was historical romance - with not that much about the person in the title. I'm sure there's a market for that - I'm just not it. It's a bit of a lemon - which in the context is not a nice thought...
4 I really enjoyed this book always have been fascinated by Henry the III's wives what made them think they would be the one.
5 I'm not for errors in printing; thusly I would recommend that this edition reprint the reprint and change the word "ever" to "every" (Greek: pas: all, every, whole). But the Oxford Edition of the Authorized translation of 1611 that was given to me in 1980 is bound in genuine leather; and fits into the palm of my hand.  I do not believe Oxford even prints this compact and quality style of the Scripture anymore.  It even has the note delivered to Prince James in the beginning of the text. (though it does not have the maps or translator notes in the margin).So, I am not certain if the particular edition printed in Cambridge is still around; But I do have the Oxford Edition, pure Authorized Edition, with spelling errors corrected and standardized in spelling.  1611, but not with the "mee" in one verse and the "me" in another; but both changed to "me".I've had this palm sized copy of Holy Writ since 1980.  Carried it around college in my book bag for when I wanted to soak in Truth.  I wish Oxford--or Cambridge--would reprint an edition of Scripture this size.  No notes or references.  Just Scripture and THE LIVING & TRIUNE GOD to Guide you through HIS Word.Welles
5 This is one of the best inexpensive KJV printings you will find.  Even if you have to wait to get it, it is worth the wait.The text is clean and there are no "notes" or "helps" whatsoever -- just God's word.The text is from the Cambridge University Press printings of the KJV from about 1900 to 1980 -- known by some as the "Pure Cambridge Edition" of the KJV.
5 God is good and if you love the lord you will love the words and the teachings of the bible. it was smaller than i would have liked it to be but its still worth the purchase.
1 If you are going to sell bibles you should know what you are selling. This is advertised as a &#34;KING JAMES VERSION&#34; (KJV) the bible I received was a &#34;New&#34; King James Version (NKJV). Big difference. Only spent $7.00 on it not worth the cost of returning.
2 I was not pleased with this Kindle version of The King James Version Bible!  The words (with Direct Verse Access) in the title are very misleading!  I assumed from those words in the title that you would be able to directly access any verse but that is not true.  It is the hardest version to navigate that I have tried.  I would not recommend it.
3 This review is of a bonded leather Collins Bible, which is presented in a wonderful cloth covered, and hard, case.  The bible itself is quite sturdily made, with good quality paper; but I have two main points against it: one the lesser, the other greater.  The first, lesser point; is that this is made with bonded leather - and I can feel the difference...  Granted, though, the price is very reasonable, and one does not generally expect true leather in this price range.  But, secondly, the greater; the type size for the print is a shade too small.  KJV bibles are typically presented in a verse by verse format - as this one is - instead of the paragraph format one customarily encounters in other translations; and one must not only consider the point type, when remarking on the aesthetics of a certain bible, but, additionally, the spacing between lines and columns, and the style of the print itself.  It is on the latter concerns that this Collins bible actually does not fair too well; that is to say the text is not as gracefully presented as it should be.  This is a delicate, but to a degree personal, concern; however, I have seen Collins do better.  For those interested, this review pertains to The Holy Bible, Authorized KJV, Collins, ISBN-13: 978-0007259762.- John G. Lewis
2 This was advertised as leather bound instead of &#34;bonded leather.&#34;  I was very disappointed as these 2 Bibles were to be gifts.  I had to return them.  I have had bonded leather and it just does not hold up for any length of time on &#34;anything!&#34;
5 I collect Bibles and have many versions and formats. A few are very useable and many aren't that useable. This is the best reading Bible I have.This Bible doesn't have cross-references or footnotes, so there is nothing to interfere with your reading of the text.The binding is excellent, no, it is superb!The page width is narrow, allowing one to use it easily on a crowded desk.Even though the Bible is thin, the pages are opaque enough that the text on the opposite side of the page does not interfere.This Bible is very, very light.The leather cover is very nicely done.There are maps and they have notes on. :)There are presented to pages at the beginning.The Bible comes in a sturdy cardboard box with a material type finish.Perfect for storing your treasured possession when not in use.All in all 10/10.Can't recommend this Bible enough.So happy with it!A big thank you to Collins publishers for bringing out something which Nelson and Zondervan frequently fail at doing.Many people will be indebted to you for your attention to detail and quality.
3 This is in great condition, and very useable.  I prefer a larger font, and wish I'd known it was small.
5 one book was not enough. it left me hungry for more. some of the main themes are repeated, in terms of the authors childhood. but overall it gives a more in depth account of the ins and outs of the restaurant industry in england, as well as the perils and challenges of expansion abroad. more than anything it humanizes the mythical figure created by the media. we see another side of a beloved star, one that is kind, compassionate, heartwarming and endearing. it is as if he cannot believe his luck and the amount of success he has had and is constantly thinking up ways to give back what he received... as long as you are prepared to work for it of course!
5 Been to his restaurant last year for my birthday. Food was good, service was excellent. BUT the music was too LOUD!!!! I couldn't hear my server. Will I go back.? No I am a local and it took a year to save all the money for three people. I know this year we are going to Lawery's. Their prices are a little more reasonable and I can take four people and not spend the money but still have an great time. I wouldn't recommend Ramsay's place to my friends, because all you're doing is buying a name. Linda J. Bodrero
5 If you're interested in the restaurant business, this book is definite for you.Gordon Ramsay shares 20 years of hard work, together with the born and rise of his company.It's simple, funny, down to earth. Really think it was a GREAT addition to my library.
2 Couldn't help feeling that ole Gordie has some help with this one - there was so much of his writing that appeared too grammatically organised and air-brushed.It was interesting in parts - particular the sections that dealt with the creation of the individual restaurants - with golden nuggets of wisdom dispensed on how to set up a business and run it profitably. It did get bit samey as the method was repeated across various restaurants. However, there was a lot that was very interesting and insightful and I felt I learned something about the restaurant trade. If I ever set up one of those babies - Gordon's book will be there close to my heart as my guide and aide-memoire.But there was a lot of annoying stuff too - for instance a whole chapter spent praising and glorifying ladies who had worked with Gordon. The praise and almost deification of some of these gals became sickly. They were all described in the most glowing terms - all supremely intelligent (yet sensitive and womanly) and gorgeous to boot. It really was horrible and if I was one of those women I would scratch my head and say "this is way too much.....and I am embarrassed by this stuff...what's Gordon after?"Also - every mistake Gordon makes is relayed as some sort of triumph - even the stuff about the tax man was used as a tool to add martyrdom to Gordon's fine character traits.There was even a whole section telling us about some bloody house that Gord' had purchased - my gawd - that was boring - tedious and empty. He summed himself up very well when he makes the comment that the house sent out a message to the world of where he and his family were at......in other words - "this is a big important house and we are big and important too.....world take note".Does he really feel that insecure that he needs some sort of symbol of wealth to help him along life's way? I felt genuinly quite sad for him when I read that.Finally we have the finale - the summing up chapter which synthesises all that is Gordon Ramsey - his pearls of wisdom - his conclusions on life, death and the universe, which was marginally interesting but was in essence a re-write and precise of all that had gone before in the book.I like Gordon Ramsey but I did not get a sense that he was writing this book - yes there were a few "f" words thrown in at intervals - but I fear that these were token gestures - or some sort of device to fool the reader into the thinking Gordon was writing this stuff.I was not fooled.
4 I received two Gordon Ramsay books for Christmas this past year, this one was my first read, and Roasting in Hell's Kitchen was the second. I hate to admit it, but I found Roasting in Hell's Kitchen to be the better of the books - now keep in mind I read Playing with Fire first, and I probably should have read Roasting first. If you want to get insight on his business dealings and the restaurants in the Ramsay Holdings company and some background on his life in general then this is the book for you. However, if you want more details about the man in general, his family, his struggles over the years, then I would suggest Roasting in Hell's Kitchen. I found Playing with Fire, interesting in the way he had to work his way up at the various restaurants. He really paid his dues, and I think by doing so, he built a foundation of what would be successful and the minimum standards he would settle for when he had his own restaurant. An interesting book about his business life if that is what you are looking for in a book.
4 I quite enjoyed this book, and not just because I like food, or am a fan of Ramsay (I confess to both). As a small shop owner, I found much information in this book useful even though I am not a restauranteur, and have referred to it often over the past year and some months I've had it. I recommend it to anyone who is either thinking of starting a business, or who feels their business is in a bit of a rut. I can't say you will find direct examples, but if you keep your mind open you'll see the larger points he is making re: business. It has helped me do a great deal of brainstorming about the fundamentals of my business, including challenging my own biases and preconceptions about my shop.The only reason my review is not 5 stars is that it does repeat itself a bit at the end. This is also the fault of a great many business books, most of which do this to a much greater degree.
5 I would pass this book on to my friends who own businesses and are aspiring to succeed.  This book is written honestly, pointing out the parts that were sheer luck as well as what came by hard work and brains.  If you are looking to build a serious team of people who's main goal is to be the best, this is a great read.
5 Child therapist James, divorced father of two is nonplussed upon meeting his 9-year-old client, Conor McLachlan. Diagnosed with autism at 2, Conor's speech remains negligible and he is inordinately attached to a stuffed cat. He also insists on coming equipped with wirelike attachments fastened around his waist. His sister Morgana, 6 appears to have some understanding of Conor's cryptic form of communicating.James is equally nonplussed by Conor's mother, Laura Deighton. A renknowned author, Laura is initially described as distant, but proves to be anything but. Her marriage is at an unstable point, although the husband Alan, takes an active part in the childrens' lives.Conor approaches treatment as cautiously as he appears to approach life in general. He uses his stuffed cat as a "scanner" and often talks through it. Clearly bright, Conor reads labels and correctly identifies each object in the playroom. He expresses his fears which center around a "ghost man" under his rug; death and finding trees on the moon. He identifies this place as "terria," which has the Latin root for "earth." It makes readers wonder if it is the world in general the boy finds frightening.Over time, James learns more about Conor's cryptic view of the world. On an eerie note, Conor's mother reveals a paracosm she created as a child. Her paracosm, or "parallel fantasy world" was quite involved with highly developed characters; language and society. The era in which her paracosm, or "parallel world" is set appears to be a pre-Christian era or possibly the early 1000s, the days of Viking raids. Torgon, a carter's daughter elevated to holy status was the figure with whom Laura most identified.Indeed, Torgon and the Forest World in which she lived became deeply enmeshed in Laura's own life. The paracosm is as wide-spread as the Forest in which it is set and involves many people.James has his work cut out for him. He, his two children, Becky, 8 and Mikey 4-5, become involved with Laura and her family. Their children play together and in time, they all develop the tools they need to see the Forest for the trees.This book makes me think of the Beatles' 1967 classic "Strawberry Fields," when John Lennon sang, "Strawberry Fields, nothing is real and nothing to get hung about, Strawberry Fields Forever." Readers are left to determine for themselves what is "real" to the characters and what is "metaphysically" or "intrinsically" real to them. Readers might also view this as a bit of a philosophical book.This is an excellent work of fiction that has been created from a gifted and fertile imagination. This is an unusual novel in the sense that it incorporates many elements of good fantasy, such as those of Ursula K. LeGuin's Earthsea quadrilogy. It is always a real treat to see authors being given a chance to spread their literary wings and soar into different genres instead of being boxed into only one.
2 Having read previous non-fiction Torey Hayden books and having become so engrossed in her ability to transform children's lives, this books was a huge disappointment.  The focus was not on the child but rather on the mothers' imaginary world.  The "Torgon parts" were long winded and totally over the top.  Eventually I skipped past anything that was in italics which was a large part of the book.  For the first time since I got my Kindle I was constantly watching the percentage read just wishing it was finished.
4 I have read just about all of Torey Haydens non-fiction books and really loved reading about how she deals with children with problems.I found out she wrote her first fiction, a novel titled, Overheard in a Dream.  For some reason Amazon calls it, Hidden Things, which I don't see on this cover.Anyway I liked it.  I'd say it's not as good as her non-fiction books.  She did write about a child with problems and that was the good part.  The part that I didn't like was the story of Torgon. A imaginary friend Laura talks about in her mind to the therapist.  I skimmed through that part and enjoyed the part about a boy and his therapist who tries to figure out what his problem is.  It's a good read nevertheless.  Torey Hayden has good writing style and knows how to keep the readers interested.I gave 4 stars because of the Torgon part, otherwise it could have been a 5.
1 This book was a great dissapointment to me.I am an enormous Torey Hayden fan and have read ALL of her other books, which I usually devour in a matter of hours.I cant put my finger on what it was that I didnt like about the story but the style is not the same, and it certainly wasnt as interesting as her previous books.I do not recommend this book.
5 I love reading Torey Hayden books  i'm amazed  at how she can reach out to these kids and help them, no child should suffer like these children have it just breaks your heart
5 I have not read this book as yet, but I have read several of Torey Hayden's books and have enjoyed them. She is an excellent author!
5 I bought this book because I have been a longtime fan of Ms Hayden'sbooks. I had not read this one so I saw the chance to purchase it.I am very pleased with it.
5 "Cathy Glass" never fails to amaze me with her writing style, and how she can integrate the stories of children she has been a foster parent to while integreting the lives of her own family.Hidden is about a child she received with no history who was polite, intellegent, and had a severe problem with his dark skin.This boy had a dream that he would one day be united with his father, who no one could find, and frankly wondered it he was an imaginary father.This story takes the reader into the world of a child living with a drug addicted mother, shedding light on what the "underworld" in England is for many children.As with all of her books, I could not put it down, and read long into the night.This young boy had a happy ending, something that not all of her children have had.  It is well worth the read.
5 This store was sad in the beginning. The ending brought tears to my eyes  excellent store its to bad kids have to go through so much if life.
5 I loved the happy ending.  Cathy Glass is an excellent story teller and handles the children expertly.  Every story is completely different.
4 This book can be read by teens as well as adults.  It is very easy to follow.  I really like all the authors writings.
5 I love this positive story about a parent and true love for his child. This is a wonderful story about how this child overcame the odds and believed when no one else did.
5 I'm devouring Cathy's books.  This one had an especially sweet ending. It's an easy read and good reminder to appreciate what you have in life.
5 I enjoy Cathy Glass and hearing about her experiences with these kids and how she provides so much more than just food and clothing, her heart!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this story as I do enjoy all of Cathy Glass's books and this was no exception. It had an unexpected twist at the end too, I highly recommend it.
5 Excellent, as usual. Cathy Glass is a wonderful author, and obviously a terrific and caring foster parent. I am about to read her latest book.
5 I have read all of the Cathy Glass memoirs. She is a talented writer and her words draw you right into her world. I lookforward to her next book coming out next month.
5 This book sheds light on the children that slip through the cracks.  It tells the story of one little boy whose mother kidnaps him from the only home he's known and takes him to another country.  Tayo, 10 years old, is put into foster care and placed into Cathy's home.  Tayo is a very intelligent, well mannered boy, despite his mother Minty's neglect.  Minty took Tayo, when he was 5, from his father and gran from Nigeria and fled to the UK.  Her drunkenness  has left him by himself for days at a time with no food.  Hidden chronicles the 10 months that Tayo is in Cathy's care.My Thoughts:Hidden was fabulously written.  It pulls at your heartstrings and really makes you thinnk.  As a mother of 4, it was hard for me to see how this happened.  There were a couple of times that I got very emotional.  I just wanted tot ake the boy and protect him from his cruel mother.  The one thing that totally made the book for me was the way Cathy treated him.  She treated Tayo like he was one of her own kids.  The little names she called him warmed my heart.  One more thing!  Goodnight, sleep tight.  Don't let the bed bugs bite!
3 The story was interesting, but the author's writing style is predictable and somewhat boring.  The story deserved much more development.
5 This child's story is incredible! It is heartbreaking and inspiring to hear how he was raised and how his time in &#34;care&#34; ended!
5 This is probably in my top three of Cathy Glass books.  Worth the read, if you like her other books.
5 Cathy Glass is my new favorite writer. I discovered her by chance while browsing books by another author. This is my third book I've read by her, and have ordered two more! All of her books relate to her personal experience as a foster parent in England. I enjoy the mystery surrounding the children until the full details unfold. I laugh, I cry, I get angry, and I can't put the book down until it's finished.
5 I think at this point I have read all of Cathy Glass' books and I think that this was the best. Others touched my heart but this one took it one step farther.
5 I love Cathy Glass books. This was no disappoint. The stories of child abuse are horrible but unfortunately it happens.
4 I LOVE CATHY GLASS her books are both great reading and entertaining, i recommand this book to book lovers every where!
5 Excellent book by Cathy Glass. The carer that she writes about in this story, makes you glad that there are peoplelike her helping these poor children.Excellent book 5 stars
4 like all cathys book this was another great one.. this one actually had a great ending! and such a good storyline
5 Hidden yet again is one of the most moving and sad stories of a child who was taken by his mother and given no choice of the drastically horrible life his mother provided for him. Thanks to Cathy, her family and all who were involved with Tayo from social services he was reunited with his dad and grandmother. This book will keep you on edge and feeling as if you are right there the whole way.
5 This is my favourite  memoir of Cathy Glass' fostering experiences. There is a happy ending, almost unbelievable. Tayo was living with his incompetent and violent mother when he eventually was discovered and taken into care. What his past revealed was shocking yet Tayo's demeanor and manners belied this life. Tayo went through some emotional times at Cathy's home but he was a joy in the end, and the family was sorry, but so happy for him , when he left. The details in the book were very intriguing. I love Cathy's style.
5 Cathy Glass has a way of bringing the reader into her home and into the lives of foster children.  This book is no exception and I was hooked from the start.  I fell in love with Tayo and had trouble putting the book down, anxiously following his story until I was assured there would be a happy ending.
1 So to fully comprehend, the boy;s junkie mom went to great trouble and expense to kidnap the kid from one of the poorest, most violent and lawless nations in the world (where much forced child labor freely exists) to bring him to a "first world" country, just to exploit him in illegal child labor? And only savior Cathy Glass is able to fix things and return him to his father???Well, at least Cathy changed the names before she plagarized your basic Dickens plot (which wasn't even original when he wrote it).
5 Described me to a T even though someone told me these things can apply to anyone.  I think it will be a very good resource for a writer creating characters.
5 Theresa Chueng's book is brilliant! Her chart of my birthday and my family were spot on! For each of the 366 birthdays of the year, Chueng's book provides you with a birthday "theme", your challenges, people you are drawn to by birth date rage, your best and dark side attributes. You get a great synopsis of Love, Health, Career, and your Destiny. She also provides you with your sun sign, ruling planet, birth date ruler (planets), the Tarot Card related to your birth date (major arcana), your favourable numbers and your lucky days, lucky colours and your birthstone. I was very excited reading over my chart. My Higher Self made me feel the greatest joy, reaffirming myself to my Self. Enjoy the book! In Love and Light,
5 This is a fun book and I was amazed how the information was in relation to myself and my family. Really gave me more insight.
5 This book was inspirational from the very moment I picked it up and turned to my Birthdate of November 18th, it described me perfectly, even nailing my choice of careers perfectly, and even knew about the fact that I am an inspiring writer as well, how refreshing to pick up a book and it tell you so much about yourself that you knew, but just wanted someone else to reaffirm for you.  Perfect fit in my case!  It nailed my wife's birthday as well.  We plan on taking it with us to our family get togethers during Christmas and New Year's to see how accurate it is for our other family members.  This book is highly recommended to all, although I recommend buying it at Barnes and Nobles, where you can get it for 20 bucks brandnew, instead of the 33 dollars that Amazon will charge you.
5 I ordered this book to complete the set, half thinking I would use it only once.  On a whim I took it to an art gallery/party (fun casual blast) and set it on the counter while I worked so guests could read it.  Almost everyone stopped to check it out, and all said it was very close or dead on accurate.  A lot of people wrote down the name and asked where I found it. Take this to a gathering, it will be appreciated.
5 When i first heard about this book,i was only mildly and atrabiliously interested in this latest horoscope book on the topic of 'personality-divination'.I didn't know what to think about it.I thought that it was just some kind of a door-stop for soothsayers. I saturninly investigated whether it was nonsense or something profound.This forecasting birthday book is amazingly accurate indeed! I was impressed by the foretelling essense of what one could expect for one's birthday.For the astrological based predictions,this book is metaphysically of high eminence.The tarot,numerology,color-codes and wiccan postulations are quite rational and persuadable.I analyzed all the days within the book,and was awestruck by the revelations for anyone's date of birth.This is not trite 'Horoscopus-Pocus'!I think this book was established and based upon the evidence ,of many other past authors, through the years gone-by.In the years to follow,this book will gain in popularity,i would attest to this.Simply because it will be proven orthodoxically correct for astrology scholars on dates of birth and their personality associations.I can't think of another birthday-divination tome around ,that could match this one yet.
5 Great condition and this is a very interesting book. I leave it on my coffee table and when guests see it they all want to read about themselves.
5 Attractive and fun. Now this is a true to life "coffee table book", a real conversation piece. Typical encyclopedia size (very thick). Take a peek inside and learn a little about yourself. You may be a bit surprised as to how close it comes. I was. A Great buy.
5 I bought this book because It was 100% accurate for my birthday. Most astrology books are about 50% accurate for me. I will be looking for more books by this author.
4 To this book I can say, that it is a very fun read.  It's original and above all, thorough.The book is carefully laid out.  The introduction is highly helpful and helps to understand the book.  In addition to understanding the book, you are able to understand where the birthday information comes from.  At the beginning of each chapter, there is a large section about each astrology sign.  The astrology signs are completely elaborated on.  There are 366 days that are all named differently and told about.  Each birthday has their weaknesses, their strengths and their greatest challenge in life.If this book is accurate or not, I would say that it is.  From my own personal observations, each birthday seems to fit each person to a certain extent.  This book is highly helpful to those who use astrology and other means to understand themselves.This is a very nice and quick read.  I highly recommend this to those who are interested.
5 I was very impressed. I have not read this author before, but will certainly read more! A complex, multi-story plot. Decent character development, and wonderful creativity. The many different types of beings/races of creatures in this story kept it an interesting and enjoyable read. Sometimes hard to understand a few terms, but you eventually get it. Truly Good Stuff!
5 All right, I admit it at the start...I'm a big fan. This is the second installment of Stephen Hunt's slam bam steampunk/adventure series, and now I can't wait forThe Rise of the Iron Moon's American release.The novels are character-driven adventures set in an imaginary world whose center is the nation of Jackals, a nation not unlike England. Because this is steampunk, Jackals is a coal-driven quasi-Charles Dickens era society of floating airships and gas lamps--a modern, but not too modern, society. The heroes are at once likeable and sympathetic, be they children with hidden bloodlines or strong men with anvils for hands or eccentric mechanical steammen or orphans with exoskeletons. Both novels are set in motion almost immediately--in the manner of an Indiana Jones movie--and what follows is a rich mixture of political intrigue, dark magic, and reprehensible rogues.  There is almost no down time in either book--they propel themselves with the force of a steamroller until the final pages.If there are any complaints leveled at Hunt's works, it's that he can be VERY ambitious.  I thought that the climax of his first book,The Court of the Airwas maybe too big, too spectacular. It had as many plot threads as a Tom Clancy novel, and when you marry that with a whole new planet of cultures, characters, and conflicts, it can and did get pretty hairy.  But "The Kingdom Beyond the Waves" is much tighter, from start to finish. There is no shortage of action...it's rare to have a dozen pages slip by without a big revelation or a reversal of fortune, but the story is always gripping and credible--a heady task, given that earth quake-like forces can propel whole cities into the upper atmosphere:  three-eyed reptiles can talk and fly; and...well, you get the picture.In short: disgraced professor Amelia Harsh has just about given up on her father's quest--finding the ancient lost civilization of Camlantis--when a rich benefactor appears: Abraham Quest, the man who drove her father to ruin. As her options are limited, she gathers a crew composed of convicted slave traders and steroidally enhanced female soldiers and they board a refitted u-boat to sneak up the Shedarkshe river into the Daggish territory, a brutal jungle where all intruders run the risk of being forcibly assimilated into an animal-plant hive called the Greenmesh. On the way she must deal with a saboteur, a mutinous crew, and a growing awareness that secrets have been kept from her, and the true purpose of her expedition will not only endanger her life, but the lives and destiny of her entire world.If you can't tell, Hunt's imagination is almost limitless, and there is no end of intrigue and plot twists throughout. And it's FUN to read...in fact, I had to keep telling myself to slow down, to savor. I like how he spreads it around, too: his female characters are every bit the equal of the males, and it is a mark of a gifted writer that even mechanical men are gIven as much personality and backstory as the flesh-and-blood ones. And this, I think, is Hunt's greatest strength: he has created a world that, two novels in, shows no signs of diminishment. He has so much going on in his first two novels that what I understand might be a six-book series seems entirely possible.A note: while "The Kingdom Beyond the Waves" is a stand-alone novel, it helps to have readThe Court of the Airbeforehand. I love these books so much that I'm actually constructing a glossary of the unusual terms and phrases that might help readers a bit--it's about the only thing I thought was missing from these big, wonderful  books...and I'd be happy to share it with anyone who wants it, or would like to contribute to it.
4 Much tighter and more linear than Court of the Air, thus easier to keep track of , and enjoy, what's happening.  Two main storylines, both engaging, instead of the myriad threads that convoluted the first book.  It also provides some context to some of the obfuscated elements in Court of the Air; I have a much better grip on the relationships between the various political factions.  The storyline with "Furnace-breath Nick" is particularly engrossing, because the character is a beguiling mix of The Shadow, Batman, and the Scarlet Pimpernel ("sink me") with a supernatural edge, and his interactions with Abraham Quest, the central financier whose motivations are nebulous, are full of nuance, tension, and intrigue - well-written shadow boxing and verbal chess.  This reads like a sophisticated and erudite pulp serial where each chapter has some astounding plot twist ending in a cliffhanger...great imaginative fun.  A wonderful adult comic book written with very elegant prose.
5 I read Court of Air on a whim- but I searched out Kingdom Beyond the Waves because I enjoyed the writing style so much.  I enjoyed it even more than the first.  The characters are not related, so you don't have to read Court of Air just to pick up Kingdom Beyond the Waves.  You would just be missing out on the glorious introduction to Stephen Hunt's world.The intriguing characters of Court of Air that you didn't get to spend enough time with you spend plenty of time with now.  Amelia is marvelous, deep, wonderful.  I can't imagine anyone not loving her.  She hunts for an advanced lost civilization, one she would do anything to find.While it sounds bland - the many layers of Jackals, politics, people, soul just make it so very exciting.  One of the better books that I've read in the genre.The ending is wild, imaginative and very much worth it, even if the journey to it wasn't so enjoyable.
4 Hunt's sequel to "The Court of the Air" surpasses his first effort. He keeps the complexity of his steampunk world and dials down the supernatural elements to make this a much more enjoyable Indiana Jones-esque adventure with some nice geopolitical side-stories going on. A great page-turner.
3 (Bk 2 of series)Steampunk-fantasy-adventure a la Jules Verne feel...there is soooo much going on in this entry of the series.  For example: clockwork computers, an assasin who is a shapeshifter, oh and let's not forget Professor Amelia Harsh, an archaeologist who is magically enhanced and a submarine manned by a less than savory crew - among many other things...now to try to find the rest of the series...
4 First, this is a well-written, fun, action-packed book that is worth the purchase price.Second, the publisher did readers a disservice by not announcing on the book's cover this was #2 in a series. It does not read like a stand-alone, even if the characters change from book to book. And as you can tell from these reviews, it helps to have read the first book first (which I guess I now have to consider doing).Third, while I love steampunk, it took me an inordinate amount of time to accept Mr. Hunt's world building. I stopped reading several times so I could piece together the history he implied (Black-oil Horde = our world? So, Jackals and all the other countries came later? Or, is all this happening in an alternative universe?)But what really threw me out of the narrative was the author's use of accurate historical fashions, such as tricorn hats, redcoat uniforms for soldiers and powdered wigs. It felt as if the author threw them in because they were 'steampunky', not because they belonged to the world he had created.Finally, a map would have helped this book. I rarely suggest maps, since they feel like filler in other books. However, this work needed them to help the reader better visualize where events were taking place.All of this being said, I enjoyed the book and look forward to reading others by Mr. Hunt.
4 The Court of the Air was a massive undertaking that established the Jackelian universe and all its idiosyncracies.  A fantastic tale in its own right, a lot of that book was devoted to building a world where Hunt's innovative and offbeat characters and systems could properly function and be understood.Not so with the The Kingdom Beyond the Waves.  It jumps right into a tight-knit adventure story whose gears mesh perfectly with the beautiful world Hunt has created.  From the Indiana Jones-esque prelude to the smart and well-situated conclusions for each character, Hunt has definitely found a new gear with this book.Some of the characters will be familiar to readers of the Court of the Air, but no cheesy cameos exist here.  Everything and everyone is here for a reason and the entire project is woven together beautifully using a unique set of rules.  Hunt is really very good at creating an original, twisty plot that takes advantage of a different look, feel and rule set.However, because the universe is so different, I definitely would recommend reading the Court of the Air prior to the KBTW.  Not only is COTA a great book, but you need to understand this universe to really get the most out of KBTW.It's very rare for me to laugh, cry and feel this much excitement from one book, but Stephen Hunt has done it for me again.  Go for it, it's an extremely rewarding piece of fiction.
5 I saw this book and figured it would be a good thing to read since steampunk seems to be a very neat genre and this one was not too short (550+ pages) and had a pretty cool Victorian feel to its book jacket.  So I picked it up and started it pretty soon after.The author creates a really unique world.  His writing is pretty interesting in which he mentions things in passing or in the immediate conversation as if you, the reader, know these things already and as a result you learn things about the novel's world really nicely without sad and boring exposition.  It is really a great way of writing and that made me enjoy the novel even more so.  And to do this successfully, as the author has, is amazing since the world he creates is truly a sci-fi/fantasy world that is completely unfamiliar to the reader.The story is about a woman professor named Amelia from a nation named Jackals in a steampunk world (Victorian era atmosphere (think of Jules Vernes) with an alternate history-like technology (steammen, airships, Capt. Nemo submarines, etc.)) who is hired by her deceased father's rival, a brilliant scientist/business man named Quest, to find the lost city of Camlantis, what is believed to be a utopian society of peace and prosperity for all.  The city is known to have been lost to a self-inflicted floatquake (an earthquake but the land is sent to float in the clouds rather than necessarily destroyed).  Various artifacts have been found (books that are actually hard drives) showing things of wonder about Camlantis just fuel the urge of the folks to find it.  In the world that Amelia lives in having various wars between nations and the normal problems we have today (wars, hunger, disease, terrorism, etc.), Amelia and Quest (it seems) wants to see if the technology and philosophy of Camlantis (if found) would be able to solve all the world's problems.  So Quest puts together a group including Amazon like women warriors as defense, ex-slavers as seamen, an old royalist submariner (hidden from the Jackal's government who overthrew the monarchy) as captain, and various individuals to fit niches within the scouting party including one of the best characters named Ironflanks, a steamman (think the Tinman from the Wizard of Oz) who knows the uncharted territory where the original Camlantis was located.  Quest himself does not go but only is the hiring man.Most of the characters are flawed individuals so we do get very real and very believable characters.There are numerous subplots involving a wealthy shapeshifting character and his lashlite butler (a birdman).  And various side stories revealing backstory of important characters like Billy Snow (the navigator), Ironflanks (the scout), and others.  The novel moves along smoothly with various set pieces keeping the reader guessing who will survive the Indiana Jones adventure and who will not (since many characters of great importance do die throughout).  As you can gather, the story does not slow down at all and with all the action, the book moves quickly even though it is fairly long.If you are into Victorian sci-fi like Jules Verne and H.G. Wells, if you enjoy old school stories like Hammer films or the history of Jack the Ripper, and if you are into steampunk fiction like Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow, then you'll absolutely love this novel.  If you just like good action books and are into fantasy or sci-fi or period piece mysteries, then you'll love it as well.  It is definately a good read.  It is a shame the author's stories are published in England and only recently have been following here to the states (a year later unless you order from Amazon UK).  But let us hope this changes soon and this book gets a look by more readers.  Check it out and enjoy.
4 that is full to the brim with steampunk, victorian, imagery and language. This whole series is full of imagination and vivid detail- it's kind of amazing how completely Stephen Hunt was able to craft his fictional world. I enjoyed it but I read it in spurts because I never really had enough time or desire to be steampunk-y for more than a few hours at a time. This book is brilliant but for a very niche audience.
4 If you enjoy steampunk-fantasy then you will like this story a lot. It did not impress me as dark like China Mieville's steampunk in Perdido Street Station but it does nonetheless have evil characters and some fairly well thought out creatures, cultures and chimera-races. Plot twists are good without seeming too contrived. A lot of time is spent building rich world detail and fairly well developed characters. A hint is dropped that his world may in fact be a very distant future earth. I was a bit disappointed that there was no new and novel ideas that made Hunt's fictional world unique from anything else I've read but then most sci-fi or steampunk novels don't do that either. It was still a good read and I recommend it.
5 This book came fast and seemed in good shape - I am using it as a gift for Christmas so hope they like it. Would do business in the future! Thanks
5 Hunt does it again! You'll want read The Court of the Air first, since even though this is a stand-alone story, it makes numerous references to people, groups, and events in its predecessor. Well-paced and plotted, with interesting characters, esp. the villains. The reason I say "not meant for kids" is that while the marketing/covers make both books look geared to adolescents, trust me, this is not Ender's Lame, Harry Pooter, or other kiddie-trooper ilk. In particular, the violence can be quite graphic. Genre-wise, Hunt's clearly steampunk, but though his work falls a bit short of early-Mieville quality, it doesn't do so by much.
5 Professor Amelia Harsh has lost her tenure at the last university in Jackals that would hire her (after being fired by the other seven...). Why? Because instead of studying and writing papers like a normal university professor, she's out hunting relics of Camlantis, which everyone knows is a myth.Enter Abraham Quest, the richest man in Jackals, who has been doing his own archaeology on the sly, and found proof that Camlantis exists. Unfortunately, the clues point the way into the heart of darkness itself, the source of the Shedarkshe river in the wilds of a jungle from which no explorer has returned. Camlantis was a utopia, with untold engineering feats, a society of pacifists, and Amelia and Abraham are convinced that it holds the key to making their own war-torn society a better place. But it means risking lives in order to see that goal realized.Hunt spends the first half of the book setting up the story, and because there's a lot going on, several characters to introduce, and a world to build, the time it takes to do this isn't unreasonable. However, it does make the first half slow-going. His prose can be dense, which also slows down the pacing and flow, but does make for a richer world. I love Hunt's metaphors. He is truly clever with his descriptions, adding depth to the world at the same time.Finally at about the halfway mark everything goes wrong for our protagonists. And not just wrong, I mean horribly, how in the heck are they going to get out of this without dying, wrong. It's a series of life-threatening events that lasts the entire second half of the book. Hunt spins threads between all the characters deftly, so that when everything begins to collide, the weaving stories makes sense despite the chaos. Awesomeness on many levels.Set in an Earth that could have been, Hunt mixes machinery, magic, and a dizzying assortment of races with alacrity. There's the race of mechanical steammen, who, while they have no country to call their own, still have autonomy wherever they live. There's the amphibian craynarbians, which unfortunately don't get as much face-time as the others. Also, the flying lizard lashites, who turn out to play an important role. In a story like this the races could have been gimmicky, but the cultures of humans and non-humans alike were all integrated into the plot in satisfying ways.Hunt's steampunk world is ambitious, and while he does an excellent job of introducing it without overwhelming the reader, about 5% of the time I didn't remember or understand a name, race, or piece of equipment. On the whole for such a steep learning curve, only forgetting a small percentage is a petty complaint, and says a lot about the author's world-building, which is complex and fascinating.Magic plays a secondary role to the mechanical, which made me sad because Hunt hints at interesting possibilities he simply doesn't have time to explain or explore. Also, while the pacing is consistent, the flow of action can be jarring, and sometimes I had to re-read a few paragraphs to grasp everything that happens when the action switches. The biggest problem I saw, which could be minor considering the other strengths of the novel, is that with such a large cast it is difficult for the main characters to have any real depth. While the characters have their interesting quirks and motivations, there's no question that for KINGDOM, it's the setting here that's on display--and what a vision it is.
5 A very good historical read.  It is meaty and full of information.  I am glad that I purchased it and look forward to finishing it!
4 This is an elegantly written, consistently gripping account of Churchill's tenure as wartime prime minister.The author's central purpose in the book is to demonstrate Churchill's historical greatness. However, it is the clarity of this purpose that is the book's central flaw. Mr Hastings' effort to show the giant that was Churchill is such a dominant theme in the book that it tends to submerge some rather uncomfortable facts. For example: Churchill's deeply ingrained racism and the degree of his culpability for the wartime Indian famine are only lightly touched upon; Hastings deals very superficially, and wholly in Churchill's favour, with the persistent historical controversy regarding Churchill's sacking of Auchinleck in North Africa in the immediate aftermath of the general's successful reorganisation of the British Army into battle groups and his defeat of Rommel; he barely mentions Bill Slim and the fact that Britain's greatest wartime general was relegated to the theatre that Churchill thought least of; and he excuses the prime minister's flights of fancy and disasterous choices later in the war as the result, in large measure, of old age and stress.This is not to deny the importance of Churchill as war leader: his insistence on continuing to fight after the fall of France was a demonstration of enormous moral courage; his understanding of the importance of drawing the USA into the war to have any hope of victory was more clear sighted than most of his contemporaries; his decision to sink the French fleet at Mers-el-Kebir displayed the sort of ruthlessness that was essential to winning the war; his unsucccessful efforts at establishing a democratic Poland at the end of the war show a sense of decency and honour that contrast favourably with Stalin's monstrousness and Roosevelt's disinterest on this issue.Mr Hastings book would have been even more interesting if he had allowed his portrait of Churchill to emerge from this sort of evidence rather than seeking to impose such an overwhelmingly heroic impression on much more complex material.Nevertheless, it should be said that few readers could ever feel shortchanged by Hastings' historical writing, which is as ever humane and lucid, and the breadth and depth of his research is, as always, awesome.
5 Winston&#8217;s War, Churchill, 1940 &#8211; 1945 by Max Hastings, is a masterful review of the times and the man.  Mr. Hastings is an engaging writer easily mixing rather cold facts with pointed stories to keep the reader interested.  This book moves along very quickly and will be thoroughly enjoyed by anyone interested in Winston Churchill or WWII.  The footnotes and resources listed are voluminous and the maps, the few that are included, are excellent.Of course, we must admit there are many books on WWII and on Mr. Churchill; however, I think Mr. Hastings has added something to the previous story.  The author obviously holds Mr. Churchill in notable esteem and contends he towered above other figures that held the stage of history with him.  The war was his finest hour.  What is new is Max Hastings clearly sees the flaws in the man and his country.  Mr. Hastings has an incredible ability to boil down the essence of what was going on in the war and then accurately relate those events to the leaders.  He unerringly describes how the leaders of the US, UK, and USSR mixed together and how that mix impacted the decisions of that age.Mr. Hastings recognizes the irony of going to war to keep the Nazi&#8217;s out of Poland and then watching them fall under a greater evil in Stalin&#8217;s communist.  He records Churchill&#8217;s despairing struggle to prevent it.Winston&#8217;s War poignantly points out how Churchill, with his back against the wall, managed to weld the nation together long enough to pull it through the worst times in 1940 only to watch it gradually fall apart as the war progressed to a victorious conclusion.  He was the man for the hour, but he was not the man for all hours.  Winston Churchill was a 19th century man, and could not lead a 20th century nation into the future.  Churchill saw it was a future of socialism, which he rejected, but could not come up with the means to fight.  At least the future he secured for the UK was not one of rule by a foreign tyranny.The author is able to balance, better than other authors on Churchill I have read, the legitimate criticisms of the man with the reality of his accomplishments.  Comparing the good to the bad in a fair and responsible way is not easy, not in the least; however, Mr. Max Hastings does it as well as any man could.Mr. Hasting&#8217;s insights on WWII are worth the price of the book all by themselves.  He understands the power of the German Army and identifies them as the best army in the field during WWII.  The author perceptively points out a few German divisions gave the allies fits in Africa and Italy and affirms that without the Soviet Union England and the US could not have defeated Hitler.  Mr. Hastings peppers his writings with these blunt insights which helps us understand the decisions of the time better than most books which relate the arguments but not the unvarnished truth that was being confronted.An excellent and nearly flawless book.AD2
5 Mr. Hastings presents another candid and thorough history in clear lucid language. As he admits in the Introduction, this is well trodden ground but his approach is refreshing, something like Cezanne returning to Mount Sainte-Victoire. His tribute to the late Roy Jenkins is a perfect touch.I am docking him one star because the jacket photograph is identified as the Prime Minister watching a "Flying Fortress bomber maneuver over an RAF establishment, July 23, 1941." With such a precise date, they should get the aircraft right and it is not a B-17 Flying Fortress but appears to be a Bristol Blenheim, an aircraft of more mixed virtues.  I regret not giving five stars to a writer whose works I so admire but he has written enough military history to understand the responsibilities of command.I am amending this review after another reviewer corrected me. The aircraft is, in fact, one of the earlier B-17's, which I had misidentified as I thought the jacket photograph showed a two-engine plane. The website to which he directed me noted that the first use of this plane and others like it on the RAF's initial attempt to bomb Berlin took place on the date of this photograph. Mr. Churchill is thus watching the very first step on the road back to Berlin.
3 Winston Churchill has for many years been a hero and an inspiration to me.  He was multi-dimensional: warrior, politician, gifted writer, orator, painter, and unconventional character.  In 1940, Britain was one of the world's preeminent powers (before the post-war ascendancy of the United States and the Soviet Union).  I had voraciously read Churchill's six-volume memoir of the Second World War and his History of the English-Speaking Peoples.  I have read numerous biographies such as The Last Lion, Churchill: A Study in Failure 1900-1939, and Franklin and Winston.  Now here is another biography, which from the onset provides fresh insights into Churchill's impact during the war, beginning with his appointment as wartime Prime Minister by the king during May 1940 - a warrior was needed!  British expeditionary forces were already in France striving to halt the German blitzkrieg through Belgium, and would soon find themselves being evacuated from Dunkirk.  Western Europe was reeling and facing impending defeat.Yet one man, with doubters all around him, refused to concede defeat.  By his steadfast courage, wit, and groundless optimism, Churchill infused the British people with an astonishing attitude of defiance.  After the fall of France, Britain stood alone against the Axis Powers.  Churchill went through excruciating moments during this time, as Max Hastings reveals that Churchill, as early as the summer of 1940, uttered his prophetic conviction that the United States would come to the aid of the Allies.  Hastings states that Churchill's "supreme achievement in 1940 was to mobilize Britain's warriors, to shame into silence its doubters, and to stir the passions of the nation."  Hastings astutely writes: "As Churchill always recognized, modern war is waged partly on battlefields, and partly also on airwaves, front pages and in the hearts of men and women."At the onset, Britain required both its Navy and its Royal Air Force (RAF) to prevent a German invasion.  The odds seemed slim, but strategic plans were put in place, and against all odds the pilots of the RAF, fighting with intrepid tenacity, won the Battle of Britain by the end of 1940, the first British victory of the war, which gave assurance to Americans that Britain would not fall.  Yet Britain would stand alone for nearly a year and a half before the Soviet Union battled the Germans in war, and more than two years before the U.S. joined with Britain to launch the invasion of North Africa during November of 1942; while one month earlier, Montgomery, with around 1,000 tanks (of which nearly half were from the U.S. - at last), proceeded to win Britain's first large-scale land victory against Germans, in Egypt at the Battle of El Alamein.Though I was born after WW II was over, I fought in Vietnam, and I certainly consider Churchill to be a magnificent wartime leader, deserving of tremendous praise.  Max Hastings has done credit to the man and the warrior.  Yes, another biography of Winston Churchill will do just fine.
3 "Winston's War, Churchill, 1940-1945," written by Max Hastings, Published by Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 2009.Max Hastings is one of the best military historians writing today. His book "OVERLORD" is one of the classic accounts of the Allies fighting in Europe from the Normandy invasion through the Falaise Gap in August 1944. Mr. Hastings has been able to take a mountain of factual information from his research and weave it into a seamless narrative of some historical signifiance. It worked in "OVERLORD;" it does not work here.The problem is Winston S. Churchill. The British Prime Minister and Minister of Defense was a man of great strategic vision. His speeches and his writing after Dunkirk are widely credited with saving Great Britain in her hour of need. He saw the threat Hitler's Germany presented to his country before anyone else; and he suffered for it politically. Yet during the war Churchill's strategic vision deserted him so many times that Hastings' compliments seem forced.  He wrote, "Churchill's grand vision of the war was superb." p. 360. Resumes that begin with Gallipoli and end up defending the bloody Italian mountain campaign will not win you many jobs as a strategist. Events in Churchill's life that Hastings is forced to write about often undermine the story Hastings wants to tell of the greatest ever British political leader.One minor correction, the picture between pages 430 and 431 of Admiral William D Leahy, Alan Brooke, Hastings Ismay and George Marshall incorrectly lists U.S. Admiral Ernest King as Admiral Leahy. Note to the editors: Admiral William Leahy is authorized to wear the right shoulder "aiguillette" as an aide to President Roosevelt; Admiral King is not.Two notes on Allied strategy. First, Churchill insisted until virtually the end of the war that the British Army in Europe be granted the highest strategic and logistic priority. Churchill's views were eagerly followed by British C.I.G.S. Alan Brooke and British 21st Army Group Commander, Field Marshal Bernard L. Montgomery. Hastings wrote, "British attempts to ignore their own impoverishment and retain a giant's role in the world inspired pity among their American friends, contempt among their American enemies." p. 419. It mattered little what most Americans thought. Only General Dwight Eisenhower's opinion really mattered and he usually sided with the British, at least until March 28, 1945. One gets a picture of General Eisenhower standing on the banks of the Rhine River in March 1945 with C.I.G.S. Alan Brooke, literally begging the British Field Marshal for a chance to "disperse" his forces, to unleash the Bradley's American Army into central Germany. Brooke agreed but it was far too little, far too late. There were only 40 odd days left in the war. In "Armageddon," Hastings wrote, "Montgomery's most serious weakness ... stemmed from a refusal to acknowledge that in north-west Europe it was now essential for the British to defer to the overwhelming dominance of the United States (Army)." p. 27. Montgomery never did force himself to accept the obvious, but that was not his job. British wartime strategy came from the top down. It came from Winston Churchill and his Chiefs of Staff and they routinely insisted on fighting the Americans tooth and nail for logistic and strategic priority for the British Army in Europe.Second, the Italian campaign was the longest running argument between the Anglo-American Allies. The British supported it and tried to get more U.S. soldiers and ships committed to the campaign. The Americans disliked the whole Mediterranean theater and especially the campaign in Italy because of the terrible mountainous terrain. British official Harold Macmillan wrote, "The more one sees of this (Italian) peninsula, the less suited it seems for modern military operations." p. 357. This was obvious to any first year officer cadet. But it was apparently not obvious to Prime Minister Winston Churchill and his military advisors who berated the Americans time and again over operations in Italy. Two of the strongest proponents of continued operations in Italy were C.I.G.S. Alan Brooke and Mediterranean Theater Commander Field Marshal Sir Henry Wilson. But we now know that they did not support operations in Italy at all and, in fact, were of the opposite view. Alan Brooke told U.S. historian Forrest Pogue, "... There is no doubt that Winston had a Balkan liking ... and he used to make matters rather difficult for me with Marshall with statements he would make, which Marshall would often think were inspired by me and they were not ... I couldn't go to him (Marshall) and say I don't agree with a word my Prime Minister is saying." C.  Catherwood, Winston Churchill, p. 260. And Sir Henry Wilson said, "... I knew that strategically that was the only way (Southern France)... None of us liked the offensive against Italy really, against those mountains." C. Catherwood, p. 261. British Intelligence Officer Sir Kenneth Strong confirms Wilson's statement. "Churchill's obsession with the "underbelly" theory has always struck me as a strategic aberration. General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson ... told me early in 1944 that he also favored the American view, but said that it was difficult for him to oppose the Prime Minister's policy." Sir Kenneth Strong, Intelligence at the Top, p. 130. Allied strategy in Italy was being determined, not by the best military minds available, but by an amateur politician bent on getting his own way, as Alan Brooke once put it,'to spite the Americans.'At conferences in Cairo and Teheran Churchill chose to fight the Overlord battle with the Americans just one more time. It was a huge mistake. Presidential advisor Harry Hopkins had warned Churchill to back off or be prepared to go it alone at Teheran. Churchill refused to listen and paid the price. Roosevelt had tired of listening to Churchill's rants. He refused numerous requests for private meetings with the British Prime Minister. Churchill liked to blame Roosevelt's casual socializing for his lack of free time, but Hastings correctly points out "... that such evasion(s) reflected policy rather than 'mischances.'" p. 348.Churchill had overplayed the British hand throughout WW II. He got the headlines he wanted from the British press and this in turn inspired a reasonable war effort from the British people. Hastings wrote, "... the United States, its leaders and people alike still overestimated the wealth of Churchill's nation. Few grasped the extent of its moral, strategic and financial exhaustion." p. 443. In Bernard L. Montgomery, the British people had a brilliant field marshal who never lost a battle, and whose battles all went exactly as he had planned them. Financially, there was seldom the slightest hint of long-term British fiscal doom covered by the press during the war. British and Americans shared an overly optimistic future for the British Empire and the British economy. These opinions were not divined by reading the tea leaves, but by reading British newspapers.It was all part of Prime Minister Winston S. Churchill's war winning strategy. British economic and military power were hyped and exaggerated far beyond their actual war-time performances. Neither American military or economic aid was seen as critical by the average British subject. "... Only a third of those (British) questioned held favorable views of Americans... Americans were actually held in lower esteem than Italians. Yet nine of ten Britishers thought well of Russia and the Russians." Peter Lyon, Eisenhower, p. 278.Hastings writes, "There is an escapable pathos about Churchill's predicament in the last year of the war... His engagement with armies became ... that of a tourist, because he could no longer much influence their movements." p. 482. Yet on March 31, 1945 Churchill wrote Eisenhower a letter complaining bitterly about Eisenhower's decision to reinforce Bradley with Simpson's Ninth U.S. Army which had been attached to Montgomery's 12th British Army Group. British complaints went all the way to the Combined Chiefs in Washington which forced George Marshall to ask Eisenhower to explain his decisions. There were barely 40 days left in the war. The Americans hoped to get in at least one full-scale offensive before the war ended, if they could just get the British out of the way. The last large American offensive which had full British approval went back to Operation Cobra in the Carentan at the end of July 1944. Montgomery usually gets blamed for his intransigence with the Americans, but the real culprit was P.M. Churchill and his refusal to see a reduced role for the dying British Empire in a post-war world. Max Hastings is forced to struggle with Churchill's flawed strategic vision throughout his book. The reader keeps his fingers crossed, but he already knows the ending will not be a happy one.
5 As others have stated, there are many biographies of WC.  The reason I purchased this one is that I have always found Max Hasting to be thought-provoking writer who finds something new to tell on every subject he tackles.  I was not disappointed.  This is a narrowly focused view of Winston Churchill as PM during the war.  The narrative covers events in some detail, but not so low as to be painful.  It is obvious that Hastings is a big fan of Churchill, but can still point out the flaws that prevented him from being an effective peacetime national leader of Britain.  The book delves into many of the more controversial of Churchill's actions and explains why most were not the flights of fancy others have claimed.  The author's claim that Churchill was the only leader that could have done what he managed to do for Britain during the war is undoubtedly correct.  He convincingly tells of Churchill's failure to recognize the future and the British people's need for change that ensured the PM's ouster as the war wound down and the war-weary populace prepared to return to peacetime and the resumption of their lives.While no detailed knowledge of WW2 history is needed to enjoy the book, it is helpful in placing in context the events that most affected Churchill and his leadership of the British Empire.
5 Hastings has the wonderful ability to synthesize an enormous body of material, weave it into an interesting narrative, and to make sound judgments about the historical questions presented.  In this book, he tells the familiar story of Churchill in World War Ii, but does so in a fresh way, adding negative as well as positive criticism of Churchill's performance.Hastings contrasts Churchill's will with that of French premiere Reynaud and some of the defeatists in England.  Churchill's combative instincts and his ability to communicate to mobilize all of England explains much of the difference between the outcomes of the Battle of France and the Battle of England.  Of course, one should not ignore the geographic vulnerability of France versus the benefits of the English Channel and one should not ignore the effectiveness of the RAF.Hastings is critical of the performance of the English Army, which surprises me.  However, he does make the case that unlike World War I, the English troops simply never were a match for the Germans unless they had overwhelming advantages in men, air cover, and artillery.  He is also critical of the English commanders.  Hastings is also effective at coveying the great crisis of confidence in England and Churchill's ability in overcoming it, but the ultimate inability of even Churchill to reverse the inevitable downfall of the English Empire by the end of the war.Churchill's penchant for distracting adventures and reluctance to focus on the need to win the war in the west via a cross channel invasion are criticized.  Although Hastings believes Churchill was right to dissuade the U.S. from mounting suicidal cross channel invasions too early, he does concede that Churchill was too hesitant to launch D-Day.In the end Hastings makes the case for the great man theory of history -- without Churchill's strong leadership, exceptional energy, and great communication skills, the war in the west may have turned out much differently.
5 Winston Churchill (1874-1965)is well served in this excellent new biograpy by the eminent British historian Max Hastings. Despite the teeming shelves of Churchillian literature this new book is well worth reading for the insights into the character, will and bulldog determination of WSC.Churchill became  Prime Minister of Great Britain on May 10, 1940. He replaced the disastrous appeasement policiy of Neville Chamberlain the Tory premier WSC served as Lord of the Admirality. On that same day Hitler's hordes invaded the Low Countries. Soon Churchill was charged with having to rescue the British Army from Dunkirk; keep the nation going despite the Battle of Britain and deal with social unrest at home. Churchill was a Victorian man who refused independence for India and wanted to keep the British Empire intact on the world stage. In this mission he failed as the little English donkey England had to sit at the summit of Western leadership with the behemoth bear of Stalin's Russia and the soaring England of the behemoth arsenal of democracy and military might of FDR's United States.Churchill is faulted for wanting to micromanage the conduct of the war. He England into nonproductive expeditions into the Balkans, Greece and wanting the invasion of the continent to go through Italy. Instead America prevailed and the invasion was launched on D-Day June 6, 1944 on the beaches of Normandy in northwestern France. Churchill's greatest contribution was in his stirring oratory over the BBC, House of Commons and to the beleagured but tough British men and women.Churchill was an egocentric aristocrat who was petted and spoiled. His longsuffering wife Clementine would goad him into better behavior with subordinates and try to keep his drinking and smoking within bounds. He was, nevertheless, a towering political genius whose courage, fortitude and admantine refusal to surrender led the Western Allies to victory in 1945. He distrusted Russia but knew he needed the Red Empire to be on Britain''s side if the war was to be won.He cherished a friendship with FDR knowing England would not survive unless the United States became an active participant in the war. Churchill's Great Britain was the militarily weakest of the big three coalitoon as US and Soviet arms dwarfed those of the land of hope and glory.  Churchill had difficulties with mediocre generals never finding the Wellington he wanted.Max Hastings is a great historian writing in a clear and understandable style. This is a fine book on a great and indispensable man Winston Churchill!
5 This book was an eye opener for me to read. I had been led to believe that during WW II the Brits and Yanks got along very well. Little did I know that there was a strong undercurrent of dislike on both sides for their counterparts across the war planning council tables.
5 Mr Hastings, a prolific and award winning author, has written a book on the life of Winston Churchill during the war years that neither sets him on a pedestal or to the other extreme mire him in the muck and fog of war and politics. From my perspective, the narrative is a balanced account of the Prime Minister giving praise when deserved but also criticism when deserved.This book does not seek to retell the full story of Churchill during the war but rather to present a portrait of his leadership as Prime Minister, set in the context of Britain's national experience. And with that qualification, I thought his narrative was worth five stars.The author provides much information on the deeds of Churchill and provides many quotes and diary entries from fellow politicians, the military and the British public. Alan Brooke who intimately worked and advised the PM and had to constantly curtail Churchill's impractical military operations is quoted the most. WC's wife Clementine also provides insight as well as his friends.The book is laid out step by step chronologically beginning with WC's ascension to Prime Minister and the German invasion in May 1940, to the dark days of U-boats and the Luftwaffe striking British cities and her ships, to give comfort and motivation to the British public, to influencing FDR's participation in the war, to dark days once again when toward the end of the war WC lost his influence with FDR and saw the victory of German defeat overshadowed by the hegemony of Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.The coverage of the war with regards to Churchill's influence, both good and bad, was broad and worthwhile and included the campaigns in France 1940, North Africa, Italy, Balkans and again in northern Europe 1944-45. Churchill was constantly fighting at home as well, fending off political opponents who disagreed with his decisions and were trying to relieve him from office. Another chapter covers Churchill with Stalin and the Eastern Front which was probably my favorite chapter in the book. The author discusses the extensive spy ring Stalin had in place in London and Washington; Stalin was aware of many things and knew that Churchill's promises of a second front in France in 42 or 43 was a deception. The chapter also points out that the aristocratic heritage of WC and FDR as well as the anti-Communism ideologies of the two would be too much of a hurdle for Stalin to truly trust his partners. Its also stated that the belief of the two western partners could befriend and control Stalin as being totally naive, vain and delusional.The book also has a few maps and some interesting photos to study. It also has a decent Notes section, Bibliography and Index.Just like FDR, WC did not keep a diary while in office; he did not want to expose his follies and inconsistencies to posterity so the author points out many times from quotes from WC, his intimates and opponents that Churchill as PM was mindful of his potential role as a stellar performer upon the stage of History. While Chamberlain shied away from that performance, that duty, Churchill eagerly sought it out and relish it. This was his opportunity to erase the humiliation of the failure at Gallipoli and to forge a new bolder history for himself and Great Britain no matter what the costs.By these quotes, the judgments and reactions of the British public are also brought out to give the reader the collective opinion of WC's performance throughout the war.If you're looking for one book of WSC during the war years, this would be a good candidate. It carefully weaves Churchill's reasons and motivations for his actions within the framework of WWII, letting the reader understand the influence, good and bad, that Churchill had on the war and its participants.
2 My initial reaction to the book was quite positive, but faded slowly as my expectations were unmet.  The author's admiration of Churchill while declaring his failings prompted an unfulfilled expectation of an account that looked at both the successes and failures and how they related: Did they reflect conflicting aspects of his personality or were they simply different facets? Unfortunately there is no such yin-yang.While the book _asserts_ that Churchill was the great leader, what it _discusses_ are his various disastrous decisions and his limited influence with the allies.  As other reviewers have noted (eg, Geoffrey Wheatcroft in a 2010-04-26 NY Times review), while Churchill's energy, willfulness and inspiration was critical in keeping Britain from surrendering, this book leads the reader to consider Churchill's contributions as a net negative starting shortly after the US entry into the war.  The author may have expected the readers to have the details of Churchill's strengths and accomplishments at their fingertips, but this is unreasonable for the general audience.  And the omission of this coverage is not due to a lack of space: There are plenty of trivial and tangential details that could easily have been omitted.On Churchill's major mistakes:  Anyone with an intermediate interest in WW2 history is likely to be aware of all of these except "the second Dunkirk". The treatment of that event left me unclear whether it was Churchill's fault (confused leadership) or that of a dysfunctional, incompetent military bureaucracy that he inherited.  The book's account of the decision-making process is unsophisticated and terse: It first provides a quick statement of Churchill's characteristics behind his bad judgment, followed by an enumeration of the officials who opposed it and then a statement that Churchill prevailed by force of personality.  Typically, the coverage of the results of the decision goes far beyond what is needed to convincingly demonstrate its folly.  It recounts details that are irrelevant--being far outside Churchill's purview (eg, the movements of individual battalions)--and that are well-covered in many previous histories.  There are long stretches where Churchill's name is not even mentioned.  What I had expected was an emphasis on what led up to the decision and why the problems had not been anticipated or were downplayed. (NOTE: this is my biggest interest in reading history)The book's coverage is maddeningly uneven. For example, the various Greek debacles get detailed coverage, but problems that seem to me to be even bigger failures get only passing mention, without any indication of the degree of Churchill's awareness of them and what, if anything, he tried to do about them.  For example, gross failures in various major army commands in the use of intelligence, including Ultra. For example, situations that appear to have inflicted more damage to Britain's industrial capacity than German bombers: Substantial manufacturing capacity wasted on obsolete and useless armaments; shoddy manufacturing that required substantial repairs to make weapons usable; large quantities of armaments repeatedly damaged and destroyed during shipping because of negligent handling and grossly inadequate packaging.  Related example: The convoys to Russia were taking tremendous, unsustainable losses--ships and sailors--but the book paints a picture that much of what they were carrying was useless to the Russians (obsolete, damaged).  Despite the _issue_ of such support to Russia being a top-level strategic priority, the book again fails to address Churchill's involvement.Similarly, one of the major themes in the book is the limitations/failures/inferiority of the British Army, both its leaders and its soldiers.  While the book covers Churchill's frustrations with various individuals, it didn't give me any sense of whether he was aware of the claimed institutional problem.  My inference is that he wasn't because I didn't spot evidence that his plans accommodated such. Furthermore, I speculated that Churchill, himself part of these institutions, was partially blinded to the underlying problems (but less than most). While the book provides some support for this--primarily in the descriptions of failed commanders--it doesn't go any further.  This is surprising in the context that Gen Marshall's reformation of the US Army is a major topic of WW2 histories.Throughout the book we are told of the military's objections to Churchill's constant "meddling".  If this involvement was in fact so _overwhelmingly_ negative, the book fails to reconcile this with its repeated assertions of Churchill's brilliance, knowledge and tenacity. For example, even if Churchill's proffered _solution/idea_ proved to be unworkable, had he identified a real problem and in the process forced the military to address it?  Or were they simply off-the-wall distractions?The book's focus on Churchill is too extreme, diminishing those around him to insignificance.  If this were a movie, no one among the British cast would qualify as a supporting actor, some would be bit players, but most would be merely extras. This was too out-of-balance to be credible to me.  Also, a critical part of leadership is identifying, supporting and developing subordinates, but the book provides none of this.The author's trove of details, although tangential, suggested the build-up to a great story, but it rarely rose above the type of events usually classified as gossip: low level chronicling + reinforcing quotes. Example: Who met Churchill at the airport or train station and what he was sitting on when they arrived. This is the heavily trodden ground that the book's introduction (available online) had led me to expect would be slid over.Although some of these details were potentially significant, the book failed to provide the necessary background or connections.  For example, on Churchill's many trips, who traveled with him is detailed, but what they discussed and how it affected decisions and relationships is almost entirely ignored.  The one time I remember this being addressed was a negative--the plane was too noisy for them to be able to hear each other.SUMMARY: This was a book that just didn't add up. Too many of the details didn't add up to anything significant.  And the significant claims didn't have enough consistency and coherence to add up to something credible, although they could providing interesting discussion topics.-- Lesser editorial criticism --While the book is mostly well-written, I repeatedly encountered opaque sentences that stopped me cold. Rereading would give me the rough intent, and seeing the grammatical structure could take several more attempts.In various quotes, there are words and phrases that I could understand only by inference from the context (and I had lived in Britain for a year).  Since such a quote adds nothing, the author should have either explained such, found a substitute or dropped it.Many of the quotes were the type that one expects of an author reporting his own research, but here I felt they were unnecessary and diverted from the purported focus.  Remember that this was a book that was supposed to be building upon layers of earlier research and analysis.
5 Churchill brought to life. Amidst the huge array of Churchill works,many of which I have read,why would I eagerly anticipate another? Due to the never failing ability of Max Hasting's to inject immediacy,relevance and the sense of the person into subjects so overwritten as to become almost numbingly iconic. I am midway through the work and am not disappointed,in fact rate it five stars. Churchill brought to life, with no erasure of his shortcomings but on the contrary their overcoming futher  testament to his stature as he faced the 'fog of war",the futility of appeasing fanatic ideology,the politics of opportunism and the vagaries of the public will.He was both "the hedgehog and the fox" to use Isaiah Berlin's apt but usually mutually exclusive distinction.One wonders if such a gargantuan personna could emerge again or is world or national cataclysm the required dynamic? Recent events do not provoke optimism.
3 This is not, in itself, a bad book, although in many instances a bore to read. It is NOT a biography of Churchill during WW2, nor is it a chronicle/description of its main events.It is a book on the minutiae, the unimportant events, many times regarding the everyday living of Churchill and so many other characters, of small talk to or from secretaries. Definitely not up to the standards to which Max Hastings has accustomed us.Even being myself some kind of mashochistic reader who thinks he has to finish every book he starts, I have finally settled to read only the chapters which seem, a priori, most interesting to me. This is an unnecesarily long book.
4 I recently read William Manchester's two volume Churchill bio and this book just happens to pick-up right where Manchecter left off, with Churchill becoming prime minister. I like Hasting's writing and I found his treatment of contemporary public opinion, especially in Britain, to be enlightening. This book seems well balanced without diminishing Churchill's well-deserved stature among 20th century leaders.
