5 If Philippa Gregory  is the author, then you know it is great. This book is no exception. Get it, you won't regret it.
5 I don't give out 5 stars for many books, but &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; is worthy. An excellent ficitional account, from the perspective of Hannah Greene, an adolescent girl, blessed with &quot;the sight&quot;.  She is a practicing Christian, but at heart a Jew, hiding her religion for fear of reprisal and punishement.  Hannah becomes The Queen's Fool, and lives her life at Court, witnessing history as it happens.I was not familiar with all of the history of the period, Queen Mary, Elizabeth, Robert Dudley, etc. but it was riveting. I could not put this book down and spent 3 late nights reading (well worth it!!)Gregory  brings this time period to life, with wonderful descriptions, dialogue and a great story.  I highly recommend this book.  Lose yourself in the past...time well spent.
1 This book was boring, boring, boring.  Hannah went back and forth, back and forth.  She was loyal to Mary, then the next day it was Elizabeth, then literally the next day it was Robert Dudley, then Mary, then Elizabeth, then Robert.  I kept waiting for something to happen.  Then she loved Daniel, then she didn't love Daniel, then she loved him again........too much.  I liked The Other Boleyn Girl but The Queen's Fool was inferior.
4 Philippa Gregory writes wonderful historical fiction.Hannah Green is a wonderful, complex young woman who is caught between childhood and adulthood, Christianity and Judaism, her desires and what she feels is her duty, and between life as a commoner and life at the court of Mary I and Elizabeth, in the role of fool. This is an excellent ficitional account, from the perspective of Hannah Greene, an adolescent girl, blessed with "the sight". Her relationship with Mary, Elizabeth, Robert Dudley and Daniel, her betrothed, were all fascinating to read about.I would also recommend reading "The Other Boleyn Girl"...which was an excellent book.
3 I found it difficult to like or even to care much about any of the characters in this book and their various travails.  The two queens were self-indulgent and self-centered to the point of being annoying.  The fool was . . . I guess the best discription is an adolescent inflicted with hero worship and a total lack of common sense.  I wish the author had continued the story into her life after she finally grew up . . . where did they go, what did they do after she finally left the poisonous atmosphere of the English court, how did she compromise with her inlaws.  It was just beginning to get interesting when the author lost interest in the story.
3 Well-written with intriguing period detail, but trods a well-worn story path. A likable central character, but not a novel one.
5 I was immersed in the story immediately and found it difficult to put the book down.The level of historical detail, especially in the daily lives of the characters was truly impressive and and kept me fully captivated. I wish the story did not end and I could continue to travel along the side of Hannah in the rest of her life story as well as with the other characters.I can't wait to purcahse the author's other books and find myself in another world.
4 This is one of the series about the Boleyn sisters and the intrigues around them. The author deserves even more kudos for her efforts in researching her subjects to ensure accuracy and to pique constant interest in each of her series.  Each book, this one included, is a work of art and stark realism.  Taken from diaries and other pertinent papers of the time, with little of the false tales told,  her books bring history alive.
4 I like historical fiction, and this book did not disappoint. An easy read (again, if you are a fan of the period), with good context illustrating some of the prevalent attitudes towards gender and religion from the time. Also good references to the historical characters from her other novels.
5 Another drama of the Tudors by Philippa Gregory.  I enjoyed this one more than "The Other Boleyn Girl" because the main character had spunk and independence, unusual for a girl in those days.  Although a vassal to a Lord with his own agenda, she developed a deep love for Queen Mary and was a loyal friend to her through all her suffering.  For the first time, I got a clear picture of the conflict between Mary and Elizabeth before and after the death of their young brother the King.  Both made huge mistakes but were strong women to be reckoned with.  Hannah serves both but is still her own woman.  Very exciting events unfold as the balance of power shifts back and forth between these two woman and their supporters.  Adding to the drama is the fact that Hannah and her family are Jews passing as Christians during a time when heretics were burned at the stake.
4 I was originally hooked on Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl, which my mom and I stumbled upon in a bookstore years ago. Ever since reading Boleyn, I have been fascinated with the Tudor court. Gregory's concise yet extraordinarily detailed writing allowed me to see clearly the famous court of the Tudors. Her Tudor Court series has become a favorite of mine - I buy each and every book.The Queen's Fool focuses upon the interactions between Mary I of England* and Elizabeth I* right before the Golden Age of Elizabeth's reign began. Caught in...Read the rest of my review at [...]
5 This is a fantastic piece of historical fiction. Other people have written on the plot, so I won't bore you or insult your intelligence with my interpretation. Philippa Gregory is one of the most historically accurate authors I have read in a long time. She manages to make the story seem like a living, breathing thing, where the reader shares his experiences with the characters. Hannah Green is a wonderful, complex young woman who is caught between childhood and adulthood, Christianity and Judaism, her desires and what she feels is her duty, and between life as a commoner and life at the court of Mary I and Elizabeth, in the role of "fool." It is a book of extremes, of light and dark; the choices Hannah makes have an impact not just on herself, but on the people around here. The Tudor era, vibrant in reality, is here rendered in exquisite detail.
3 This is the first book I've read by Philippa Gregory. Considering I've been reading a lot of (easy) YA fantasy fiction lately, it did take me a little more time than usual to really get into it. But once I had... I thoroughly enjoyed it.At school I hated history... my teachers made it incredibly boring when it should have been entertaining and fascinating. This book, however, enlightened me on the history behind Henry VIII's two daughters, Mary and Elizabeth - something I'd only ever known about through the movies featuring Cate Blanchett (both aptly entitled Elizabeth).Although the story was about a young girl who worked in the royal court as a fool, I was intrigued by everything that surrounded her. She is an appealing, likable, character, flawed like most of us but well rounded. There was just a little gore and a small amount of fighting, but on the most part, The Queen's Fool was about love and family feuds.I think Philippa Gregory has a rare talent for historical writing and this certainly won't be the last book of hers that I read. However, my next book is more likely to be something much more light hearted and easy before I tackle another one of hers!
2 Phillipa Gregory gives you a lot of historical information.  However, this novel was so redundant that she could have deleted more than 50 pages.It is a few steps highter than Danielle Steele.
5 I have really become fond of Philippa Gregory.  With Gregory, the reader can indulge a love of history, but still be entertained with a good story and interesting characters.  The Queen's Fool is no exception.Told from the vantage point of Hannah Verde, a clairvoyant, the reader experiences the death of Edward and the ascention of Mary Tudor.  Hannah still has many of her own adventures outside of court life, but her connection with the ruling class is always at the forefront of this tale.This book should be read after The Other Boleyn Girl, and it should be noted that it briefly overlaps The Virgin's Lover. I am really looking forward to Gregory's next work, The Boleyn Inheritance, because she will be examining Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard.  And, if you like Gregory, be sure to try Jean Plaidy, who also wrote about Henry VIII's wives.
5 Philippa Gregory gives medieval and renaissance fans a real treat to sink their teeth into with this 16th century tale of a Jewish refugee in the British court. Fleeing for her life, Hannah arrives in England but must fight a different battle for survival against the intrigue and upheaval of the Tudor court. This novel is non-stop action and a thrill for romance fans and historical fiction readers. Highly recommend!
4 The Queen's Fool by Philippa Gregory is a fun story taking place in an era that I truly enjoy reading about and I believe anyone that enjoys getting lost with a romance of yesterday would enjoy this book as well.
5 Phillipa Gregory has written another favorite of mine.I was tired of hearing about all the bad in queen Mary, Gregory portrayed her in a more human way.Over all a wonderful novel.
4 This is the story of a young girl, Hannah Green, from a Jewish family that hides their identity to escape persecution while secretly holding on to their faith and nationhood.Hannah and her father have come from Spain, where Hannah's mother was burned as one of the thousands of innocent victims of the Spanish Inquisition.Hannah has the gift of  a seer. She is dressed as a boy in order to protect her, and soon comes to the attention of Lord Robert Dudley, who recruits her to the court of Queen Mary I of England as a 'fool'', but whose real task is as a spy. In the meantime Hannah is betrothed to Daniel,  from an old Jewish family.She soon comes to love the Queen, which is a puzzle, as it was Bloody  Mary who brought the Spanish Inquisition to England. The author's rewrite of history by her over-sympathetic portrayal of Queen Mary and her unflattering portrayal of Queen Elizabeth does not sit well with me.How can one sympathetically portray the Queen who burned thousands in order to force Roman Catholicism back onto England. And how can Hannah have been so devoted to the ruler who brought the brutal inquisition to England, after Hannah's mother was butchered by these same 16th century terrorists of Mary's ilk.It was Elizabeth who freed England from Mary's terror and was one of England's greatest rulers ever. Elizabeth presided over a golden age of peace, prosperity and culture.In  fact history reveals that it was Mary who was utterly ruthless and had plnned to have Elizabeth killed, while Elizabeth had both judgement and the quality of mercy.It will not do to present Elizabeth as a scheming harlot. The author go's out of her way to explore the depth of Mary's character but does not do the same for Elizabeth.The author was also insufficiently sympathetic to Elizabeth, involving her seduction and exploitation by Thomas Seymour, when she was fourteen.Hannah  comes across as intriguing, attractive, like-able and interesting. The element of the crypto-Jews or 'marannos' is of great interest to me.The book is a real page turner and fabulously written, despite the flaws I have highlighted.
3 This was just okay. It was not my favorite P. Gregory book by far, but it was an enjoyable enough read.
4 Philippa Gregory weaves a very different tale with a completely fictional narrator, young Hannah Green.  As other reviews have noted, Hannah and her father flee the Spanish Inquisition, and start a new life in London, where she is discovered as having the gift of "Sight" by none other than Robert Dudley, who presses her first into service for the young King, thus beginning of a life of courtly intrigue.As always, Gregory writes compellingly and interestingly, and I kept turning the pages because I wanted to know how it would all turn out.  I give this book four stars instead of five due to its abrupt ending and due to Hannah's ever-changing loyalties and attitudes.  It was difficult to take her seriously when she pledged eternal devotion on one page and conveniently forgot it on the next.  This was a very interesting take on Queen Mary, however, giving her far more sympathy than I was expecting to see.  It is easier to understand how she was conflicted by her duties to her God and to her Country, as heinous and inexcusable as her policies happened to be.
4 Phillipa Gregory is an amazing author!  I have truly loved every book that I have picked up from her.  Her stories are so much fun and interesting to read; and The Queen's Fool is no different!Although this book is a little darker, not as saucy as The Other Boleyn Girl or The Boleyn Inheritance, it is just as entertaining and still a page-turner.  The story takes place after Henry VIII dies and discusses his successors (his three children:  Edward VI, Mary I, and Elizabeth) rise to power.  When young King Edward passes away, it is Mary who has a rightful place on the throne.  However, because of her religious beliefs and who her mother was, middle-aged Mary does not have an easy time stepping into her rightful place.  Half of the country wants Mary, the other half wants Elizabeth who is definitely her mother's daughter (Anne Boleyn...) You will feel like a ping-pong ball in terms of whose side your on, Queen Mary or Princess Elizabeth!Our main character, a.k.a.-The Queen's Fool, is a both intriguing with dangerous secrets of her own and very loveable to boot.  She accidentally gets caught in the middle of the secrets and plots between Mary and Elizabeth and not only does she have to do her duty as a paid member of the royal court, she has to watch her step so as not to get sent to the Tower!  There are so many surprises and twists scattered throughout the book that it makes it a relatively speedy read.This was a great book and I definitely recommend picking it up for your summer collection!
5 I have read almost all of Philippa Gregory's books, and they are all wonderful...but this was one of my favorites!
5 Through the use of historical fiction, Ms. Gregory allows the reader to feel what it must have been like living through an important period in English history. The book is very engaging as both novel and history and I can't wait to read the sequel.
4 This book came in really used condition. The story is wonderful and I would recommend it to anyone who is reading the 'Boleyn' series of these books!
3 I have to admit, this is not my favorite author. I tried to read one of her other books and was not able to finish it, and thats rare. This book was ok, even good, but dragged on and on @ times. And repeative!!! I have never seen the work 'Christindom' used so many times in a chapter, no less a book!This would be a good book to take to the lake when u would like nothing better think of then when ur gonna get up to get ur next drink, no thinking @ all involved to read this one!
4 It kept my interest and gave additional insight to behind the scenes English Royalty ... which I believe Ms. Gregory must be able to channel.  Love the way she brings history to life.
4 In 1553 Hannah de Verde and her father flee Spain following the Inquisition burning her mom at the stake for being Jewish.  With the help of the Carpenters, they open up a London bookstore changing their name to Greene.  Their sponsors and the Greenes hide their Jewish traditions behind a Christian faade.  Teens Hannah and Daniel Carpenter are betrothed to marry when she turns sixteen.Scholar John Dee and Lord Robert Dudley arrive at the bookstore seeking books from the early ages of Christianity and Hebrew antiquity.  Hannah, garbed in boy's clothing, mentions a third person with them that excites John as he realizes that God gave Hannah the gift of sight.  She describes an angel.Hannah delivers their purchases to Whitehall Palace.  Robert introduces her to the ailing teen King Edward who names her his Holy Fool.  She sees death lingering near Edward, but says nothing.  Robert's father threatens to expose her and her father as Jews if she refuses the position.  She accepts though Daniel is unhappy.  Now her adventures amidst the royal intrigue begin over the next several years as Mary reigns.The solid depiction of real 1553-1558 historical figures provide an in-depth look at an era of transition from an ailing King Edward through the short reign of Queen Mary to the point of ascension of Queen Elizabeth.  That serves as a double edged sword as at times the story seems to go tediously on.  Hannah is a strong protagonist who enables the audience to look closely at the royals and some key aristocrats while depicting the plight of the Jews in Western Europe.  Historical readers will devour this deep look at England's mid sixteenth century monarchy.Harriet Klausner
5 Wonderfully thought out and written is shows  the history while being a great novel.  You will read this again and again.
4 This is a great book, easy to read. It's a historical-fiction book so the reader must keep that in mind. Some of the items in the book are correct, some are embellished, some are made up. It still a great read and perfect for a summer book list.
4 In all truthfulness, I haven't met a Philippa Gregory novel that I didn't like.  They are not literary masterpieces, sure, but they are certainly entertaining, fun books set in a VERY interesting time in history (mostly during the Tudor reign of England).  The Queen's Fool was no different - I loved the characters, the setting, the historical descriptions, the raunchiness dressed up as romance; I loved it all.  One aspect of The Queen's Fool that I especially liked was the main character, Hannah Green.  I liked how this book was told from the perspective of someone outside of the royal family - it gave quite a different spin on the events, and the book wasn't JUST focused on court life.  There was a deeper aspect to the story, since the entire time Hannah was worried about the Inquisition and constantly fearing that someone would discover her secret about her own past.  I felt that Hannah was a pretty likable character - she certainly wasn't perfect and made plenty of mistakes along the way, but she always seemed to want to do the right thing and was generally a good person amidst the evil surrounding the royal family.  I also enjoyed how the book spent a lot of time on Queen Mary, as I haven't read much fiction based on her before.  Of course I'm well aware that Ms. Gregory's books aren't extremely historically accurate, but I found the plot surrounding Queen Mary interesting all the same.Generally speaking, if you're a Philippa Gregory fan, The Queen's Fool is one not to be missed.  And if you're a historical fiction/historical romance fan and haven't read anything by this author, I'd suggest giving her a try.  I always find myself racing through her books - they are highly entertaining and I can't recommend them enough.
5 THE QUEEN'S FOOL is a work of genius on several levels. First, the simple fact that author Philippa Gregory even had the idea for the concept of this fiction is staggering.Then, that she unfolds the complicated story with such grace and such ease seems miraculous.Finally, the depth and breadth of her research to provide the numerous historic details which make this plot come alive must have been massive.Anyone with some curiosity about the Tudor queens Mary and Elizabeth will find the story of "fool" Hannah Green to make for riveting reading. This was an era when one could be burned at the stake for heresy--and any religion other than the ruler's was heretical--for treason, and for witchcraft.Hannah, who is a secret Jew--with second sight--effectively is sold by her father to Lord Robert Dudley to service the royal court. She has to walk a careful line between the rival half-sisters, both daughters of Henry VIII and heiresses (in sequence of birth order) to the throne of England.How she manages to survive her servitude makes for quite a tale, and no one is better equipped than Ms. Gregory to spin this yarn.THE QUEEN'S FOOL is a work of genius on every level.
4 This one of my favorite books by Gregory and it adds an interesting touch after reading The Other Boleyn Girl and seeing the struggles between Elizabeth and Mary.  It was really refreshing to see a different side of Mary portrayed other than the ruthless and demented side that most people would like to paint her as.  I also really liked Hannah's personnal life story amidst the splendor and opulence of the Tudor reign.  The only thing that I wish had been added was Hannah's visions and portrayals of the future.
5 The Queen's Fool takes the reader into the wild and confusing social period of Elisabethan England and by the alchemy of genius, brings it to life.Much little known detail is given, such as the linking of the courts of England and France, the prevailing attitudes to women, and the atmosphere of the royal entourages. The shifting loyalties of the players provide a psychological quandary comparable to a tour on thin ice.For an exciting look into the history of our species, and the human stories associated with a very different period, I heartily recommend it, along with the other historical novels written by Philippa Gregory.
5 I've read three of Gregory's novels--The Queen's Fool: A Novel (Boleyn),The Other Boleyn Girl, andThe Virgin's Lover (Boleyn).  Out of the three,The Queen's Fool: A Novel (Boleyn)is my favorite.  It's a thrilling masterpiece depicting a young woman's coming of age colliding with the tumultuous politics of her uncertain time.Hannah Green, a young Jewish woman, flees the Spanish Inquisition with her father to find herself entangled in a battle for the British throne.  Soon after her arrival in England, the powerful few discovers her gift of prophesy and tries to exploit it.  As a result, Hannah is torn between the treacherous politics and religious upheaval of the Tudor era, a time where loyalties shifted from one moment to the next, a time where carrying the wrong version of the bible could quickly lead to a hot date with the gallows.What I love about this book is how Gregory weaves a historical period with factual figures into a tale told through the believable eyes of a fictional character.  I cared very much about Hannah, her vulnerabilities as a trusting young woman, her personal sacrifices and her safety.  Hannah not only has to deal with the political forces pulling her in multiple directions but she also grapples with the growing pains of becoming a young adult.Gregory expertly crafted a book that will keep you reading into the wee hours of the night--if you sleep at all.  If you enjoyed readingThe Other Boleyn Girl, you'll love The Queen's Fool.  And if this is you're first glimpse into Gregory's work, you're in for a treat.
5 I always enjoy this author's work. The characters are so real.  The glimpse into the hearts of the queen and the fool make this a real page turner.
5 This book is wonderful reading.  It is about Queen Katherine of England and how she attained the crown.  She was Catalina, daughter of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain.  She was groomed from early childhood to be Princess of Wales in England as she was betrothed to Prince Arthur by her parents.  Her arranged marriage turned out to be a love match, but, Prince Arthur died just months after the marriage.  She went to extraordinary lengths to remain in England and attain the crown by marrying Arthur's younger brother, Henry.  Katherine's struggles, the intrigues all around her and her constancy paid off but it took her seven years of hardship and misery.
5 The Queen's Fool is the story of Queen Mary and her step sister Queen Elizabeth told from the perspective of a young Jewish girl trying to hide in plain site from the Inquisition as the Queen's Fool.  The historical references, while maybe not always completely acurate, are always authentic and believable.  This book made me think about Queen Elizabeth in a whole new way.  I strongly recommend it.
4 After reading quite a few Philippa Gregory novels, enjoying most of them thoroughly, I recently picked this one up.  The overview sounded a bit strange, and quite a stretch for the imagination...but what a surprise!  I loved it.  The only questionable part was how "Bloody Mary" was portrayed as a lovelorn, sympathetic character (all the while burning heretics at the stake).  And even after Hannah is arrested by Mary's own henchmen and only just misses being killed herself, Hannah returns to her service and continues being devoted and caring towards her!!  That part just made no sense.  But apart from that it was interesting, and well written, and very entertaining!  Plus Hannah's romance added more depth and charm to the overall story.
5 Philipa Gregory is one of the best historical fiction authors. I have read 10 books from her and I love them all. The Queen's Fool is by far my favorite! I love how she ties in the fiction with the real history and then explains what was real and what was not. This book is a must read!!
5 Born in Kenya in 1954, Philippa Gregory moved to England with her family at the age of two and was educated in Bristol. Philippa now lives in the north of England with her husband and two children. She has written a number of highly acclaimed historical novels and her latest ones revolve around the rich tapestry provided by the Tudor period. I have not read all of the authors books but  Earthly Joys and Virgin Earth were among the ones I have read and I found those two fascinating.Hannah a young Jewish girl on the run from the Inquisition is sworn into the service of Robert Dudley. He sends her on a spying mission into the household of Mary Tudor, the forgotten heir to Edward's throne. Mary has a sister Elizabeth,  sister who is waiting in the wings for any mistake. Far from being the bigot and religious fanatic the she has been proclaimed, Hannah finds that Mary is a gentle woman, waiting for her chance and only wanting the best for her subjects.Philippa Gregory has come up trumps again with a book that takes the reader on a journey through the Tudor court with all its subterfuge and plotting and leaves the reader wishing that the book had not finished.
4 some think that living in interesting times is a curse rather than a blessing and for the narrator of this novel, Hannah Green, the times were far too interesting.  As the story opens Hannah is about ten years old but she had already seen her mother burned at the stake by the Inquisition, fled with her father from Spain, through Portugal and France to England smuggled from one community of secret Jews to the next.  When Hannah inadvertently reveals her gift of Sight she is placed in the Royal Court officially as a fool to young King Edward but really as a spy for the ambitious Dudley family.  Hannah finds herself thrust into the dangerous world of international politics as the throne of England is fought over by Henry VIII's children and others.  She finds her loyalties torn between Catholic Mary and Protestant Elizabeth even though she realizes that either would condemn Hannah and her family to the fires as a heretic.  In addition her father has arranged a marriage for her to a suitable young man, Daniel, but both Hannah and Daniel have doubts about the match.This is very like Gregory's better known work, THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL, in that it breathes life into this intriguing period by using a combination of established fact and fictional events and characters.  Hannah is a completely fictional character although communities of Jews existed at the time scattered throughout Europe, hiding from persecution.  The story of how Hannah manages to carve a place for herself in this inhospitable environment makes for a compelling and enjoyable read but it is not without flaws.  Despite being the main character Hannah is not very well drawn.  She develops strong attachments to the Dudley family and to bother Mary and Elizabeth even though she is aware that anyone of them would betray her and her family if it suited their interests.  Incredibly she attempts to serve all three factions even knowing that they are all in direct opposition.  These conflicting loyalties, her ambivalence about her heritage and uncertainty about her personal life all leave Hannah as a shadowy, rather cardboard character.Overall though this is an interesting tale about a turbulent time.  Gregory has managed to introduce new viewpoints into this often visited period of European history.  Fans of Gregory's other works or those interested in Tudor England in general would find this an enjoyable novel.
5 In 1553, Hannah Green and her father are fleeing from the Spanish Inquisition.  Hannah's mother had been burned at stake for being a marrano and Hannah and her father seek refuge in London as a bookseller and his apprentice.  Hannah dresses as a boy to help protect her identity. One day, she sees three men looking for her shop.  One is the Lord Robert Dudley, who at that time held a very powerful position in the little King Edward's court as the son of the Regent.  The other is John Dee, a famed scholar who searches feverently to know about the beginning of the world and the language of the angels.  When they hear Hannah speak of the third, shinning man who she had seen, they discover the secret that she has the Sight, and the ability to see into the future.  They immediately take Hannah away to be begged as their King's Holy Fool, where she says that the heavens are opening for Edward.  This historical novel is a wonderful introduction into the rule of Bloody Mary and her rival the Princess Elizabeth.  Told from the viewpoint of a passionate, courageous girl, this novel is a story you can't miss.
5 This book is about a young girl named Hannah, a jewish fugitive running from the Inquistion. This book takes you through Hannah's  struggle, hardships, pain, and encounters that she expericences while at court. It is really a small twist of the Cinderella story theme but ten times better! Great book, I recommend to all.
5 I have to give Philippa Gregory a big THANK YOU! for approaching this story from a different perspective from The Other Boleyn Girl.  It delves into the lives of those in poverty without straying far from the lavish lifestyles of English royalty and wealth.  Again I was attached to the characters and their struggles while learning much about the time period and historical events.  There were a few very alluring relationships between the narrator and the men she encounters creating a whirlwind of emotions for the reader but in the end, I was very pleased with the romantic outcome of the book.  So if you are deciding whether or not you'd like to read this after having read The Other Boleyn Girl, I greatly encourage you to do so, you won't regret it!
5 I loved this book. My favorite Gregory novel is The Other Boleyn Girl, and this comes a close second.Other reviewers have criticized the author for her portrayals of Mary and Elizabeth in this book, but everyone needs to keep in mind that we are viewing these women through Hannah's eyes, and this is fiction, not a historical textbook.Hannah is a very likeable character, who struggles throughout the book to come to terms with her gift of sight, her religious faith and her place in the world as a woman.In this book, as in The Other Boleyn Girl, it's the slow-building, passionate love story that touches me the most. The love story of Hannah and Daniel is very well-written and is my favorite part of the book. It is easy to see what draws them to each other and what keeps them apart. Though the road is bumpy, I was very pleased with the ending.My only complaint would be that I thought the book ended a few pages too soon. (In fact, I would love to see a sequel about the next chapter in Hannah's life.) After everything Hannah went through to discover what she truly wanted, and after everything she went through to get it, I would have liked to see a more passionate ending and a little more assurance that Hannah's future would be as happy as I wanted it to be.
4 not as entertaining as The Other Boleyn Girl or the Boleyn Inheritence. However, a good read!
5 Fiction or not, it is easy to fall in love with these troubled times and the well developed characters. On to the next...
4 After reading The Other Boleyn Girl, I became a huge fan of Philippa Gregory's. She is a talented writer who approaches historical stories from unusual points of view. As I've read more of her work, however, I've become increasingly frustrated with her loose interpretation of historical fiction. Occasionaly Gregory has been known to actually change history, or propose historical "what ifs" that are just preposterous.That is not the case with The Queen's Fool. Here, Gregory lives up to The Other Boleyn Girl. The story is told from the point of view of Hannah Green, a Jewish girl who has fled the Inquisition in Spain with her father after her mother's death. They relocate to London during the reign of Edward VI.  Hannah's rare ability, the Sight, is quickly noted by Sir Robert Dudley and his tutor, John Dee. Dudley, a calculating courtier, brings Hannah into his service. Gregory flawlessly weaves Hannah's story with that of the Tutor monarchs, while weaving in interesting historical stories such as the failed plot to put the Lady Jane Grey on the throne, the constant backstabbing of England's lesser royalty, Mary's marriage and false pregnancies, her persecution of Protestants, and the fall of Calais.Gregory could not have picked a better point-of-view character. Hannah is very young at the beginning of the book, and her view of the people and events that surround her reflect that -- yet because of the fact that she is secretly a Jew, she easily observes that other people have hidden secrets as well. As Hannah matures throughout the book, so does her point-of-view.The real genius of the story, however, is that Gregory chose to portray Mary as the good princess and Elizabeth as the bad princess. It was interesting to see the "human side" of Bloody Mary. Gregory made Mary's rationale for her actions believable without excusing her behavior. (She also did a nice job showing the limits on women's power at the time -- even the limits of the Queen's power because she was a woman). In making Elizabeth the bad princess, she flushed out theories that historians have had for centuries. While I think she went a bit overboard on Elizabeth's promiscuity, she did balance her character out enough that Elizabeth doesn't feel one-sided.Overall, this is a fast read through a tumultuous time in history. It is definitely one of Gregory's better books.
4 I thought this book was a fabulous, mesmerizing read. I've been reading Gregory's books in all the wrong order--started w/ The Other Boelyn Girl and then began pretty close to the beginning of her career, with the Wildacre trilogy and a few others that simply didn't hold a candle to her book about Mary Boelyn. Fortunately, The Queen's Fool is richly written, fascinating and multi-faceted. Hannah Green was a wonderfully developed character, and the plot twists among the princess half sisters made this novel quite addictive. I'm half way through The Virgin's Lover now (definitely a sequel to The Queen's Fool, BTW) and am so glad that it seems to be of the same caliber, or better. Yay for the later works of Philippa Gregory!!
4 I've always been something of a history buff, and lately I've been on a history kick as far as my reading goes, both fiction and non-fiction.This novel is about a young girl who has fled to England with her father from Spain, after her mother is burned by the Inquisition as a Jew. They are all members of the underground Jewish community during this time period, people who nominally converted to Christianity while struggling to hold true to their Jewish roots. Hannah, the main character, is doubly cursed (or perhaps blessed) by the Second Sight, and is brought to court by Lord Robert Dudley to serve as a second Fool for King Edward. She stays on with the court through the reign of Queen Mary.There are a number of stories interwoven in this novel. It is both a coming-of-age tale and a tale of intrigue in the English court. The historical detail is quite good, and accurate as far as I know...a few of the character details of the historical figures are I'm sure fictionalized, as is the main character and her family, although the situation the family is in is realistic enough.If you enjoy historical fiction, you'll enjoy this book. Gregory's writing style is engaging and smooth, and makes for fairly easy reading, suitable for airplane flights or relaxing before bed.
3 Phillipa Gregory does it again, blending historical personages with fictional ones to create a seamless view of the past. Her rich style calles for the reader's attention, but doesn't overwelm the fast moving story. Well worth the time, can't wait for the movie!
5 Oh what a glorious read!  This is one of the first "fun books" I have read since my college career began and I am pleasantly surprised that historical fiction can be so satisfying to read.  You visit Tudor England through the eyes of Hannah, a Jewish girl on the run from the Spanish Inquisition with her father.  She ends up unwillingly tangled within the conspiracies of the Dudley's to put Jane Grey and Princess Elizabeth on the throne after the death of young King Edward. She is used for her powers to "see" the future as well as a spy between Queen Mary (Bloody Mary) and Princess Elizabeth.  She finds herself growing into womanhood amongst courtiers and learns through her trials and tribulations that she is indeed deeply in love with her husband.  This book not only has an addicting storyline, but has bits of English history tucked magnificently into the pages.  I love this book and would recommend it to anyone in search of a satisfying read.
3 I was a big fan of Philippa Gregory after racing through "The Other Boleyn Girl," but here, without the anchor of a real-life main character, Gregory falters . Hannah Green is a secret Jew, who becomes the fool in the court of the Tudors during the 1550's. Hannah is loyal and loving to Queen Mary Todor, is equally fascinated by the vivacious Elizabeth, and has a special relationship with Robert Dudley, Elizabeth's lover. Much more clever people than Hannah become caught in the web of intrique that surrounded the successors to Hanry VIII, but Hannah seems to move effortlessly among the competing courts, shifting her loyalties as circumstances demanded. Several times she is caught in her own little betrayals of those she admires, but seems to be forgiven every time. Gregory is a good writer, and her details of life during this period fascinate, but I thought she strayed too far from reality in "The Queen's Fool."
4 I gave the first book of the trilogy 5 stars, I loved this book also but found the character of Hannah being a 14 yr old Jewish girl pretending to be a boy and a Catholic as well while using her gift of sight to be put in the position of Queen's Holy Fool and spy between 2 sisters, while each of them knew it and she still manages to keep both their favor (and her head) to be a bit of a stretch. I think it dubious that she had any gift of "sight" but rather was just innocent and likable enough to get away with it.  In the end she reunites with her beloved after mothering his son born "from the wrong side of the bed". Isn't it convenient that his real mother took the sword while handing him over to Hannah with no one to morn her loss? Gregory does a wonderful job of portraying the Tudor Court. It is a fasinating and very well researched piece of historical fiction.  Getting a history lesson while being enlightened and entertained, it doesn't get any better than that. I can't wait to read the next in the series "The Virgin's Lover".
5 phillippa Gregory is an awesome author and love the stories behind the history of the tudors and can't wait to read more from her
4 Moments after I completed this book, I finally figured out what had been bugging me about it the entire time I read it, and preventing me from enjoying it more: it's really two books, tumbled together as one.  There are two stories here, and they never quite work together as a single book.  One story revolves around a Jewish girl named Hannah who has to constantly fear being killed for her religious beliefs, must hide with her father in plain sight, posing as a Christian (and perhaps slowly becoming one) and constantly trying to resist the servitude of marriage, the restrictions of womanhood, and the permanence of growing up.  It's a fascinating coming of age story with a solid love story at its core, set in an exciting historical context that moves quickly (if repetitively) and left me wanting more.The other story is . . . less successful.  In that story, the same girl also happens to have the gift of Sight, allowing her to occasionally have visions and make prophesies.  This gift allows her to become the Holy Fool for King Edward, Queen "Bloody" Mary and the future Queen Elizabeth I.  Though Hannah is a young girl and a Jew, Gregory would have us believe that her gift allowed her to get close enough to two queens for them to talk to her as if she were a loyal friend and a confessor -- to ask her advice, to use her as a spy, and to beg for her predictions.  This part of the story simply never worked for me.  It wasn't well-written enough for me to ever suspend my disbelief, even for one second.  I never believed that either Elizabeth or Mary would be so open and honest about their feelings with anyone, let alone a character like Hannah, who is both a child and a Fool.  Gregory simply over reaches herself, especially when she tries to elicit the reader's sympathy by painting Mary as a heartbroken woman who burned hundreds of innocent people in order to better "mother" her country.  Bloody Mary is simply too notorious a villain for Gregory's writing skills to overcome, and no matter how much I read about her sorrow over losing two children and the affection of her husband, I never stopped thinking of her as anything more than a butcher who was getting what she deserved.  Elizabeth herself says it best in the book, on page 463 of the paperback edition: " . . . her sadness at the loss of a child who never was is nothing compared with the grief of a woman who sees her son go to the stake."It was an interesting choice for Gregory to approach this volume of her Tudor chronicles through a fictional, outside character.  I don't know why she chose to do this, rather than simply tell the story of Queen Mary through the Queen herself, using Mary's voice to narrate.  Perhaps then she might have been able to really delve into her heart and understand her actions.  Mary's story is a tragic one indeed -- it has an almost Cinderella quality, and it would have been astonishing if Gregory had managed to turn her into a truly sympathetic character, and let us see how the neglected daughter of a betrayed monarch became one of history's most notorious figures.Had she done so, Gregory would have been able to save her other, better story, and give it the separate book it so richly deserved.  Hannah's tale would have made an excellent bit of historical fiction in its own right.  Not only would we be given a glimpse into the ancient ways of book-making and printing, but we would have learned a lot more about how Jewish people managed to keep their faith and survive even after being tested over and over again by intolerance and bigotry.  I was frustrated when the story veered away from this and back into the politics of courtly life, back into the ridiculous scenes of Hannah calling a queen by her first name and being treated as a senior advisor.  I was also frustrated with the end of story, which doesn't wrap things up well.  I was curious about the fate of several characters who disappeared without a trace.The only other thing to add is that as usual, Gregory's book is very repetitive.  (Following in the footsteps ofThe Boleyn InheritanceandThe Constant Princess.)  Hannah reminds us every fifty pages or so that she is a Fool, a Christian pretending to be a Jew, a girl who is pretending to be a boy, a spy for the Dudleys pretending to be a spy for the Queen who is really a spy for Elizabeth and so on, ad nauseam.  In spite of its flaws, I liked it a lot better than either of those books -- however, nothing compares to the excellence ofThe Other Boleyn Girl, the first and best book I ever read by Gregory, which no work of hers since has managed to hold a candle to.  But I'll keep the flame in my heart burning as I move on to the final book in the series,The Virgin's Lover, and hope for better things.
4 'The Queen's Fool' was a pretty good book. The main character, Hannah, is a fool for Edward, and eventually, Mary and Elizabeth. She has the 'Sight' which allows her to 'see' the future.The book was pretty historically accurate although Philippa Gregory's portrayal of Queen Mary was a bit different than what most historians would say. In the book, Queen Mary wasn't portrayed so much as 'Bloody Mary' and she seemed more compassionate.
2 I like author Philippa Gregory. Her novels are part Historical Fiction and part a bodice- ripping romance nove. Fabio is never on the cover, but he's always there in spirit.Gregory's novel "The Queen's Fool" is narrated through the fictional character, Hannah Green, a young girl from Spain who must hide her Jewish heritage or face persecution in England. Hannah has the gift of foreseeing the future and through a series of chance encounters, she becomes a fool in the tumultuous court of Queen Mary the first. Hannah is a young woman caught between her loyalties in the court and her family, specifically to her betrothed, Daniel.Usually Gregory's novels are quick paced, beach type reads. They have enough weighty content to be taken seriously and enough pulp to be entertaining. Unfortunately, I found "The Queen's Fool" to be long and dull.The biggest problem is the main character. Gregory has set up Hannah to be in the most precarious of positions and constantly in danger. She is a woman who must always hide her identity and to try to keep up with every shifting loyalties in the court. The book should have been suspenseful and exciting. It really contains enough intrigued and plotting to be an episode of "The Game of Thrones".However, Hannah is a baffling and weak character. She is impossible to understand, because her decisions never add up. She is in love with multiple men, yet her desires are never fully realized. She waffles between fleeing to be with a man and returning to court, both as a companion to Queen Mary and to Princess Elizabeth, two sisters who are unsure of their loyalties to one another. Hannah isn't very rooted in her culture and then all of a sudden it's her key motivator. She wants to be independent of men, yet is constantly looking for their guidance and support. She flees from danger one moment and runs head-on into it the next.Hannah doesn't add up. She's a waffler.Watching Hannah's story unfold is like watching a Tug-Of-Rope competition where nobody is trying to pull hard. It's maddening.As such, I never had a clear image of the character. Usually when I read a book, I have a strong idea of an actor who could play them in a movie version. I read the whole five-hundred pages of this book without a good idea of the main character.I felt a huge disconnect from the entire story.In addition, the book was very repetitive with regard to stating the themes and motivations. I felt beat over the head with certain ideas. It should have been more tightly edited to eliminate the repetition and speed up the pacing.The themes and real life characters in "The Queens Fool" were interesting and worth exploring. I wish that Gregory had explored them with a stronger protagonist and better fictional story. She has definitely written better novels.Please visit my blog for more reviews and musings!
5 In this one Gregory creates a lovely, strong fictional character who is confidante to both Mary Tudor (Bloody Mary) and the young Princess Elizabeth.  Read it!  It'll knock your socks off!
5 A beautiful story about a young Jewish girl(Hannah)with the gift of sight, who struggles to hide her identity. When Hannah is begged to be the young King's Holy fool she sees her chance of escaping the cruel life of a peasant. But of course she gets much more than she bargained for. I loved this book, it recalled the famous events of England in the 1500s. I never wanted to put this book down! I highly recommend everyone to read it.
5 Read in May, 2012formatPaperback (edit)reviewThis was an intriguing novel about a young woman, Hannah Green who along with her father had narrowly escaped Spain during the Spanish Inquistion in 1553. Hannah and her father fled to England in hopes of a new life. Hannah had a unique gift of fortelling the future, which had landed her a job in the palace of the King of England. Hannah was to be King Edward's Fool. Not only was she the royal fool to the King but also to Queen Mary in which she had a close friendship and was a companion to Princess Elizabeth. Hannah's job as the fool led her on a journey of royal espionage, spying and unknowningly help ferried notes of plots from various nobles who would stop at nothing to get the right monarch on the throne. Hannah was also betrothed to a young man and was to be married come her seventeenth birthday. Life at court was fascinating that Hannah did not want to be tied down in marriage. What did Hannah choose? Read the book.
4 This book was in very good shape, It had a small tear on the binding of the book, otherwise it was in very good shape, None of the pages were torn or written on.  It was an excellent story of the Tudor period.
4 Once again, Gregory has written a vivid tale of Tudor England that quickly catches the reader and draws you in so deeply that you can't stop turning the pages! Gregory's attention to historical details and character development make her novels  particularly enjoyable.I especially enjoyed The Queen's Fool because of it's relative wholesomeness over Gregory's preceding novel, The Other Boleyn Girl. While i certainly enjoyed Boleyn Girl, i found it gruesome and a bit difficult to handle in some parts. Fool was just as beautifully written, complex, and intriguing as Boleyn Girl, but it was not as sickly shocking. Overall, i loved this novel, and look forward to reading the next book in the series,  The Virgin's Lover!
5 Set in 1553, Philippa Gregory's "The Queen's Fool" is the story of Hannah Verde. Hannah is a 14-year-old girl when her tale begins. having witnessed the burning death of her mother for their Jewish heritage, Hannah and her father flee Spain and finally settle in London. Hannah's father is a printer and she dresses in boy's clothing to work in his shop as his apprentice. But Hannah is soon embroiled in more court intrigue than she can handle. Hannah is a seer and is picked to be the Queen's holy fool. The new Queen, Mary, adores Hannah and Hannah is her faithful servant. But neither are free from the meddling of Mary's younger sister Elizabeth, Anne Boleyn's bastard daughter. Soon, both sisters are struggling for the same court and the same man - Prince Philip of Spain. Hannah is caught in the middle. To whom does she stay loyal and will that protect her from following her mother to the pyre?I adore Philipa Gregory! Her work is so enthralling that it is painfully hard to put down. Gregory has such attention to detail that the story leaps off the page and encapsulates the reader. I highly recommend Philipa Gregory to any fan of historical fiction.
4 After reading The Other Boleyn Girl, I was anxious to read the next book in the series.  I was not disappointed with The Queen's Fool.  From start to finish, the author draws the reader in with Hannah Green's story of leaving Spain during the Inquisition, working with her father, being begged for a Holy Fool by Sir Robert Dudley, and her access to the Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth.  Admittedly, you may wish to knock some sense into Hannah once or twice.It's an exciting read. Philippa Gregory really made Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth come alive in this book. For those who know a bit about the Tudors, the author's story weaves fact and fiction together seamlessly.  Queen Mary's descent into fear, hopelessness, heartbreak, and revenge--her change from hopeful Queen into Bloody Mary is described.  Elizabeth's character isn't neglected, either.I am eagerly awaiting The Virgin's Lover and look forward to reading this book, too.
5 Philippa Gregory's books are always well researched. She takes you back in time and gives a glimpse of what it was like to be that particular person.One can almost smell the country and see it as it was back then.  Sometimes one can hear the sounds if you listen carefully enough!Definitely worth the read!
5 It starts a little slow but by the end I realized I has really enjoyed it!
5 I loved this book. I had never read a book from this time period before, and wasn't sure whether it would be one that I would enjoy, but I thoroughly did. Although many of the characters had traits that annoyed me, I thought the author did a fantastic job of transporting the reader to the era, and there were plenty of twists and turns to keep me wondering what would happen next. I will certainly be reading other books by Philippa Gregory in the future.
3 I have really enjoyed Gregory's works when it comes to the British Monarchy.  This book was good, an interesting premise.  Worth a read
1 'The Queen's Fool' was a disappointment. I have rarely read a novel with a less enticing plot... just... it didn't do it for me. The ending was particularly flat.  I won't read it again.  It was particularly disappointing after the satisfying read that 'The Other Boelyn Girl' was.  I wouldn't recommend it.
5 Philippa Gregory is one of the best historical novelists writing today, and she's at the top of her game with this book. As in the Meridon trilogy and "Wise Woman," she infuses her historical romance with a touch of mysticism.  She takes the daring approach here of making Mary the sympathetic Tudor and Elizabeth the nasty one, and creates a most likeable heroine in Hannah Green, a Jewish clairvoyant in boy's garb who is a nice mixture of audacity and empathy.  It sounds far-fetched, but Gregory pulls you in with believable (though not exactly period) dialogue, discreet sex, and fast-paced adventure.  Hannah's emotions and reactions are always realistic, and neatly woven into the fantastically convoluted events of 1552-58.  She lets "Bloody Mary" off a bit too easily regarding the burning of Protestant heretics (though of course, real life punished Mary badly enough), and makes Robert Dudley seem more of a matinee idol and less the calculating courtier that he was, but then this story is told from the point of view of an adolescent girl, so it's not really a flaw.  There are many hints of a sequel in the novel, so I'm looking forward to her next revisionist take on the legendary Tudor women.  I just hope we'll see more of Hannah Green, too.
4 book arrived in a timely time. Arrived as said in good shape. Book had no wear,tears or markings. Great !
4 This best selling English author of historical fiction has written yet another interesting work. This novel takes place during the reign of Mary Tudor, daughter of King Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon. She would leave a legacy that would cause her to be known as "Bloody Mary" for her burning of heretics.The narrator is a girl named Hannah Green, a young teenager who has fled Spain and its Inquisition with her father, following the death of her mother. She had been burned alive at the stake as a heretic, when it was discovered that she was a "Marrano", a false Christian, that is, a Jew who has converted to Christianity but who follows the Jewish faith in secret.Landing in London, where her father opens a book store, Hannah makes the acquaintance of a handsome rake, Sir Robert Dudley, who discovers that Hannah has the gift of sight. She develops a personal relationship with him that eventually sees her enter into Queen Mary's service as her fool. Hannah serves Queen Mary, but at the same time, is sent by the Queen to serve her half-sister the Princess Elizabeth and spy upon her.Meanwhile, Sir Robert Dudley also uses Hannah in his treasonous plot to see the Princess Elizabeth on the throne of England. So, Hannah finds herself walking a dangerous tightrope and is fearful of discovery of her role in the political intrigues that are welling around her, as well as discovery of her own background, which would be grounds for death. Her worst fears are nearly realized when the Queen marries Prince Phillip of Spain.In the midst of all this political intriguing that appears to be going on all around her, Hannah has her own immediate future to think about, as she becomes betrothed to another Marrano such as herself. Infatuated with Lord Dudley, loyal to both Queen Mary and the clever and manipulative Princess Elizabeth, Hannah finds herself putting her own future happiness at risk amidst the political and religious turmoil of the time.This is a fast paced, breezy read about an independent, young woman who finds herself at a crossroad in her life and begins a voyage of self-discovery that will ultimately change her life. The story takes place in sixteenth century England, amidst all the political strife and religious upheaval of the time. The author weaves an intriguing tapestry of historical events and personages together with the intrigues that were rife in the Tudor court of the Queen who would become known as Bloody Mary.
4 Another great historically correct novel from an excellent story-teller.It keeps you wanting more.Her development of both the story and the characters is fantastic.
3 I was just looking for some entertainment when I picked up this book.  I'd read another book by Gregory, so I knew that I'd get what I was looking for.  The storyline was interesting enough, but honestly, I was looking for more drama, sex and scandal.  I did not find it within these pages.  However, the story kept me engaged.  I wasn't racing for the book whenever I got a spare moment; but it held my interest and I did'nt get caught up in what was fact and what was not.  It is a fictitous story and I kept that in mind as I read.What I most liked about it was the character of Queen Mary.  I liked the way Philippa Gregory painted her.  This story was just a bit more conservative than I expected from Gregory and showed me that she can write on a different level, which is a good thing.
4 From the opening line: "The girl, giggling and overexcited, was running in the sunlit garden . . ." I expected to be drawn into a charged and vivid account of Tudor times. I was not disappointed. As narrated by Hannah Green, a Jewish refugee fleeing the Inquisition who possesses second sight, I was drawn in by the colors and smells of the past, as Hannah becomes entangled with the Dudleys, the royal court, and the burning rivalry between the Tudor sisters, Mary and Elizabeth.Unlike previous novels featuring Mary and Elizabeth, in this book Elizabeth comes across as a scheming, manipulative courtier, while Mary is depicted as a stubborn and misguided woman, who tries in vain to extricate England from Protestant wiles. This soft treatment of the woman known to history as "Bloody Mary" is rather refreshing, and propels the novel foreward. Likewise, Hannah's own religious and romantic struggles help to frame the larger story and provide some alternate perspective.Overall, an excellent read. Undoubtedly, fans of Ms. Gregory's works will enjoy other historical novels I have reviewed, including "The Secret Lion" and "Queen of This Realm."
4 The Queen's Fool leads the reader deep into the heart of the Tudor Royal Courts. While most books featuring adolescent protagonists generally fail to capture my interest, this one is different. Hannah is a child forced to become a woman too quickly, which probably happened almost always in times as crushingly brutal as the middle ages. Both commoners and royalty are portrayed in this book as all too human, caught up in the sweep of politics and intrigue. Hannah does behave foolishly and impetuously, but then she is merely a young girl living in fear and struggling to survive in what amounts to a pit of vipers. I found her story compelling and sympathetic, losing myself in her world every time I picked the book up. Philippa Gregory is a master at portraying the dark side of the human personality, especially in women. Her Bloody Mary is neither good nor evil, simply a woman deprived of love and clinging to her religion in desperation. Her Elizabeth I is calculating and intelligent, willing to do what is necessary to become queen, as all politicans and persons of power must do. The Queen's Fool, while not perfect, is worthy of attention.
2 Phillipa Gregory does a wonderful job of recreating a historical period, and I did enjoy her other Tudor work, The Other Boleyn Girl. I expected to enjoy this one as much, but couldn't.I found the indiscriminately sympathetic portrayal of Mary (known to history as Bloody Mary) troubling. The author seemed to think that because Mary was a wronged wife, her excesses were excusable. Even more disturbing, and harder to swallow, is that the main character, Hannah, a secret Jew who lives in fear of being burned as heretic, remains loyal and uncritical of Mary until the end.Either Hannah is an insensitive hypocrite, indifferent to the suffering of others because of her own safety as a royal favorite, or she is a poorly drawn character. It is hard to believe someone whose own mother was burned at the stake could remain loyal to a woman who sent so many to be burned alive.Gregory blames Mary's ministers, pretending Mary was largely unaware of what was being done. A ruler with Mary's absolute power "unaware"? That makes her either a disconnected, incompetent ruler (not Gregory's view), or one so weak she was completely dominated by her ministers, which there is no reason to believe.Gregory did succeed in showing how sad Mary's life was in many ways: Early separation from her mother due to her father's selfish whims, loss of her position, a youth spent in a kind of exile, an unfaithful husband.However, I also saw her parents' flaws in her: obsessive attachment to a indifferent man, fanaticism and sense of absolute truth which both parents possessed, and worse, a ruthlessness and cruelty in enforcing her will inherited from her father."Bloody Mary" traumatized her country and was, ironically, probably one of the reasons England turned staunchly Protestant. If you happened to catch the recent cable movie "Charles II, The Last King" you can see how strongly the hatred/fear of Catholics persisted over a century later.The other strange thing about "The Queen's Fool" is the unsympathetic portrayal of Elizabeth, the ruler who would prove the most tolerant of religous practices. What is worse is that Gregory's and Hannah's condemnation of Elizabeth is largely based on qualities, actions or feelings that Hannah also exhibits.For example, Hannah's (and our) first view of Elizabeth is of a 14 year old girl flirting and kissing a married man (Thomas Seymour, a notorious womanizer). Yet, for much of the novel, Hannah is in love with a married man. She even spies on and betrays a trusting mistress (Mary) for love of him. Still, Elizabeth is considered a "whore" by Hannah (a word greatly overused by Gregory, used for any sexually active woman, though there were kinder words in use at the time).Hannah also condemns Elizabeth for her secret Protestantism, stange considering she herself is a secret Jew. Why does she feel such loyalty to Catholicism anyway? It is the Catholics of Spain who have particularly persecuted her people, and Mary's husband is the Spanish King. English Protestants were benign by contrast.The historical information about 16th century European Jews was interesting, and the most worthwhile part of "The Queen's Fool." Otherwise, not recommended.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  Its interesting to see a fool's life and the life at court.  I thoroughly enjoyed the story line and the twists and turns of the plot.  There were times when I hated Elizabeth and Robert Dudley and other times where you could be sympathetic to them - Queen Mary Tudor had a very sad and tragic life and even with her "Bloody Mary" monacle she was a very sympathetic character.  Very good story.
3 Philippa Gregory does a really good job with the nuanced picture of Queen Mary whose life was so uneven and dysfunctional.  She also does a very good job describing the fear in the general population during the years of Queen Mary's reign.  As described, there were regular, frequent burning of heretics (&#34;heretics&#34; according to Queen Mary and her advisers) and it has been described by historians as a reign of terror.  It was especially dangerous for Jews as described by the book's protagonist.  So those aspects of the book create an important and realistic backdrop for the book.However, there are two things wrong with the book - first, the &#34;cover&#34; story about the young girl who plays the Queen's fool is fairly unbelievable.  Secondly, the book lacks character depth - in a good book you should know how the characters feel because of what they say and do, not because the narrator has to continually tell you.  I felt like Hannah was inconsistent.  But, I loved her spunk!After reading this book (which we read for our book club) I read a non-fiction history, &#34;The Wives of Henry the Eighth&#34; by Martin Hume. This book provides the background to significantly help understand the deeply unstable environment in which Queen Mary was raised.  It vividly evoked the terror and horror of Henry VIII's reign as well as the egocentric, un-motherly  behavior of Katherine of Aragon, Queen Mary's mother.  If you want to enjoy The Queen's Fool more, first read &#34;The Wives of Henry the Eighth&#34;.
5 I remember being extremely impressed by Ms. Gregory's first novel, Wideacre, a sprawling family saga whose protagonist made Scarlett O'Hara look like a Girl Scout. Although she has been writing historical novels for a few years, this is the first one I have read, and I enjoyed it immensely.Hannah Green (nee Verde) and her father are secret Jews (at least to the extent that Judaism has been passed down to them) who have fled from Spain after the arrest and burning of Hannah's mother, and Hannah, who has "the Sight," is brought by John Dudley, the Protector of the young Edward VI, to the king's court as a "holy fool" and spy. Dazzled by Dudley's son, Robert (the future favorite of Queen Elizabeth I) and caught up in the intrigues of court life, Hannah lives through the turbulent final months of Edward's reign, the short-lived attempt to place Lady Jane Grey upon the English throne, and the five-year reign of "Bloody Mary." Torn between conflicting loyalties to those she serves and to her family, including her betrothed, later her husband, she moves back and forth between the public and private spheres, giving a unique perspective on both the historical events and on the lives of "the People," as she calls the Jews. She moves from resentment to acceptance and finally to embrace of her responsibilities to both family and faith.To me, this book is unusual in that it offers a rare sympathetic and primary view of Queen Mary. Although those that focus on Elizabeth usually do portray Mary with some understanding, she is always subordinate to her younger sister, who outshines her in fiction as she did in life. Hannah's view of Elizabeth, on the other hand, while sometimes admiring, sometimes censorious, is much more objective than her warm regard for Mary. Perhaps it is her status as a Jew, but she seems able to look upon both as living, breathing women rather than as the symbols of religious and political power that they can often be to other characters. Other historical personages also have depth and ambiguity, including Lord Robert, who is ambitious and a practiced seducer but ends up having a real regard and respect for Hannah. I thought she was a little hard on Robert's wife Amy, portraying her as not only virtually illiterate and incurious but also mentally unbalanced.Hannah and her family, particularly her faithful husband and her scholarly father, also feel like real, vibrant people, although her disapproving in-laws may hew a bit too closely to stereotypes. I would like to have seen more exploration of the motivations and background of Daniel's mother.I don't know if Ms. Gregory has any real-life connection to Judaism, but the thing that I found most powerful about The Queen's Fool, apart from the scene where Hannah finds herself unable to burn her father's "heretical" books, even to protect herself, is the haunting sadness of a culture that is being lost generation by generation, as her father and mother-in-law struggle to remember the prayers and practices that have been passed down to them, and to pass them on to their children.
4 Gregory is well acquainted with the behind-the-scenes machinations of the English royal court of 1553; in this instance, the author addresses the rivalry between Mary and Elizabeth, daughters of Henry VIII, heirs to Henry's throne after his male heir, King Edward, dies. Here the author adds a unique character, a young converso (a Jewish convert to the Christian faith) gifted with the "Sight", Hannah Green. Using the Queen's fool as a vehicle for the story serves two purposes: the author is able to delve into the complex relationship between the royal sisters, especially during this most difficult period of their relationship, also illustrating the harried lives of the Jews during years of intense religious persecution.Hiding behind a Christian faade, Hannah is adept at concealing her religion and the traditional practices that continue in spite of persecution. Hannah is betrothed, but helplessly drawn to the royal court, in thrall to the pure-hearted Mary and the clever Elizabeth. Her gift of sight has compelled Hannah to stay at court to ease Mary's journey through a difficult reign.The virulently Catholic, half-Spanish daughter of Catherine of Aragon, Mary is determined, almost beyond reason, to restore her English subjects to the true religion of her mother. At the same time, Elizabeth, daughter of the beheaded Anne Boleyn, incessantly plots to usurp Mary's throne. Mary has devoted herself to the well being of her younger half-sister, but now they are thrown into an adversarial situation, each fighting to control of the spiritual future of England. Queen Mary's marriage contract with King Phillip of Spain causes turmoil in the kingdom, her loyal citizens unwilling to be ruled by a Spanish King. Once married, the royal couple brings the scourge of the Inquisition to England, but it is Mary's inability to bear a child that threatens her hold on the throne.Hannah has come to the royal court as a "wise" fool, but also as a spy for Sir Robert Dudley, an avowed traitor, who plots assiduously for Elizabeth's accession to the throne. It is Hannah's misfortune to fall hopelessly in love with the handsome Dudley, unable to refuse his bidding for all her years at court. Her senses permeated by the smell of burning flesh and the desperate flight from Spain, Hannah is in an untenable situation, living in constant terror. Her allegiance to Mary unassailable, Hannah refuses to abandon the suffering Queen, as Elizabeth's following grows daily, supported by Dudley. Hannah's challenge is whether to return to her family and marry or live at risk in Mary's court.  Her decision puts her whole family in jeopardy as the flames of religious fervor burn brightly.In this cleverly crafted scenario, Mary and Elizabeth wrestle for England, in the great clash of religious beliefs begun by Henry's break with Rome. The Catholic Queen and the Protestant Princess, cast in much the same roles as Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn, are equally obsessed. In a new twist to a familiar saga, Mary teeters precariously on the throne, Elizabeth schemes with Dudley and Hannah remains torn by her allegiance to both. The daughters of the infamous Henry VIII battle for ascendancy, silhouetted against religious persecution and the terrible shadow of the Inquisition. Luan Gaines/2004.
4 "The Queen's Fool : A Novel" is my second Phillipa Gregory novel, the first being "The Other Boleyn Girl: A Novel," and while I enjoyed this book, I found it lacking, compared to her other royal book. Detailing the children of Mary and Anne, we find ourselves learning about the tragic and risqu&eacute; lives of Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth, through the eyes of Hannah, a Jewish girl who must put aside her faith on the outside, to live, and becomes the Fool of Queen Mary.  I thought that Hannah's own life and tribulations took away from the story, and would better suit her own story, without the politics of the court.  In "The Other Boleyn Girl: A Novel," there was passion, sensuality, risqu&eacute; themes, and true torment, and even more defamation of characters. I felt this book lacked all of that.  The 500 pages were drawn out, and could have been significantly reduced, if Gregory removed Hannah and her husband, Daniel's, quandaries.  Nonetheless, this story was very interesting to read when it came to the matters of women in a marriage, etc.  If you like this time in history, then this is good novel to read.  I recommend.
3 I will discuss major plot points for The Queen's Fool and give very minor spoilers for a few other Gregory works in this review.  If this bothers you, please do not read further.Like many readers, I first found Gregory through her absolutely stellar The Other Boleyn Girl.  I am not a Tudor scholar, but the world of paranoia and political machinations felt absolutely correct. Gregory is a very skilled writer, and, not incidentally, writes romance and intimate scenes with impressive economy and impact.  I hunted down and read many Gregory books, many of which are out of print (though the superbly demented Wideacre and its two inferior sequels have been reprinted).  I learned several things about the author Gregory.  She has a good handle on history, and has the very rare talent of writing about historic people and events without essentially regurgitating the half-digested mental contents of a three-month library trip onto the page, as so many historical novelists who write about feisty gals are wont to do.  As I mentioned earlier, she writes about sex and love in an involving and, yes, titillating manner.  She does not impose artificial "happy" endings and she is happy to write about flawed, even despicable women (and men, though most of her main characters are women, with the delightful exception of John Tradescant in Earthly Joys) as opposed to the Rhodes Scholars of historic fiction. (Their only flaw?  They're stubborn!  Arggh!  See:  Pope Joan, Year of Wonders, to name two.)  And she has an odd fondness for writing about people who are not at the center of things, but just off-center.  The Other Boleyn Girl, of course, is a shining and beautifully executed example of this.So I was obviously transported with delight when I saw The Queen's Fool in paperback; even its cover was reminiscent of The Other Boleyn Girl.  The Queen's Fool certainly opens with a bang, no pun intended, and I was waiting for the book to be great.  Well - it wasn't.  The tension and lust and mild historic elaboration in the first chapter?  That was the high point.The main character in this book is a young Jewish girl named Hannah Green (or Hannah Verde.) In an intriguing touch of the fantastic, Hannah is psychic.  She, together with her father, is fleeing the Inquisition in Spain, which has claimed her mother. Hannah is also extremely well educated, which is understandable, since her father is a bookseller and Jews tended to be more literate in that time period on average.  However, as I continued to read, Hannah's tale failed to grab me. Hannah is engaged to a nice Jewish boy, but she's in lust with the very hot Robert Dudley.  And she wears boy's clothing, which she apparently continues to wear through most of the book.(Please, girlfriend!)Gregory plays around with Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth, making the first sympathetic (at least at first) and the second kind of a bitch, but a charming one.  She's at her best when writing about the queens. But Hannah - I was surprised to see it - she's dull.  And her story line is shockingly treacly, especially for Gregory.  The nice Jewish boy?  She kind of falls for him and they have a nice sensible relationship based on respect.  Think she has any real conflicts with her dad because she's a secret Jew at court?  Well, he frets a lot, but that's about it.  He doesn't even really mention her boy's clothing.  Oh, and then he conveniently dies.  Is Hannah witness to all the upheaval of court?  Some of it.  Then she goes to Calais and kind of hangs out for the last third of the novel. As the novel progressed, I kind of got the idea that Hannah, quite honestly, wasn't that important except for the fact that some important people liked her. There is no real dramatic payoff to her personal relationships.  Heck, she even has fewer psychic flashes as the novel continues.So is it at least romantic and/or sexy?  Does she get into a hot steamy affair with the forbidden Robert Dudley, whom she mopes about for much of the book?  Well, sorry to break it to you, but no. In fact, even though Daniel and Hannah are supposedly hot for each other, do we get a payoff when they finally get together?  No.  And why the kid?  WHY THE KID?  Geez, I thought I was reading the 16th century X-Files for a moment!  It's not like I need every Gregory main character to be a sociopath, but who is this treacly, perfect, boring girl, and why is Gregory writing about her?However, Gregory's other strengths are on display - good historic knowledge, seamless writing, and general page-turning inducement.  It's not a terrible book, and it's certainly better than 90 percent of historic fiction.  Still, I know from my reading of Gregory's oeuvre that she's an intriguing but uneven writer.  This is one of the (relative) duds.  Come on, Philippa, buck up - I know you've got it in you!
4 Written from a good perspective. Gave good insight into the times and lives of the characters. Good description of the times.
4 Another wonderful read from Philippa Gregory.  I read this on the heels of "The Other Boleyn Girl" a little out of sequence, I understand. In comparing the two, for me "The Queen's Fool" is far more subtle than "Boleyn Girl" yet is every bit as intriquing and interesting.  This author does a great job in making the reader think what was behind Mary and Elizabeth's behavior.Highly recommend!
5 This book has high points and low points, but Gregory doesn't rush through her novels and each scenario is important to gain a full understanding of the circumstances at the time.  The only thing that doesn't make sense to me is that Queen Mary was such a devout Catholic, it seems unlikely she'd let a girl with the Sight in her inner circle and not declare her a heretic and have her burned altogether.  Also a little unbelievable is how Hannah bounced back and forth between Elizabeth and Mary.  You get a bit of knowlegde through this book what it is like in other parts of the world at the time, being some other religion other than what the Monarch is and how people had to deal with such circumstances.  It's a shame Robert Dudley was portrayed as such a leech in The Virgin's Lover - there is so much to love about him in this novel.
5 If you like history of England, this series is a great way to start reading.  Not only it is entertaining, but also you learn a lot about history in the process.
5 I enjoyed the main character of this book Hannah Green.  Where else can you find a cross-dressing female in such a position in the queen's court?  Once again it is shown in this book that the rules of court do not apply to real life. They are aware that Hannah is a female yet she is dressed as a male, and addressed as a male.  Ms. Gregory introduced Robert Dudley in this book as the master of Hannah. Due to her devotion to Dudley, Hannah commits treason against Queen Mary many times. Each time she does this she goes back to Queen Mary with the same devotion as Dudley.  In the end it is her devotion to Dudley that ends up saving her life at the fall of Calais.  Hannah's life story is full of having to decide who to be faithful to, and how to keep her head above water.  It is also a love story between her and her husband and a tail of a young woman growing up in trouble time.  Ms. Gregory wrote a wonderfully complex book with history being weaved between the real and fictional characters of this book.  I would recommend to those that love history read this book.
3 There were definitely things I liked about this book such as the portrayal of Queen Mary, life at and away from the court, and the "secret" life of the Jews.  The background of the book seems very accurate and well researched and consistent with other books of this time period.  However, the narrator Hannah Green just does not seem believable. The fact that Hannah seems to  easily find herself in the position to be "selected" to become the queen's fool is a bit of a stretch.  Her relationship with Daniel while still maintaining the role of an intimate friend of both Mary and Elizabeth seems also very improbable.This is the only book I've read by Philippa Gregory; I'm not sure I'll pick up another one.  This was a light entertaining read, but it does not stand up to the works of Jean Plaidy
4 Another good book from Gregory.Different kind of sisterly rivalry between Mary and Elizabeth, comparing from which I've read in "The Other Boleyn Girl," will enchant the reader.Historical descriptions were well described, too.
5 I could not put this book down, it was surprisingly great! It went in a completely different direction than I thought it would. Loved it!
5 I loved this book.  Like most of Phillipa Gregory's books, the history behind the book is well-researched, but the story line takes some pretty unrealistic twists and turns.  That, however, doesn't bother me in the least, I enjoy a book that's something of a "fantasy" without actually involving fantastical elements.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and can easily recommend all of Gregory's books.
1 The purpose of historical fiction is to create believable characters that function within historical parameters, thus providing the reader with an intelligent, insightful story, as well as a history lesson. "The Queen's Fool" does neither. Hannah, while certainly a girl with an interesting past, would not be as headstrong and feministic as she is portrayed by Gregory. In the 1560s, such women simply did not exsit, and it is an anachronoism to pretend otherwise. Gregory's simplistic portrayal of Mary as a pius martyr and Elizabeth as a shrewd slut fails to bring the characters beyond the level of high school gossip. The book could have been written in 70 pages, instead we are forced to endure 400 pages of whinny, repetitive characterizations.
5 This book of Gregory's could be seen as a sequel to The Other Boleyn Girl, covering the time period after Henry VIII's death until Elizabeth's ascension to the throne. I like this book better that TOBG, because I am interested in the conversos of Spain and their journeys throughout Europe to find refuge. However, I fear that many of the fans of TOBG will not find this book as satisfying because Hannah Verde is not one of the "beautiful people" of court, even though as the Queen's fool, she is privy to an astonishing amount of information and action. Gregory again delivers a work in modern language about the sex, intrigue, and conflicting loyalties of the English court. A real page-turner, but serious history buffs probably need not bother, it would only frustrate them.
3 Long story, cut short.....Hannah Verde, Spanish, Jewish, settles in England with her father after their flight from the Spanish Inquisition, given over to the Royal court of young King Edward as his Holy Fool, on his death she transfers to Queen Mary as her fool and here the story begins.....This is my third Philippa Gregory and as expected it is a solid story, but not on the same par as her Bolyen books. I felt as though I learned quite a lot about Queen Mary, who as the book progressed seemed to get more and more unhinged, and it's no surprise she earned the name 'Bloody Mary'. Elizabeth was portrayed as thouroughly unlikeable and self serving and I don't doubt that she was all that and more and even the main players at court were just as I imagined them to be; fickle, scheming, underhand, greedy and manipulative, but it was the main character who really spoiled things for me. No matter what situation was unfolding, Hannah was always right there in the thick of things and after a while she really started to grate on me.She didn't have a bad word to say about anybody, regardless of how horribly they treated her, and she kept going back for more of the same. I realise she wouldn't have had a lot of say in matters regarding how she was put to use by her employers but one minute she's litterally wetting herself as she's about to be tortured as a heritic because Mary has a bee in her bonnet (to put it mildly) about non Catholics, even though she considers Hannah her trusted friend....then the next minute Hannah is all doe eyed at Mary's feet and defending her against any critics....it just doesn't make sense. She has the means to escape and put it all behind her, but she does everything in her power to stay.She can't seem to make up her mind about where her loyalties lie for most of the book and dithers from one plot master to the next, depending on what's afoot at any given time. Mary, Elizabeth, Lord Robert Dudley, her betrothed, John Dee...and, and, and. I just couldn't relate to her because she just didn't seem to have the wit to remove herself from danger when the opportunity arose. The exit was right there for her, and she chose not to take it.Having said that, the story itself was interesting and enjoyable, if a little slow. The pace wasn't as fast as in her other books but overall the story was a good one.I haven't been put off and I still plan to work my way through her other books, but if this is your first try of Philippa Gregory, this isn't her best.
3 I bought this book as soon as I finished "The Other Boleyn Girl" expecting to be carried away as much as I was in that novel. While the writing style was the same, and I truly enjoyed the descriptions and narrations of Elizabeth I and Queen Mary, I found the heroine, Hannah (Verde) Green, to be a bit of a stretch. Unlike Mary Boleyn in "The Other Boleyn Girl," Gregory seems to have sold out to the romance novel ideal in attempting to set a 21st Century girl in 16th century England. It doesn't work in tawdry romance novels and it doesn't work here. The novel is a quick read and does hold interest, but I really wish that Gregory had made her heroine more true to her time. It would have continued the magic of her other novel. A good escapist read, and some interesting perceptions of two of England's most interesting monarchs, but not as engrossing as "The Other Boleyn Girl."
4 The Queen's Fool is the coming of age story of Hannah Green, a 14 year old Jewish girl, who lived during the time of the Inquisition.  Hannah and her Father must flee Spain in order to avoid persecution, and wind up living in England.  Hannah has the unique gift of "Sight", the ability to predict the future.  When her talent is discovered by Robert Dudley, of the powerful Dudley family, Hannah finds herself "Begged as a Holy Fool" to the court of King Edward, and then his successor, Queen Mary.  Hannah cares deeply for the Catholic Queen, but also admires the Queen's sister, the Protestant Princess Elizabeth.  The two sisters are at odds with one another, for both political and religious reasons.  Hannah is asked to spy for both sisters on different occasions, and her loyalties are divided.  She makes some questionable decisions at times, and consequently, puts her Father, and the family of her betrothed, Daniel, at risk.There are situations in this novel that are far-fetched at times, but somehow it all works.  (It is fiction, after all!)  It is very interesting to view the relationship of Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth through the eyes of someone who cares for them both.  Hannah's story is very intriguing as well. She is a young girl in search of a Mother figure, a home, love, and religious acceptance.  In the beginning of the story, she seems lost, but through her experiences, and those of the royal sisters, Hannah discovers who she is, and the woman she wants to become.Overall, this book was very touching, and I found myself thinking about it for some time.  Highly readable and recommended!!
5 This is the sequel to "The other boleyn Girl", narrated through the eyes of Hannah, and spirited spanish immigrant who has the gift of sight. Dudley is amused by Hannah's "gift", and also by her wit. She is ordered to the castle, where she reluctantly becomes a royal fool, along side Will Sommers (King Henry's fool). Queen Mary uses Hannah as both a spy and a mediator between herself and her stubborn half sister, Princess Elizabeth. She learns the personal details of both women: Mary's desperate struggle for an heir from her unloving husband, and obsession with her country's faith staying consistant with her own, as well as Elizabeth's careless love affair with the infamous womanizer Robert Dudley,(who constantly tries to seduce Hannah).Meanwhile, Hannah's frustrated betrothed, Daniel, waits in the for her to leave the court and become his bride. Although she doesn't much care for life at court, she is hesitant to become anyones wife.
3 This was the first of Philippa Gregory's books for me. As you hope a book will do, this one grabbed me in the beginning. But then, it started to drag. Hannah the Fool is a young girl dressed as a boy in order to hide her heritage and religion. Hannah and her father are constantly looking over their shoulders in fear of the Inquistion. She becomes the King's fool first, but after he dies, she quickly becomes a close confidant to both Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth. This is where I got stuck. How can Hannah love (as she professes throughout the book) two women who are basically trying to eliminate each other? Oh, and don't forget Hannah's infatuation with Lord Robert, Princess Elizabeth's lover who played an instrumental role in trying to take the throne from Queen Mary. The historical aspect of the book was the exceptional part. It takes true talent to be able to research a topic as confusing as Britain's royals and weave it together with a fictional story. The story takes many twists and turns, especially toward the end, but only a few of those twists and turns enticed me to continue reading. I always try to make a good faith effort to finish books I start, even when I'm not interested in it. I finished this novel for one simple reason: Ms. Gregory is a good writer.
5 Nels Larso Estes Park, Colorado. A very fun read with lots of information about the past. I found it very interesting and full of glimpses into the past.
5 If you are even remotely interested in historical fiction, this book is for you!  I'd bet someone with ZERO interest would still be captivated.A young Jewish girl, Hannah Green, forced to flee her native Spain due to her heritage, suffers from visions, and is taken into the royal court in England as a "Holy Fool" during the ill-fated reign of King Edward.She comes of age at court, forced to hide her true faith during the swing from the Protestant religion of King Henry to the reinstatement of the Catholic faith under Queen Mary.  Hannah is pulled into court plots and intruigue both at and against her will.She learns to love deeply, both unconditionally and selflessly.  In turn, the reader cannot help but fall madly in love with Hannah - her innocent, intelligent, and sweet manner.  You can't help but be touched by her unfaltering devotion to her father, Queen Mary, Sir Robert Dudley and Princess Elizabeth, and eventually her husband Daniel.Her loyalty to each is questioned at times, and seems unlikely given the warring factions, but Hannah teaches us that love is not mutually exclusive.Beautifully written, intense and passionate.  A permanent addition to my collection.
4 This is the first Philippa Gregory novel I've read, and I chose this one because of the slight fantasy of the main character's "sight" that she uses to foretell events.  This aspect I would have enjoyed had the author used it more; however, then it would be even more of a fantasy than historical fiction.  Regardless, the story held my interest and I liked the characters.
5 I absolutely loved the book.  There was not only the major plot, but there were many sub-plots.  It was very hard to put the book down!  I have recommended it to many of my friends.  I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen to Hannah, the Queen's Fool.
4 Enjoyable story about the time of "Bloody Mary" in 16th century England.  If you like historical fiction of this time, you will enjoy this as well.  While it doesn't quite rate as high as The Other Boleyn Girl it certainly is not disappointing.  I enjoyed this read immensely and highly recommend it.
3 I won't reiterate everything here, but I basically agree with the more negative reviews.  I did find her feminist comments way out of character for ANY woman of that time. (One of those "give me a break!" moments when reading.)  Once I got past the absurdness of how quickly this young girl became such a close confidante to top royalty, (another "GMAB!") and just accepted it, I enjoyed it more.  In other words, if you can suspend disbelief it's rather entertaining.  There were a few inconsistencies, and I spent 10 minutes looking for the first description in the book of Robert Dudley's wife as having brown eyes because later in the book her "big blue eyes" are mentioned.  How does that get past an editor, much less the author?
3 The best thing about this book was the way that she was able to treat both Elizabeth I and Mary Tudor as sympathetic and likeable characters, even as they are volleying for the throne.  It was an interesting read, with some rather unbelievable aspects, including the character of the narrator and her relationship with her husband.
4 I thought this book was really really good.  The only problem I had with it was the amount of talking...talk talk talk.  My favorite parts were Hannah's time with Daniel and his family.  I had never read into Queen Mary I's life before, so I found that interesting too...although I just wanted Hannah to hurry up and realize that Daniel was in love with her!  But, overall it was a very good book and only took me three days to read it!
5 I loved this book.  It kept me entertained.  I continue to recommend to anyone that enjoys novels based in history.  Loved it!!
3 Caught in the political turmoil of the sixteenth century, when England  was bitterly divided by religious differences, and "heretics" and traitors to the "cause" were liberally burned or beheaded, a young girl witnesses court life up close.  Living in fear as a secret Jew converted to Christianity, Hannah is blackmailed into becoming a spy for the powerful Dudley family.  Blessed with the gift of foretelling, she becomes young King Edward's Holy Fool, and, after his death, is passed into the household of his sister, Queen Mary, to continue her spying as the Queen's Fool.  She is engaged to her cousin, an attractive and clever physician, while simultaneously falling for her blackmailer, Lord Dudley.  To make matters even more complicated, she becomes an ardent fan of both Royal women, Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth, both of whom  she is spying upon: Queen Mary for Robert Dudley and Princess Elizabeth for Queen Mary.I loved Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl", but cannot rate this book in the same category.  While the author writes well, this story gets bogged down in minutiae and too much liberty is taken with the actual historical characters.  The words that come out of Queen Mary, Robert Dudley, or Princess Elizabeth just do not ring true.  They sound like the author's imaginary projections, not the actual words. The dialogue lacks the authenticity of the historical details plastered all over the text and often interfering in the flow of the real story.Hannah's relationship with her cousin and betrothed is well done.  You can feel the passion slowly developing.  In some way perhaps this book would have been better giving that relationship more attention rather than occasional updates.  If you enjoy historical novels during this era, I recommend figures in Silkby Vanora Bennett, a story set during the reign of Charles II that focuses on the growth of the Silk trade and court life. Like Hannah, the main character is a fictional woman, a doctor, and like Hannah, striving to create a place for herself in this male-dominated society. The story is faster-paced, yet the historical events well portrayed.
5 This book was a real attention grabber.  I couldn't put it down once I started it.  You learn a lot about Mary and more about Elizabeth.  Hannah the fool was actually a real fixture in this time.  I'm not how major a role she played in the history of this family but other books mention her and she did affect other important people's lives in this time.  It's got scandal and tragedy.  I recommend it!
4 One of my fav authors who did not disappoint. A great story interwoven with fact. A great read & most entertaining
3 The Queen's Fool is a story about Hannah Green, a girl whose mother was burned at the stake and later becomes a "seer" and the court's spiritual fool.  Hannah lives with her father until courtiers come into his bookshop one day and Hannah has a vision.  The courtiers bring her to court to use her psychic powers to their advantage.I normally really enjoy Gregory's books.  They are quick-paced, interesting reads.  However, this book was repetitive and boring.  If the protagonist talked about "wiping the smut off her face" one more time, I was going to scream.  Literally everything in the world reminded Hannah of her mother burning at the stake.  Which in real life is understandable, but doesn't make for great reading.  Plus the constant back-and-forth between Hannah's desire for freedom and her female duty to be a good daughter and wife got old quickly.I just can't think of anything other word to describe Hannah other than boring...  I know she led an exceptional life, living at court as a young woman dressed as a man, but I just didn't connect at all.Just a disappointing book, but I will keep reading Gregory's novels.
5 Throughout her young life Hannah Green has been forced to hide her true identity for fear of her life. Fleeing Spain in 1553 during the Inquisition after her mother is burned at the stake for being a Jew she must pose as a boy while traveling with her father to safety. Settling down in Protestant England the Greens are relieved to have escaped danger in Spain, but they must continue to hide their religion and their love of books. Political instability and religious warfare plague England and Europe as a whole and threats of heresy and treason deem that nobody is safe, least of all the Greens. After becoming a member of the royal court as a fool, or a constant companion to the king or queen, Hannah continues to wear pants and pass as a fellow Christian. Her time in the royal court is filled with deception, intrigue, and worry, as she becomes a loyal friend and servant to both Catholic Queen Mary and her younger sister, Protestant Princess Elizabeth. Hannah straddles the line between royal foes while risking her own life as a spy and heretic. As time progresses she becomes a static member of the royal court and finds it difficult to return to her ailing father and the life of a commoner.THE QUEEN'S FOOL is a compelling, fast-paced novel that draws the reader in from the first chapter and doesn't let go until the last page. I was fully intrigued with the tale of Hannah Green and the life that she had lived and I had a difficult time putting it down. It is obvious that Philippa Gregory has spent much time and effort researching for this book, which enabled her to create such a convincing tale. THE QUEEN'S FOOL succeeds in giving one a glimpse into the life of the royal court during the 16th century and adds a human face to this distant time. Highly recommended.
4 Another great work of historical fiction from Gregory.This book focuses on the reign of Mary Tudor, the daughter of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon (Henry's first wife). The story is told from the viewpoint of a young female servant, who gets drawn into the court and the politics and plots that surround it.I have read other books set in this time period in England, and Gregory managed to tell the story in a way that was fresh and entertaining.If you are interested in the period, or a fan of Gregory's you'll enjoy this one. If you want to read her books in historical order, here it is:1. The Constant Princess (Katherine of Aragon)2. The Other Boleyn Girl (Anne Boleyn)3. The Boleyn Inheritance (Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard)4. The Queen's Fool (Mary Tudor and Elizabeth I)5. The Virgin's Lover (Elizabeth I)6. The Other Queen (Mary Queen of Scots)
5 I just cannot get enough of her writing....love medieval history and must have lived in those days....I feel right at home!
5 I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in this series or curious in the Tudor reign. I really enjoyed the main character Hannah and her unique perspective. She allows you to adore & despise each Queen Mary & Princess Elizabeth at different periods of the book. She gives the reader an insight to the sentiment of the people, the dangers, and how easily they can change.
4 Philippa Gregory recommends this book as the first one to read when coming to her writing for the first time. Thorough research and a gift for weaving a tale make Gregory one of my &#34;go to&#34; writers of historical fiction. This is a fast-paced read with an interesting twist when it comes to point of view. A highly recommended read.
4 This historical fiction was another great Tudor novel of Philippa Gregory. It takes place in 1553 with Queen Mary I in power. She has married King Phillip of Spain, but he has eyes for her half sister, Elizabeth. Earl Robert Dudley is also entranced by Elizabeth, who is the daughter of Henry VIII and his second wife, Anne Boleyn. The story centers around a ficticious character, Hannah Greene. Hannah has been on the run with her father as Jewish refuges from Spain during the Inquisition. They run a book store, selling religious and forbidden books, not allowed by the very devout Catholic Queen Mary. It is an interesting perspective, having the story told through Hannah's eyes. Hannah has allegiances to both Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth. This is an interesting and fast-paced read.
5 I thought this novel was a wonderful read full of passionate, brazen and witty characters.  I found it interesting that Philippa Gregory would choose to tell the story of Queen Mary and ELizabeth through the viewpoints of the Queen's Fool.  I think she did very well, and I couldn't put this novel down until I had it finished.
5 This is the fourth in a series of six books about the Tudors. I know they may not be historically 100% correct but they are so well written. I can't wait to start the next one. Try to read them in order if you can. You will really enjoy them.
3 After reading "The Constant Princess" by Philippa Gregory, I decided to read all of her novels about the Tudors in chronological order. This means that "The Queen's Fool" is the fourth book in this series that I have read. While I absolutely loved the first two books, the last two I was not so thrilled about, even though the narrative style of writing does appeal to me."The Queen's Fool" picks up where "The Boleyn Inheritance" left off: Henry VIII is dead, and his son Edward VI inherits the throne of England. The story is told by a Jewish girl called Hannah, who is a daughter of a bookseller. Hannah and her father hide their religion, as the Jews are not very welcome in England (or indeed the entire Christendom). Pretending to be Christians, Hannah and her father exist with some tension, fearing the return of dreaded, fanatical Catholicism, which had been persecuting Judaism since Ferdinand and Isabella's expulsion of Jews from Spain in 1492.Hannah Verde (or Green) has a gift of sight - a gift that she can not command, yet a gift that comes to her in trying times. When the reader is first introduced to this gift, Hannah sees Robert Dudley, accompanied by a servant and an angel. Hannah, like all other women in England, falls under the spell of the handsome Dudley. Dudley, on the other hand, realized the gift that Hannah had, as well as the crush that Hannah had, which made him decide to place Hannah at court. Under the pretenses of Hannah being a fool (or jester), Dudley uses Hannah as a spy, and a spy that has an unprecedented access to all aspects of the court. Hannah is no ordinary fool, though. She is given a title of the Holy Fool, a seer who may help the monarch have a glimpse at the future through the wisdom of the Fool.After the premature death of Edward VI, Hannah becomes the Holy Fool for the new Tudor Queen - Mary I. Half Spanish and Catholic, Mary is delighted to find out that Hannah speaks Spanish, not realizing (or perhaps ignoring) the fact that Hannah is a Jew. Mary brings Catholicism back to England, and marries Philip II of Spain, to the utter dismay of half of England. Although Hannah foresaw the Queen's heart breaking, Mary proceeds with the marriage, which is to be her undoing. Having been a calm, gentle and forgiving monarch, Mary's heart hardens under the influence of her handsome husband, and she progressively starts oppressing her own people. Almost bankrupting England, Mary raises money to support her husband's failing military expeditions, losing Calais in the process, and with it the respect of the nation.Along with Mary's fatal military expeditions and persecutions of anyone not Catholic, Mary's marriage starts failing as well. Having had two false pregnancies, Mary starts to realize that she is getting too old to bear an heir to the Kingdom. Philip, realizing the same, moves away to the Netherlands, taking up a lover, leaving a heart-broken and devastated Mary behind. To make things worse, Mary's Protestant half-sister Elizabeth seems to have charmed Mary's husband to the point of Philip preferring Elizabeth's company to that of his wife.Dudley, realizing the tide was turning, placed Hannah into Elizabeth's household, in preparations for Hannah to serve this, new Queen, when she bvecame a Queen. Mary's health and state of mind indicated that the wait would not be a long one. Dudley, though having lost a father and a brother in royal treacheries, did not hesitate to plot to place Elizabeth on the throne, even after having been pardoned by Mary for previous treason. Hannah, however, liked Mary, and saw her as a gentle creature who lived an unfortunate life in which all that she loved abandoned her. Hannah is not as fond of the young Elizabeth, whom she sees as fickle and calculating, as well as vain and serpentine. Hannah, having been drawn between the two Tudors and Dudley, ignored her betrothed, Daniel, who moved to Calais (along with Hannah's father) to escape the Catholic persecution. Hannah's personal life is much ignored in favor of the much more complicated lives of the royals that Hannah served. Hannah is also the one that presents the slow decline of Mary and the rapid ascent of Elizabeth.Whenever I got angry reading this novel, I had to remind myself that this novel is one of fiction. Hannah's obvious preference for Mary is strange, considering Hannah's religion and Mary's (albeit mild in comparison) continuation of her grandmother's work. Just as strange is Hannah's dislike of Elizabeth. The author strips Elizabeth of the qualities that actually made her one of the most beloved (if not THE most beloved) English monarch, and presents her as cowardly, calculating, vain, terse, scheming and lying, an account that clashes immensely with historians. While each leader has some of those qualities within them, Elizabeth had them only when absolutely needed. At times I found it difficult to read the novel because of this description, much like I would find it difficult to read Mussolini described as a humanitarian.The book itself is well written and flowing, making it very easy to read. For those unfamiliar with history or the Tudor period in particular, this would make an easy read, as Mary I (Bloody Mary, mind you) is presented as a tortured and misunderstood heroine, while Elizabeth is a serpent in her midst. This perception cause a serious paradigm shift in me, marring my reading experience. Drawing on historical accounts (though some seriously misrepresented), "The Queen's Fool" is a fast read that is entertaining in its scandals.All in all, "The Queen's Fool" is actually a relaxing read, if we ignore historical misrepresentations and take it as entertainment only (something that Gregory herself intended.) While not on par with Gregory's other books, this novel is worth reading for the different point of view and the entertainment factor that Gregory undoubtedly always provides. Recommended with caution.
2 Like many others, I bought this as soon as I put down THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL.  I pretty much wish I had my money back.  Hannah is not a likeable character and the writing seems very surface level.  I did emphathize with Mary but that was about it. I am giving Gregory another chance with WIDEACRE but I think I may have to stick to Robin Mawell or Sandra Gulland for historical fiction.
5 I completely enjoyed the story and my reading experience.  I felt like I was a part of the period and the story.
5 I loved this book.  It was a wonderful follow up to TOBG.  In fact I actually liked it better because I liked the central people.  Hannah and Daniel had such a touching love story.  She really was a "fool" who learned to be a woman.  I hope the next book is as good.  I look forward to reading it.If you liked TOBG I think you will like this book.
4 I enjoyed reading this book. The plot was good. An excellent historical fiction.
5 Was received in very good condition and on time.  Look forward to doing business with you in the future.
3 There is a lot I could pick on in this novel. The protagonist, Hannah Verde, is a suspiciously progressive-thinking young Jewish girl living in England to escape the Spanish Inquisition. Although her personality is wildly anachronistic for the time period, she's an engaging enough heroine. The plot depends on the contrivance that Hannah somehow becomes a close attendant to both Mary I and her half-sister the Lady Elizabeth. Despite knowing that Mary would have her burned at the stake if she knew of her religion, she is improbably devoted to her. And if this were not enough to stretch credibility, Hannah is also gifted with the supernatural gift of "the Sight." Yet despite all of this, The Queen's Fool is an entertaining page-turner of a historical romance/thriller.Hannah is the eyes through which we see the rivalry between Mary I, gifted with the unfortunate name of "Bloody Mary" by posterity, and her sister the celebrated future Elizabeth I. The author is obviously biased in favor of Mary, which is not entirely unfair as Mary arguably possessed more personal virtues than Elizabeth. But the extent to which Elizabeth is vilified is ridiculous. The smear campaign begins when Hannah sees the fourteen-year old Elizabeth engaged in sexually-charged "games" with Sir Thomas Seymour, husband of her guardian Catherine Parr. It is stated several times throughout the book that Elizabeth somehow encouraged this behavior, and is later used as evidence that Elizabeth is a chronic home-wrecker who enjoys stealing other women's husbands. While it is true that Elizabeth enjoyed relationships with married men in her reign, most infamously Robert Dudley, I found the notion that at age fourteen she seduced the man who abused his position as her guardian and probably molested her rather offensive.Apart from the less-than-ideal characterization of Elizabeth, the book is entertaining and compulsively readable. The better portrayals are actually of lesser-known historical figures, like the late King Henry VIII's jester Will Sommers and John Dee, mathematician and astrologer extraordinaire. Serious history this is not, but as a light bit of fluff with a backdrop of familiar Tudor characters it works well.
4 This was my first Philippa Gregory novel...the plot seemed a little more interesting to me than The Other Boleyn Girl did. Gregory does an awesome job of seamlessly integrating her fiction into the history of the royal courts of that time. I really enjoyed her character development too, you definitely see them grow and change throughout the book.My only complaint was that sometimes it seemed like Hannah's behavior was irrational just to create conflict and move the plot along. A couple times I found myself saying "why did she do that??"I recommend this book if you like other historical fiction. This was a fun read.
2 After falling in love with the work of Philippa Gregory of I expected feel the same about this and unfortunately I can't say I did. How did I feel? Tough to say...What I liked? :1) Hannah Green ,"the protagonist",  was likable enough (in the beginning).  I liked the dynamic of her and Robert Dudley.2) I enjoyed the relationships between Hannah and Mary and Hannah and Elizabeth. I like that she was devoted to both and torn as to whom she should give her loyalties.3) I enjoyed learning about the lives of those with the Jewish faith during this time period; it was something I had very little understanding of prior to this book.4) Hannah does redeem herself in the end  and I find that I am proud of how much she has grown as character and see that I am more attached to her than I originally believed.What I didn't like so much? :1) Hannah's reaction to a the relationship between Elizabeth and Thomas Seymour is a bit obnoxious seeing as what develops between her and Robert Dudley as time goes on.2) I don't much like how Hannah treats Daniel. He seems like a good guy who is doing the best he can and she just makes me crazy every time she is with him. (Though I felt for her living with Daniel's mother and sisters...yikes.)One side note I feel the need to add here, I find I am bit shocked at the criticism of Mary I. Now let me say I do defend the practice of burning and heretic and love that I live in a place where I am free to practice how and what I will...with that said, Mary was always going to be what she was ...her mother was notoriously fanatic.  Her father turned his back on the true faith (as she would have seen it, not me) and she lost everything because of it and at times she nearly lost her life (the threat was obviously there).  She believed what she believed and did so with fervor. She was not unlike her maternal grandmother, Isabella of Castile, and she wanted her country devoted to the true faith and not devided and she did not want to suffer heretics (again, not me, her).  Most countries that leaned Roman Catholic were very similar and were a scary place to be if you held different beliefs. I said all of that to say this, I rather like the way Gregory portrayed Mary I in this book. I know it is an unpopular opinion but ehhh...
5 I don't know how it's possible that I liked "The Queen's Fool" even more than "The Other Boleyn Girl", and "The Boleyn Inheritance" which I loved.  I think it's partially the addition of Hannah Green the young jewish girl escaping the Spanish Inquisition and becoming the Queen's Fool, telling the story.  Having Hannah tell the story introduces how great an effect all the european countries and their politics have on other European countries.I am sure it is also the fact that these stories build on each other, with characters whose families and circumstances are already familiar from the book before.  I encourage you to read in sequence - and I encourage you to READ these stories and learn some history.  Even if it is couched in some fiction, you still learn and this way is so much more fun.  My friends are now as hooked as I am -- this many people can't all be wrong.
5 Haven't had any books by Phllipa Gregory that wasn't wonderful.And just think, the first one I ever had was a gift from my daughter.Thank you!
5 This is another book by Philippa Gregory that occurs in the Tudor era. I won't really explan the plot because other reviewers already have quite well. I will just add my ten cents.I have always sympathized with Mary I because of how maligned she is. She had a horrible childhood. Raised believing that she would be Queen of England, then a little baby, Elizabeth takes her place. She is bastardized, disgraced and motherless by the end of Anne Boleyn's queenship. Everyone always just assumes that she was a cruel person because of how many people she burned. In this book, Mary is given a sympathetic look as well. She is kind and Hannah is devoted to her. She loves her husband, but her younger, beautiful sister takes all of his love.Lots of books show Elizabeth as a virgin. I have always wondered, what if she weren't? What if she were just not able to conceive? In this wonderful novel, the first chapter shows Elizabeth panting with lust and desire for Thomas Seymour. Elizabeth liked other women's husbands, and she didn't mind becoming Mary's husband's mistress. I think that Elizabeth liked feeling more desirable than other women. Being a wife just wasn't for her. Though Elizabeth does seem likeable in this book, Philippa Gregory makes her seem very much like Anne Boleyn in &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl.&quot;This is a very good novel. I was fixated by it and couldn't stop reading. The author is very good at depicting rivalry between sisters. I hope that Philippa Gregory writes many more Tudor novels. Are there any more sisters to be rivals? It doesn't matter. Any book by the author in the Tudor era would be excellent. &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl,&quot; was fabulous. I reread it over and over. When I buy &quot;The Queen's Fool,&quot; I plan to do the same. Good job, Philippa Gregory!
5 Philippa Gregory is great...and this book is no exception. Dismayed by the bad reviews, I read the next book-Virgin's Lover. These two books are very different, and you'll probably like one more than the other. Queen's Fool is more character-based on Hannah's life. There are about 100 pages solely devoted to Hannah without any court intrigue (which many people enjoyed in Other Boleyn's Girl/why they think its boring). There is also a lot about the battle of Calais, which may be boring to some (I liked it). The book consists of little snapshot incidents, like the Spanish king insulting the English, etc.The Virgin's Lover, on the other hand, has a lot more court/romance than this book. It centers more around Elizabeth and her affair with Robert Dudley. To me, I got tired of hearing about them sneaking around-we got it the first 20 times, Philippa! That part was very similar to OBG. The Virgin's Lover also has more foreign policy/what to do in this war/secret plotting. The Queen's Fool is not all about the secret dealing-Hannah's only privy to what part she and her lord play in the deal, and what the public knows.To the other reviewer who commented about Elizabeth at 14-I agree with you to some extent, but readers shouldn't be dismayed by it. The incident is only about the first three to five pages (really!). It's not a major point in a book of about 500 pages.In short, do not pass over this book!! Even if only to read them in order, you'll enjoy this book!
2 I have just reread this book. Perhaps it was my youth, or relative ignorance of history at that time, but I cannot figure out why I was not as befuddled when I first read it as I am now. This book is completely illogical. An author may be forgiven for skewed character portrayals of historical figures (see The Other Boleyn Girl for more, though that was actually a good novel despite all that horrible caricature of Anne Boleyn.) But when these portrayals stretch credulity, when they all but fly in the face of history and common sense, and when the main fictional character's actions cease to make sense because of this, then something has gone horribly wrong and the book needs to be rewritten.Our main character here is a fictional girl named Hannah Green, who has escaped Spain after the burning of her mother by the Spanish Inquisition. The Greens--their real name is Verde--are Jews, recently converted to Christianity, yet who still manage to secretly practice some Jewish tradition from time to time. She has a God-given Sight, and can predict the future. Soon she is discovered by Robert Dudley and begged as a holy fool to King Edward and then Queen Mary, whom history remembers as Bloody Mary for her burnings of heretics.Not only does Hannah stay in Mary's service, but she absolutely ADORES the very queen who brings the Spanish Inquisition to England! This queen who would probably send Hannah to the stake in a heartbeat if she found she was a Jew is portrayed as a overall nice woman, who only has to sacrifice heretics to the fire once in a while to feed her fragile conscience. I found this appalling. You may portray Mary as a pitiable figure, and I do consent that her life was a hard one, but to say that Mary is a good person with a loving heart who has simply been wronged is completely ridiculous. No one else can take blame for those burnings but Mary and Hannah's love for her is totally unbelievable and unrealistic. Any self-respecting Jew (or indeed, any self-respecting person) would, if not hate her, have no respect for her. As another review said, she inherited the worst traits from both her parents. She has all Katherine of Aragon's weakness coupled with Henry's ruthlessness. I couldn't understand Hannah's feelings towards her. They made no sense.This following passage is from page 322 of The Queen's Fool. It is characteristic of the portrayals in this novel. Will Somers is speaking of the queen's plan to burn the Bishops Cranmer, Latimer and Ridley, and is concerned that the queen's place in history will be ruled by this:"History will remember nothing but that she was the queen who burned bishops...she will be despised and forgotten and they will remember--God knows who! Elizabeth! Mary Stuart!--some wanton girl instead of this true-hearted queen."I say, if you're planning on burning bishops in the first place, you're not so true-hearted. And all the Elizabeth-bashing! It was just a little too much for Gregory to portray Elizabeth as a silly, selfish wanton, when she was a much better queen than Mary in all respects. However, my problem is not that I disagree with Gregory's opinions on Mary and Elizabeth, because that shouldn't be a factor, but that it makes no sense for Hannah to love Mary and sometimes scorn Elizabeth. This makes not only an unlikable, idiotic character out of Hannah, but a generally unrealistic book with flat characterization. With Gregory, it's largely hit and miss, and this was a miss. I would recommend anything else by her (with the exception of The Constant Princess) to anyone who likes fun, historical fiction, but this one's joining TCP and The Wise Woman in the "bad Gregory" bin.
4 Although I don't typically read these types of stories, after The Other Boelyn Girl, I would give anything Gregory writes a try.  That book was one of the best books I've ever read.The follow up to it, which is this book, wasn't as good, but was great in it's own right! The story of Hannah, the Queen's fool, is really about more than just her, it's about that whole period of time in England and about the royal family and it's enemies.  I found everything quite interesting.  And although at some points the story dragged for me, it didn't last long.  There was always something new going on to catch your interest.  I enjoyed most of the characters, but do be ready to memorize who is who- there are a lot of players involved!I'd recommend this book, it was long, but worth every minute!  And if you haven't read The Other Boelyn Girl, read that as well!
3 I LOVED "The Other Boleyn Girl".  Naturally, I wanted to read the trilogy.  The Queen's Fool was good, but just not anywhere near at good as The Other Boleyn Girl.  It was an interesting story, and I like the way Ms. Gregory tells her tales via a character who is in the middle of the action, but who is not the subject of much historical writing.  I just found this particular character of the fool to be not very believeable.  I think perhaps that is my biggest problem with this book.  I just could not fully immerse myself in the story.  It is entertaining and exciting and fun to read, I just did not think the quality was quite the same as the first book in the trilogy.
5 I loved this book! I couldn't put it down! This history that was included in the book was very interesting! I would definitely recommend this book.
4 This was my first foray into the world of Philippa Gregory. I purchased this book primarily because I was going to be flying for 5 hours and thought this 500 page book would keep my mind occupied for a while.In general I enjoyed a great deal of the book. However, this could easily have been shortened by about 100 to 150 pages. There was a huge amount of repetitiveness in this book. As I read, I found conversations that had taken place pages ago were now being repeated. Certainly this book could have been edited better, but judging by the length of other Gregory books (which I've avoided in the past) this seems to be her writing style.I did like the character of Hannah very much, although her's is a completely implausible storyline. But I did find myself rooting for her and was pleased with the ending.I'm giving the book a 4 star rating, but it's really a 3 1/2 star book for me. I'm not sure If I should venture into reading any other books by Gregory, at least not for a while.
4 Except for the prologue, the novel is written in the first person, from Hannah Green's point of view. Hannah and her father are living in England, having fled there after Hannah's mother was burned during the Spanish Inquisition. Hannah helps her father in his bookshop and is betrothed to Daniel, another Jew, whose family helped her and her father get to and settle in England. Hannah has the Sight - she can sometimes see the future. Robert Dudley finds out and gives Hannah and her father little choice about Hannah moving to Kind Edward's court to be the King's holy fool.The novel follows Hannah as she spies for Robert Dudley and eventually Queen Mary. She becomes a close friend and confidant to Queen Mary, but she is also very drawn to Princess Elizabeth. We also observe how Hannah handles being in love with Dudley while betrothed to Daniel and how she deals with the fear of her faith being discovered after Queen Mary begins burning heretics.I really enjoyed this book. Hannah has flaws, as any well-written character should, and she does and says some unlikeable and sometimes arrogant things. Overall, though, she is a sympathetic, likeable character, and she clearly grows from a young, somewhat arrogant teenager into a more mature woman. She is a very caring woman, who prefers to befriend Mary and Elizabeth, rather than spy on them. I would have liked for the Sight to have been a bigger part of the book. Although the topic is often brought up, in actuality Hannah has relatively few visions of the future.I know little of the relationship between King Philip and Princess Elizabeth, so I can't speak to Philippa Gregory's portrayal of that aspect of the book. However, the rest of the history and the major players in the Tudor court described in the book are portrayed accurately. Some people may find Hannah too sympathetic to Queen Mary, given Mary's decreed burning of over 300 non-Catholics, but it's also clear that Hannah disapproves of this, and we are given reasons for her to be sympathetic to Mary. Personally, I found the portrayal of Elizabeth too harsh. Although Hannah is very drawn to Elizabeth's charisma, the future Queen generally comes across as considerably unlikeable.My main problem with the book is that the author constantly used comma splices. This could be the author's style, or it may be more acceptable in British writing, but I found it very irritating. Fortunately, the story is otherwise well-written enough that I was often distracted from the improper (at least in the U.S.) grammar.
5 Philippa Gregory (authour of &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot;) returns to turbulent Tudor England in her latest novel, &quot;The Queen's Fool.&quot; This time, our narrator-guide is a young Jewish girl, Hannah Green, who together with her father, has fled Spain and the Inquisition, for England. Here, they have taken great pains to live quietly and to show that they are fervent Lutherans, all the while practicing their faith in secret. That is until a chance encounter with the mysterious John Dee changes the course of their lives forever.Hannah and her father have opened a bookshop, where Hannah (unlike most girls of her age) has been working at dressed as a boy and acting as her father's apprentice. One day, however, young Robert Dudley and his tutor, John Dee, come to the shop; and in the course of things, discover that Hannah has the 'sight.' Suddenly Hannah's future changes dramatically: where marriage to a distant cousin seemed to have been her fate, she's now dragooned into the service of the Dudleys, who plan to use her 'sight' for their own means. And soon Hannah finds herself torn on all sides -- strangely drawn to her new master, Robert Dudley and yet missing her father dreadfully; and not wanting to be confined to playing the role of mere wife and mother, and yet not wanting to close the door on that option either. Hannah is confused and fearful about her future. But not even in her wildest dreams would she envision the part she would play in the fortunes of the Tudors...I made the mistake of picking up this book just before going to sleep. Such was the sheer brilliance of &quot;The Queens' Fool&quot; that I had to finish the book in one sitting. What a compelling and engrossing read this novel proved to be! And what a heroine Gergory has created in Hannah! The authour did a fantastic job in 'fleshing out' the many sides of Hannha's character, thus making her both complex and sympathetic. Philippa Gregory also did a simply magnificent job of bringing to life the England of the mid 16th century with all it's brutality and turbulence, as well as it's vibrancy and colour. With exquistely drawn character, easy and swift pacing, and a wonderfully lyrical prose style, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; proved to both a joy and a pleasure to read. And whether or not you're a fan of historical novels, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; is a must read.
5 Yet another great book by Ms. Gregory. This Book follows Hana Green (Anglisized from Verde) who whith her father come from Spain, where there is Religious Persecution of Jewish people, (when the German people did the persecution of the Jewish people during World War 2.)  This is a definate must read for any fan of Historical Fiction.
4 I am reading this book right now & am about 3/4 finished. I really like it. I love this period & even though it is a novel & there wasn't a girl named Hannah the rest of the book is close to true. All of the people that are involved in this book, except Hannah, are real. And what was going on at that time was real. It is about Queen Mary and her sister Elizabeth & Hannah is involved with both of them. If you like reading about this period you will like the book.
5 Every book of Gregory's that I read always keeps me entertained and wanting for more! When I finish one, I cannot wait to pick up the next. Hannah is an amazing character!  Great book.
5 Really liked this book, difficult to put it down... Very well written for all Of you, passionately about Tudor history (and even brilliant if you are not so passionate about it). Go ahead, and enjoy !
5 I have only read four of Phillipa Gregory's books, and while this is not my personal favorite, it is a very interesting and entertaining read. While, many historical dramas tend to center around the lives of Courtesans and the people of royalty.There is none to my knowledge, has ever been told from the tale of a fool ( a court jester). I thought that this was very original, very in depth, and a very interesting read. I have discovered Philippa Gregory only very recently, but, she has become my favorite author as of late. She can bring to life the world of the past with a very realistic prose and her characters are always humanly flawed but loveable.  This is the sympathetic story of a girl, torn between the fact that she has to hide her Jewish identity and pretending to be another religion, torn by the fact that she loves a member of a royal court but feels bound to honor her betrothment to the man that she is supposed to marry, torn between loyalty to her father and loyalty to the royal house, torn between the dutiful service to two enemy sisters that desire to be the Queen and she loves them both. Torn between who she is to spy for and where her loyalties must lay.This is the coming of age story from someone that lives in an uncertain time, an uncertain world and how they try to fathom what is the right and wrong thing to do.And what position does this heroine hold in the royal court? The role of the Fool, the role of the Court Jester.Very absorbing and very unique,something that I think that no fan of historical drama should miss.
5 I couldn't put this book down. It was refreshing to see this period historical novel based on a character who wasn't a Royal but a simple young 14 year old girl who is forced to flee Spain with her father. The novel is full of court intrigue, treason, and witchcraft. Our heroine must choose between the safe life of a commoner and the dangerous intrigues of the Court. This book is a very satisfying read and I loved everyminute of it and hated it when it ended. As a writer myself who will have her first book released in 2011 "Without Consent" by Virginia Degner, I enjoyed reading this fabulous author.[...] is my parenting website, where I feature wonderful books for children. I am also starting a new series of articles on childhood obesity.
4 For those that like history lessons in the form of a good novel this book will not disappoint. Written at time sa little lengthy and after a while i tended to get a bit confused about who's who and what's what. A lot of characters in this book and most come to life quite well in Gregory's writing. A little unprobable are the apparent chastity of the main character and the appearance of the arch angel Uriel, to our heroine, in the beginning of the book ties not back to the story... but all in all a good relaxing read
3 I read this book because the narrator is a Marrano Jew and I am the head of a book club that requires a certain percentage of its books to have Jewish content.  However, the novel was a tedious rendition of the plots, subplots and conspiracies between the remaining two children of Henry the 8th.  Qween Mary, his daugher by his first wife and Princess Elizabeth, his beautiful red headed daughter by Anne Bolyn vie for control of the English throne.  Mary a Catholic turns to burning all protestants and other heretics at the stake for refusing to become ardent Catholics.  Even those that convert to Catholocism are not safe. Her inquisitors question their faith and if they don't meet with the inquisitors' satisfaction they are tortured to extract a confession and information and then burned at the stake.  Much like the Spanish Inquisition perpetrated against the Jews, this horrifinc inquisition is perpetrated against the Protestants.  Queen Mary suffers two false pregnancies or miscarriages.  Her much younger and very handsome husband, Prince Phillip of Spain marries her as a sort of merger of the Spanish empire and the English crown.  He falls for her much younger beautiful sister, Princess Elizbeth much to her consternation, for it was Elizabeth's mother who caused her mother to be imprisoned.  Clearly, the author has researched her subject well.  However, the banal vulgarity in a few of her romantic scenes was unneccessary and gratuitous something for which I have disdain.The language was pretentious though she may have used these words to establish a more accurate Tudor and Elizabethan atmosphere.  Most of the book was tedious and plodding.  The only  parts that grabbed me were the subplots of Hannah's life outside court.  However, that was only about 1/5th of the book and about 300 pages into it.  The rave reviews on the back flap refer to her other novel, The Other Bolyn Girl.  I suggest you read that instead. If I could I would give this book two and a half stars.
4 This is the first Philippa Gregory book I've read, and I really did enjoy reading it. It's very detailed, very dramatic, and regardless of other reviews that claim it to be slow, I didn't mind at all because I love reading all the details. There's a lot of accurate history in the book, which is a plus, and because of this book, my interest in this time period has definitely peaked, and after reading, I went back and did my own research.There were a few things that bothered me intensely about the main character that made it hard for me to really like her. She kind of just went with the flow and liked everyone (Elizabeth/Mary/Dudley), which in those times, I don't think you could really play on everyone's side (and mean it- and not get caught and tried for treason). And her love interest. I really hoped she would've handled things differently. The ending was NOT satisfying for me. Which generally would bother me, but I was so caught up in most of the other elements of the book, and I guess I just realized that Hannah is Hannah, and I didn't really get attached to her in a way to care too much what happened to her either way.Besides that, it makes for an interesting read, and I loved reading about the Mary/Elizabeth sides.
5 There isn't one of her books that I haven't loved and this one did not disappoint!  Loved it and plan on reading all of her books!  THANK YOU for sharing your gift with us!
5 When I turned the final page of "The Other Boleyn Girl" I did not think it possible for Phillipa Gregory to out do herself.I continue to marvel at the way Ms. Gregory fills pages with wonderful, colorful, magical words."The Queen's Fool", in my humble opinion, is historical fiction written with a difference.A very brilliant and unusal angle is used to tell yet another fascinating tale belonging to the English.Again, I find myself drifting to a previous century, sitting in the huge rooms of massive castles, feeling the bitter chill of cold run through my veins as does Hannah Green.As much as times were difficult even to royalty, going back in time to witness a brief glimpse of such an intriguing era would be none other than pleasure for me.I have a copy of "The Virgin's Lover" on my reading table as I write this review.I shall savor each wonderful page!-Yvonne Bornstein, Author, Eleven Days Of Hell
4 Like many others, I read The Queen's Fool after reading and loving The Other Boleyn Girl.  I definitely found The Other Boleyn Girl to be the better of the two books.  The author is great at mixing fact with fiction.  The fiction part is the problem here.  Parts seemed very repetitive and I, with my very meager knowledge of English history, could see what was coming with her move to Calais!  Ideally I would have given this book 3 1/2 stars, but decided to round-up!  Fast and enjoyable--good summer read.
5 I should say at the outset that I have only just started this book. And of course, I have never reviewed a book this early. I mean, what's the point, who knows how it will go? But after three highly acclaimed books in a row that were just torturous to get through until a third or halfway into them, I was really ready for a good, old fashioned, can't put it down from the first page read! And this book delivers in spades!! I promise to update this if the book gets worse, but in the meantime, if you want something that pulls you in and is engrossing from page one, read this book!UPDATE: finished the book and loved it throughout! No disappointments here. The main character, Hannah the fool, is charming and engaging and the way Gregory writes her she comes to life and we really care about what happens to her. Gregory also does a good job of revealing the history that was happening all around Hannah. My only complaint, a minor one, is that Gregory is very biased towards Queen Mary in this book, and clearly doesn't much care for the young Elizabeth. That's her opinion and she is entitled to it. However, she doesn't support her leanings in any way whatsoever from history, rather portarays their personalities in black and white. Not quite good and evil, but almost. It is known that Mary was loved by many of her contemporaries, but so was Elizabeth, so a little more even handed approach would have been better. Or maybe it was that I had just finished Alison Weir's "The Lady Elizabeth" which takes just the opposite view.
5 This was a great buy for me, because I'm into genealogy, and I feel a true kinship with the family depicted.
5 If you want a vivid portrayal of England during the Wars of the Roses, you should read this book.Helen Castor has done a wonderful job of putting the Paston Letters into context, both historical and familial, so that in reading this book it is not only clear what is happening in England during the struggle between various noble families and the King of England, but how this impacted people like the Pastons, who were powerless when England degenerated into chaos, and greedy neighbors seized their lands.In this readable book, you will meet the Pastons, and enjoy learning about their exploits as their vivid personalities dance off the page. Highly recommended. Five Stars.
5 This book tells the story of the Paston family of England from the aftermath of the arrival of Black Plague in England (1348) to about 1503. These dark times saw the erosion and eventual complete collapse of royal authority in England and the loss of English power in France in a succession of multiple rebellions, usurpations of the throne, kings and royal heirs murdered and killed in battle, a mad king, many nobles executed for supposed "treason," considerable social unrest, dislocation and lawless anarchy (most of it due to the Wars of the Roses).The Paston family was then of no national importance and never achieved lasting national prominence. They first emerged from the peasantry into "gentle" status (i.e. members of the local well-to-do landowners in East Anglia) in the lifetime of William Paston (1379-1444), son of a peasant farmer, successful lawyer, royal judge and skilled social networker who made the family fortune. The astute William was the ablest of the family and was the source of all its eventual prosperity, including the achievement in 1673 of the earldom of Yarmouth. Unfortunately the second Earl died virtually bankrupt and without heirs in 1732, extinguishing William Paston's direct line.The second Earl's executors, however, discovered an enormous trove of letters and documents dating from the end of Henry V's reign through the reign of the first Tudor, Henry VII (about 1422 to 1509). The Paston Letters are unique among medieval English documents. They are incomparably more voluminous, extensive and personal than any other similar documents from the time.The Letters were mainly written to serve the family's unceasing efforts to protect and increase their new social standing and wealth, but they also give a rich picture of life in such violent times and great insight into the personal lives of Paston family members and associates. Nothing else comes close to revealing so much of the actuality of lives of the time as perceived by those who lived them. The Letters immortalized the Pastons and are invaluable to history.Author Castor's narrative is, of course, primarily based on the Letters, which she uses with great skill to construct a coherent story of more than three  generations of Pastons, with an epilogue on the family's ultimate fate and a concise essay on the discovery and scholarship of the Letters. Castor is a gifted writer who makes her protagonists, both men and women, live for the reader.The book does not directly concern the high politics of the day except as those politics affected the Pastons' search for political patrons who might help them protect their property and social status. The great interest of the book to us is the intimate glimpse it gives of life in a provincial gentry family seeking to protect itself in perilous times. The great accomplishment of Ms. Castor is the ability with which she makes these people and their beliefs speak to us so that we share their vanished world. As always the past is a foreign country where things are done differently indeed; but, thanks to Ms. Castor's skill, today's reader has an able and eloquent guide to those foreign parts. An outstanding book.
4 This is a highly unusual book. I believe this is the sort of material that's usually buried in PhD theses and never reaches a general audience.Castor's exhaustive research shows as she reconstructs the history of the Paston family and its attempts to climb the social ladder of the landed gentry.  In 15th century England, there is no title insurance.  You can lose your land to claims of better connected people who may be the progeny of previous owners, or may be just better connected.  You can also lose it in a seige and hope that your connections are good enough to have a hearing in a court where you hope to get connected people on your side.  You can also lose this property, and be imprisoned as well, if an ancestor of yours was "unfree" and therefore not able to own the property you claim.The John Paston Family seems ill equipped to play this game.  While the book does not deal with domestic problems, there are some unmistakable facts.  William's other sons, who have better and firmer inheritances are in deep background (until one comes around to lay claim) leaving John, the semi-disinherited older son, to fend for himself. He's in this situation because his mother renounced his father's written will in favor of an alleged death bed testimony.  This testimony works to the favor of the younger sons which essentially sets John up for failure.  This is a mother who beats a daughter, whom she keeps in spinsterhood (withheld dowry), such that her head cracks.John's wife Margaret raises children and runs the contested manor, which becomes a war zone (she actually fights skirmishs and battles) while her husband networks in London. There is little detail what he does with his time, and he must have a lot of it on his hands. No wonder Margaret becomes cranky in the end.  Unfortunately she takes it out on her two sons, both of whom, also set up for failure by parental decisions, risk their lives for this family enterprise.The tale is interesting for what it reveals of life at this time, but it is overly long in detail.  Descriptions of battles, tangential players and some quotes from letters (some so convoluted they produce more confusion than enhancement) could well be eliminated in favor of a smoother analytical treatement.  It isn't until p. 200+ that the author reveals what you seem to think, (but wonder if you've missed) that these people might be creating their own problems.Also hard to understand is the true fiscal plight of the family.  They are always in financial straights, but are ordering clothing (lots of detail on items the modern reader cannot identify), shopping, entertaining and hiring soldiers and servants.  They seem to be not only living beyond their means, but reaching well beyond them as well.I like that the author describes the provenence of the letters at the end, and not the beginning. This is the time the reader can really appreciate their value.
5 I can't praise this book too highly.  On one level, it is the story of a tumultuous period in late mediaeval (15th century)England (The Wars of the Roses).  On another level, it is the detailed story of the rise of the Paston family from a bondsman farmer (tied to the land) to gentry who could marry into the aristocracy.  The interplay of these two brings alive the former.  Along the way, Helen Castor tells the more circumscribed story with numerous asides explaining the significance of things we would find difficult to relate to today (e.g., the vaguaries of legal rights to land, or the severe economic consequences of selling a forest to pay debt), but which were so important at the time.If you have any interest in history at all (particularly English late mediaeval, though not, by any means, restricted to that) do read this book.  Helen Castor writes beautifully and brings the period alive.This is anything but "dry-as-dust" history - it will carry you along like the best of Dumas, even though it is non-fiction.  Brava Helen; I can't wait for the next.
5 I was pleasantly surprised, recently, by Helen Castor's "Blood and Roses".  I had expected another urbane, boring, and dusty history for England's most turbulent civil war- the War of the Roses.  Instead, Castor presents a 15th century English family's struggle for peerage, identity, and future during England's most tumultuous pre Commonwealth period.This remarkable 426-page 2006 paperback is destined to become a War of the Roses classic.  The story is well documented (with 23 pages of endnotes, an extensive select bibliography, and a dozen photos).  Clearly saying that their papers have a "unique place in the history of medieval England", Castor narrates from the Paston family's letters, their realty and legal contracts, and other original documents.In 1400, the lowborn Paston family begins to struggle for land ownership, for money, for gentry status, and for political presence.  Their rise is plagued with other families' jealousies, aristocratic theft, familial betrayal, and royal expectation, all during various would-be governments' dash to power.  Through the years the Pastons play on every side.  By the middle 1700s the family has achieved viscount status, castles, manor houses, and positions in the king's personal staff.  Theirs is a dramatic tale worthy of history's notice and analysis.The Paston narrative seems a microcosm for the turbulent times in which they lived, worked, plotted, loved, fought, and died.  What finally happens with the Pastons?  Read "Blood and Roses" and find out.Even though it seems long at first glance, I read Castor in a short time.  Her novel-like writing style kept me in the story.  I couldn't put it down!  This book is a must read for York versus Lancaster buffs, medieval English history enthusiasts, and Middle Ages genealogists.  Get your copy soon.
4 Recently two of my 5TH grade students read The Witch of Blackbird Pond. We were studying the Puritan Time period of history and this book was a wonderful depiction of the lifestyles and beliefs of people living during this period.  The language was challenging in the beginning but the students were are to grasp the message of the book. We noted similarities with the main character Kit and the girls growing up in today's world.Kit portrays the life of  a 16 year old girl amongst a new and unusual Puritan community. She is from a foreign shore and therefore she is disliked and thought of as suspicious (because she is different). Kit befriends a Quaker woman far outside of town, the two develop a wonderful relationship. The community casts scorn on the women and eventually Kit is scorned as well.This book was a wonderful teaching tool because it depicted how belief and presumption can cause great pain and suffering for individuals that have "different" beliefs, attitudes and feelings. It also helped my young students understand the tribulations of history and how being different can at times cost one their home, their lively hood and even their life. We had a lively discussion on how Kit remained strong and self assured among so much bitterness and hatred.This is a must read for any social studies class learning about Puritan history and the Salem Witch trials.
5 The message is even more important now as we continue to vilify those who seem different. A fascinating look into the mindset of the people who created the Salem witch trials. (Follow up with "The Crucible") Also a feminist tale.Young women will relate best to this story. Images and names stick with me still, 30 years later.
5 When Kit Tyler boarded the Dolphin, a ship that would take her from Barbados to New England, she had no idea what lay in store for her. In the strict puritan community of her relatives, Kit feels alone and out-of-place. Struggling to adapt to life with her Uncle, Aunt and cousins, she is constantly aware of how different she is and finds it difficult to fit in with the ways of the Puritans. Drawn to Blackbird Pond, Kit meets Hannah Tupper, an old woman widely believed to be a witch. Hannah is the only person who understands her, but by associating with her Kit places her own life in danger. In the intensely religious and prejudiced community, Kit is accused of witchcraft and sentenced to stand trial."The Witch of Blackbird Pond" is one of the best Young Adult books ever written.  I have read it so many times I have lost count and yet it still remains, and always will, one of my all-time favourites. It provides a perfect mix of history, romance, drama and suspense and will keep the reader hooked throughout. The characters of Nat and Kit are brilliantly written, as their initial reserve deepens to friendship and finally something more. When reading this book I was torn between wanting it to last forever and desperation to discover how the story would finish. Beautifully written and filled with vivid characters, you want to The Witch of Blackbird Pond to go on and on and never end. This is an amazing, very unique book that I know I will treasure forever.
5 Kit Tyler has lived her whole life in the beautiful, Caribbean country of Barbados. Her first glimpse at her new home in Connecticut tells her that her life in colonial America will be nothing like the beautiful and elegant world she has always known. She doesn't understand the stern and somber people here--especially not the mischievous sailor, Nat Eaton, who always turns up when she least expects it. In her loneliness, she develops a dangerous friendship with an outcast widow many of the townspeople think might be a witch. But how much will that friendship cost her?The Witch of Blackbird Pond is a wonderful story about coping with change and learning to be true to ourselves. Through the gentle affection of the Widow Tupper, Kit learns to find her vocation in life--and in love.
5 This is a great book for middle schoolers, teens and even young adults.  I read it at 10 and again recently at 24, and I loved it both times.  It's exciting without being violent or gory, and it gives a good account of the Puritans and how they lived.  I recommend it.
5 I read this book many years ago and fell in love with it and I am so happy to be able to pass along such a beautiful story to my daughter. So full of history, adventure, humor and love I fully recommend this book to everyone.
5 Awesome story set in per-revolution America. A young girl comes to settled New England to escape marriage to a man who does not love her. Here there are many challenges and obstacles to overcome as she assimilates to her new life. Despite it all, she learns to recognize the beauty in her very different life. I would definitely recommend it!
5 I hadn't read this book in years and was glad that I picked it up again.  The themes of &#34;Witch of Blackbird Pond&#34; are timeless and Speare's heroine will resonate with anyone who ever felt that they didn't belong - whether it is in their high school, they are the black sheep of the family, etc.
4 I like stories that combine history with an interesting story line and this book fit that nicely. It kept my interest
5 Although the boys in my seventh grade class didn't &#34;love&#34; it, overall, I think it's a terrific read for all middle schoolers. It's a terrific introduction to Puritanism and prompts worthwhile discussions about differences, tolerance, and hope.
4 Enjoyable reading.  It gives some insight into how like waS back then.I would recommend it to anyone interested in that time.
4 This story was very well written.  I was in there with Kit and feeling what she was feeling.  Her joys, her hardships and adventures.  Very descriptive that any aged reader would fully enjoy.
5 ISBN 0440495962 - Excellent, well written book for ages 12 and up, Witch is more likely to appeal to girls.  This book has enough romance to make it unappealing to some, but it deserves the Newbery Award it won in 1959.Kit Tyler was orphaned years before, but it is only now that she feels like an orphan - her grandfather, Sir Francis Tyler, a well-off plantation owner on Barbados, has died and Kit finds out that all he's left behind is mountainous debt.  His entire estate is sold off to pay those debts and Kit's own slave has to be sold, as well, to finance her journey to Connecticut.  There, her mother's only sister, beautiful Rachel, lives with her family.  She befriends Nat Eaton, the captain's son, but fails to tell him that her family isn't expecting her.  He is surprised by their surprise, when Kit shows up on their doorstep, where they part ways.  Kit, too, gets a surprise, when she finds that her aunt, once a great beauty, is a somewhat worn, plain woman.  Clearly her life has changed her.It takes some time for Kit to get accustomed to the ways of her aunt's family, who are Puritans (Kit had even disparagingly referred to them as "Roundheads" while still on the boat).  Their simple life of hard work is a harsh existence with little joy and Kit misses much about her old life.  Still, she has no one else and tries to learn to do the chores she is given to the best of her ability.  When William Ashby, a young man of some means, begins to court her, Kit realizes that he might be the best chance she has to escape from the drudgery of her life under Uncle Matthew's roof.  Judith, Kit's cousin, had previously set her sights on William, but when he favors Kit, she turns her attention to John Holbrook, a budding clergyman.  Judith is unaware that her crippled sister, Mercy, has fallen in love with John and even less aware that John also loves Mercy.While the prospect of escape via marriage to William is in the future, Kit lives in the present, becoming friendly with Hannah, an elderly Quaker woman who lives alone on the shore of Blackbird Pond.  The townspeople believe her to be a witch, mostly because she isn't Puritan.  Consorting with Hannah doesn't do much to improve Kit's standing in the town, but she laughs off the idea of herself or anyone being a witch - until they lock her up and put her on trial.  Her friendships with Nat and Prudence pay off in a big way, when they appear at the trial, but Nat runs before she can thank him - and before she realizes that it is Nat that she really loves.As a teen or pre-teen, this book would not have impressed me much, and I'd have found the romance gag-worthy.  Everyone ends up with the guy they should end up with and all, it is implied, live happily ever after.  As an adult, however, I really enjoyed the story.  The prejudice of the time, not unlike the prejudice of ANY time period, was interesting.  To read that the ability to swim was an indication that one was a witch is funny now, but a nice bit of irony for the time - the only way to prove your innocence was to die by drowning!  Not perfect, and a little more "historical romance" than plain old "historical fiction", but still very nicely done.- AnnaLovesBooks
4 I bought this book before I read some of the detailed reviews praising the story for children and teens.  I decided to read it anyway and found the story quite enjoyable, the history interesting and the characters well developed. Can recommend for all ages.
5 I love to learn while I enjoy a good story.  This book offers much insight into the habits and beliefs of this time in New England.  I found it a very entertaining book.
4 Kit finds herself alone in the world, and so she makes a decision to surprise her Puritan aunt and uncle and hope that they will take her in. From the start Kit has trouble in her new home; the Puritan lifestyle is strick and not at all exciting, and Kit keeps making mistakes without knowing it. She finds a friend in an old woman who lives by the pond, and unknowingly brings herself and this woman into danger.This book is a great read for children; it's interesting, historically accurate, and not scary.
5 First read it in 8th grade about 20 years ago in reading class. The teacher was a blonde Jewish hottie about 5'6"" in her early twenties named Miss Fee. The book is great by itself, but taught by a good looking teacher makes it even better.
4 I read this book in high school as required reading. Then as I got older I often thought back to it as it really stayed in my head for some reason. Then I was just looking through the Kindle store trying to find a new book to read. I came across this and thought OMG! This is it!I really enjoy the story. It really is a classic. It's a pretty easy read which is good. like I said the story has always stuck with me. I don't know why. Maybe I somehow related to the lead female character. But I recommend it for anyone to read.
4 I'll begin by saying that I wasn't entirely convinced that I was going to like this book when I first started reading it. In fact, I was downright sure that I wasn't going to be able to relate to the main character anymore than I could relate to the sea worthy Dolphin.  I was also sure that the storyline was going to be drab and moralistic because it was published in '58.I was very pleasantly surprised however when I found myself eagerly turning pages after the first few chapters. Despite the slow start I was very much enthralled by the storyline and put on perpetual edge by the constant predicaments of the main character, Kit.There were some very dry parts of the book that I'm surprised I made it through, but then there were those  one or two moments when I was actually drawing up on the couch in suspense thinking to myself "If what I think is going to happen happens I'll pass out!"Towards the end I was even starting to tear up in frustration due to the unfairness in which the main character is treated by the townspeople.That's how emotional I can get over books, people. It's pretty absurd.The biggest surprise came when I realized near the end of the book that I could relate to this 16 year old royalist girl rather well. In fact... I found that I could completely understand her situation as a spunky foreigner in the midst of a very plain and strict group of strangers.At first I was very keen on despising the puritan characters that surrounded Kit, choosing to focus very much on the fact that Kit seemed constantly oppressed by the drab, colorless culture.After putting the book down, however,  I began to realize that there was no "This is better than that" or "that is better than this". In fact it came very much down to "To each-his own". At first when I believed that the author was attempting to cast the puritan lifestyle of Kit's family in a negative light I couldn't help but clamor on about how unfortunate the main character was to be in her situation.However,  I began to theorize that the author was very cleverly pointing out to the reader their own judgmental attitude. Just as with Kit, the reader goes from being completely appalled at the main character's surroundings and then slowly they come to realize there's strength and beauty in it (even if it's not the favorite of the reader).Anyway, I could really go on about it all day, but I'll end the review by telling you all that I was pleasantly surprised by the captivating story of a young woman discovering new perspectives and finding new ways to know herself and others.
5 I read this book more than 20 yrs ago for a book report in High School English class. I enjoyed it so much that I read it a couple more times before graduating.  Just a few days ago I was thinking about this book and thinking how much I would enjoy reading it again.  Then I see it as a Bargain Kindle book! I downloaded it (gladly paying the 1.99) and can't wait to read it again.Set during Colonial Times "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" is a warning about how ignorance and fear can destroy lives. It is a story about bravery and strength.  A good read for ages 12 to 112. :)
4 AN absorbing tale of life in colonial Connecticut. A very easy, absorbing tale. A good book for young and old readers alike.
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond was one of the first Elizabeth George Speare books I read as a young teen.  It has everything you would want for a young girl:  adventure, family values, and exotic locations both in the West Indies and aboard a ship - though most of it takes place in colonial New England.  That makes it a comprehensive historical novel as well. Also, there is just enough innocent romance to make the story interesting and the whole package grabs one's imagination. Even your tomgirl will like this.Bernardette CostaAuthor,  The Six Colorful Annies
5 This is a breathtaking book. It takes us to Puritan New England, in the colony of Connecticut. Sixteen year old Katherine (Kit) arrives in America after having been brought up by her grandfather in Barbados. Her liberal Shakespeare-reading, ocean-swimming, silk-dress wearing upbringing did nothing to prepare her for the inflexibility and piousness of her aunt's family that takes her in. In fact, Kit's free thinking and outspoken ways create suspicion and irrational fears in her new home.  Kit seems to stand out no matter how she wants to fade into the background.  She is not well accepted by her family and people tend to suspect her of untoward things leaving her feeling even more along.  It's a book that speaks to the "how being different as a child" makes one stand out and not in a good way.  Talk about bullying in the 1600's!  Some of my favorite parts came in just describing what life was like for Kit in America. The drudgery of preparing food, cleaning, growing food, and the never-ending cycle of work. Make me very grateful to have been born into modern conveniences.  On the other hand the pull of a simpler life is also there so either way this book will have you thinking about history, adolescence and fitting in.
5 I loved this book when I was a girl and I always looked forward to reading it again. I read it on my Kindle app recently and it is just as good now as it was then, except the teaser from the beginning is not there, which is a shame.Kit Tyler loses her grandfather and is forced to sell everything to pay off his debts. She finds herself aboard a ship to Connecticut, leaving behind everything she has ever known in Barbados. She plans to stay with her beautiful Aunt Rachel and start a new life. What she does not know is that the Puritans have a different view of life than she does, and can be infinitely less tolerant.  New Englanders are suspicious of women that are strong-minded and can swim. What follows is a tale about toil, hardship, friendship, politics and understanding, with a lively witch trial for good measure. This book will always hold a special place in my heart.
5 4.5 stars. Read this a long time ago, and recently revisited, to see how itheld up. Still a brilliant book.Kit's hard to like, at first - more than a little spoiled, so that it can be gratifyingto see her come down for a hard landing. Then again, she's 16, terrified andgrieving, so a little slack can be cut.It's a universal theme, especially for those in a hostile home environment -marry this person, and escape! Kit figures out in time that it would be noescape at all, simply trading one cage for a larger, prettier one.I loved how Hannah, the Quaker "witch" was wise and kind and warm, BUTshe was also afraid, and sometimes confused; she wasn't perfect.The one thing that bugged me is that it's mentioned that Kit had her own"Negro girl," which loss is supposedly only a little less sharp than that of hergrandfather, "the little African slave who had been her shadow for twelveyears." Yet this soul-sister doesn't even get a name, nor is it ever mentionedagain that Kit misses her. I "get" that the author wanted to focus on otherissues than slavery in this book, and it could open up a big can of worms - ifshe was a pseudo-sister, how could anyone justify selling her? Why didn'tKit sell off one of her trunks of fancy dresses, and bought passage for bothof them? Many white people in 1687 DID think that Negroes weren't quitewhole human beings, so it's not an inaccurate depiction of the period. :(However, that Kit seemingly dismisses her so quickly and moves on, madeher less sympathetic to me.Almost all the characters in the book are layered and multi-dimensional -with the exception of Goodwife Cruff [hiss, boo] and Saint Mercy (who Iliked, but who reminded me of Beth in Little Women, except Mercy gets ahappier ending). I like that Kit's relationship with her aunt, uncle, andcousins changed over time. The bad guys also did good things, the goodguys sometimes chickened out from doing the right thing, just like real life.The dangers of superstition and religious extremism - still just as validas when the book was written - or the time period in which it was set.
5 Not my normal choice for a book, but it's an excellent story none the less. It gives an excellent feel for the Salem witch trial days and how a &#34;regular person&#34; could get caught up in the  mess. Very good
5 Nice Story good reading was surprised how it held me captive  Not witch craft not offensive at all  Would look for another by this author
5 The Witch of Blackbird PondBy: Elizabeth George SpearePaperback: 223 PagesPublisher: Dell Books (1973)ISBN: 0440995779 (isbn13: 9780440995777)Genre: Historical FictionTime Period: 1687Setting: Barbados, ConnecticutCharacters:Katherine ("Kit") TylerNathaniel ("Nat") EatonHannah TupperWood Family: Matthew, Rachel, Judith, MercyJohn HolbrookWilliam AshbyCruff Family: Goodman Adam, Goodwife Cruff, and PrudenceEleazer KimberlyThis book had the most profound affect on me and my life both as a reader and a woman. Kit Tyler is an impulsive and genuine young woman with a very strong mind with whom I definitely identified with. In this time in Puritan society this description isn't one that you want nor was it for me for a long while. The ability to identify with at least one character is always a good indicator of a story because the whole idea is to walk in an other's shoes no matter how different they are from your own.Also as with all great stories they have lessons that you are meant to take away from the story if it fails to do this then in my opinion the story no matter how entertaining it was, it was a waste of time. In regard to this book it is thoroughly riddled with ideas and morals, some very unexpected given the time period.It taught me that sometimes you just won't fit in but that doesn't mean you should change your "feathers":"You know," he said, looking carefully away at the river, "once ~hen I was a kid we went ashore at Jamaica,~ and in the marketplace there was a man with some birds for sale. They were sort of yellow- green with bright scarlet patches. I was bent on taking one home to my grandmother in Saybrook. But father explained it wasn't meant to live up here, that the birds here would scold and peck at it. Funny thing, that morning when we left you here in Wethersfield---all the way back to the ship all I could think of was that bird." -Nat EatonIt taught me what love is and shouldn't be:"You and I would always be uneasy, ail of our lives. We would always be hoping for the other one to be different, and always being disappointed when it didn't happen. No matter how hard I tried, I know I could never care about the things that seem so important to you." -Kit TylerIt taught me love is sometimes hidden right in front of you.It taught me truth and loyalty are two of the most important things in life.Most importantly be yourself for the right people will love you more for that and the ones that don't, don't matter.As far as did the author succeed in their story, read the following quotes."I don't believe a historical novel should gloss over the pain and ugliness. But I do believe that the hero... should on the last page... still be standing with the strength to go to whatever the future may hold." -Elizabeth George Speare"Every book begins with questions. How must it have seemed to people who lived through this experience? What choices would I have made in their place? I must find the answers by going back in the past, by living side by side with them until the world they lived in becomes as real to me as the room in which I am working. This is an enormously satisfying experience. I find that renewed perspective and a sort of reinforcement to the spirit...[are] gifts from the past that...a person of any age...can gain from reading...historical fiction." -Elizabeth George SpeareIf I am to judge the story based on these then the author most definitely succeeded on all counts.As far as eye-candy when it comes to covers this is my favorite cover of all the editions of this book. I love how she looks free-spirited even in the strict clothing of the Puritans. I like how the artist included water in the background because the difference in the water was one of the first indicators that Kit was no longer in clear blue Barbados water but rather the murky water of Connecticut. The cover also gives a hint of the wooded way the North used to be like during that time before the Industrial Revolution.Overall I give this book a five. It is a book you will want to give to any girl coming of age, or any woman at a crossroads in her life. Personally, I pick up a copy of this book whenever I can and have several editions that sometimes if I have doubles I tend to give away.
5 This a book about the adventure of Kit, a sixteen year old who leaves her home in Barbados to find her aunt and uncle. Along the way she makes friends and she makes enemies. She finds love and she finds hope. A true tale of courage and grace. In the end she finds love in an unexpected place. Kit is a true hero and she made my day when I finished the book!
4 4 starsThe Witch of Blackbird Pond was first published in 1958 and was required reading for most Middle schools and Junior highs across the country. Mine was no exception, I had to read it in 7th grade English class, then do a written report on it. That was over 30 years ago now but if I remember rightly I got a B on it.I fell in love with this book, it made me feel as if I were a young girl in the late 17th century, alone in a strange country. Mourning not only the loss of my home but the grandfather who was the only family I had ever known. I cried more then once while reading it. It made such an impact on me ,that having read the book in September, I begged my mom to sew me a puritan dress to wear for Halloween. She didn't, I was a witch that year. Ironic? Not really. my mom had read the book too. She thought it was funny.Kit had been right up there with Nancy Drew, Trixie Belden and even Lizzy Bennett in my mind. But like I said before, that was over 30 years ago and I was really young.I read The "Witch of Blackbird Pond" for the second time earlier this week. Again I found myself lost in the constrictive,harsh and smothering world of the puritans. An especially hard life for women. But Kit and her story have lost something in the intervening years. Tastes change and just like watching a rerun of a 1950's sitcom, this book feels dated. It would be quite different if it had been written in the last couple of years.That being said; I still find this book interesting and even intriguing. And my eyes still teared up in certain places. I personally believe it should still be a required book for 12-14 year olds. Though not that historically accurate, it still transports the reader into a world so,so,so different from life today or even any of the puritan's contemporaries, native american or other europeans.I no longer want to be Kit, Nancy Drew or Trixie Belden. Though Lizzy Bennett... I would be be Lizzy in a minute. Especially if Fitzwilliam Darcy looked anything like Colin Firth.
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond may be a work of fiction, but there are many parables with modern life. It's about a white girl, from the sunny West Indies, who moves to the cold, unwelcoming colonies in New England. Her uncle, a Puritan, reluctantly takes her in. Though they treat her as good as as their own children, they're clearly not happy to have her. For starters, the Puritans are serious people, and she's used to play and leisure. The Puritans are austere and Spartan, while she's used to flamboyant luxury. The family's life is preoccupied with hunting, farming, cooking, and cleaning; the kind of stuff one has to do in order to eat. She, however, comes from a wealthy family and has never even cooked for herself.But she learns. The family are Puritans after all, and it's their duty to teach her self-sufficiency. Soon she settles into the routine, cooking meals, cleaning, and teaching young children to read.But Puritan life comes with a problem. The people believe in the existence of witches, and anybody who appears unusual is a suspect. Hannah, a kindly old woman who lives alone, was once a suspected witch. She has a scar on her face as a reminder of how she suffered under the Puritans' paranoia. Worse, she's a Quaker, and the Quakers are despised by the Puritans.Faced with an inquisition-like investigation, she faces the harshness of the Colonial laws of the time. Judge's decisions are not based on codified laws, but on the religious and social mores and norms. Every single good thing she's done since arriving is suspected as an act of witchcraft and subversion.But there is hope. As with today's legal system, success depends on getting the right advocate! Will the townspeople stand up for her and denounce the witch hunts, or will she be tortured by religious hysteria?
2 Five pages into the book I knew I made a mistake.  I plowed through the rest of the book just because I don't like to leave anything unfinished.  I didn't care for the story, or the  writing of the story....
5 I just had to write a review on this book simply because my daughter (who is in the 6th grade) could not put this book down.  There were some vocabulary and old-fashion words she didn't recognize but other than that the book was a great adventure and good history lesson too.
4 This book was a wonderfully light and entertaining read.  Kit is a young girl who is forced to leave her island home of Barbados in the late 1600's and live with a strict Puritan community in Connecticut.  She has many new relationships some good and some bad in this land where life seems so harsh.  One of her special relationships is with an elderly Quaker woman, the Witch of Blackbird Pond.  The author is detailed in showing early New England life.  The characters are a charming and I will always remember Hannah Tupper.  A fabulous book for adults, young and old.
2 This book was listed as historical fiction and had good reviews. It mentions 3 historical men, who make a brief appearance. The story line could have made a really good novel, but it's written very naively. The target age group would have to be pre-teen.
4 I liked this story, pretty well written, good historical facts. Would recommend to teenage girls. Painted a pretty good image of the times and had a good moral message.
4 The deeper political & cultural undercurrents in this delightful girls` coming of age story entertains & educates all ages. The tensions between colonists & Royalists, Puritan & Quaker, adult & child, remind the reader that trust, faith, family, love & self-sufficiency were as delicately & inextricably intertwined in the 17th century as they are today.
5 This book was recommended to me for my 11 year old girl.  It is a great book and I hope to get some more from Speare.
5 A glimpse of a history so rich with courage and faith was totally fascinating.  Though the story was fictitious it was so reminiscent of the struggles of a people to overcome prejudice, ignorance and superstitions. I recommend this delightful book to everyone.
5 This was  book my daughter read in school long ago and I know she loved it as did I.So will you.
1 I read this book for school, twice. I thought it was boring. The only part I really liked was when Kate realized that she loved Nat.I wouldn't recomend this book b/c I didn't know what was happening.
3 Having read "The Sign of the Beaver," I was looking forward to reading this book.  I liked the book overall, and it ranks fairly high among the 80 Newbery books I've read, but I didn't enjoy it as much as I had hoped.  It was, however, a relatively quick read.Set in pre-Revolutionary Connecticut, this story depicts the struggle between the colonists who wanted to remain loyal to the crown and the new breed of American who felt they deserved the freedom to be independent in a land they had carved out.  It also touches upon the issue that every person faces at some point, do we accept people who are different than we are or do we brand them as outcasts?
3 I knew where the story was headed. Good descriptive paragraphs.I felt like I had read this book before because the theme has been used often.
4 It was a good story. I thought the title of the book was misleading and an odd choice compared to what the story was really about but I liked how the characters were easy to distinguish from each other and were memerable. A great ending. I learned something from it too, on how people were treated during the war when they were not from this country - which is sad. Though it wasn't one of my favorites, I'm glad I read it.
5 This book is a classic. The main character, Kit, is a strong role model  for society today. She shows that through perseverance, she can overcome  life's struggles. Through her struggles, she shows others around her that  prejudice is unacceptable.Looking at Kit's struggles to survive in a  society she is not used to, a young adult can easily relate to her.  Young  adults struggle with all sorts of issues growing up.  Even though Kit's  problems are inherently different than those of young adults today, there  are many similarities that young adults can relate to, such as fitting  in.It's a shame that because a book is written well and depicts the life  and times of people from over three centuries ago, it's considered horrible  and boring.I read this book over fifteen years ago, and read it again in  college, and the book still has the same effect on me. It's still a  favorite book, and as a teacher, I will recommend it to my students as a  mandatory book.
3 It was different that is for sure.  While reading the story, I wasn't sure it was not meant to be for children, until it's dark side comes through.  I like it not love it.
5 I read this book aloud to my children, which won the 1959 Newbery Medal. The story takes place in 1687.Katherine "Kit" Tyler lived with her grandfather in Barbados on his large plantation. When he died, Kit sold everything to pay the workers and to not leave any debt. Unfortunately, that left her with nothing. She decided to travel by ship to Connecticut to live with her aunt and uncle.When Kit arrives, she learns that things are very different in the Puritan settlement than she is used to. It is hard for her to become used to this way of life, but she manages because she is a strong and fiercely determined girl!Kit becomes friends with an old woman named Hannah, who has been ostracized by the Puritan community because she is a Quaker. The Puritans call her "The Witch of Blackbird Pond." Kit feels a sort of kinship with her and, even though she has been forbidden by her uncle, she visits Hannah as often as she can. The only other person to be brave enough to visit Hannah is Nat Eaton, a sailor who brings goods to Hannah whenever he returns to the settlement. Hannah found Nat in the meadow by her house when he was a young boy in the same manner that she found Kit: sobbing! Just as she had done with Kit, she had invited Nat back to her home for some blueberry cake and to cuddle her cats. The kindly woman was, and continues to be, such a comfort to him!In the meadow by Blackbird Pond, Kit finds a young girl named Prudence. Just as Hannah had done to her, Kit invites Prudence back to Hannah's house explaining that it is a safe and loving place for her to visit. Kit was taught by her grandfather to read, although it was practically unheard of at that time for a girl to have learned this important skill. She taught Prudence not only how to read but also to write in cursive.When sickness befalls the community and the children start dying, the residents decide that the Witch must be to blame! Kit risks everything to get to Hannah's house before the mob, and she and Hannah hide in the bushes watching while the mob burns down her house and searches for her. Luckily, Nat's boat returns the following morning and he takes Hannah aboard and brings her to live with his aunt in a town where she will be safe.Although Hannah escaped safely, Kit was arrested for helping and consorting with a witch and was accused of even being a witch herself! Who will come to Kit's defense?We loved this book! Kit is a fabulous character. She faces adversity with such admirable strength. This is our second book by Speare (we previously read The Sign of the Beaver), and we love that Speare's protagonists are non-judgmental and have acceptance of those who are different.This book also inspired a lot of discussion about Puritans, Quakers, and the Salem Witch trials.MY RATING: 5 stars!! We loved it!! Highly recommended!
5 This story is about kindness, overcoming fear and dealing with predjudice based on ignorance.  It is about doing the right thing, realizing there are consequences.  Very well written and good story line development.
5 My 7th grader really enjoyed this can  th  study that went along  with it.  I also enjoyed the quick read myself & can connect with my daughter.
5 Moving writing telling an old story of early American history that continues on today in literal and figurative witch hunts.
4 I've avoided this book, thinking it was a rehash of stories about women accused of being witches during the early days of America. It was about women accused of being witches, but it was really about so much more. Kit impulsively hops on a ship to America after the death of her grandfather, leaving behind the beautiful tropical islands where she was so freely raised. She goes to find a home with her only remaining relatives, her mother's sister and her family. Kit's aunt, she learns, has been worn down by life in America and by her marriage to a Puritan man. But these characters are not stiff stereotypes; the harshly Puritan uncle loves American freedom, not the English king; the dangerous witch the community fears is really a quiet, lonely Quaker woman; the man who loves Kit fails to step forward to help her when Kit is in trouble. An excellent, thoughtful story of how being different can both threaten a society and build a society.
5 My children had to read this in High School. I usually read the books they were reading so I don't know why I didn't read this one. I really enjoyed it.
5 Wonderful read.  A good look into the puritan world.  So glad I didn't live in those times!!  Alot to think about.
5 "The Witch Of Blackbird Pond"Written by Elizabeth George Speare(1958)An excellent historical novel set in late 17th-Century New England. When a headstrong young English girl goes to live with distant relatives in colonial Connecticut, she finds the austere Puritan culture stifling and bizarre. But when her friendship of an old woman, outcast as a Quaker heretic, draws the ire of small-minded locals, she falls prey to the hysteria and mob-driven danger of the witch hunts of the era. A powerful narrative that conveys the chilling violent emotions of a lynch mob, though seen here through the eyes of a white character -- a good book to read aloud, and even better to discuss for its nuanced view of religious piety, intolerance and the ugly side of conformity. (Joe Sixpack, ReadThatAgain childrens' book reviews)
5 This is a story about a young lady who was raised in Barbados and has to relocate to the harsh, strictly Puritan society in Connecticut in the 1600's. I first read this book when I was 14 years old and it still pulls me into Kitt's life as if I had never read it before.
4 Kid's classic, an enjoyable read about Puritan New England that isn't especially historically dense, but does bring the period to life
5 Elizabeth George Speare managed to make one of the drier, duller eras of American history come alive through the eyes of an independent young woman. "Witch of Blackbird Pond" is one of the better historical novels, and one that adults and kids alike can appreciate.Kit Tyler has lived a free and luxurious life in Barbados, with her kindly grandfather. When he dies, however, she finds herself essentially penniless and forced to head to New England to live with her aunt and her family. But Connecticut is very different from the sunny island the "tropical bird" left behind: Bleak, muddy, dreary, and filled with grim Puritans -- including her relatives. Her stern uncle disapproves of Kit's upbringing, her love of books, her flamboyant clothing, and her lack of experience in housework.Kit tries to fit in with the proud, beautiful Judith and quiet crippled Mercy, but she isn't a Puritan and it shows. Her only friend is the sardonic sailer Nat, who alternately irritates and interests her. Then Kit encounters Hannah, a sweet old Quaker woman who lives as an outcast because of her religious beliefs. When rumors of witchcraft start flying, Kit must try to save first Hannah -- and then herself -- from the witch hunters.Without actually time-travelling, nobody can know what it would be like to live among the Puritans. But Speare gives us an approximation -- Kit is smart, witty, tolerant, adventurous and serves as a doormat for no one. She's much closer to a modern teenage girl than to the Puritans, and so her conflicts with her unyielding uncle are very illustrative. Among these are the dislike of non-religious reading, insistence on continuous hard work with only a few interludes of fun, and one memorable scene where Kit tries to give her cousins some of her beautiful clothes -- only to have her uncle explode when he sees them. We also see some demonstrations of how often religious intolerance blinded these people to a person's true nature, giving them a scapegoat for their fear of the unknown. However, it is stressed that while the Puritans were intolerant and rigid, individuals were good underneath it -- such as when Kit's uncle defends her against the witch-hunters.There's a little romance in this book, including a love pentagon worthy of Shakespeare (fortunately matters sort themselves out), and this is one area where Speare stumbles. The love tangles seem a little too contrived. However, she includes a fair number of details on life in New England at that time, but never becomes too engrossed in them that she loses track of the plot. The pace is fairly slow until the witch trials; younger kids may be bored by this, but older ones will not mind so much.Kit is a great heroine -- flawed but always sympathetic, funny and strong, brave and intelligent. Fortunately Speare never falls into the trap of simply transporting a modern girl back in time. Judith, Nat and Hannah are also great supporting characters: Nat is great as the sarcastic but supportive love interest. Hannah is a sweet old woman who is content to live a simple life. And Judith will earn both irritation and liking for her pride and determination. Characters like Mercy and the aunt and uncle are a little less three-dimensional; Mercy never rises from the cliche of the gentle, sweet disabled girl, and the aunt and uncle are a doormat and a tyrant most of the time, although the uncle does rise up with some good moments. Extra love interests William and John are also pretty flat: William is a bit like a brainless puppy panting at Kit's feet, and John is a humorless Biblical scholar. The little girl Prudence and her hideous mother are very good, however, and provide the book with a villain and a young friend for Kit.Don't be put off by the title of "Witch"--this is an insightful, well-written historical novel with an excellent heroine and a tense storyline. One of the few books that deserved its Newbery.
5 Got this for my 12 year old granddaughter and  read it myself ! Truly a wonderful tale, sure to delight any reader!
5 Last year, my teacher read it to the class. She said, &#34;The boys may not like it that much.&#34; (I go to a private school. So, there were 7 in my class.)But she was wrong, all 3 boys and 4 girls(including me) LOVED IT! I`m not into romance and stuff like that, but THIS WAS AWESOME!!!
5 I originally read this way back in jr. high and sadly only remember being entranced by it--not recalling any of the plot. I finally got around to the rereading and recalled why I had the original feeling of enchantment. This is one good book.Kit Tyler is a sixteen-year-old girl who leaves Barbados after her grandfather's death for the more austere world of Puritan New England to say with her aunt's family. But Kit is completely unprepared for the ways of these people. Even so, she manages to grow in unimaginable ways as she connects with people with whom she would have never seen herself.And it's not a simple moralistic book. It's a book about a girl coming of age. Unlike other books of the Puritans, there are no villains, just those who are different and it's amazing to see Kit come to understand that.The characters are entrancing and dimensional, the setting is described in an honest prose that only shows Speare's love of New England.It deserves its Newberry.
4 Kit comes over to the 13 colonies becuae her grandfather died. When she arrives, she finds a place very diffrent from her former home, Barbados. She is forced by her strict uncle to be a solemn as the puritans, and to set aside her silk gowns and wear homespun dresses. she feels completly stifled by her new life, and one day, after almost cuasing her crippled cousin her teaching job, she breaks. She runs to the "meadow" where she meets Hannah Tupper, a Quaker who is shuned and thought to be a witch by many. All she really is is a kind old lady. She takes kit home and feeds her, and helps her be brave and get her cousins job back. kit goes back to Hannahs house and eventually meets Hannahs seafaring friend, none other than Nat, the son of the man who brought her to America.And yes Nat was on the boat the whole time kit was. Then one day Kit is accused of being a witch. Something not to be taken lightly in the 1600's. She is rescued by none other than Nat. Then hannah is going to be burned out of her house, or if the people have their way, in her house. But Kit goes and helps Hannah get out before the evil people come, and she gets her on a ship... whose ship? Guess. Nats. And so Hannahs gone and Kits life is drudging on a usual.... and then someone comes... like you can't guess who... and something happens...
1 It's not worth one star but I must give it something to register my review.  So it is with reluctance that I give it one star.If you want to read a historical fiction book that gives our founders an UGLY and untrue stereotype, THIS is the book for you.  It is categorized as imaginary and it certainly is.  There is no truth to it and does NOT represent the times it writes about.  It is a pity that young people are being exposed to "historical fiction" like this.The Puritans were "strict" people but with loving hearts.  They worked hard and had high moral ideals. Their high standards were Bible based.  These two facts repulse people today.  The Puritans were also well educated people. In fact they had better educations than kids have today!  Puritans were "prejudiced" against sinful behavior as we should all be but we aren't in todays society.  The oppposite of this is what is endorsed in our society today.  Today what is right is wrong and what is wrong is right.  You'll get more of the endorsement of what is wrong is right thourgh reading this book.  In the near future, I expect authors like this to be writing about the "social justice" of Marxism and having kids and adults LOVE it!As an original source historian, it is clear that this author has no knowledge of the time she writes about and is giving kids and "adults" a false view of history.  The book is slow and often boring.  The plot is predictable once you realize that the author HATES any form of Christianity.  The author is adamant in getting across her lowly opinion of Quakers and Puritans.I am also not surprised the academic LEFT loved it and awarded it the Yearling Newberry - it helps trash America's beginnings and makes them out of be irrational extremists.  Unfortunately that is very much in vogue today.  So if you have an axe to grind with Christianity, specifically Puritans and Quakers, you'll love this book!  It will feed your hatred of those Christians.  It was very disappointing and definitely very BIASED with UGLY inaccurate sterotypes.Homeschoolers - pass on this.  It's a waste of time.  Yes, it's imaginary all right but using the ugliest of Christian sterotypes to try to keep your attention and hav eyou believe this is how it was in those times - WRONG!
5 This one book is my all time favorite book. I first received it when I was 14 and have read it over and over. I fall in love with it each and every time.
4 The Witch of Blackbird Pond centers around Kit Tyler, a 16-year-old Royalist from Barbados who journeys to Connecticut after her grandfather dies in 1687.  She is unprepared for the vast difference between her sumptuous, free life in Barbados and the puritanical economy of Connecticut.  From the beginning, she is obviously different-her clothing, her attitudes, her education, politics and religion.  She fears she will never fit in, and is not sure she wants to.  She befriends Hannah Tupper, against her uncle's wishes,  an old woman who lives isolated on Blackbird Pond because she is a Quaker, a reviled religion at the time, and suspected of being a witch.  The two isolated, "different" women create a small community that includes Nat, the son of the captain of the ship that transported Kit to New England, and Prudence, a neglected child Kit teaches to read.  After trying unsuccessfully to fit in for months without giving up her own identity, Kit finally manages to become part of her uncle's family when her cousins become ill and she has to take over caring for the sick and all of the household duties.  But the illness, which strikes many in the village, causes the suspicious and close-minded villagers to persecute the "witch" living on Blackbird Pond.  Kit risks her own life to save Hannah.  Despite her hard work and attempts to fit in, Kit is arrested and stands trial for being a witch.Kit's attempts to fit in while maintaining her independence are a very realistic adolescent experience.  Used to a very free lifestyle, Kit does not realize she is doing things that others find shocking or strange.  The first time she meets residents of her new home, she jumps into a river to save Prudence's doll.  Invigorated by her brief swim, her spirits are dampened by the reactions of the others in the boat.  Speare writes, "Shock and horror and unmistakable anger stared back at her" (9).  Her innocent attempt to return a little girl's doll is met with immediate suspicion.  Kit has no idea most people in New England cannot swim-she grew up swimming in the warm waters of the Caribbean.  Kit's failure to fit in while not even realizing that she is doing things wrong is true to adolescents today, as well as in 1687.  Teens feel isolated for so many reasons: they think they don't dress right, or they aren't accepted by the right clique, or they feel smarter or less smart than their classmates.Kit's main internal conflict centers on her desire to be independent while fitting in with the staunch Puritan society.  She knows that her family and the villagers would not approve of her friendship with Hannah Tupper, but sneaks away to meet Hannah and Prudence anytime she is free.  Kit asks Hannah, "What would happen if they found us out?" (173).  Hannah gives her no answer, she merely states, "I know that soon thee would begin to consider that" (173).  It is up to Kit to reconcile disobeying her family's implied order to stay away from Hannah with her desire to continue her friendship with Hannah, Prudence, and Nat.  Kit's conscience wins out-she rescues Hannah from the mob at great risk to herself.  She tells her uncle, "She's just a poor helpless old woman!" before she sneaks out to assist her (184).  In helping Hannah, Kit resolves her internal conflict between being accepted and being true to herself.  She chooses to be true to herself.
5 This historical fiction captures the hearts of all readers.  It is the story of a young girl raised in Barbados struggling to fit in with the Americans of the 1600's.  When Kit arrives in America she is like a tropical bird trying to mix with pidgeons.  She is looked upon with suspicion because she can swim and read.  As Kit's strong personality becomes clear to the reader, one grows to love her and applaud her actions.  Elizabeth George Speare created a character who demands ones respect and a book that earns it.  It's a good read, enjoy it!
5 Awarded the Newbery Medal and named an ALA Notable Children's Book, "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" is obviously an award winner.  Another sure to be award winner is film and television actress Mary Beth Hurt who presents an exemplary reading of this story of a courageous young girl facing down the prejudices of Puritan New England.An orphan, Kit Tyler has a sense of foreboding as she views the unforgiving shores of Connecticut Colony where she will make her new home.  She does have physical shelter but she is very much alone, yearning for the Caribbean Islands where she once lived.Kit finds release in the meadows where she befriends and is befriended by an old Quaker woman known as the Witch of Blackbird Pond.However, Kit's amity with the woman stirs a cauldron of suspicion and recrimination - Kit is accused of witchcraft.This is a well told tale that documents a sad portion of our history.- Gail Cooke
5 Read this years ago and found it on amazon.  So happy to have this on my kindle. One book you sort of never forget.
5 Have read this book since I was in high school & i go back and read it again & again
5 I first read this book when I was in middle school. I've read it many times since then and still enjoy it. I was enchanted with Kit's world, as harsh as it was and in my early adolescents imagined myself friends with Kit and Mercy and fell in love with sweet Hannah Tupper like a grandmother.
5 I enjoyed this book so much.  It is refreshing to read a book about Christians without all the dirty words.  I want to read more of Elizabeth George books.
5 I read this book first when I was in junior high. It was when I was obsessed with witches and this was my first &#34;romance&#34; novel.  I loved it then and when I saw it for Kindle I got it as a stab from the past.  It was terrific to re-read and remember the thrill I felt as a young teen reading this.  I love this book.
5 This is the book that made me fall in love with reading! I was a child that had a hearing problem growing up. This made school work very hard for me. I was not popular, and had to work very hard to just make a passing grade. I was in the 6th grade when my teacher had us read this for school. This was when things changed for me. I identified with Kit. My teacher would scold me for reading ahead because I would be ahead of the rest of the class; but it didn't stop me. This book was the beginning of my education. Through it, I realized that I could do anything. I could face hardships, love is a very powerful thing.It's a child's book. Easy to read, but the characters are so well written. Every one of my niece's received a copy to read the summer before they started 6th grade. I wanted to give them the power to know that they are strong, loved, and can do anything with their lives. I encourage you to read it with your kids. I read again every once in a while when I need a little inspiration, it's easy, and doesn't take long, but it encourages me.
5 This book was so good! My daughter and I did a literature unit on this book for school.  I love the Author , we also got The Bronze Bow and will read that next. She captured this era so well and developed the characters beautifully. I highly recommend this book.
5 Very interesting story that explores how people can unjustly judge someone just by not taking time to know them. Fear or misguided intentions cause harm and hurt.
4 My son and I recently read this book for his Sonlight 3 curriculum.  Sonlight intended for me to read this book aloud to him but with four other children I have opted for him to listen to the Audio book while I read the book at night when I have free time.  First of all let me say that audio books are FANTASTIC.  The book comes alive when read in a nice British accent and with the proper cadence.  Half way through this book I couldn't put it down!  Great book!
3 This is a nice, enjoyable story that will leave you smiling and a little bit more informed about history, as well.Author, Spear, does a good job of weaving historical information into her novel, without making it feel stuffy or unfamiliar. The characters are interesting and fun to read about and you find yourself looking forward to the next time you can pick up this book and enter their world again!It is slightly too predictible, but that didn't really make much of a difference to me, because I didn't read it for shock value.If you are looking for a lovely, tidy little book that will not offend anyone, I high recommend The Witch of Blackbird Pond.
5 Don't let 249 pages scare you because once you have read past the first few the book's length won't matter:  You'll not stop for anything!  Suspense will grow to the unbearable, filling you with emotions: anger, love, sadness, fear, and relief.  The old woman, Widow Tupper, was said to be a witch, but she has mysteriously disappeared.  And strong rumor has it that sixteen-year-old Kit has taken her place as a witch.  And what happens to witches?  The suspense keeps building until you find out.The Creative Teacher: Activities for Language Arts (Grades 4 through 8 and Up)
3 It would have been way better if the author had not focused so much time on their Loving and romance..... Parts of it were fun it was just over done, and left me wanting more story.
5 Elizabeth George Speare "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" Set in the time period just before the Revolutionary War. late 1600's.I have loved this book from the first time I opened it. The story is heartwarming and leaves the reader satisfied. It offers intrigue, romance and some unexpected twists. It's well written and the plot definitely held my attention. The characters were well developed and believable. One of my favorite books. I enjoy reading this book every few years. Highly recommended!!
5 This historical novel was just what I like.  Adventure, suspense..couldn't wait to see what happened next.  I would highly recommend this book to any fan of historical novels.
5 This book has it all!  It is a GREAT book for all readers.  Set in colonial times, 1687, to be exact, Katherine (Kit) Tyler is the heroine and one of my favorites of all time!  When the story opens, Kit's grandfather has just died and she must leave her sunny home in the Caribbean to go live in the Puritan colony of Connecticut.  Like a tropical bird that has flown to the wrong shore, Kit has trouble fitting in, though she quickly attracts the attention of the entire town with her bright silk dresses, her unusual ability to swim, and her headstrong personality.  Rich, young William immediately falls for her but Kit wonders if they are meant to be together.  Meanwhile, her cousin Julia is outraged with jealousy.  She and Uncle Matthew make Kit's new wooden home seem even colder.  Her loneliness and misery ultimately leads her to meet and befriend Widow Tupper, the Witch of Blackbird Pond.  The days she spends with Widow Tupper and Nat, a sailor whom she met on her journey to Connecticut, are the ones she enjoys most.  But her Aunt Rachel tells her to stay away from Widow Tupper because she's a Quaker and the whole town considers her a witch.  Kit ignores the warnings and continues to visit her anyway.  But quickly, she too is regarded as a witch. Kit goes to trial facing an angry town with no one to speak for her.  Or is she not as alone as she thinks?
4 Kit Tyler was once a rich girl of Barbados, but upon her grandfather's death, she finds out that she now is poor. She goes aboard the ship, the Dolphin, heading for Connecticut Colony, and wishes to live a better life at her aunt's house. While on the way, she becomes friends with the captain's son, Nat Eaton, John Holbrook, a man planning on becoming a minister, and Prudence, a little girl. When she finally arrives at her destination, she tries to fit in with the Puritans, and  to keep up with her lively cousin, Judith, and her gentle one, Mercy. After a number of different accidents in the family and outside, she finds becomes friends with an old Quaker woman named Hannah, that lives at Blackbird Pond, who is said to be a witch. Kit does not believe this, and she keeps on being friends with the old woman. But, the villagers see Kit as a threat to the community, since they do not trust her as being a friend to their witch, and she goes on trial. Just as she thinks she is doomed, Nat Eaton and Prudence save her. However, Kit discovers that she will never fit in with the Puritans, and planned on going on the Dolphin the next time the ship came. Finally, the ship docks, and she goes on it, for what seems to be a much better future.My favorite part of the book was where Kit goes on trial. I thought of this at my favorite part for I think it is very interesting to hear how other people act to problems and try to blame it on someone else. I think it is very funny how people think of small problems and turn them into what sounds like a major disasters performed by a witch. I like the part where Prudence comes in, and stuns her own parents by doing what they had never thought she would be able to do, which was reading the Bible and writing her own name. I think it is not right when parents think very little about kids and think they are still their little babies that always need their parents to help them.I recommend this book to kids the ages of 10 and up. I also recommend adults to read this book and learn the facts of how kids can do things without any help from their parents or any one else. I believe Elizabeth George Speare is a great author who has written many books that I have enjoyed. After reading this book, I came to really enjoy it. At first I thought it was very boring, but in the end, it became more interesting and fun. I also learned not to judge anyone by what people say about them, but you should always think about your judgement before actually thinking about if it is true or not. I now understand the meaning of "Never judge a book by its cover."
4 The Witch of Blackbird Pond is a good book.  It is about the early American settlers, the Puritans and their witch trials.  Kit has recently moved to America from a Barbadoes after her father's death.  What she finds there are strict religious rules, pious settlers, and bad fashion.  But she takes refuge in the company of Hannah, who is called evil because she is a Quaker.  When Hannah is acused of casting sickness on the town and escapes, the town acuses Kit.  In the end, Kit must learn to change her attitude and the town must learn to conquer religious differences.
5 I can see how not all kids would appreciate this book, especially when it is forced upon them in 4th and 5th grade, but if they come to this book willingly on their own time I believe they will cherish it. This is a classic historical novel in the time of Puritans and witch hunts, and is about one girl's struggle to fit in. There is also a sweet romance intertwined, which is another reason not to force it on kids too young, when most are still in their "cooties" phase. I will be recommending this book to fans of Anne of Green Gables, Little Women, The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle, and other classics.
5 This book is an old story written quite a while ago but still considered a gem.  It is a story about prejudices that existed in our past that we over came  in our success to be come a free nation.  Although fictional it is a wonderful story of our past.  I highly recommend it to any reader!
4 I remember seeing this book title in the YA section of the library when I was young, though I didn't read it at that time.  I now teach Early American Literature, and I really appreciate these books that give my students a sense of place.  We've been using Kathleen Kent's The Heretic's Daughter, but The Witch of Blackbird Pond tells just about the same story with more accessible content.  It's certainly just as appropriate for adults as for young people.The story moves at a quick pace and gives a realistic sense of setting.  It covers themes from the time period such as religious intolerance, hypocrisy, the slave debate, fear of outsiders.I highly recommend this reading for anyone interested in late 1600s Early America.  Read it on your way to visit historic Salem, Mass.
5 This has been one of my favorite books since I read it for the first time in fourth grade.  I take something different from it each time I read it.  This time through I was struck by the rigidness of the rules the Puritans lived by.  Recently I have read a number of books set in Amish communities and noticed their adherence to rules for interaction and the amount of power the church leaders hold over their whole community.  In the past month I also watched all five seasons of the HBO series Big Love.  The sect of Mormons the family belonged to that believed in polygamy had their rule structure as the did the greater Mormon church who denounced them and went out of their way to make life difficult for those living in plural marriage.  What struck me about these three different books and settings was how strictly held the religious beliefs were and how much people were expected to blindly follow the rules set in place for them.  How free can a society be if they have no control over their own beliefs and dreams, but have to stay inside of prescribed boxes and obey guidelines put upon them?Kit grew up in Barbados with her grandfather, after the death of her parents.  She learned how to read by reading fiction and works of literature with him, learned to swim in the sparkling water and took for granted that there would always be someone there to take care of her and spare her from chores and drudgery.  Upon her grandfather's death she boards a ship to go to Connecticut to her mother's sister.  A woman she has only come to know through letters, but never actually met.  Kit is out of place in New England, with her brightly colored dresses and carefree attitude.  She shocks people with her ability to swim and feels so alone and out of place until she meets a widow who lives alone.  Hannah Tupper is a Quaker that the townspeople distrust and many talk about her being a witch.  But Kit sees her for who she is, a lonely woman whose husband has passed away and becomes her friend.Kit also befriends a little girl she met on the ship that brought her to the small town.  Prudence rarely gets enough to eat and lacks affectation and education, as her mother believes that she is not smart enough to learn.  Kit takes it upon herself to teach the girl and introduces her to Hannah as well.Being different marks Kit and her lack of understanding of the rules governing interactions and chores leads to her falling into grave danger.  How many times do we look at those who are different and wonder why they can't just adapt or fit in?  How many people gossip or think ill of neighbors or new classmates who don't seem to understand how to go about being  a part of a group?  If we could find a way to meet without the hurt feelings or assumptions so many moments of anger could be averted.  What about if we took this to a global level?  Just because a group of people does things differently does not mean that they are doing it wrong. If we took the time to really listen and the time to rally try to understand things could go so much more smoothly for everyone.
5 Books don't come much better than this. Elizabeth George Speare does a great job of making history come alive, and Kit Tyler is a fascinating heroine- imperfect yet trying to keep her spirits alive in a strange, unpleasant, and foreign world. Young teenagers may not grasp the complexities of Kit Tyler and her newfound family, but anyone who has felt like they don't fit in will appreciate this great book.
5 Witch of blackbird pond has always been my favorite book. I loaned it out a couple of years ago and never got it back, so having it on my kindle now is reassuring that I'll always have it! This book will turn a non-reader into a reader and as a writer, this is one of the books that inspired me to keep writing. The content is well crafted, the characters are love able and err human, and the story itself is breathtaking .
5 I read this story when I was a young girl, sitting high in a willow tree in my backyard. Juicy apple in hand I fell in love with the characters, the setting, everything. That was when I knew I wanted to be a writer and I now am. The things Kit goes through are real and present for today and I would highly recommend it for today's children and adults.
5 Katharine Tyler had no idea what waited for her when she arrived at Wethersfield, a Puritan settlement on the coast of New England.  Raised in Barbados, her free-spiritedness and impulsive behavior was feared and scorned by the local townspeople. The fact that she was different from them made the people uneasy... Her ability to swim basically cast her lot with the witches, since &quot;only the guilty ones stay afloat&quot;. Her friendship with the local Quaker pariah didn't help her situation. Misunderstood and unloved, she finds solace in the Blackbird Pond that strangely calls to her. Thus begins Kit's journey of friendship, romance and even persecution in the strange new place that was her new home. And through it all, finding ways to stay true to herself.The Witch of Blackbird Pond is an oldie but a goodie... even after all these years, this book is still read by young adults everywhere. Well written and thoroughly entrancing, the story appeals to all ages. The plot contains not only a story of a girl's coming of age, but also the difficult social issues such as prejudice and discrimination. And the history of New England witch hunting, all placed with the backdrop of Connecticut's budding discontentment with the British crown rule. With wonderful characters like Hannah Tupper, Prudence Cruff, Matthew Wood and Nat Eaton, this book is hard to put down! The Witch of Blackbird Pond is still good for me now, as it was in 5th grade.
3 Having just finished reading The Witch of Blackbird Pond, I was pleased with the author's ability to make readers sympathetic to her main characters. The book is a real page turner in spite of being somewhat predictable. It was full of fascinating historical information on pre-Revolutionary America's political and religous climate. I really enjoyed it and am glad I read it.
5 I first read this book over 50 years ago as a young girl.  It stayed with me long after.  I bought a copy some time ago and wore it out.  Bought another copy and now will buy the Kindle copy to make sure I don't wear this one out!There is something about the characters that become so important to you.  They are true to their time, yet timeless in their appeal.  It doesn't matter whether you are young or old, you will relate to the people and find their story one that you can't put down and will never forget.
5 Kit Tyler orphaned left to sail to the Connecticut colony leaving her beautiful Caribbean estate behind (1687). Now losing everything she is forced to work on a farm with her aunt who she never met before and &#8220;living it rough&#8221; by doing chores instead of having slaves do it for her. All she&#8217;s done since she went to Connecticut is mess up, now she is determined to make up for her mistakes. Now she&#8217;s had enough so she run&#8217;s until she gets to a field, where she meets the witch  of Blackbird pond how will she react? The author held great suspense through the entire book not giving any hints, i was clueless almost the whole time. It was a very descriptive and detailed novel, i feel like i was going through the same things Kit was.Everything seemed well research and fit for the sixteen hundreds in the colony&#8217;s. Finally I loved how the story was so compelling I couldn&#8217;t put it down! Grades 5-8
4 I was looking through my little sister personal 'library' a few weeks ago when I came across this book.  I faintly remembered having heard something about it when I was in fourth grade, so I decided to read it.  The Witch of Blackbird Pond isn't hard at all to read (as long as you know your 'thees' and 'thous'), but it is still an excellant book.  It tells of a story of a young girl from the Indies that was forced to come to New England to begin another life.  As one might expect, she's not all that welcomed by her Puritan relatives.  She struggles to fit in for a year, but nothing seems to work.  I don't want to give anything away, but I really liked the way that this story was written because it sends an important message to the reader--You can't always get what you want.  Nevertheless, it's a wonderful, short story, and I think that just about anyone would like it.
5 A really good book. If you like fiction this is the perfect book for you! An awesome book! You must get it! I loved it!
4 Kit Tyler--recently orphaned by her beloved grandfather--moves from the hot, wild life of Barbados to the cold, morally rigid New England. Because Kit's free spirit and love of life separates her from her family and the other townspeople, she quickly befriends another outsider, the "witch" of the title. A lovely, well-written blend colonial historical fiction and parlor-room romances. Grade: B+
5 My daughter got this book as part of her summer reading. She's almost done with it already! Great book! Great price!
5 Was a good book moved very quickly  too bad there wasn't a little more to the end as if they stayed on the boat or had a home in the little town or did they have a house in both towns?
4 I remember that this book was assigned reading in a lot of schools, but I never had to read it for any of my classes. Now I wish that it had been required reading for it would've been one of those rare books that I actually enjoyed. That would've been an awesome book report! This book is good for anyone of any age, which makes it even more enjoyable.I loved the characters and setting. That Kit is definitely a strong girl. Certainly one of a kind for that area and place. The  plot itself was believable and left you wondering what was going to happen with every turn of the page. I'll probably read this one again in the future.
5 Masterfully written this story should absolutely be a must read for all 4th or 5th grade girls.  I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good tale.  The historical nature of this book makes a true gem .
5 This book is a classic for a reason. I enjoy it as much now, as an adult, as I did when I first read it as a child. Great characters and themes, and the author captures the setting and time period so well.
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond is set in Connecticut in the late 1600s.  It tells the story of Kit Tyler, a 16-year-old girl who sails from Barbados to Connecticut after her grandfather passes away.  Kit travels to Connecticut to live with her aunt and her aunt's family, none of who have met her and who do not know that she is coming.  Connecticut was a Puritan community struggling for independence from England at this time and the culture shock is difficult for Kit, who grew up affluent and independent.  The townspeople are not very welcoming to her and some believe to fear that she is a witch because she is different from them.  Kit's troubles get worse when she becomes friends with an old Quaker woman people called the Witch of Blackbird Pond.I would recommend this book for ages 10 and up.  Most children have felt like they didn't fit in at some point and will be able to relate to Kit.  This book teaches children about tolerance, acceptance, and not being judgmental.  I would use this book in a school setting as part of a social studies curriculum.  It is appropriate for discussions about witch trials, Puritan history, and Connecticut history.  I would also recommend this book for pleasure reading.
5 I read this book years ago, but I can still rememeber that I liked it. Is the ultimate book if you have any such interest in the 17th century (which  I don't) and witches (which I do). It's depressing at times, stark, and a  little dull when nothing it going on, but nothing's perfect. But it truly  does get good. BOTTOM LINE: Worth reading.
5 This book is simply wonderful!  I once suggested that Hallmark Hall of Fame make a movie out of it.  It is great for anyone who wants to learn something about early New England and the witch trials.  It interested me that this was not set in Salem, Mass. but in Wethersfield Conn.  I would definitely like to learn more about the Deerfield raid, mentioned at the end of the book.  Please make a movie of this soon and Lois Lowry's The Giver too!
4 The book has its good times and a couple boring times but is still a good book, even though I don't really like historical fiction books. It is about a girl named Kit who has to move from cheerful Barbados to dull New England. She feels left out and lonely until she meets a quaker lady. She ends up being accused of a witch but a friend named Nat helps her out of it, with many good details along the way!
5 This was one of the first books I ever really loved. I wanted to sail away with Nat when I was younger.
4 This is a very good, short period piece about early colonization and the build up to the American revolution. It's a cute story, but nothing too terribly thrilling happens
4 I remember reading this book as a teen and for years I tried finding it again but couldn't remember the name. Then thanks to the kindle it showed up after I finished a book and I read the short description and knew I found one of my favorite books from my teens.  This book had made such an impression on me I longed to read it again and it did not disappoint. The main character of Kit was lovely. She was strong, open-minded, and independent especially for a girl in this time period. This was just a wonderful read I'm so glad I found it again after 20 years.
5 5 stars I loved it! But I wish there was more of an epilogue. But a l in all it was really great!
5 I used this book with a sixth grade class of poorly motivated readers in 1995.  It is not an easy book but even the kids who were poor readers could not put it down.  I gave up trying to get the students to not read ahead, and let them just run with it!  We just had to modify classroom discussions and lessons.  I loved the book as well!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed The Witch of Blackbird Pond. I love to read and historical novels are so interesting. I have also been reading The Captain's Wife which is also a sea tale. Appropriate for living in Maine on the water....I think tweens to adults would enjoy this easy to read book.
2 "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" is poorly advertised. If you're expecting a novel filled with accounts of the Salem Witch Trials, like I thought, you're wrong. It is not until almost 200 pages into the book will the subject be touched upon, and then gingerly dropped. Much of the writing is fillers and dribble; this book could have been 100 pages shorter. I didn't care for any of the characters, and all of them were typecast. The angry, strict Uncle, the caring, soft-spoken Aunt, two cousins - one being the flirt and one being sweet. And, of course, the outcast niece. I was very disappointed, as I had my sights set on a captivating Salem Witch Trial book. The title is very misleading. I do not recommend.
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond is Elizabeth George Speare's (1908-1994) second novel. It won the Newbery Medal with full votes in 1959, one year after its publication. Similarly to her previous "Calico Captive", Elizabeth George Speare draws her inspiration for this historical novel for young adults from real events. In "Calico Captive" it was Susanna Johnson's captivity, while in "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" episodes of witch hunting, that had taken place in the Author's hometown of Wethersfiled, Connecticut in 1648 and 1650-51, are the basis for a breathtaking story .It is 1687, year of fighting of the Connecticut colonies to preserve their Charter menaced by the English, when young Kit Tyler, after the death of her grandfather in Barbados, decides to go live with her only relatives in Wethersfiled Connecticut, one of the many settlements on the Connecticut River. At her arrival  in her new home she finds a colony of Pilgrims of strict confession which reluctantly accept her as long as she "behaves" according to their unwavering rules. Her adoptive family is sincere, but mentally and emotionally closed, except maybe for her cousin Mercy, physically handicapped. Slowly Kit adapts to her new environment, but she cannot renounce her true character, her curiosity, her need of culture and spontaneous affection. She befriends a forlorn and neglected child, Prudence and an old and estranged Quaker woman, Hannah Tupper, two outcasts of society, and because of  her sincere affection and care is accused of witchcraft. Through hardships and real dangers and the help of true friends she finally finds out who she is and what she wants.Three intermingling love stories make the plot even more captivating and the book is hard to put down once started. All the characters are lifelike and perfectly described and unforgettable, from cousin Mercy (modelled on Elizabeth George Speare's real aunt who was physically disabled), to Nat Eaton, the nicest, most sarcastic and challenging young man encountered in young adult literature, to Prudence the unpromising child who turns out to be Kit's most successful pupil and ultimate saviour.I learned many years after having read the novel in 1967 that this book is today used as a text in English classes in elementary and middle school. Surely it contains many elements to dwell upon and it is hard to forget that Elizabeth George Speare was a teacher particularly dedicated to the study of childhood in the early days of American history. The historical setting of the novel is absolutely perfect with real characters such as Sir Edmond Andros and the royalist Rev. Gersholm Bulkeley that play the role they had in history. The detailed historical research behind the book is also evident from many elements: the pointing out of religious differences, the anti-Quaker bigotry, the psychological explanation based on ignorance of the fear of witchcraft, the difficulty of living in a Pilgrim entourage for a person with sound Faith but educated according to different models.Elizabeth George Speare's knowledge of adolescent problems is evident as well in the way she conveys the sense of feeling a stranger in a different world and in the attempt to fit in while maintaining independence. Another very New Englandish emotion one gets from the book is the beauty of the changing of seasons from the glory of autumn, to the first snow that can be understood only by people who have lived there.After so many years, I ask myself how much influence can a writer have on children. Elizabeth George Speare had an enormous influence on me in particular, but I think she did on many through the development of an instinct of independence and especially of compassion and acceptance. I want to remember that in the acceptance speech for the Newbery Medal for "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" she said.. "I do not believe a historical novel should gloss over the pains and the ugliness. But I do believe that the hero .. should on the last page.. still be standing, with the strength to go to whatever the future may hold."Another small notation, the Author makes a recall to the poetry of  Anne Bradstreet (1612-1672), the first woman poet of American literature, for a long time ignored and forgotten by many and only recently rediscovered in her actuality. Mrs. Speare's citation of her shows us not only her culture and knowledge of early American history but also stimulates the reading of these beautiful poems that immerge us into the atmosphere of "The Witch of Blackbird Pond".
5 "Awaiting her in the bleak dwelling that was her new home were suspicion and loneliness. The master of the house despised everything about her. The man, who claimed he loved her, abandoned her to the circle of terror. And there was nowhere to turn, no one to help, no way to escape the evil claiming her as a victim...." Sounds good doesn't it. This book is about a girl, Kit, who leaves the only home she has known and travels to Connecticut in 1687. Kit grew up in Barbados and was raised by her indulgent grandfather. When he dies, she moves in with an aunt and uncle she has never met. Everything about Kit stands out, from her clothes to her opinions. She is forced to work hard for the first time in her life. She is practically friendless until she meets Hannah. However their friendship must remain a secret because the town believes Hannah to be a witch. Elizabeth George Speare does a remarkable job in describing early life in the colonies and relaying the loneliness of Kit. You can't help feeling sorry for her. This book is a Newbery Award Winner and definitely a To Read. If you like what you read visit by blog for other reviews:  [...]
5 A position many could find themselves involved in, at any time in our  lives. A story for all times, The author does a nice job keeping the story moving and tugs at your heart.
4 I enjoyed this book from cover to cover very unexpected events were easily written; the ending was unexpected for me but good.
5 It's April of 1687 when Kit Tyler steps on shore in Connecticut.  Having recently lost her grandfather, she's come to the colonies to live with her uncle and aunt.  But her new town is completely different from her old life in Barbados.  Not only does she have to do the chores she used to have servants do, but her Puritan relatives are much stricter then her previous upbringing has taught her to be.But her life isn't all bad.  There is the interest William, the most eligible bachelor in town, has shown in her.  And there's the refuge she's managed to find in Hannah, the town outcast suspected of being a witch.  But will she ever truly adjust to her new life?I found this book in Jr. High, and have read it four or five times since then.  I recently reread it again, and was completely drawn into the story.  I couldn't put it down, and I already knew how it ended.  The characters are sympathetic and interesting, especially Kit.  You can help but root for her to find some happiness in her new life.  The plot is engrossing, with several sub-plots expertly woven through the book.  And the time and place of the setting is brought to life in such an amazing way it feels like you are actually in the town of Wethersfield.This book is so engrossing that anyone will love it.  And the theme about judging others will stick with you long after you've read the last page.  I can not recommend this book highly enough.  Ms. Speare is an excellent author.
5 Just like the story says to me, don't judge people. So, don't judge this story by its title. It's not really about a witch, its about people & how easily people can simply make superficial judgements of others. The main character is displaced from her home & has to start a life in the colonies & thus hangs a tale. There is also some Jane Austin storytelling going on which doesn't feel out of place at all. Although this book may be aimed at young readers, I found it simply wonderful. Not to be missed & one that can easily be read over & over again.
4 I was surprise with the direction  the book developed. I enjoyed it very much. It was a great light read and I recommended it to  my grand daughters.
5 Very good book.  First time I have read this book. I liked it very much. Good story.kept you guessing and not able to put it down.  Now ready to read the next one.
5 16 year old Katherine (Kit) has just made a weary journey from Barbados to New England by ship. She has almost been accused of being a witch, for normal girls do not know how to swim. Her first impression of America isn't too grand; dreary, cold, and wet. She misses her Grandfather and the warm shores of Barbados. When Kit reaches her relative's home, her mood is just dampened. Uncle Mathew is a strict Puritan, and he won't accept any of the fineries that Kit has brought along. Uncle Mathew's wife, Aunt Rachel, is a bit kinder. Rachel's two daughters, Mercy and Judith, are quite different. Mercy is a sweet, loving girl who is lame in one leg, and Judith is a snappy, yet beautiful girl (who sometimes became quite jealous of Kit.) Kit is homesick, and to get her mind off of things she helps Mercy run a dame school. All is fine until one mishap, and Kit runs off into the woods where she meets the "witch." Hannah, an old Quaker woman, is rumored to be a witch. All of the Puritans fear her, and she and her husband had to stay in prison for an x amount of years in Massachusetts for being Quakers. However, Hannah is a sweet old woman, and Kit becomes fast friends with her. Many characters come along in the story, and the plot thickens. You are permissed to meet the love-struck William, John, and the unexplainable Nat, who baffles Kit. I thought this book was excellent, and I feel that this is a classic!
5 I first read this book when I was very young.  I have read it again and again over the years,never getting tired of the story.  This is a great book for parents to get for their young girls.It has romance, adventure, a good feel of the time period in which it takes place.  It really isa good book for any age!  I still love the story, and I am pushing 60!
5 I read this book as a young girl, I loved it then and totally adore it now. Can't wait to share with my young ones. It is a sweet period piece. I recommend this for all.
4 The Witch of Blackbird Pond is an historical novel that pits the Puritan beliefs against the Quaker beliefs using the character of Kit, an orphaned girl who moves from Barbados to Connecticut.  Kit, having been brought up in a less Calvinist environment is met head-on with the stringent practices of her extended family - the Puritans.  Within this scope Kit sees romances develop and witch hunting ensue.  Speare has told an exciting story of times gone by.  It is sufficient to raise the reader's ire and find comparison to some practices in place today.
5 I HAVE READ THIS BOOK 4 TIMES AND EVERY TIME I READ IT I FALL IN LOVE WITH IT ALL OVER AGAIN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:)&lt;3
5 This was one of the first books I read as a young girl all the way through just for the joy of it. I'm so glad that reading it again as a grandmother the story is still wonderful.
4 I read this book first as a 4th grader (I'm now 32) and thought it was a bit slow.  I read it again a few years later and really enjoyed it.  It has remained a sentimental favorite of mine all these years.  I did want to respond to Annie's review below.  I understand she may be a young girl who is somewhat possessive of her home state's claim to witch hunt fame, but witch hysteria took over all of New England at that time.  Here is an excerpt from a website dealing with the history of Stamford, CT and surrounding areas:"The early codes of New England made witchcraft a capital offense. Religious and English precedents were considered as sufficient authority. Connecticut passed a law in 1642 which stated that "If any man or woman be a witch-that is, hath or consulteth with a familiar spirit-they shall be put to death." In New Haven Colony the law declared that "If any person be a witch, he or she shall be put to death, according to Exod. 22.18, Levit.20.27, Deut.18.10,11."Prior to the 1692 delusion numerous trials for witchcraft in Connecticut were held-at Windsor (1647), Wethersfield (1648, 1650-51), Stratford (1651), Fairfield (1653), New Haven (1655, 1657), Easthampton (1658), and Saybrook (1661). Ten persons were accused and placed under arrest in 1662 and four were tried, convicted and executed. The victims were the last individuals to suffer the death penalty for witchcraft in Connecticut. By 1692 court procedures relating to witchcraft were well established."Ms. Spears does not have her history confused, but rather did excellent research toward writing this book.  Recommended reading for all young folks interested in early American history.
4 This book is one of the best I've read. This story adds to my knowledge of American history and the persecution of people suspected of being witches. I did not know a persons religion would automatically make her a witch. Please read this book you'll love it!
2 A thoughtless and spoiled girl thrusts herself uninvited on her poor relations, then pouts and simmers in hostile resentment over the unintended consequences of her hasty actions.  She scorns the virtue and work ethic that give her uncle's family the edge to survive in their harsh colonial environment, shirking her chores and remaining dispirited.  Truly, Kit Tyler is a poor example for graciousness, duty, or manners.Time and again, we see Kit run away from her responsibilities, leaving the bulk of the hard work for her lame-in-one-leg cousin.  She is too immature to understand the knife's edge her newfound community walks, trying to stave off famine.  Only the pitched effort of every able-bodied person can ensure that the crops are planted and tended, the clothing is made and mended, the children are taught to read and write and cipher, the harvest is brought in before the frost.  These villagers have no buffer; it is either work now or starve later.  Their culture has sprung up as a way to reinforce the discipline and self-control that is needed.  Kit is oblivious to these community norms; even the ones that are explained to her she shrugs off as ridiculous.But all is not lost, because there are outsiders in town, and Kit befriends THEM.  The service she performs for Hannah and her patient teaching of Prudence make Kit almost likeable.  Almost.  The townspeople accuse Kit of witchcraft because of her inability to fit in, and finally she realizes the goodness and decency of her uncle's family as they try to shield her from the peril she has brought upon herself.Along the way, Kit gains insight into the beauty of simplicity and order.  She feels the exhiliration of the seasonal changes in New England.  We rejoice over the love she discovers.Happy ending to a silly book.  Good vocabulary, and good for conversations about rushing to judgment.
5 This is a truly incredible book that I discovered in the classroom when I was about 10, maybe younger. The soap-making scene was excerpted in my history book as a lesson about how the Puritans lived in the 1600s.The detail of life during those harsh times is simply fascinating. Everything from household chores to religious beliefs to politics is covered, but the real beauty of this gem of a book lies in the subtle romance between the title character and a sea captain's son, and in the love that she comes to feel for Hannah, a suspected witch, Prudence, a young, neglected child, and her aunt's family who take her in as one of their own.This book is as pleasurable to read today as it was over 10 years ago. A true classic. For lovers of friendship, romance, loyalty and history, I highly recommend it.
5 &quot;The Witch of Blackbird Pond,&quot; by Elizabeth George Speare, is the story of Kit Tyler, a young woman from Barbados who in 1687 goes to live with relatives in Connecticut colony.  Kit experiences quite a bit of culture shock.  A key figure in the story is Hannah Tupper, an elderly neighbor suspected of witchcraft.This is a fascinating story, well told by Speare.  The strong-willed Kit is an admirable character, and I really got caught up in her story.  Speare offers an intriguing look at colonial era life and culture--the book is full of interesting details and thoughtful touches, such as a reference to colonial-era poet Anne Bradstreet.In a relatively short novel Speare touches on a rich assortment of colonial-era topics: religious difference, anti-Quaker bigotry, politics, education, fears of witchcraft, etc.  All these things are skillfully woven into the compelling story.  And Speare vividly describes the natural beauty of colonial Connecticut with the changing seasons.The book has a copyright date of 1958, so I would say that it has stood the test of time as a literary work.  It's also a Newbery Medal winner.  For a good companion text I would recommend a volume of Anne Bradstreet's poems.
4 I read this as a junior high book and enjoyed reading it again as an adult. Very good book to read
5 I recommend this book to all who have children! THis book is an excellent addition to any library.Set in a time that was full of suspicion and lies. If you wanted to get rid of someone that you didn't like, just accuse them of being a witch! This book is a great read. It keeps your attention and makes you think about the way we as a society judge others because they seem to be a bit stranger than us!
5 This book is interesting and has many valuable life lessons for people of all ages. I read this book many years ago, and decided to purchase it, since I found it enjoyable.
5 Barry Moser illustrates this reissue of a Newbery Award-winning story of a girl marked by suspicion from the moment she enters colonial Connecticut in 1687. Her unconventional ways lead to conflict and trouble for the lonely girl in this moving story which combines a powerful plot and strong characterization with insights on social change.
5 I may not be the target audience for this book, but I loved it just the same. From the moment I read the first line, I was hooked. The characters-Kit, Nat, Mercy, Judith, Uncle Matt, Aunt Rachel, William, etc...--are all wonderfully fleshed out, not just boring stereotypes. The theme-judging others-is something that is as prevalent today as it was back then. I found myself turning page after page (Well..on a Kindle touching to change pages, anyway...) racing to find out what happens to Kit and Nat and everyone else in the town.It's a wonderful piece of historical fiction, and I highly recommend it to kids of any age!
5 A great story about difficult circumstances. A young girl must decide who to listen to: angry townspeople looking for a witch scapegoat, or her heart where truth loves.
5 Probably the first real &#34;historical fiction&#34; book I ever read, I have repeatedly reread the story for its own sake as a look into the Puritan settlement and its residents, and their extreme religious practices.  This book is *much* better as an introduction into historical fiction than &#34;Johnny Tremayne&#34;, which my children found boring and (at least the dialog in &#34;dialect&#34;) difficult to understand.
5 I read this book as an adolescent, and recently re-read it, as I would like to write Young Adult fiction.  It's an excellent story, with very real characters. As a Newbery Award winner, I wouldn't expect any less of a book.I don't understand why some people say there aren't enough books for the young adult age group to read. After reading Harry Potter, some say, there's nowhere for kids to go to find other good books.The quality of the writing in this book and other Newbery Award winners runs circles around any Harry Potter book (and probably also around Twilight).If you're a teacher or a parent and don't know how to find all the Newbery books, just google Newbery on the internet - there's been a medal-winning book every year since, I think, the 1920's, as well as several Newbery Honor books each year, and they're all listed.Have your child or student read a wonderful book!
5 From the moment she arrives from Barbados to live with her aunt and uncle, Kit Tyler is an outcast. Her flowery silk dress and free spirit do not fit in with the harsh New England climate, or with the strict religious legalism of this Connecticut colony. In her misery, Kit creates a family of kindred spirits: a good-humored young sailor named Nat, an abused child named Prudence, and a wise old Quaker woman who lives with her yellow cat near Blackbird Pond. When her Quaker friend is accused of witchcraft, Kit must find a way to save her life. Read this book to find out where Halloween jack-o-lanterns come from. Also--what was it like to be locked in the stocks back then? All I can say is--this was one of my favorite books when I was a 13-year-old student, and I still enjoy it as a teacher today.
4 would read this author again.  It's got a real good story line, not really about withes at a all.  good.
5 This book is well written and it was joy to read.  A good summer read if you are looking for something on the lighter side
4 This reminded me of what I didn't read in high school. Didn't give it a chance then. Loved it now.
5 It was a very good read. I truly enjoyed the setting and the time period. The author made it seem so real like you could feel the story happening.
5 I loved it, it was an easy read,  I couldn't put it down. :o) I love historical fiction, it's simplicity, charm, and moral decency, is very much enjoyed on a lazy day.
5 I really enjoyed this book. I will certainly recommend it to the librarian at the middle school where I work.  It had interesting history lessons of colonial America.  Very thought provoking topic of freedom of religion. In addition, a nice little love story to keep the younger reader interested.
5 I loved the details: descriptions contrasting the clothing the girls wore as to what Kit brought in her many trunks. I didn't realize that most people did not swim. Sitting painfully long during endless sermons made me twitchy, too. I learned about Kit's cousins at the same time she did. Endless chores of those early settlers made my fingers tired and my back ache. I couldn't put it down and I'm as old as Granny!
5 I never read this book as a young adult. Reading it now as an adult, I really enjoyed it. Very quick read.
4 Thoroughly enjoyed every word...refreshingly appropriate!  Recommend to all for easy and relaxing reading.  Visually written and expressed.  Can actually see these event occurring.
5 A very moving story and well written. Not my usual reading fare and I'm pleasantly surprised at how well I enjoyed it. I was sorry when it ended.
5 I wanted something short that was considered a classic. I must have picked this book because of the Newbery Medal. I like to purchase books for my grandchildren, and since I hadn't read this before (for some reason), I bought it. The writing was tight and well done. The title and the picture of Kit on the cover threw me off; I was glad the witch wasn't her--until later. One can read the story outline in other reviews. Suffice it to say, I am tremendously glad I read this book--finally--I graduated from college in 1958. So it's not just for young adults, as many of the reviewers have noted. I'll add my adulation to other adults who were "late" reading it. You won't be sorry.
5 I read this great, great story as a kid, and I'm not sure I've ever learned more from one book.At that age, seeing the protagonist (a good girl!) consider marrying for social reasons, not romantic ones, was revolutionary for me. This portrait of the English colonies, the Puritans, the tropical plantations, the slavery, the daily life in 1600s New Hampshire were a very entertaining education.This book is a little girly. Romance is a major theme.In addition to history, this book teaches a lot about getting along with people vastly different from yourself without giving up your identity.
5 I have noticed in recent years that there is a spurt of fiction about witches and ghosts, all written with a tongue in cheek silliness.  They are the decendents of Roald Dahl and even as much as I am glad they are out there, I sometime wonder why there aren't more decendents of Frances Hodgson Burnett.  Where are the sweetly serious books?  This is one such decendant and more should be out there.  The Witch of Blackbird Pond is an absolutely wonderful novel of historical fiction that throws early America into stark light.  I read this book over and over when I was a child and though I have not read it in 15 or more years, I can still remeber the twists and turns of the plot.  History is rekindled through Kit (I can still remember her name), a young emigrant just come to America to start a new life far from her natice Barbados.  You see the grey winters, the hard working people whose religion shapes their daily lives, and the fear.  Speare brings a small part of reality to life.  And that is what is truly missing from so many modern children books.  I truly recommend this book to all kids who have a thirst for the past.
5 Title: The Witch of Blackbird PondAuthor: Elizabeth George SpeareRating: 4.5 StarsI am not going to review this one exactly as I have the others.  This I am reviewing as part of the Let's Talk meme from Melissa at iswimforoceans (@melissaswims).  This week's topic is underrated books that you have loved.  I don't think that the book I am featuring was underrated when it came out, but it's old enough that many young readers may not know about it...and they should!My ReviewI LOVED this book the first time I read it back in 6th grade and I still do (BTW this version of the cover is the one I have).  Published in 1958, it was even old then and I found it at a second-hand bookstore.  Just to explain how much I loved it, let me offer you this.  Many bookophiles love their physical books.  Not me, not really.  I have become a ebookophile.  I LOVE reading ebooks and having them all on my devices.  That being said, I USED to haul all my old beloved stories around with me.  Until my husband and I moved 8 times in 10 years and then I started to cull the herd.  First I got rid of beloved textbooks (yes, I am that much of a nerd).  Then I got rid of beloved series' that I just couldn't haul around anymore.  I donated them to the library so that another child could benefit from them, but it still hurt.  I ended up holding onto a precious few physical books that I just didn't want to let go.The Witch of Blackbird Pond was one of those books.In this story, Kit (Katherine) is a wealthy, carefree girl living in beautiful Barbados in the early days of the British colonies in America.  This is pre-revolutionary days.  When her father dies, she must leave her island behind and go to live with her closest relatives...a Puritan family in Massachusetts.  She is a bit of a wild, undisciplined, and even selfish girl at times.  She doesn't think about the big things like money, politics, equality, and spirituality at all.  But she's about to enter a world where the curtain will fall on her bright, sunshiny ways.On the boat to her uncle's house, a little girl loses a doll overboard and Kit jumps in to swim to retrieve it for her.  When she gets out, nearly the entire ship of passengers and crew are freaked out because ONLY WITCHES CAN SWIM.  (Of course, men are allowed to swim, but virtuous women are supposed to sink like a stone.)  But Kit grew up in the islands where everyone went swimming.  She is a classic `fish out of water' in this tale.  I won't tell you the whole thing, but this is an amazing story of triumph and transformation as Kit learns to appreciate what her new family and life can teach her...and as they learn to question many of their `values' in light of her open, sunny heart.Nat - Sigh.  Nat.  He may actually be my first ya `sigh' of all time.  Nat is the son of the ship's captain on the boat that brings Kit to her new home.  He is an enigma.  Though he is not a true Puritan, he is a true Patriot and is both fascinated and occasionally disgusted by her ways.  Over time, they become fast friends as Kit comes to love Hannah, the old Quaker woman whom Nat cares for whenever he can.  Of all the people in her new world, Hannah and Nat are the two people who really end up loving and accepting Kit the way she is.Judith and Mercy - Kit's cousins, they are both wonderful in their own way.  Judith used to be queen bee in town and is horrified when everyone pays more attention to Kit, including William, who everyone thought would court and marry Judith.  Jealousy arises and the girls have to figure their way through it.  Mercy.  Ah, Mercy.  What can I say about her?  She is disabled and quiet and contained and lovely.  The complete opposite of both Judith and Kit.  And it's impossible not to love her.  She is her name.  In fact, I used to consider naming a daughter Mercy after her, I loved this character soooooo much.  Mercy is kind to Kit because Mercy is kind to everyone.When Kit arrives, all the family's plans go haywire as William suddenly wants to court Kit and John Holbrook is somehow arranged into courting Judith.  I don't want to spoil the story for you but let's say that things do work out in a way that satisfied me.  William is like the male counterpart to Judith.  He is attractive and wealthy and focused on the finer things in life.  In many ways, after the drudgery of her disciplined uncle's approach to live, this is refreshing to Kit.  It's a bit of common ground.  John Holbrook is simply a wonderful man...a wonderful, wonderful man.  And that is why he is the perfect fit for the one who steals his heart.  And Nat...well, there is a special person waiting for Nat.Hannah - The old Quaker woman living at the edge of Blackbird Pond offers a focal point for the colony's mistrust of Kit and the things that they don't understand.  Some in the colony push for Kit to be examined and tried as a witch when she engages in behaviors that shock or confuse them.  Hannah is equally suspected as a Quaker.  The Puritans believe Quakers to be heathens and Hannah in particular, to be a witch.  All this tinderbox needs is a match...and Kit is it.  Despite starting out a little quiet and slow, this story turns into a high-drama with heart palpitating moments that leave you turning the pages.As a side note, I attended a Quaker high school and learned a lot about their early persecution not just in England, but when they came to America just as it's described in this tale.  The Puritans actually drove the Quakers out of their colony and most ended up settling in the Pennsylvania area under the safe umbrella of William Penn, a fellow Quaker and the founder of the colony.  By the way, did you know that `Quaker' was not the term they gave themselves?  Their name for themselves is The Society of Friends.  I have to say personally that I think very highly of this denomination after my affiliation with it for years and I feel that the Hannah character was extremely true to the personality and demeanor of the Friends I've met.In the end, the people of the colony all have to decide where they stand as the crowds come for Hannah and Kit.  Do they stand on the side of logic, understanding, science, and forgiveness?  Or do they  stand on the side of emotion, judgement, and fear?  This book is a classic historical ya story with romance and tension and intrigue.  It also highlights the differences between people's manner of thought in these times and the way that those differences affected every decision they made.  Though it was set so long ago, it could easily be re-written today with a metaphorical `witchhunt'.I absolutely LOVED this story and still do.  I am thinking about re-reading it in coming weeks actually.  I highly recommend it to the ya reading world because it's old enough that it's different from a lot of what you read, yet the themes of love and loss are timeless.
5 I just finished reading this book aloud to my 3 children. They are a tough audience but this book made the history lesson extra smooth. They were begging for "just one more chapter".This book delves into the Puritan lifestyle,touches a bit on some of the sentiments of the colonists and their fierce independence, briefly touches on some of the archaic medical practices of the times, shows how easily innocent circumstances turned into witch hunts and sparked a conversation about how people can fall into a mob mentality and much more.Our Family highly recommends this book!
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond is one of my three all-time favorite books. I reread it every few years and each time, I learn somthing new about the characters. Kit Tyler is a wonderful heroine, and her struggle to adjust to life in America is a wonderful metaphor that most children (and even adults) can relate to, whether it's moving to a new school, job, or community. Plus, the historical aspect separates this wonderful novel from the rest of the pack. You'll learn something while being entertained- what more can you ask for?!
4 &quot;The Witch of Blackbird Pond&quot; has charmed readers fordecades now.  Kit's journey from the warm Caribbean to the coldPuritan valley in Connecticut has been read again and again, and will likely be read for decades to come.  A charming romance of an outsider trying to fit into a new and strange culture, the novel immediately brings the reader a sense of what it is like to try and fit into a world very different from the one you grew up in.  My only complaints about the novel are minor: the picture of the Puritans is far too cold, given what we now understand about the Puritans (although their persecution of the Quakers is dead on in the novel), and the ending seems a little too pat and contrived (I won't tell you, other than to say that everybody ends up with somebody they deserve).  Still, a wonderful read after all these years.
5 MY GRANDCHILDREN NEEDED THIS BOOK FOR A SCHOOL PROJECT. THEY WERE NOT ALLOWED TO BRING THEM HOME TO USE. SO THIS REALLY WAS GREAT TO GET THEIR OWN COPY.
5 Wow! The Witch of Blackbird Pond is beautiful and powerful! I was taken aback by the amazing story and characters!
5 This was required reading for my 7th grader. Great price for this book! Also it's very hard to find in paperback because this is not a new release.
5 I read a lot of young adult historical fiction as a kid and this was one I read over and over. I think I just liked the characters.
5 A slice of American history with an appealing cast of characters.  The Witch of Blackbird Pond describes the life of a pampered but well-meaning young woman forced to live with her aunt's family in a Puritan community.  The adjustment is difficult, but she is helped by the village outcast,  Hannah, a Quaker who is rumored to be a witch.  This book is an inspiring  introduction to religious prejudice and early American history; it sparked  my interest in those subjects, and doubtless will for other readers.  The  author has researched well the lives of the Puritans, from wool-carding to  church services to theological doctrine.  The evolution of Kit into a  brave, hard-working woman willing to stand up for her beliefs is a real  treat.  The supporting characters make the book as much as Kit herself: her  stern but upright uncle, the cocky seaman Nat, the fumbling young minister  who discovers what he truly stands for, and my favorite, her cousin Mercy,  who holds the family together in spite of a physical handicap.  The  suspense and terror of the witch hunt is very real.  This book is ever much  more than a simple historical romance!
1 Uninspired. Thin, thin plot. Predictable from 1st page to last. Pretty much a waste of time to read. Unless perhaps the author was writing for 10 yr old girls
3 I read this about 10 years ago while still in school and enjoyed it, but this time it seemed dull and too judgmental.
5 I guess  I was reluctant to read this book because it was written in 1958. But, how shallow! Set in Puritan Connecticut in the 1600's when there was no cure for typhus and being an outcast meant you were a witch, this story was incredible! Kit, from Barbados, comes to live with her aunt when her grandfather dies. Her new family has strict Puritan values and she never really fits in. She befriends Hannah, whom everyone calls a witch, because she is a Quaker. All in all, this is a great story of fitting in! Bravo!
5 This is my favorite book amazing detail, I just love it. It wrapped me in I couldn't put this book down.
5 This is one of my favorite books. I first read this book while in middle school and have re-read it so many times that I can recite some of the passages! The story of the girl who leaves her island home and must adjust to the harsh New England environment struck a chord with me, as I was a military kid and always moving from place to place. This story is about a girl who finds herself in a new environment that goes against everything she has ever learned or experienced, and she must learn who she is in order to survive this new land. It's also a romance story, and an intriguing story that shows what can happen when people become so closed-minded about what is "right" and "proper" that they refuse to look past a person's supposed subversive actions in order to really see or understand that person.  Highly recommended reading.
4 New insight into daily life of American colonists. Main characters were easy to identify with and storyline was well planned
5 I read this as an adult for my mother-daughter book club. I thought it was amazing (though my 9 year old only likes it so-so.) While at its heart an age-old story of feeling like you don't fit in and looking for love, The Witch of Blackbird Pond's setting is what made this book so extraordinary for me. It takes place in the late 1600s in the Connecticut Colony (one of the locations is just a few miles from where I grew up). The descriptions of Puritanical life are quite well drawn, and -- as a Native New Englander -- somewhat familiar. I can see how my view of the world has been shaped by my Puritanical New England ancestors. This characterization, more than anything, is probably what made the book so compelling for me (and not surprisingly, not obvious to my daughter). I can highly recommend this book -- unless you are 9. :-)
5 This is a truly wonderful book that I highly recommend to anyone who loves a good story. It's one of those books that you just can't put down once you start reading it.Reading the book gives you a unique appreciation of the people who first came to live in the huge wilderness that would one day become the United States. The characters feel very real and it's easy to appreciate the different view points represented in the story, even the ones you might not agree with.The pacing of the story is perfect. Although there is a lot going on it never feels rushed, and it doesn't linger to get a point across. It's one of those rare books that I didn't feel like jumping to the end of in the middle of the story!Kit is young girl who has led a very priviledged life that to her is completely normal, much like most young people in the United States today. When she is forced to leave that life Kit goes to live with the only relatives she has, the Puritan family of her mother's sister. Their's is a life of hard work and no luxury. Even though Kit hates it at first she eventually comes to appreciate these people who are so different from herself and learns the value of the life they live. But there is also blind cruelty and hatred within the community and when Kit fights against it in her own small way she finds herself in more trouble than she ever imagined.It's just a great little story and I hope everyone who reads it enjoys it as much as I did.
5 This is an excellent historical fiction about a girl in early america. One of the best I have ever read. It was written for children but is very excellent for all ages. Elizabeth George Speare has an amazing gift with words. I love all of her children's books. However, this one holds a special place in my heart and is one of the best books I've ever read. It is a book that I will have all of my children read (boys and girls) to help them understand life in early America and the sacrifices and difficulties that gave us what we have today. I wish every youth would read this book. Better historical fiction can't be found.
4 The 1959 Newbery winner and a very enjoyable book.  Kit, or Katherine, raised in then-unconventional, but now more common philosophy of girls being capable and independent-thinking, must establish herself in a new place with more rigid limits for girls and thinking, in this case, a colonial Connecticut town.  Like many Newbery-recognized books, this one has a child orphaned.  When orphan Kit's grandfather dies in their Barbados home, Kit turns to her aunt and uncle in New England.  With colonial politics becoming volatile and weather and Puritan philosophy dicatating a very different lifestyle than she's used to, Kit's good intentions stir up nothing but controversy.  Fortunately, they also create some bonds which support her through controversies.  Underlying themes of prejudice, witch hunting, slave ownership and class distinction, hard work, and courtship rituals further enhance this pleasant read.  A middle school girl would probably enjoy it a lot.  I would recommend it to a girl at that age, a strong intermediate grade reader, and maybe even into high school.  It would be a valuable read-aloud book to an intermediate grade class working on American history in social studies (fifth grade here).
5 Though this story of colonial Connecticut was first published in 1958 it is still a wonderful story for middle school aged students.  Kit makes a spunky attractive heroine and the story illustrates colonial customs, beliefs and conflicts.  And there is plenty of both adventure and romance to please all readers.  A Newbery medal winner that really deserves the honor.
5 What a delightful change of pace story. It is refreshing to read a story of a determined young girl who, when faced with life changing decisions, was fearless in her pursuit of family. Kit was an independent woman ahead of her time. A delightful story that I will read more than once. Historical fiction at its best.
5 I last read this when I was either in Middle School or High School, I don't remember when exactally, but I loved this book and was thrilled when I found it on Amazon and for Kindle too.
5 The book starts out with the main character sailing to America.  I immediately liked the main character due to her courage and determination.  Historically, the book was accurate.  The book was a wonderful insight.  I couldn't put it down when I first started it.  The only thing I can say that I didn't enjoy about this book was that it was a bit slow.  True, it wasn't slow all the time it only had slow parts.  Other than that the book was utterly amazing.  Without thinking I gave it five stars.  I recommend this book to everyone, of every age.
5 This was one of my favorite books when I was a kid.  I bought it for my daughter and decided I better read it again first to be sure it is appropriate.  I loved it all over again and bought 2 more books by the author that I haven't read and am enjoying them too!
5 This coming of age story takes you to another place and time. Clean and enjoyable, the story flows so nicely that you become immersed in it.
5 Had to read this book for my daughter's 1st book report so I knew how to help her. Chose it in honour of Halloween and the history it provided of Witch Trials in the 1600's. I loved it and loved more the lessons it teaches kids about not judging people based on other people's opinions or gossips. Make your own judgements, do what you think is right, and above all do not be afraid to be yourself.
4 Kit has just sailed from her home in Barbados to join her aunt, uncle and cousins in Puritan Connecticut. Immediately, she sets tongues wagging with her unusual ways and the friendship she develops with the supposed witch who lives near Blackbird Pond. Young and naive, Kit does not realize that her carefree lifestyle of the Carribean is not only unacceptable in this new world it could be dangerous for those she loves and herself.I was instantly intrigued by this well written and delightful novel. It has been on my to-read list since I was young. I've enjoyed the other novels written by Speare and was glad to finally get a chance to read this Newberry award winning novel for adolescents. Thoughtful and precise with fiesty characters, The Witch of Blackbird Pond is exactly the type of book I hope that I can encourage my own children to read and enjoy.
4 The Witch of Blackbird Pond by Elizabeth George Speare is a pretty good book. It's very exciting and there is some romance, I don't see why it hasn't been a movie yet. I wouldn't give it the newberry award, it's good but not that phenomenal.
5 This book is going down as one of my favorites. I know this book was read by many people when they were school age but I was not one of them and I'm so glad at 37 I decided to read it. Anyone can enjoy this book no matter how old they are.
5 The Witch of Blackbird Pond(1958). Elizabeth George Speare's Newberry Award Winning Novel.Throughout popular literature, Historical Fiction is either a delight to some or a horror(quite literally) novel to some. Judging from my past experiences, I'd say I would easily fall into the second category, as most become drab and inconsistent mid-way or partially through. When I was assigned to read 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond' for Summer Reading, I took the novel on almost as a challenge and a burden at the same time. Anyways, with its 1958 release, 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond' received heavy critical acclaim, and even received the prestigious John Newberry Award and an ALA Notable Book Award. So, was 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond' a surprisingly good novel, or a hopelessly jumbled mix of words? Read on to find out!Plot-16-Year old Katherine Taylor, fondly known as Kit, has left her dreamy Caribbean home for the dreary Puritan life of rural Connecticut. After her beloved Grandfather's death, the only way she could get away from lustful men(of 50!) and debts was to stow away on the 'Dolphin' for a ride to her Aunt's humble abode. Upon her arrival, she clearly doesn't fit in, as she was accustomed to a laid-back lifestyle, yet once the family brings her in, day in and day out, she works still sundown, and by then she's supposed to listen to lengthy preachings on the Bible. Her new frustrating lifestyle slowly eats away at her, and after she's dismissed from her job as a Dame Teacher, she breaks down and flees to the Green Meadows, a secluded patch of beautiful crops and flowers. There a widowed Quaker named Hannah Tupper finds her and consoles her, and the two quickly become fast friends. As the Summer turns into Winter though, the townspeople quickly become ill, and Hannah Tupper and Kit are accused of bringing a plague into town, or inciting Witchcraft. Kit and Hannah must learn to survive among their Puritan neighbors and overcome adversity, while still being friends.Writing/Opinions/Etc.-Unlike the Amazon Review reads, I DO NOT recommend this novel to anyone under 11 or 12, as they may have a tough time getting through this novel. With that out of the way, 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond', while being Historical Fiction, actually lets the reader imagine a time and a place unlike ours at all, when Satin dresses were considered unorthedox and Jack-O-Laterns "of the devil". Speare effectively transports the reader back into the lifestyle and the mindset of the Late 1600's, and following Kit through her troubles is actually surprisingly entertaining and enthralling, and I was positively waiting for what would happen next. Speare, unlike fellow "classic" writers doesn't bog down her writing and plot with lengthy and unneeded descriptions, likewise focusing on the plot yet using colorful language at the same time. On the down side, the plot is incredibly predictable and (at times) repetitive, but I won't take away any points because I felt this was a great novel for Teens.Overall, 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond' easily bested my expectations for the novel, and I was surprised to find that I actually enjoyed a Historical-Fiction novel. Speare is a good writer and storyteller, and I wouldn't mind reading another novel of hers in the future. Of five Summer Reading novels, 'The Witch of Blackbird Pond' has BY FAR been the best.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TO FANS OF DRAMA AND ADVENTURE. THIS NOVEL IS SUITABLE FOR ANY AGES(EVEN ADULTS!), BUT I RECOMMEND THE READER BE OVER 10 AS THE WRITING MAY CONFUSE THEM OR BORE THEM. HAPPY READING!Also Recommended-Fighting Ground- AVIHarry Potter And the Goblet of Fire- J.K. RowlingThe Slippery Slope- Lemony SnicketThanks For Reading!
5 I read this book when I was younger and I picked it up again a few months ago and reread it. I thought it was excellent! The story begins when Kit, an orphan girl from Barbados goes to Connecticut. She lives with her stern aunt and uncle there, and eventually becomes friends with her cousins. At first she has a lot of trouble fitting in. She's not used to hard work and living in a cold climate. She can't wear her old clothes either. Then one day she meets the Quaker widow, Hannah, who lives on the marshes. They become friends and soon she meets up with Nat, the son of the captain of the ship she came on.  She winds up going to Hannah's cottage more and more, even though her aunt and uncle have forbade her to because Hannah is thought to be a witch. She becomes friends with Nat and gives secret reading and writing lessons to a neglected little girl. Meanwhile, at home, Kit and her cousins Judith and Mercy are having their own problems. Kit dreams persistantly of going home to Barbados. You sort of have a love triangle with Judith, Mercy and John. Then, a rich young man named William wants to marry Kit. Nat gets caught illuminating William's house with Jack o' lanterns, for obvious reasons to everyone but Kit, and is put in the stocks. It all comes to a head one day when people start accusing Hannah of practising witch-craft on their animals and children. Kit overhears and runs to get Hannah safely away on Nat's ship after the mob burns her house. Later the next day, she is arrested because people think she was the witch's apprentice. How will she escape? Will she see Nat again and mend things between them? And most of all, will she get her happy ending by going back to Barbados, or something much different? Read this book and find out!! It has everything: history, love, intrigue, danger, and lonliness. Go read it now, YOU WILL BE GLAD YOU DID!!!!
5 This book was found by my partner and pointed out to me as &#34;hey, here's another witch story&#34;.  The write up on it did not really draw me in.....another story set in &#34;times of old&#34;...... BUT boy was I wrong!!!  I was pleasantly surprised by this book!  What a fabulous story!!!  Though my witchy intuition sometimes predicted the outcomes of various situations in advance I enjoyed it all the same and the end was not predictable at all!  I now want to go to &#34;the Meadows&#34; and visit Hannah in her cottage as she is quite the personality!  I really ended up loving this book!!  Very well written and thought out story plot.  The characters are believable and as such draw you in.  I could not put it down.  I would LOVE to see a follow up to this book!!!  Revisit Hannah.......  :)
5 Had no idea that Ms. Spears was such an award winning author. Nor did I know then that the Salem witch hunts in the book were a parallel for the McCarthy hearings. Calico Captive was the first book I read and then Witch of Blackbird Pond. This time the order is reversed.
5 My daughter had to read this book for school and I read it also to help her with her book report.  I was honestly surprised by how much I enjoyed reading this historical fiction.  The main character of the book travels to the United States to live with a maternal aunt and her husband after her grandfather who raised her dies.  She is accused of being a witch because she knows how to swim well and because she befriends an elderly woman who lives by Blackbird Pond.  It is a story of romance, of forgiveness and of family bonding.  I would suggest this book to both young and older readers alike.
5 I had once owned this book in paperback &enjoyed reading this book very much as a teenager. But then as the years passed, I lost my only copy of this book.. But after diligent searching I found it again as an ebook & enjoyed reading it again as an adult! I would highly recommend this book to any young woman or boy, that's struggling to find themselves in this ever-changing world.
5 When I read this book, I had no real idea what to expect. I had never heard of it, but there was a quote from it in another book that I really enjoyed, so I decided to take a chance.What I got was amazing. The illustrations by the author, Clive Barker, make the sometimes dream-like aspects come alive. Barker has a great handle on how to word passages to make the scenes seem to jump off the page. This was a very good read and I did not want to put it down once I started.Perhaps my favorite thing was the unpredictability of it all. I have read many, many books, quite a few from this genre, and after a while you begin to be able to predict what will happen. This book contains some surprises though.Conclusion: if you read it, you will love it.
4 A lot of people have been waiting for Clive Barker to unveil his newest creation since Coldheart Canyon earlier this year.  We all knew it was going to be for kids, but we also knew it was going to be classic Clive Barker, and would be a great first book in the series.  Having read this first installment, I concur with every fan's automatic assumption.Abarat is the first book in the series about a young girl, Candy Quakenbush, who lives in Chickentown, USA.  She has never felt she truly belongs in the dead end town which prides itself on maintaining the industry of its name.  And so one day she heads out into the fields, where he finds what looks like the ruin of an old lighthouse and an old pier.  Soon she meets a couple of characters, one good and one bad, and she has just seconds to start up this old lighthouse using a magic she never knew she possessed.  Suddenly the sea comes rushing in from nowhere and she is whisked away to the Abarat, a vast archipelago where every island is a specific hour of the day.  And so Candy is taken on many different adventures, both good and bad, where each time she comes close to losing everything, she somehow manages to break free.With a vast cast of crazy and unusual characters, any reader would be struggling to deal with what they all look like and how to separate all these places.  Fortunately, Barker hasn't only been busy writing, but he has also been busy painting for this series.  Abarat features over one hundred original designs and paintings by Barker which he has spent the last four years creating, all to do with the current book at hand.  The result is a visual opening into an impossible world that could only exist within the mind of one man.The book ends with Candy alive and well on towards another adventure, as Barker ends with a familiar phrase: "So Ends the First Book of the Abarat."  With three more to come in the series, one can only wonder what Candy is going to get up to next.Originally published on December 9th, 2002.Go to BookBanter ([...]) for over five hundred reviews and over forty exclusive author interviews, and more.
2 Really wasnt impressed with this. There is no warning that this is not really aimed at a mature reader and was given it as gift. Having read almost all his other books and enjoyed them this was a shock to the system. I found it totally without substance, and whereas certain "young adults" books are readable, this was tepid, and really had very little about it at all. As Clive is writting a set, i think perhaps it will be a while before i next pick up a book by him, which is a shame as he is such a creative talent
5 I first saw this book in a bookstore and was so struck by the cover illustrations that I stopped and picked it up.  Much to my surprise, it was by Hellraiser Clive Barker which intrigued me even more than the cover.  I bought the book, started reading it straight away and could not put it down.  Candy Quackenbush is an amazing protagonist and the world of Abarat is mystical, magical and dark.  I can't wait to find out more about Abarat and its astounding characters.  In Candy, Mr. Barker has created a character that we walk with, ache for, cheer for and laugh with.  The illustrations throughout the book are simply wonderful and filled with humor and light.  Buy this book!
5 and worth reading. It should have a sequal. The story can be read at different levels (but it is sometimes hard to tell) and can be read at different ages 9 and up. A 10th grade humanities teacher recommended this along with completely unrelated books (such as Catch 22) and he is a critical reader. It can be compared to other fantasy books, such as Harry Potter, but is not the same. Abarat, to me, is completely different. That doesn't mean if you like Harry Potter you wouldn't like this (or if you didn't that you wouldn't). Also not relating to the story, the pictures are amazing. This book desearves to be read.
5 This is as fine a young adult fantasy novel as I've ever read, with a great story and intriguing characters.  I've read a lot of Clive Barker over the years and this is as good if not better than anything else he's written.  I appreciate that the author did all of the illustrations, too, and he's certainly a much better painter than I am, but if you're going to add illustrations, you might as well hire a professional to do the job...
4 wow. the paintings were said to have taken 6 years to prepare for the books. i was impressed by the creativity of the world of Abarat. to make up something that big requires a lot of ideas.the things i didn't like were: there was too much creativity. i had a hard time keeping track of the characters and their nature as well as the names of the places and the events.by the time the second book came out i felt lost i had to flip through book one to catch up. it took me a couple chapters to recall all that had happened in book one. i hope you have a good memory otherwise you will struggle to keep up with Clive Barker.
5 This book was one of the best books I've ever read. It starts out in a place called Chickentown and a girl named Candy Quackenbush. Well, her adventures starts when she writes a paper about Henry Murkitt and her teacher totally despises her paper. So, Candy runs out of school and runs all the way to the end of Chickentown, until there is no more road. She decides to keep running and this is where Candy's adventures begin!!! I recommend this to people 12 and over because any younger, it might give you nightmares. A couple of parts scare you sooo badly. I can't wait till the second one comes out!
4 I found this book as I was searching my library for a different title. I noticed it based on the cover, and then the artwork inside. I just had to read it. The artwork alone intrigued me. Alright, time to read the inside cover.Being a YA title, the name Candy Quackenbush didn't surprise me at all. She had to relate to a young audience. And the idea of a world where each Island represented an hour of the day, plus The Twenty Fifth Hour, seemed awesome. Alright, time to check out this book, and then the second in the series,Abarat: Days of Magic, Nights of War (rack)and get them home to read.Pros: I LOVED the artwork. It enhanced the story just enough, while still leaving some things to the imagination. Each island is unique. There are none that are the same, or identical. I also really liked that there were creatures of all kinds - cats that spoke, humans, human-animal mixes, and more.Cons: The dialog. Some of the situations didn't seem like they were things people would really say, or how they would speak. I didn't like how Candy acted nonchalantly to everything. She didn't show fear during a lot of situations that a normal young teenage girl would. Especially from Chickentown, MN, where not much seems to happen. The vocabulary was way beyond the scope of a YA or children's story. The word "din" was very overused and it drove me crazy. It's a small thing, I know, but sometimes it's those small things that can make or break a story.Overall, I really think this should be classified as no less than a YA book. There are some situations that can be scary to a younger audience. It's a great story, one that takes the reader to many different places, and keeps up with the mystery.
5 How would you like to take a vacation from ordinary to extraordinary? In the book Abarat, by Clive Barker, young Candy Quackenbush does just that. One average day in Chickentown turns into the beginning of an adventure. Candy finds herself on the outskirts of the quiet, small town with a strange creature. This creature has a total of eight heads, with the extra seven sticking off of the original head. After her encounter with this creature, another weird being, and a broken down lighthouse, a sea appears out of nowhere. The sea takes Candy and the two creatures to the extraordinary world of the Abarat.Abarat is a wonderful book full of adventure and great oddities. Its cover alone will draw you in, and what you find inside keeps you there. Not only did Clive Barker write the most creative story ever, but he illustrated it as well. His paintings give you a clear image of what everyone and everything in the story looks like. I was very intrigued by the fact that Mr. Barker could paint the same picture with words as the picture he painted with colors. His descriptions put such a clear image in my head, I thought I was in the book.I would recommend Abarat to readers of all ages. I feel this because it can satisfy anybody's wants and needs. It contains humor, real-life experiences, fantasy, and much more. Abarat also contains a level of vocabulary that can be understood by all because of the amazing descriptions. This amazingly creative book is one of my favorites that can be loved by all.
5 I'd first like to say that I saw the cover of the book in Disney Magazine and it looked bizarre...so I liked it.  I didn't really want to pay $25 for a book that I'd never read, though, because if I hated it, it would be a waste of money, so I looked around and there was one for half price because the cover was ripped, but I was just excited to get it.I read this book and I was simply entranced and hooked.  I wanted the next one so badly, but I had to wait two years...and it looks like two more years for the next one, but anyhoo, Abarat was great.  It was odd, exciting, and magical, with a great story.It's about Candy Quackenbush who runs off and finds a lighthouse in the middle of a field and there she meets John Miscief and his brothers who share the same head.  I really do not want to give anything about this great story away, but it is a great novel.
5 I rediscovered Clive. I had read the Books of Blood and other horror books by Clive Barker years ago. The Abarat series is just as  good, but in a different way. This series reminds me of The Thief of Always, but it is intended for adults. It has fantastic creatures and suspense but not the amount of gore Clive's older works did. I am glad I bought all three books of the series, because I didn't want to stop reading! I went online to look at the paintings of the characters done by Clive barker. The man has so much talent and imagination. Amazing!
5 This is by far one of my favorite books. The world that Barker has created is so far-fetched, but at the same time seems perfectly reasonable. More than that, it is a journey of self-discovery, a theme present in many novels. But there is something unique about Barker's portrayal of this that makes this book stand apart from others. Either way, I recommend this with my whole heart, and that is not something I often do.
5 This is young adult fiction ay it's finest. Harry Potter eat your heart out. A fantasy world to rival Wonderland. All the things that go bump in the night and beautiful exotic creatures of the light.
5 I bow to a master author.  The imagery is exceptional with excellently worded descriptions. I would recommend this book to teens on up who want to explore not only what is, but what is not. One must have an inquiring mind, and a dictionary at hand.Mr. Barker appears to have enormous imagination and effortless writing skills. I am sure it is harder than it looks. Very well done!  Roberta Lyle
5 I'd be the first to agree with some other comments that this book is not really for young kiddies, more teens, but man is it fantastic. This is the first in a planned four part series that that follows a young girl named Candy Quackenbush as she stumbles into another world, and soon learns how she is the center of this bizarre, detailed, and richly imagined universe.Filled with characters that could only be spawned from the mind of horror master Clive Barker he weaves a suspensful and magical tale that by the end is nothing more than a delicious prologue before the feast.It should also be mentioned that the book is printed on high gloss paper because it's filled with gorgeous and sometimes haunting watercolors that illustrate the tale. For adult fans of Harry Potter who haven't found anything to compare, this could be the answer. It also reminded me of a "Wizard of Oz" for the new millenium. I loved every creative imaginative second of it
5 a wonderfully illustrated, stirring tale that appeals to all ages. The design of this book is excellent. The pedigree of the author is astounding. The story is highly interesting and masterfully written.It is fun to get into the works of a writer who is so multitalented and then discover one work that captures it all so well.a sensible and fulfilling buy.
4 Quite a different story. I enjoyed this book, with its strange sense of time. Creatures that are hard to imagine.
2 I have never read anything by Clive Carker. I tried this book out because I like to read children's/YA fantasy and I read online that he'd struck an 8 million dollar deal with Disney for these books.So it's become pretty obvious that Disney does not intend to make a movie or anything else from the 1st 2 books so far. It's been several years and the other 3 books still haven't been published. This should tell you guys something.When I began the book, I was immediately struck by the ridiculous names of some of the characters. A name like Candy Quackenbush makes Renesme Cullen sound good. And was it really necessary to make everyone in Candy's life OMG SOOOO MEEEEEN? It's been so overdone. Harry Potter, A Series of Unfortunate Events, Bartimaeus Trilogy, Anything by Roald Dahl, Anything by Diana Wynne-Jones, etc etc etc! Why do so many British authors have such a Cinderella-complex???The Abarat was pretty creative but we just jumped around for no reason other than Clive Barker wanted to be a tour guide. There were some chapters where Candy wasn't present at all. The villain is just ridiculous and the whole Princess Boa thing was pretty obnoxious. I don't want to spoiler it but I really HATE 'the chosen one' stories. If I had known this is what this was I would have never read it.The book is not worth reading and I seriously believe the series will never be finished.Only read it if you have a curiosity about imaginary lands.*Also, a huge deal is made of how "boring" Chickentown is. You know what my old English teacher would say to Candy? "Chickentown isn't boring, YOU'RE boring."
4 The Abrarat is a 123 page book full to the brim with magic. It is a fiction book about a girl and her adventures in a new world. Some of the places she visits are so amazing, diverse, and insane. The world of the Abrarat is just an ocean and 25 islands, nothing more. Each of the 24 hours of the day represents the 24 islands. So on each of the islands it is an hour of the day, so on the first island it is one o'clock all the time. People on the island mostly just sleep whenever they need it because day and night do not come on the Abarat. The ocean that separates all the islands is called Isabella. The way that the Abarat is connected to the human world is the Isabella has to roll into a port in the middle of a town called chicken town, which is surrounded by land on all sides. The way that the Isabella has to be summoned is by a magical ball and cup game inside of a old rotting away lighthouse.The Abarat is full of mystic wonders and horrible scary creatures. The antagonist of the story is a man named Christopher carrion. He lives on the island of midnight and is the ruler of all evil. The antagonist of the story is a girl who lives in chicken town named candy. She is whisked away into the Abarat and away on an exciting adventure that plans to span three books! I recommend this book to any age level as the concepts are not to complex and yet they still entertain a collage reader. This is one of the best books I have ever read!
5 Abarat was wonderful.  I was hesitant to read it as Clive BArker writes some strong horror and I a not a horror fan.  I was delighted by this book.  While it has strong horror componants and vidid depictions of frightening charaters, it is so beautyfully written that I was able to be totally engaged.  The female protaganist is beleivable as a disgruntaled teenager with the ability to see the world though her own unique lense.  Still she is believable is many of her choices.  She is strong and a heroin but still the child is present.  Many of the other charaters are butual.  The world of the book is very new for me.  It is well concieved and flesed out with great detail.  I am always amazed at a great authors ability to conceive a new world that seems to defy the construct of our world yet creat a space that can in some why make sense dispite being so different.  It is not a book for young teens but 15 and over would do well to enjoy this engaging book.  I have the kindle version which does not have the illustrations.  But when m daughter (long time aArker fan) showed me her illustrated hard copy I was able to pick out the charaters easily.  Thqat is a testement to the vivid nature of his discription.  Never was this story borning and none of the passages laborious.  I am looking forward to reading the next 2 books of the series.
5 ABARAT is Clive Barker's best and most consistent book in quite some time.  As with Barker's previous children's book, THE THIEF OF ALWAYS (which he wrote long before the Harry Potter craze), there's a simple purity about ABARAT that makes for a truly riveting and satisfying reading experience.The first in a planned quartet of self-illustrated children's books, Clive Barker's ABARAT tells the story of Candy Quackenbush, a young girl from a conservative Midwestern town who finds herself drawn through an oceanic portal into an alternative world called the Abarat.  The Abarat is actually an archipelago of twenty five islands (one for each hour of the day, and another existing outside of time).  As she travels from island to island, the precociously independent Candy makes many strange humanoid and not-so-humanoid friends and not a few horrible enemies.  Chief among her foes is Christopher Carrion, the Lord of the isle of Midnight, whose powers include the ability to make nightmares real.This lavishly illustrated volumes is beautiful to look at and is also a pleasure to read.  Barker's imagination is in top fertile form.  There are no missed steps or idle meanderings as there have been in some of Barker's recent efforts.  This is a great book for all ages, and for all kinds of readers. A great celebration of the imagination.
4 This book is one of the most highly imaginative and masterfully told stories I have had the pleasure of reading in years.  Clive Barker is at the top of his form with this book, which I have heard is his masterwork, the one that he has the most emotional involvement in.  This book is so enjoyable that the fact that it is a bit slow going in some places is about the worst thing that could be said about it.  That, and the ending is a bit disappointing, only in that wonderful way that makes one pine for the next in the series.  I, for one, cannot wait for the next in the four-book series.This series also makes me happy for Clive Barker's sake.  This series was highly optionable - almost every major entertainment company wanted the rights.  (Disney finally got it for 8 million.)  Soon, there will be a full-length movie, and I'm exuberant that this could quite possibly mean that Mr. Barker will finally recieve the recognition that he so richly deserves.One more wonderful thing about this book is the artwork.  Personally done by Clive Barker, the paintings on almost every page give this tale a rich colorful life that only adds to the depth of the world that he has created.  Get this book, read it, and keep it for future generations.  Mr. Barker has greated a work of art.
3 I can appreciate what Clive Barker has done. This book contains an original world, at once dark and menacing and yet vibrantly beautiful. The first half of the book was especially gripping, as I felt very in-tune with the characters.The second half of the book seemed to peter out. I felt like Barker lost focus on the plot. What began as strange and fantastical slowly dissolved into absurdity. There weren't enough concrete goals to keep my attention. It's not made clear what Candy's &#34;key&#34; is for, what any of the characters are really plotting, nor what's at stake. These things are mentioned in passing, but not fully explained, so there didn't seem to be any sense of urgency after a while.At times Barker's descriptions of places and events were confusing, and I had to re-read the descriptions several times to get a feel of a place. I was most gripped by the character of Carrion, and yet we see so little of him. I found myself skimming over the story of Mischief, not truly interested in his struggles. It seemed that after Candy reaches the Abarat, her character begins to fluctuate rapidly, until she feels more like a puppet than a person. First she gives half of her money to a random stranger without asking anything in return. Then the woman kicks her out of her house, yet Candy doesn't seem to have any second thought about being taken advantage of and then discarded. She travels from one island to the next, doing whatever a situation demands with hardly any personal struggle. I wanted to see more emotional turmoil from her--more uncertainty, more doubt, more transformation, but instead she responds to each new situation with unconcerned practicality. Where is her growth as a character? What IS her character? What is she afraid of? What does she want? I really can't say.Carrion is the only other character in the book that seemed to have any depth. Despite the dark dark world he lives in, he shows small moments of confusion, impracticality and a strange propriety that had me smiling at the page. The other characters are all very two-dimensional. Mischief, Malingo, Shape and the myriad of other minor characters don't really have anything unique about them, besides their bizarre appearance.Candy realizes late in the game that Carrion is after her, yet she doesn't seem particularly afraid of Carrion, even though he is the big bad Lord of Midnight. I think this is where the conflict began to dissolve for me. Random people come to her aid in every situation for apparently no reason or purpose. She is suddenly extremely good at wielding magic and doesn't seem to think twice about it. I realize this is tied into her past somehow, but I would have enjoyed this book a lot more if Candy had more personal struggles and triumphs. About 2/3 of the way through, Candy finds out that word of her has spread throughout the islands and she has become somewhat famous. Her response? &#34;Oh.&#34; She doesn't seem particularly overwhelmed, excited or worried about this. I feel like the girl she was in Chickentown is much more interesting than the girl she is becoming in Abarat. We don't see Abarat through her eyes, but through a lens of third-person narration, which somehow makes all the beautiful descriptions and fantastical places less interesting.I might buy the second book. I don't know yet. But I was very disappointed by the ending of this one. 3 solid stars.
5 No one will ever accuse Clive Barker of having no imagination.  As wild as it is, it is just as vivid - and that is what makes Clive Barker such a remarkable writer and illustrator.  Abarat may be his wildest creation yet, and he brings this striking world to life in both writing and art, as the book is filled with some 100 color illustrations (reportedly drawn over the course of four years).  You won't find any Cenobites here, though, as Abarat is a work of dark fantasy written primarily for a young adult audience - this is not horror.  The protagonist, Candy Quackenbush, is a pre-teen girl who dreams of escaping her exceedingly boring hometown (Chickentown, Minnesota), where she finds little happiness at home because of an alcoholic father and a mother who seems quite defeated by life.  There's really nothing special about her - not in this world, anyway.Then Candy meets an extraordinary individual named John Mischief - actually, he's more than an individual because he has nine brothers, all of whom live on the horns of his head.  The next thing she knows, Candy is running from a horribly malformed man named Mendelson Shape, hoping to reach a dilapidated lighthouse and light the light.  The last thing you would expect to find in the plains of Minnesota is a light house, of course, but it marks the beginning of a story of high strangeness indeed.  Candy succeeds in calling the Sea of Izabella, and its waters take her away from her own boring world to the fanciful world of the Abarat.  Abarat is an archipelago made up of islands, each of which is a different hour of the day.  For example, there's Yebba Dim Day (Eight O'Clock in the Evening), which appears in the form of a gigantic head; Babilonium (Six O'Clock in the Evening), where all sorts of entertainments flourish; Gorgossium, the Island of Midnight, a dark island ruled over by the morbidly dangerous Christopher Carrion; and the most mysterious island of all, Twenty-Fifth Hour where everything that was, is, or shall be can be found (but those who come back leave their sanity behind).  It's almost impossible to describe the inhabitants of Abarat, so I won't even attempt to give a general description - each is wholly unique.Parted from Mischief early on, Candy is forced to find her way largely on her own, although she meets up with a number of unforgettable characters along her way.  As a rare visitor from the Hereafter (the regular world), she attracts a lot of attention.  Most of it comes from Christopher Carrion, who wants the girl for his own dark purposes - even before he learns she also carries the mysteriously important Key of Efreet.  He has magic at his command, but Candy proves an elusive prey - which is not to say that Candy doesn't find herself in perpetual danger.  There's something special about her, though, and it's not just her ability to win friends or somehow slip through her enemies' fingers at the last minute.  As her stay in Abarat progresses, she begins to feel as if she somehow belongs there, that somehow she might have been there before.  This novel is really a tale of self-discovery on Candy's part.  Signs indicate that she will have a major role to play in Abarat's future, a future threatened by the dark designs of Christopher Carrion as well as the elaborate plans of entrepreneur Rojo Pixler, who wants to stamp out the magic of the world and coalesce power in the hands of himself and his ubiquitous marketing creation, the Commexo Kid.Abarat is a wonderful story, but it is Clive Barker's illustrations that really make it something special.  The hardcover edition is a truly handsome piece of work, with its glossy white pages and plethora of intriguing color illustrations - I doubt the paperback version can recreate these wonders at all successfully.  It's important to note that this is just the first of a four-book series.  Abarat is a book of questions, with answers to be filled in later; its ending is really just the beginning of the whole story.  Clearly, Barker fans have much to look forward to.
5 {Review written in Feb 2005}This is a richly imagined tale that's equal parts epic fantasy (for adults and young adults alike) and surreal fantasy ... with a small dash of horror thown in for good measure. The sort of unexpected and highly original mix that only someone like Clive Barker could pull off with success.The central character is "Candy", a young, highly intelligent loner of a teenage girl who lives in a small boring non-descript town in minnesota noteworthy only because it has a large chicken processing plant, and a somewhat mysterious past.Life suddenly becomes interesting however, when she gets drawn across the boundaries of imagination into the realm known as "The Abarat" ... an archipeligo of 25 bizzare islands, to begin an epic quest that will transform both her, and the land itself.This is the first in a series that's currently projected to span 4 books, and it's chock full of over 100 original paintings by the artist himself ... as such, it walks the line between being a novel, and a graphic novel.In any case, I finished it in a single 24 hr stretch, it's highly recommended, and I've already ordered a copy of the next book in the series.
4 I liked it, but not quite as much as some other books of this type, like the Michael Vey series by Richard Paul Evans.  I could not put those books down.
4 As a longtime fan of Clive Barker, I was chomping at the bit to read this novel. I have to admit that though it was good, it was not his best. I loved the artwork and thought his characters were very well thoughtout but at the same time, the novel felt like it was a revisit to Gulliver's Travels and other such mythic quest novels. I liked it and felt it deserved four stars and will read more from the others in the series but still, if you want Clive at his best, try Cabal, Books of Blood, and Coldheart Canyon.
5 I was a little skeptical of this one, but still gave it a fair chance.  Once I started it I couldn't put it down.  This is definitly the best book ever written (in my opinion)  I love his idea of the 25 islands (one for each hour of the day plus "the hour out of time") Pure genius!  I hope he continues on for he left it in a slight cliffhanger.  This book would also be awesome as a movie (series?)  If you haven't read this masterpiece...READ IT NOW!
5 This is definitely the weirdest book I've ever read and I really like weird!The characters are given good descriptions, and the pictures are full of beautiful colors. The plot line rules, and you can tell that it's another mystery to find out about Candy -- even though the first book gives you enough clues to guess... *hint*hint*I really enjoyed reading this book, I couldn't put it down after the first chapter, and everything was so clear. Clive Barker is a erally great author, I can't wait for the second one!!!!
5 Candy Quackenbush is unhappy on the rolling plains of Chickentown Minnesota.  Then a sea washes up in front of her and the master criminal John Mischief and his seven brothers draw her into a nascent war between Day and Night among the 25 islands of Abarat.  Candy is washed into a realm where Christopher Carrion plots the unification of the destructive forces of Abarat under his leadership and an eternal Night without Day.  Abarat, where each island is a different hour of the day, except for the mysterious Twent-fifth Hour.Abarat is a world of infinite variety, diverse races, and impending war that will marshall magic, technology, beasts, and peoples to choose between a balance of Day and Night, and one unending Night.  At the center of this struggle is Candy Quackenbush.  She doesn't understand why she's the center of this, or why Christopher Carrion, the Lord of Midnight, is determined to find her.Abarat is an incredibly rich and detailed world, with characters who have both depth and color.  Endless and diverse, Clive Barker has created and illustrated a fantastic world that begs to be toured.Not for the faint of heart, Abarat has disturbing imagery and themes, violence and cruelty.  But it also has compassion, hope, and beauty.You'll usually find this in the Teens or Independent Readers sections, but it may be too intense for some younger readers, and has subtlety and depth to appeal to a much broader audience.An outstanding beginning to a voyage through an incredible new Day and Night.E. M. Van Court
4 Similar to the Harry Potter books and a bit like Tolkien's Hobbit series ... magic and sorcery exist on the islands of Abarat located on the sea of Izabella. The imagination and creativity of the author hooks the interest of the reader right from the start. The book appeals to anyone who is attracted by the many colorful drawings of unique characters and places illustrated on the cover. One is either magnetized by the illustrations ... or turned off by them. Any reader who is a child at heart, open to mythical concepts, imaginary characters who possess supernatural powers for good or evil, will enjoy this highly creative story. The magnificent artwork contained throughout the book will surely please the reader who is enticed by this fantasy escape book.The first chapter introduces the reader to the nebulous undefined "mission" of three "wise women" named Diamanda, Joephi, and Mespa who set sail on a boat named the Lyre, heading to the 25th hour Island to encounter unknown forces which may try to thwart their plans. Their mission is of the gravest importance but it is deliberately camouflaged. This serves to whet the reader's appetite to discover the wonders that are to unfold within the book.Candy Quackenbush, a young girl, 12 - 14 years of age, visits the Abarat, mystical islands via a most extraordinairy event. It is connected to a report she wrote for a class project. The assignment was to find ten interesting facts about Chickentown, Minnesota, where she resides. Candy was stuck on a subject so she asked her mom for advice. Her mom recommended she interview the local motel assistant manager who knew about mysterious events from the past. Candy was shown room # 19 in the motel where a man named Henry Murkitt had committed suicide long ago. It turns out, Chickentown used to be called Murkitt long ago, after his grandfather. Later it was changed to Chickentown because raising chickens became the main industry. Oddly, there remained in the room one possesion of the gentleman's, a sextant. A sextant helps navigate ships by aligning it with the North Star and then directing the ship properly based on this coordinate. Unfortuanately, Miss Schwartz, her teacher found Candy's report unacceptable and gave her an F. Furthermore, she mocked and humiliated Candy in front of her classmates. Candy was sent to the principal's office for insubordination but defied her instructor by walking out of school instead. Also, she had drawn doodles in a notebook resembling waves of an ocean, that had caught her teacher's attention. Candy walked out into the field of tall grass and kept walking until she no longer saw her home or the town. She stumbled upon something which turned out to be a seashell, although the nearest ocean was thousands of miles away. She also came upon a tall wooden structure that looked exactly like a lighthouse. She entered and climbed the creaky wooden stairs. Candy was surprised to meet a man named John Mischief who appeared to be wearing a mask but it turned out to be he had antlers with seven separate heads attached ... each was named John but with a different last name and different personality. Candy learned of a harbor nearby which to her thinking was preposterous as she is in Minnesota on dry land. When John noticed another entity approaching he warned Candy it had evil intentions. Shape was the enemy against whom the Johns fought with the help of Candy. John Mischief, the main John, later taught Candy how to play a game with a metal ball which she managed to toss into the bowl ... after she did, the atmosphere changed considerably, with a an ocean breeze and the smell of the sea becoming very apparent. Candy stepped outside and found herself at a harbor ... in order to escape from Shape she climbed into a red boat and sailed away with John Mischief and his other John companions on the Sea of Izabella. They were headed to the islands of Abarat. The rest of the story consists of descriptions of magical events both good and evil, people, and unique creatures whom she encounters in this mystical location. Clues are dropped by the author in the chapters that it is no accident someone from the Hereafter (what Minnesota,i.e. the real world is called) arrived at the Abarat just now. There are hints that something spectacular will occur in the future, some major cataclysm predicted in almanac books. Candy ends up on the 25th hour Island and encounters the "wise women" who help her leave this unusual place but who imply she has a special role to play in the future. She is again in a red boat sailing on the Sea of Izabella. Unfortunately, the ending is a disappointment as one is left hanging, asking the question, what next? For this reason I dropped the rating by one star. Each book should end sufficiently to leave the reader fulfilled, this book does not ... Overall, the book receives high accolades because it has subject matter that appeals to a very selective but wide audience, young people or adults who are "young at heart". Thanks to Katie for lending me this special book.Erika Borsos (erikab93)
5 I've never thought Clive Barker should be categorized as a horror writer - he's much more.  My favorite books by Barker have been the ones that are fantasy:  Weaveworld, Imajica, The Thief of Always.  In the case of Abarat, it's fantasy book through and through, but there are traces of his horror roots showing through.  In classic Barker style, he demonstrates an amazing imagination.  Abarat is about the adventures of a young girl named Candy who leaves our world and ends up in Abarat, a strange world where she goes from one adventure to the next.  She is chased by a villian named Carrion, who has nightmares swimming in a tank around his head.  He can unleash the nightmares - they look like eels - to feed on other people.  The world Barker has imagined is a place where time is a location and doesn't change - Abarat is filled with islands that each represent a different hour of the day.Abarat is a book written for young adults, although a lot of older people will enjoy it.  One comment is don't expect Harry Potter.  I read a Harry Potter book at about the same time as Abarat, which was a mistake because I kept comparing the two books.  Whereas Harry Potter is many ways an adult book in terms of its darkness and themes, Abarat really is meant for young adults.  It's a lighter story.  This is not to demean it, only to say know what to expect.  Clive Barker does a wonderful job with his characters, plot, and descriptions.  I would highly recommend it for people who know and love Barker's fantasy books.
5 in my ever so humble opinion. Note the word "modern." This isn't as good as "The Hobbit" or "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" (the best fantasy books of all time... in my ever so humble opinion) but this is still a very, very good book. I do understand why some people don't like this book, although I can't really put it into words. Anyway, I like it.LONG LIVE JOHN MISCHIEF!
5 From one of the most fertile minds of imaginative fiction, Barker has created a wonderland and timeless tale of the exotic and mysterious, of wonder and awe, terror and joy. 'Abarat' is a mesmerizing delight and adventure for readers of all ages... Gary S. Potter Author/Poet
5 If you are looking for the most boring place on earth, you can stop your search right now: Chickentown, U.S.A. is just that kind of place. The only thing that is of any importance in this small American city is, you guessed it: chickens. But that was not always so: Candy Quackenbush, a young girl living together with her mother and her alcoholic abusive father, is preparing for her school project and about to discover the `real' history behind Chickentown. But when Miss Schwartz, her hateful school teacher, sees the final results, she is utterly disappointed: "You have not mentioned any chickens!" It is not surprising that Candy gets a very bad score. Enraged by her teacher Candy leaves school and ends up in this field right outside of town. There she meets a strange man called John Mischief, who takes her to the fantastic world of Abarat: an archipelago where every island is a different hour of the day. Not much time goes by until Candy realises that not everyone treats her as friendly as her friend John.Abarat is the first instalment of the quartet The Books of Abarat. And that is maybe the only weakness of this book. When you finish this episode you are left with a hunger for more. It seems as though the characters were all introduced, the setting explained and the real story-line is about to start, when you discover that this is really is all you get in the first instalment. It is clearly not intended as a stand-alone book.But that is all the negative comment I can give, because Abarat is a reader's treat. The imaginary is mind-blowing; the characters are wonderfully fascinating and the atmosphere honours Clive Barker's exceptional talent for the "fantastic". Once you enter the world of Abarat, it is not likely you will put this book down; so reserve a few hours before you start reading...
4 I liked this book, but it left me wanting a lot more. Like more character development. More story line, more plot! This book hints of what is to come and I'm hoping that the next books fill in all the details that are missing in this book. So I'm being generous with 4 stars.Also Clive can't draw women, or sailboats! The illustrations are generally ok. In that its nice to have so many, and its clear that he got better the more he painted, but I can't help wondering if he hadn't illustrated his own book and spent more time on the writing if it would have been better. Also there is way too much primary color painting. It's like he didn't have the technique of mixing colors. And no to very little perspective, people and things are flat, flat, flat, ok, ok, the illustrations aren't the reason to buy it. Clive take some art classes and more do live drawings! Go down to the docks and look at sail boats, look where the sail is when the wind is blowing and where the people sit. Look at buildings, they aren't flat, take a perspective drawing class. Use a pencil and put in some light perspective lines to guide your outlines.On the good side, the world is cohesive, and compelling. By this I mean, the rules of the world stay the same for all the characters all the time. No plot tricks by suspending a rule so the heroine can escape or be caught. I like that a lot. It also stayed up late to finish the book another good sign. I cared about the heroine, I want to know more.This isn't Harry Potter, there is an element of horror to the story so it isn't for young readers. On the other hand it isn't a horror book either. So mid to young teens seems to be its intended market.
5 It seems a whole lot of authors who have written in other genres, mainly for adults, have taken to this 'genre,' which Rowling, and CS Lewis before her, had already pioneered:  books that seem aimed at children but are really for all ages.  Chabon's Summerland is another such title.But this one does it brilliantly.  Barker doesn't rely on borrowed mythology, cobbled together.  He has created a world, complete with unique illustrations.  This man has an incredible imagination and can render the narrative drive of the story in a strong, consistent voice that sweeps you away.I've not read anything by Barker before.  I may just try to see what else he's done.  I just sort of associated him with the Dungeons and Dragons kind of crowd.  I look so very forward to the sequels to this book.
2 The illustrations are fantastic, but Barker's writing made me want to hurl.  His prose is not alive, and it's full of cliches. Furthermore, the episodic nature of the story failed to hold my interest. The terrific paintings are the only reason to read this book, which without them would be a complete insult to readers worldwide.
5 The books of abarat are amongst the most underrated fantasy stories currently in print. This first novel introduces us to a most vivid imagined world of wonders,visions,monsters (humanoid and alien like but NOT alien in the E.T sense of the word!!),wizards, dragons and much much more. Ive read a few critical reviews by some Barker fans who tend to see these works as a step down the ladder for Clive and I totaly dissagree, they are a sideways step because the content is nowhere near as graphic sexually or otherwise, thats why its a step and any of those areas are totaly out of context for a novel of this kind,unwarranted.. The quality of story and world building is all here and some of the characters are truly memorable, wolfswinkel,mater motley, mischeif, Pixler! These books, to my mind are a far more rewarding experience than Clive's last "adult" novel, "Coldheart Canyon" and I hope the Abarat 3 hits the shelves no later than november 2006. One critic said that Abarat isnt going to make people forget narnia or middle earth!, how silly is that for a statement? has the mega selling Harry Potter made us forget them? in a simple word, NO! Does that matter?, in a word, NO! What matters is the enjoyment of the story and what mattered to my mind is that this story is worth every penny you pay for it. A must have series of books for sure for adults aswell as the younger audience.
5 I first tried reading this book about four years ago. I borrowed Clive Barker's "Abarat" and "Books of Blood" from the library. First I read the first few short stories in "Books of Blood" and then tried reading "Abarat," but it wasn't nearly as dark as I was hoping . . .. . . four years later, I didn't have unfair expectations, and thus I enjoyed the book for what it was: a young adult fantasy with dark undertones; it's never as nearly as dark as "The Hellbound Heart" or "Books of Blood" but it doesn't need to be.Reminiscent of "Harry Potter," "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe," and "Alice in Wonderland." I highly recommend reading "Abarat" if you're into young adult. If not, I recommend Clive Barker's mature books--"Hellbound Heart," "Books of Blood," "Cabal," etc. . . .
5 I had read this before, once, in middle school. I remembered how much I loved the pictures. If I was considering purchasing this book again I would definitely buy a hardback physical copy for the illustrations. The kindle version contains none.
4 I first picked this book up at Times, reccomended to me by my mother, who found it in the Children's Section. I was a neophyte of 11 years old, then, and knew nothing about who Clive Barker really was. I took one look at the cover and said, "Sure."The prologue is the typical prologue, written in a fashion which gives you a peep show of what is to come. Strangely, the three witches (sorceresses, maybe) depicted there will only make an appearance until the ending chapters of the book.Candy Quackenbush is a loveable character, although I found her prelude antics a dab cliche. She's the typical town child, bullied by her parents and teachers alike, with a tyrant for a father. Clive made her well, though. I found I could relate with her to a certain extent.For me, I read to page 70+, where the Yebba Dim Day is portrayed, alongside beautiful oil paintings. Sadly, I was not convinced. Due to the lack of real action, I left the book on the proverbial dusty bookshelf. For the next six months.Only when I got better accuainted with the world of book publishing, did I realise that Clive Barker was the Enfant Terrible of horror fiction. I picked up the Books of Blood to have a look-see, and I wasn't dissapointed. But I realised something. His style, although still flanked with magnificant description, has been forced to change and comply to the ardours of Children's storytelling. It has taken a blow.The book is bolstered from a 3 star to a 4 star because of the wonderfully done and well-placed oil paintings, which does wonders to the imagination. Although the climax was mediocre, Clive maintained a sense of tension throughout the book, and is a perfect set-up to the books to come.This book cannot compete with other children's books, such as Harry Potter and Artemis Fowl. The form of magic and science in them are perhaps more popular than creative fantasy to this dynamic generation of young readers. But the plot clicks, the characters clicks, and I'll love to buy the next one in the series.(p.s. If you see the book in the libary, take it in your hands and turn the cover upside down. Genius.)
4 Abarat certainly is an amazing creation.While reading the book, I was swept away by the brilliance of the dark and powerful artwork that Barker created. The interior art gave the book a texture and feeling that it would have lacked otherwise, much like John R. Neill's artwork added layers to Baum's (and others) Oz books.Candy Quackenbush is a fairly normal, average girl. I was pleased to see this, because far too often we find authors creating unfashionable, socially inept, or withdrawn characters that they want us to feel sympathy for. There's a good reason that many authors seek to do that - there's *nothing* like rooting for the underdog. Granted, there is a scene of embarrassment in the very beginning of the book, but Candy's reaction to the embarrassment isn't to go off and cry about it - she takes matters into her own hands. So what we are left with is feeling proud of her, and that is what authors should strive for. The characters on the page need to create some form of powerful emotion within us, and it doesn't always need to be pity.Her own hands - and her feet - lead her to a field with a dilapidated lighthouse where she meets one of the most original and odd characters I've ever come across in children's, young adult, or adult fantasy - the John brothers. And then immediately the story kicks into overdrive, as Mendelson Shape, a creature out of nightmares, assails them, looking to retrieve something that the John brothers have stolen. Through an act of heroism, Candy calls a sea to the plains of Minnesota - the Sea of Izabella, and the sea transports her and the John brothers to the Abarat, an astonishing archipelago of dizzying diversity.Candy's encounters in the sea, and her immediate encounters on reaching Abarat, make for rapid page turning. There is simply so much to see, so much that is different than any experience we have come upon before.But then the story slows down, and becomes, for far too long, a tour of Abarat and an introduction to fanciful creatures. There is absolutely no question that Abarat is an invention to be marveled at, and that the fanciful creatures possess highly unique qualities that are entertaining, but it's simply too much, and there isn't much happening other than a game of bait and chase. Candy has caught the eye of Christopher Carrion - who serves as the Dark Lord of this series, though there are other enemies - and he wants the item that the John brothers stole (and gave to Candy for safekeeping) and Candy herself. He has an odd sensation that he has seen her before, and gradually becomes obsessed with her.I believe that books should have distinguishable plot and character arcs, and that the ending of a book should complete all of the various arcs. Abarat left quite a bit up for grabs. There wasn't much of an ending - only a wrap up in the final chapter to prepare us for the next book, and while it should be obvious from all of the groundwork laid in Abarat that there is a wild and exciting adventure ahead, nothing was resolved.One might argue that the first two books of The Lord of the Rings had no discernible ending, and no arcs were resolved. However, that book was written as one book. The publisher, for various reasons, decided to cut the book into three - forever cementing into the minds of those who read fantasy the concept of the need of a trilogy to make something complete, for better or worse. Abarat isn't like The Fellowship of the Ring or The Two Towers. It is supposed to be a stand alone book, and instead it seems more like an extended prologue.That aside, this was one heck of a story. I'm not going to fault Barker too much for not tidying up before he moved on to the second book. The real test will be the second book - if it lives up to this rather overwhelming creation. We'll see.The artwork, the sense of closeness to the events as they occurred, and the uniqueness of Abarat make this a four star review. Normally books that don't resolve arcs get lower marks from me, but in the end I was so impressed with Barker's creation that I found that deviation forgiveable.
3 Fed up with her dreary life in Chickentown USA, our heroine Candy finds herself swept away (literally) from her domestic troubles and into the Abarat.A magical archipelago of 25 islands, the Abarat is home to a staggering array of unique characters and landscapes.  24 of the islands exist exclusively in a specific hour of the day or night and one mysterious island exists outside of time.Even though Candy only visits a few of the islands of the Abarat, the story maintains a whirlwind pace throughout.  The worlds Candy visits are detailed and intriguing.  This reader could easily imagine entire books written specifically about each island.Abarat is well done and is sure to please the reader regardless of age.  However, be aware that Abarat is book 1 of a series.  The book fails to mention this fact anywhere on the cover and is the main reason why I didn't give it a 4 star rating.  The unresolved plot in book 1 leaves you hanging, but not so badly that it leaves a sour taste in your mouth.  I'll definitely be reading book 2.  You will too.
5 At his best, Clive Barker demonstrates an imagination that's leaps and bounds beyond just about any author I can think of; whether it's the rug-hidden Weaveworld, the nightmarish pleasures of The Hellbound Heart, the mindbending powers on display in The Great and Secret Show, or the mysteries of The Thief of Always, Barker demonstrates a knack for visions like nothing else I've ever read. And in my opinion, Abarat ranks up there with the best work he's done, even if it is a young-adult novel; the visions on display in this opening volume of the series are staggering in their scope and imagination, and inspire wonder, awe, and horror in ways that few authors are capable of. Of course, the book is only aided and bettered by Barker's beautiful illustration work throughout; the lush colors and stark sketches only flesh out his world all the more, conveying the sheer scope of it all. The story is hard to get a handle on entirely, at least in this first novel; by and large, this novel is about getting the main character (a young girl named Candy Quackenbush) from our world into the mysterious Abarat, a series of islands where each island is an hour of the day. What follows is a series of adventures and fascinating characters, from the Mischief brothers (made up of master thief John Mischief and his brothers, who are heads dangling on his own head's antlers) to Christopher Carrion, the Lord of Midnight who lives and breathes his own nightmares - literally. There are hints and glimpses of how this all ties together, but as a whole, Abarat is an introduction to this massive world - and while that lack of much resolution might normally bother me, my confidence in Barker's storytelling and my love of his imagination make this book an absolute joy to read, no matter what.
5 I needed an imaginative fantasy romp, so I just finished Clive Barker's Abarat. It's sort of The Thief of Always (darkish kid's book) meets Weaveworld (for awesome otherworlds). And the thing that makes this book extraordinarily special: color drawings by Barker interspersed throughout the text. In a fantastical world like Abarat, it's immeasurably cool to see a piece of art depicting, say, a Sea-Skipper, sort of an elegant cross between a human and a sea horse, or a crazy island shaped like a man's pointed head.The heroine, Candy Quakenbush, has an abusive father and an all-around dreary life in Chickentown, MN (guess what the industry is there?). When she's ripped out of her environment and gets swept away on a sea to the magical islands of Abarat, the joy I felt was similar to the relief I felt when Hagrid showed up to take Harry Potter to his first year at Hogwarts. Candy doesn't get a grace period to adjust, though - the bad guys are after her from the start. She's helped by wonderful creatures on various different islands - called The Hours, as each one is locked in a different time of day - and her sense of adventure and loyalty makes her an exciting heroine.About 3/4 of the way through, I realized there was no way this book would conclude in a neat little package: there's a sequel on the way. It turns out that this is the first of five planned books (the 2nd is already out, so I'm off to the library for it soon...) This will be a fun story to follow in the coming years.
5 ..and I'm not just referring to the pictures. Clive Barker's book, ABARAT, is an extreme change in topic from his usual thrillers and horror novels. However, ABARAT makes you wonder why he took so darn long to write a fantasy.ABARAT is a book that sweeps you away before you even realize it. The heroine is a normal, everyday girl who just happens to stumble across a lighthouse in the middle of the prarie while being pursued by a monster. Typical really!! She is swept off by an ocean that comes out of the sky to the islands of the Abarat, an archipelago where every island is a different hour of the day. This is where the true magic begins.Clive Barker paints a very realistic picture of a girl lost in a strange new world. His descriptions are vibrant, his characters deep, their actions thought provoking. Every hour has a distinct feel to it, that is only heightened by the gorgeous paintings that pop out of every page. This is what ALL picture books should look like!!! The only disappointment in the whole book was the last page... "so ends the first book of the Abarat." The "ends" part is what sucks.... (tee hee)Abarat is addictive, you'll want to buy a copy for every friend you know, so they can share the magic too. Can't wait for the second one!!!
3 which is amazing although I think it may be too scary for young children.  Mr. Barker claims this to be a children's book and in writing style and characters it is, but much of the language will be beyond even well-read teenagers.  I consider myself to have a better than average vocabulary and found several words I had to look up.As a story, this is a fascinating premise.  Candy Quackenbush finds her life unsatisfying and is magically transported to an archepeligo where each island represents an hour of the day.  Note to parents, there are scenes of emotional and physical abuse depicted in this book which may make it inappropriate reading for children under 12.As a book of pure fantasy, I enjoyed it but found the pace to be a bit uneven.  As a first book in the series, I am looking forward to the upcomng books.  I think now that the stage is set, our heroes explorations of the islands will become even more enjoyable.  I am especially looking forward to finding out Candy's relationship to the 25th hour and the 3 women who begin this novel (I have an idea and I want to see how close I am).If you like Tolkein, I think you will enjoy this book.  While Mr. Barker does not reach that grand scale, he has created an enjoyable retreat, peopled with well-drawn characters and lush scenery.  And of course, you will not be able to help singing about The Hamster Tree.
3 Abarat is the first novel in an apparent series for young adults about another world, reachable from a field in Minnesota. Candy Quackenbush, a teen from a dysfunctional family, is the protagonist. One day, after yet another bad day at school, she just walks out of class and keeps walking into this field, only to discover some characters from the other world and wind up going there - only to begin to realize that she may have been there before.Clive Barker's first foray into young adult literature shows an attempt to write for teens (and perhaps capitalize on the Harry Potter market), but not quite getting it right. It is painfully obvious that this book is part of a series and the cliffhanger is on a cliff that is only about five feet high. I will read more of this series, but if another book doesn't appear, I won't be disappointed.
5 I remember first reading this book when it came out about a decade ago.  Rereading it has made me realize how brilliant Clive Barker is as an artisan of words.  His characters leap off the page and his story is original and delightful.  You'll find yourself unable to put the book down!
5 I am glad I also downloaded the rest of this series!! Feel that I must explore more of this strange,magical,and mysterious land called Abarat!! Can't wait to read more on Candy's adventures and to learn why she feels such a connection to this place. Would definitely reccomend for young adults to adults with young imaginations,like me! HAPPY READING!!!!
4 This is the first children's book I have ever read by Clive Barker. I know that he is much more well known for his works of horror. However, I was very impressed by this book.I listened to this book on audio book. The audio book was very well done. I think the guy who read the audio book must be the same person who read Stephen King's Dark Tower series on audio book. At least they sound very similar since I keep getting flashbacks to when I listened to the Dark Tower; maybe it is just that Clive Barker and Stephen King have a somewhat similar writing style. The only bad thing about listening to this on audio book is that I missed out on all the neat color pictures. I have the paper version at home so I still got to see the pictures, just not while I was reading the book.The tone of this book reminded me a lot of Alice in Wonderland and is, initially, a similar premise. Candy Quackenbush lives in Chickentown, MN and, during an assignment for school to write a paper on interesting things in Chickentown (a decidedly uninteresting town), runs into a mystery concerning a man who committed suicide in a hotel room. A strange nautical device is found in the dresser drawer of this hotel room. Candy finds herself obsessing about the symbols on the device. Candy is fed up with her boring life in Chickentown, her beaten down mother, and her abusive father. After a particularly bad scene in class at school, where Candy gets sent to the principals office, Candy decides to just leave school and go walking. She finds herself in a vast prairie outside of Chickentown. While there she runs into an 8 headed man, John Mischief, and ends up helping him to light the lighthouse in the prairie (which Candy thought was an abandoned building). Following some crazy events Candy finds herself swept off to Abarat and swept into a crazy adventure there.This was a really great book. It is wildly imaginative and full of non-stop action. I loved the way Candy accepted her adventures with ease (since *anything* is better than Chickentown). I also loved the numerous quirky characters that Candy ran into along the way. Candy seems to have a knack for getting people's attention and getting drawn into trouble. There are tons of interesting good and neutral characters in this book. There are also some very interesting villains. The villians in this book are particularly special. There are numerous levels of evil, making you wonder who the *real* villain is. All of the villains have a lot of depth to them, you can see multiple sides to their character. This makes them seem somehow less ultimately evil but more scary and unpredictable.The description in the book is wonderful. The plotline rolls along gracefully taking Candy from one adventure to the next. Even though many different characters are introduced and interact with Candy, none of it seems forced.The only disappointment I had with this book was that I thought that the storyline with John Mischeif didn't get much closure; I am sure this storyline will be revisited in the next book. I am also curious as to what is happening back in Chickentown; does Candy's mother know she is missing?This was a great book. I would read it to slightly older children though since at times it is very violent and it deals with issues of suicide and torture at points. Great book, I am excited to read the next one.[...]
5 Just read "Abarat" and I was really impressed. In terms of the richness of characters, writing and settings, "Abarat" is right up there with "Imajica," which is probably Clive Barker's best book, next to "Weaveworld."When I read "Coldheart Canyon" around this time last year, it seemed lacking, as if Barker's attention had been distracted by something. It's clear now that he was putting his energy into "Abarat."This book is the beginning of a great adventure. I didn't want it to end. I put down the book and said, "Oh, it's over?," only to find that I'd gone thru 400 pages.Can't wait till the next one.
5 I enjoyed this book thoroughly although I felt that there were  areas that my younger son didn't quite understand.  The older (13-but a very mature reader), was wrapped up in the tale from beginning to end and enjoyed the journey very much.  I highly recommend for the older Young Adult reader and Parents as well.
5 Clive Barker, known as a master of fantastical horror stories, has ventured again into children's literature. Yet, his new novel ABARAT, is quite different from his earlier children's work THE THIEF OF ALWAYS, which was a simple and spooky tale. ABARAT is a vast and colorful fantasy in the tradition of the Oz and Narnia stories. The world of Abarat grew out of a series of paintings the multi-talented Barker created. Inspired by his own imagination, he wrote the story of the paintings and the characters and places they portray. The book itself (the first in a projected 4-part series) is full of these vivid paintings helping to transport the reader to the new universe Barker has created.The journey to Abarat is undertaken by the unassuming Candy Quakenbush, a 16-year-old girl from Chickentown, Minnesota. Driven to boredom, anger and frustration by her cruel teacher, alcoholic father and distracted mother, she becomes intrigued by the mysterious story of Henry Murkitt while writing a paper about the history of Chickentown (previously named Murkitt) for school. Henry died in a room of the Comfort Tree Hotel and left behind his sextant, used to navigate the seas. When her mean-spirited teacher rejects her school report, Candy flees the classroom and finds herself in a field outside of town mesmerized by a cloud and in front of a dilapidated lighthouse. Before she can solve the mystery of what a lighthouse is doing in the middle of Minnesota, she finds herself face to faces with a seven headed man. He/they tell her the lighthouse, amazingly, once sat on the coast of the sea of Izabella, a sea Candy, with some help from her new friends (yes, each head is a distinct personality) is able to summon after a dramatic battle with another monstrous creature. This sea carries Candy far from her home, her school, and all that is familiar. Yet, it draws her closer to Henry Murkitt.And so begins Candy's journey to Abarat, a land of 25 islands; one for each hour of the day and one for the time in-between time. The isles of Abarat are as diverse as their populations. Candy is enthralled by Abarat and its citizens, but those she meets think she, as a visitor from the Hereafter, as our world is known, is most exotic. But Candy hardly has time to take in the wondrous sites around her. Her presence is immediately known by several sinister men who realize the threat she poses to their evil plans for domination. It seems Candy was destined to make this journey (ah! now the prologue is beginning to make sense) and besides that she is a scrappy fighter! Soon she is teamed up with a gentle character named Malingo whom she has freed from slavery and together the flee the dark and powerful forces around them. This duo is surely destined for great things, narrow escapes and amazing adventures!What usually makes a fantasy novel successful is enough of the familiar to make the New World easier to visualize and understand, to make it somehow more plausible. This element of familiarity is what has made other Barker novels, most notably WEAVEWORLD so wonderful and engaging. With ABARAT he discards this formula and presents many new creatures inhabiting a truly original landscape. While in many ways this works, it is a bit overwhelming and distracting. It is unbelievable that Candy would not be paralyzed with shock at the spectacular newness she encounters: she seems to so seamlessly make the transition between worlds. And, I can only hope that Barker comes back to sew up all the loose ends he has left dangling in this first installment.However, Barker has succeeded in bringing a unique vision to his readers. Perhaps the pace of ABARAT is so frantic is because it is so clear in Barkers mind: it is obvious he has a whole new mythology he would like to share and he can't get it onto the page fast enough. As a novel, ABARAT is dense, detailed and sometimes confusing. As a landscape and fairy tale it is enticing, dark and beautiful. Most likely the young readers this book is intended for will not be critical of the occasional sloppiness in the text and most likely their attention will not be lost through the mental and physical obstacle course Candy finds herself in when she journeys to Abarat.--- (...)
4 Clive Barker's art is phenomenal in this book.  You MUSt get the color, fully illustrated version!  It's also got a kinda sweet story attached to the pictures. ;)
1 I was shocked at the number of thumbs up this book got from scholastic sources.  The book goes on and on and never tells a story.  What is worse, the author has the audacity to ask the reader to buy three more installments on this nonsense.
5 Once you start reading this book you cant turn it down, literally!It has gone where no book has gone before, and Clive Barkers imagination must be amazing for him to write a story as good as this,It starts out in Chickentown and takes you to the amazing world of the Abarat, where Candy is swept up in the adventure of her life.this book is so good that I have read it 6 times. If you do not like this book you must be seriously messed up.
5 the first of what will be an awesome series.  i have also read books 2 and 3.  i am very excited for book 4
5 I am a huge fan of Clive Barker and this is my second time reading the Abarat series...I loved it so much the first time it feels like visiting an old friend.  I love his imagery...I get to thoroughly exercise my imagination when I read his books...his descriptions are always so other-worldly....I highly recommend this series to anyone that likes high fantasy...he is amazing...
5 I love the Abarat books. This is the first book in the series, two books of which have been published.Candy Quackenbush lives in a very boring town wither her mother, two brothers, and abusive father. After she gets into trouble at school for drawing strange designs in her text book, she strolls into Abarat.Abarat is twenty-five islands, each one at a certain hour of the day and each one unique. Eight o'clock is a giant head.  There is also the mysterious twenty-fifth hour and Midnight, where the sinister Christopher Carrion rules.Candy belongs in Abarat, but there are people who don't want her there and try to capture her. She escapes them all and travels across the Abarat.I'm afraid this isn't a good description, and makes the book sound like your average young adult fantasy adventure normal-girl-gets-sucked-into-fantasy-world, but it really isn't. What it is is a fantastic book that everyone can enjoy.
5 What separates this fantasy novel apart from others is the wonderful marriage of art and writing found in the book.  Barker's imagination gives the reader creatures so bizarre that describing them solely with text would be cumbersome to the point that it'd bog down the story significantly.  Some of these characters are so strange that they probably couldn't be depicted with words alone. The novel is illustrated with a hundred fascinating paintings, done by the author, which depict the creatures and scenes using imagery in addition to writing to pass on the author/artist's vision.  I find it impressive that an individual could possess such talent in both writing and art.The story is that of Candy Quackenbush, an angst filled teenager living in what she feels is the most boring town in the entire world.  While wondering out of town one day, she stumbles upon two creatures crossed over from an alternate land, the Abarat, one chasing the other.  She becomes involved in their conflict and returns to their land with the first of many strange companions she will have throughout her adventures there.  The Abarat is a tiny archipelago land where the sun is frozen in the sky such that each part of the planet has a specific time of day, and an accompanying mood to go along with that.  The book is filled with the standard elements, good vs. evil, destiny, prophecy wrapped up in a complex, cerebral story.
5 Clive Barker has outdone himself. This is a book about adventure and whimsy and vivid, loveable (and hateable) characters. I'm surprised this came from the same guy who did Hellraiser and Candy Man. It's a book to read to kids who are a little older (the bad guys are a little spooky) but it's in the same ballpark as Harry Potter. Well done indeed!
5 I have read Arabat for the second time now and absolutely love it! If you like Harry Potter, The Hobbit, or traveling to worlds completely unlike our own, I would highly recommend this book. Now on to the next adventure!
1 clive barker is a brilliant writer. coming after coldheart canyon (which i believe to be his best book and a brilliant commentary on hollywood), abarat is just awful. it's no secret that barker was asked into the offices of disney and had a king's ransom thrown at him to create something equal to harry potter that could be marketed as movies, rides, etc. he came up with candy quackenbush - one of the lamest heroines i've ever had to read about. with a ridiculous "wizard of oz" pastiche plot and unsympathetic characters, my hope is that clive barker did this to screw the disney executives, but i fear that's not the case. more likely is that he tried to create something to fit an order and the muses don't like being made to work in sweat factories. if you see clive barker in LA, approach him and say hi. besides being a brilliant man, he is a very kind, generous man, but please clive - don't sell out to disney. go back to what you do best: sharing with us the worlds that exist inside of you rather than working at creating a fake one to pocket a hefty check.abarat is not in the same league as harry potter. if you need more books in the potter vein, go for lemony snicket. abarat is a fast-food production. had it come from an unknown writer, it would have slipped under the radar. it's dry, tedious, repetitive, and lacks the elements that have made barker the unique voice he is. if this is your first visit to barkerland, please read any of his other works. they are all wonderful. abarat is undoubtedly his bastard child - albeit one that is making him rich.
4 Clive Barker's "Abarat" is a wonderful story about a young girl, Candy Quakenbush, who would rather be somewhere else but home. She enters a field and finds she is no longer in her home town, but is transported to the Abarat.Once she is there, she finds a strange world where evil forces are already after her. On her way, she meets a host of strange characters, some of whom are very interesting, and others which are simply too bizarre to be taken seriously.The only real flaw with Abarat is that the stakes are not very high. Yes, Candy is sought after by the evil Lord Carrion, but neither character is developed enough for us to care about them too much. Granted, this is the first book in a series and Barker apparently did not want to show us everything in Book 1, but I did not feel the tension of the Harry Potter books here.Barker's imagination is incredibly fertile and the paintings he includes in this work are worth the price of the book alone. The painting of the Abarat itself is marvelous! Overall, Abarat is a good book and recommended.
1 I thought maybe Clive would be an interesting read but I was so wrong.  The story was such utter crap it's hard to describe.  I stopped reading when the main character (floating in an ocean) was found by a a group of fish people (who were floating in the air above the water) playing cards on a floating table that eventually walked away (the table, that it).Seriously?I like horror, fantasy, magic, and the rest as much as anyone else - but please.  It was a stretch to accept your first few characters and then the table?I've got better things to do.
5 Not only is this book a novel (and a fantastically original, bizarre, and intricate novel at that) but it showcases surrealistic paintings and very good poetry as well. Quite a deal for eleven dollars.Candy Quackenbush lives in a town called Chickentown, which is almost as boring as it sounds. She longs to get away, but doesn't get her chance until her least favorite teacher bullies her and she walks out of the classroom.In a deserted meadow she meets a strange creature who brings a whole new meaning to Multiple Personality Disorder, who tells her that "Light is the oldest game in the world" and requests a favor.Playing the Game of Light, Candy accidentally summons the Sea of Izabella to Minnesota and is thrust into the world of the Abarat, a colorful, scary, wonderful set of islands that each have only one time all throughout the day, and stay that time forever.But the Lord of Midnight wants Candy...and he has a whole lot of things to send after her.This book didn't really have much of a plot resolution, but because of all the other amazing things about it I can forgive it that. It was a weird book, certainly, and can make you wonder whether the author is mentally insane at times, but if you allow yourself to just enjoy the story, you will realize it for what it is: a work of art.I'll finish with one of my favorite short poems from this book, just as a taste of what it offers:Life is short,And pleasures few,And holed the ship,And drowned the crew,But oh! But oh!How very blueThe sea is!Rating: Very Good
3 For the untrained Clive Barker reader, Abarat will seem like a vivid dream, an elaborate creation, a thing of wonder and beauty to be praised and revered.  To the serious Clive Barker reader, it amounts to the PG-13 version of Weaveworld and imajica combined.  Clive has taken to the all-ages genre and created a series that is sure to make him richer than he already is, but he's not doing anything new and that is very frustrating for the Constant Reader.  Abarat is a story about Candy Quackenbush who lives in the dullsville town of Chickentown, Minnesota.  She is an outcast, an exile, and she can't wait to get away.  Well...as you guessed, adventure finds her and she winds up in The Abarat, a series of islands in the nether world each dedicated to a certain our of the day or night.  Yawn.  Very formulaic for Barker.  This is Clive on cruise control.  This is Clive on auto-pilot.  This is Clive writing for the sake of writing, being weird for the sake of nothing better to do.  Clive Barker is good at being outlandish and strange and thinking up attorcities and oddities is his modus operendi.  Get a clue.  This is nothing new.Deal with it!
4 This was a very enjoyable book to read.  The story is about a girl who is unhappy with the life she is living and she is transported to a world called Ararat.  Its like a modern day Wizard Of Oz except weirder and more twisted.  I think the illustrations are really terrific and they add to the reading of the text.Clive Barker is a great writer and he really gives the feeling that you are right there experiencing all these things!  I willl probably want to read the next one in the series.  Perhaps I will buy copies of it as gifts for my nieces and nephew who are teens.
4 Abarat is a fantasy story about a girl named Candy Quackenbush who lives in the most boring town in the United States, Chickentown, where everyone works in a chicken factory. She lives with her mother and her alcoholic abusive father. She's very bored with her life and can be classified as "a little morbid." Her life changes forever when a bizarre looking and acting man called John Mischief brings her to Abarat, a place where there is an island for every hour of the day. Candy is fascinated by this new place but feels as if she's almost there before. She quickly learns that Abarat isn't a perfect place. Unknown to her  at the time the ruler of midnight, Carrion, knows that she has entered Abarat from the "hereafter" and he's very interested in her arrival. So interested in fact, that he'd do anything to capture her. Headstrong Candy is not going to let that happen.Talented artist, Clive Barker, spent years putting together various paintings for his new series, The Books of Abarat. Abarat, the first tale, contains over a hundred of these pictures. The art is not only beautiful but very original. As Candy meets someone new a picture of them is usually inserted, and let me tell you the people she meets neither looks nor acts normal. Abarat is an amazing original place filled with colorful characters and places. The story line is a little weak at times, which can happen whenever anyone makes their debut in a genre, and the ending is a bit disappointing. It leaves only lose ends for the next book and although that can often happen in a series I would have appreciated if Clive Barker would have tied together some of it! Still I can't wait to read the next book of Abarat. Candy's adventures are very interesting indeed.
5 This is the first book I picked up from Clive Barker. I first heard about this book while reading an article about it in Entertainment Weekly. From it, I wanted to read the book so I bought a copy of it at my local Barnes and Noble. After I finished reading it, I can't wait until I get my hands on the second volume. It was a nice change from the maddness of Harry Potter and, in fact, I believe it was much better. While the formula for dropping a young teen into a world of magic, mystery and danger has been proven to work over the years for some authors, Barker's re-telling of the formula is done in his own unquie way that it out-shines Ms. Rowlings (although it will never achive the success that her books have had). The art that Barker has painted himself really gives readers a sense on what the world of Abarat looks like, though I still would have liked to imagine what the actual landscape, people and animals in my head instead of having someone draw them out. Don't get me wrong, I very much enjoied Barker's beautiful and eerie paintings, but they were often too bright and cheery to suit the story, which did have it's dark periods. The story itself is more Narina than Alice in Wonderland (although there was a hint of it in some parts) and it kept me wanting to read more. The only fear of mine that I have about the future of this series is that Abarat might, just might, end up like Harry Potter, thanks to commercilization. Why I mention this is because Barker recently signed a deal with Disney to produce a movie(s) and a park attraction based on his work. And with the way Disney has been having moderate sales lately with it's newer animation projects and live-action movies, they're taking a big gamble with Abarat. This could either make it or brake it for Disney, so we'll just have to wait and see.
5 _There must be magic in this book. When it first found its way into my hand I was quite frankly totally read out. I had read far too much recently and the last thing that I wanted to do was start a thick new novel- and the beginning of a series at that. Then I started to flip through it looking at the illustrations. There must have been at least a hundred of them (I've never seen a novel so well and lusciously illustrated)- and they were all so incredibly vibrant and... interesting. I still can't get that image of the lost lighthouse in the midst of the prairie out of my mind's eye. Then I started to read the first page, then the second, and the third.... I had finished by the second day- but I had placed an order for the next volume long before that._This story of Candy Quakenbush is a rare thing. It bridges the gap between worlds. It takes you from the hateful reality of a dysfunctional family in Chickentown, Minnesota to the indescribable wonders of the Islands of the Abarat. And yet Barker does describe them so well that they seem as familiar to you as they come to seem to Candy (or at least thy do to me.) But then again, the introductory verse tells us of  the author's dream of a limitless book, of new heavens, new states, and of new souls- and how one of these souls used his hand to set them down. Perhaps that is why this book can seem like an experience in lucid dreaming. You never know if the Islands are a new plane of existence, a new dimension... or a dream. However the Abarat must have been gestating in the author's mind for quite some time, for in it I recognize the shoals of Quiddity and the dreaming sea of his earlier works._This is no more exclusively a "children's book" than is Harry Potter._If you are going to experience this book, then you really should read the hardcover edition. The powerful, bright illustrations are an integral part of the overall design. Plus I've seldom seen such a high quality modern publication: the typesetting, the illustrations, the covers, the endpapers, the dust jacket are all top drawer.
5 While so many authors are trying to jump on the young adult fantasy novel bandwagon, Abarat is one of the few that, like the Harry Potter books and King Fortis the Brave, actually delivers on the goods.  Clive Barker redefines himself with this outstanding novel, proving that he has what it takes to become a master of this genre as well.  The fifth Harry Potter book doesn't come out until June 21st.  The publication date for Queen Aimee the Wise, the sequel to King Fortis the Brave hasn't even been announced yet.  Abarat is out now.  Buy it and read it.  You'll be glad you did.
4 Close, but its no Harry Potter...Barker is, as always, highly imaginative and inventive, Abarat is a lot of fun. The goodies are weird and wonderful, especially the beautiful artwork by Barker himself.  Villains are weird and terrifying as they should be, and the landscape is ingenious - a group of islands where each represents an hour of the day! It's a wonderful concept.My biggest complaint is a slight lack of character development. Our heroine, Candy, is interesting, but we just don't know that much about her. Consequently, it's sometimes hard to get involved.Additionally, Abarat isn't one of those children's series' that adults can really enjoy (Harry Potter) The plot and the characters are all there, but the narrative is definitely pitched at kids - quite simple, with no real sub-plots or 'big' concepts. Thus, it makes a nice quick read without too much thinking.That being said, many may find the sheer inventiveness makes up for a lot. There hasn't been a world this magical in a long time. I look forward to the next one, hopefully the story becomes more complex!Relic113
5 This book is pure magic. I couldn't put it down. The characters are wonderfully realized and their quirkiness is fully animated from page to page. the pages are bursting with colorful, gorgeous paintings by Barker himself. He has a great talent. He is hands down the greatest living author today. To be able to go from so many different mediums and topics for his material is just so astonishing. Abarat is an example of that talent.Candy Quakenbush lives in Chickentown and she thinks it['s awful]. I'd agree with her. Her teachers are jerkweeds and her classmates are cruel little vipers that mock her poverty. So, she says adios and walks out the school doors into the great unknown of the town, where she lands herself in the comoany of John Mischief and his brothers. From there the adventure begins. It leaves you tearing through the pages like wrapping paper to a really wonderful gift. You'll be done with it and you'll be left panting and starved for more. I can't wait for the next installment. Clive Barker rocks!!!!
4 The only criticism this book deserves is that it really leaves you hanging. It's a wonderful book, but you better buy both at once, because it'll be almost impossible for you to wait."Abarat" is a very rich, engaging fantasy, written for children but easily enjoyed by most. The protaganist is downtrodden but spunky, smart but not brilliant, curious but not reckless, introspective but interesting, and--this is the best--she's believable. Her reactions to the Abarat are realistic. Ccandy Quackenbush is an excellent leading lady, complex but not confusing. Barker made his heroine well.The book does start off, not rockily, but ambiguously; if you're not at least a little patient, this book will drive you crazy, especially when it starts jumping between the two major groups of characters--who basically haven't even met each other yet. While "Abarat" ties together marvelously, you can't believe that it will at times.As well, the writing at the beginning is a little static. While this is to emphasize the drudgery of Candy's life, Barker did it a little too well; however much we like Candy, neither she nor her situation is interesting. Luckily that changes fast--Barker gets the book off the ground as quickly as he can--it's easy to think you aren't really going to like it. Don't let it fool you, though. It might start with a little too much mystery, and a little too much--how shall we say--boringness, and it might end jumping around with not nearly enough resolution as one may like, but these are relatively minor problems. "Abarat" is a good fantasy, and is definitely worth the read.
5 I really enjoyed this book. The art was wonderful, as was the content. We're going to read it in Lit-lab soon.Basically, there's a girl named Candy Quackenbush who is fed up with her teacher, so she runs away from school. Then she floats on the Sea of Isabella to the 25 magical islands of the Abarat...All in all, you should read this book.
4 Now that the second book is out, I finally got around to reading the first one. It's pretty typical Barker (and I mean that in a good way), though it written for teens - otherworldly creatures, well-formed characters, and elegant prose. I found myself wishing he would just publish a book of poetry and drawings, because that's what I liked the most. I thought the story took a little time to get going, but since it's the first of four, I think that can be attributed more to Barker knowing how to pace himself, than to any drawbacks in the writing. Barker's created a new world around the concept of time. Each island in the archipelgo of the Abarat exists at a certain hour of the day. Candy Quackenbush, the protagonist, ends up there through a series of events that seem less like chance with every page. She's already being hunted by the Lord of Midnight, Christopher Carrion, who probably hung with Pinhead back in the day. Why does he want her? Well not even he knows yet, but I've begun the second book, Days of Magic, Nights of War, so hopefully we'll find out soon.
4 Clive Barker, Abarat (Joanna Cotler Books, 2002)Clive Barker can't be said to have hit a slump after Sacrament, because his books are usually (The Damnation Game excepted) a cut above anything else anyone's releasing, but is two post-Sacrament books, Galilee and Coldheart Canyon, didn't seem up to the standard Barker had set for himself in such fantastic journeys as Sacrament, Imajica, and the books of the Art. With Abarat, however, Barker has returned to the fantasy milieu in which he is the strongest, and has turned in quite a fine piece of work.Candy Quackenbush lives in Chickentown, Minnesota, a place that really defines "nowhere special." She feels, however, that she should be somewhere else, and very soon after the book starts, she finds that somewhere else-- the Abarat, an archipelago in a sea somewhere not of this earth. Abarat, the first book in a projected series, introduces the main players, sets up (we assume) the events of the forthcoming books, and introduces us to the Abarat itself.Barker's strength has always been the creation of dense, detailed mythologies in which to set his stories. He doesn't reveal everything, so the reader doesn't feel the need to sit with copies of a Biblical concordance and various creation myths in attendance while reading one of Barker's novels, but he gives the reader enough that there's an understanding that there's a whole complex scenario working behind the scenes. Tolkein's Lord of the Rings series operates in the same way, as do Herge's Tintin graphic novels. Barker's worlds often feel as if they have that same level of detail, which is one of the things that separates him from other writers of books like this, and make his work such a pleasure to read. Abarat may well be the most detailed of the lot to date, surpassing even the attention to detail paid to Imajica. Though it's obvious that Abarat is mostly setting up things to come, it's a joy to have one of the modern masters of high fantasy back on form and writing stuff this lovely. ****
5 This was an amazing book! It takes you into a whole new world and lets your mind just wander. An interesting thing about the book is that, in the Abarat, there are 25 islands for every hour of the day. The 25th hour is the island of dreams. I loved the characters in the book. There was some strange creatures in it, which added to the excitement. If you like Harry Potter, or you are just into fantasy books, this is for you!
4 Abarat marks something a of comeback from one time wunderkind Barker, who for a slew of books (The Books of Blood, The Damnation Game, Weaveworld, The Great & Secret Show, Imagica, The Thief of Always, and Everville) seemed to redefine fantasy & horror in popular fiction. Wildly imaginative and surprisingly literate, these leftfield blockbusters had little in common with what passed for genre publishing in the early nineties.Then came trouble: the "personal" Sacrament, commendable but also, for the first time, dull in spots, the bizarro Galilee (stick with it for the first 400 pages and it gets interesting in the last 50), and finally the entirely unsalvagable Coldheart Canyon, a Barker novel of pure tedium.Each of these titles was increasingly "realistic," and as Coldheart Canyon made abundantly clear, nothing bores Barker like the real. In seemingly reaching for the NYT Bestseller List, the master magician was starting to put his core audience to sleep.Abarat does a reasonable job of rectifying the situation. J.K. Rowling has set free Barker's prodigious imagination with that suddenly common refrain "it's a children's book," and the conjurer is cooking again.While Abarat doesn't immediately climb the heights of Weaveworld or Imagica it is cut from their fabulist cloth -- with stiches of Everville's Lewis Carroll influence worked in. The series won't challenge Harry Potter -- Barker has neither Rowling's quick wit nor narrative drive -- but its boldly colored new world teases and pleases with Barkerian monsters, eccentrics, and wacky place names, and if this first volume is more travelogue than tale, it promises much fun to come.As to it being a children's book, well, the language is simpler and there's less disembowlment than usual, but Arabat will likely please mature fans of Barker's early work much more than the "adult" Coldheart Canyon.
1 The revised edition has no artwork (and the artwork plays a big part in this series).  Get a version with artwork. I'm returning this one.
5 This has to be one of the best books in the world. It is imaginative, thoroughly original, and it is so living and vibrant you can feel the Abarat around you.The story shifts form the drab and horrible reality, the life of Candy in Chickentown, Minnesota, but after only a shorth while you are whirled into the totaly new world of the Abarat, where place is time, and the normal rules just dont apply.The Abbarat is a collection of islands, each island being also a particular hour of the day. The book is rich in its descriptions of the new world, full of colours and athmosphere. The lively Yebba Dim Day, the oppressive Gorgossium, and wonderfull mixture of comedy and horror on Ninnyhammer.Rather than standard fantasy-creatures, the book is crammed with original wonders, all so beautifully surreal that you instantly believe it.Another great thing about this book is that it is filled with the most beautiful illustrations, both childish and sophisticated at the same time. It is almost worth buying this book just for them.The book is so effortlessly surreal that you are completely swept away by the sheer beauty of it. A worthy read, surely.So, what are you waiting for! Call up the sea, and venture forth into the Abbarat. You will never want to return.
5 When as a child I read the Chronicles of Narnia and the Wrinkle in Time series, I didn't realize that I was reading children's classics. With Clive Barker's Abarat series, I know I am. Abarat is such a 'fantastical' world and I have fallen in love with it and the people who live there. But the cherry on top of the great writing and incredibly imaginative world is the art that accompanies it. Clive's pictures are frightening, imaginative and beautiful. How lucky is a reader to be able to see exactly what was in an authors mind? It is a book lover's book. The trade paperback is of phenomenal quality, they probably need special stock to get good color saturation for the illustrations.This is a dark series with the kind of frightening characters that may haunt an imaginative child. And probably not for the under 10 crowd.
5 THIS REVIEW IS DEDICATED TO EVERYONE,INCLUDING YOU(THE READER OF MY REVIEW),MY MOM,DAD AND EVERYONE ELSE.EVEN MY IRRITATING LITTLE BROTHER,WHO IS NOTHING BUT ANNOYING....BUT STILL MY BROTHER...Nigel.This book is divided into four sections......1)Morningtide2)twilight and beyond3)Where is when?4)Wicked strangeEach section reveals something new and magical.And is well explained....Also,at the very beginning of this book there is a poem...(a poem which introduces you to what is to come)I dreamed a limitless book,A book unbound,Its leaves scattered in fantastic abundance,On every line there was a new horizon drawn,New heavens supposed;New states,new souls.One of those souls,Dozing through some imagined afternoon,Dreamed these words,And needing a hand to set them down,Made mine.(C B)Also there is this quote written From the notes of a monk of the order of St.oco:his name unknown.Three is the number of those who do holy work;Two is the number of those who do lover's work;One is the number of those who do perfect evilOr perfect good.(The above words alone shows how good this books is.When I read the above words before reading the book,I was sure that the book would be surprisingly good,and boy was I right!)Well,there is not much to say about this book that would make sense at this point in time,simply because the sequels would surely answer alot of the questions left in this book.It seems as though Mr Barker spent most of the time just  developing this world,know as "abarat".So he doesn't spend more time doing anything much.So,what he simply does is give us an intro about the place.A "rough" story to follow and alot of fantasy that would allow me to give this book five stars.It is well written,it makes you want to read the sequel almost right away.It is really good.The writer is consistent with his writing technique and gets better and better with every book.The pages in this book is so magical that it makes you wonder if such a place as "the Abarat" could exist.Although this story leaves a couple of things hanging,I am sure that they would be tended to in the future sequels.And the fun part about this book is that anybody can read it.It is not restricted to adults only,as most of his novels.It is just as good as "the thief of always",which was his first children's novel.Clive Barker has shown his unique skill to write:horror,fantasy,horror/fantasy,and even children's novels.And the good thing is that he has been successful at all his attempts.At least as far as I,a reader,am concern.He is always exploring new realms,and in this book he openly shows that skill.(a skill he displayed in "weaveworld","imajica",and "The great and secret show"...but these book weren't for children....But the thief of always has make the breakthrough for those poor children who wants a good taste of fantasy by a writer whose imagination is out of this world)...Anyway.let me begin with the plot,as best as I can explain it.(there are some good reviews written on this page by other reviewers)...The story starts with three women on a boat.Running away from some force which is not explained.But it is known that they stole something and are escaping from someone very powerful.(this world with the three women is the "Abarat")The story then goes on(this time this part of the story takes place in our part of the world,to be specific,Minnesota)It begins with a little girl named Candy Quakenbush(I am not sure of the spelling).She,Cindy,is very unusual and ill treated by many,especially her history teacher and father.She is ingnored by her mother most times.So,in othe words,she feels like she doesn't belong in Minnesota.The story then goes with Candy gathering information for a history project.Later,Candy is given an F for the project, by her stupid history teacher.When Candy finds it unbelievable she gets into an argument with her teacher.Her teacher then sends her to the principal's office.Candy then heads into the direction of the principal's office then thinks better of it,and she decides to ran away from school instead.Now,this is where things start to get a bit unbelievably good....Candy walks towards the end of a street to a dead end(just like that character in "the thief of always").While walking she notices a strange cloud in the sky,she follows in,all the while walking past the dead end into the bushes.The automatically she is in another world!(in other words,she crosses a "border" which takes her into the world of fantasy,where the Abarat is found...It is like an "Alice in Wonderland" experience)...Before I go on,let me explain briefly what the "Abarat" is:The Abarat is a series of Islands.Twenty five to be sure.And each island represents an hour of the day.And not just an hour of the day they represent,but they represent whatever emotions and moods and attitudes are felt during a particular hour.So,for example:on island might represent six o'clock in the morning.Along with this time it might represent the feeling you get at this time,along with the emotions in your heart.Which in effect,affects your behaviour and attitude.And on these islands,we find people like ourselves,with our anatomy.And others with anatomy beyond our understanding.It really is amazing how the writer describes these creatures found in the "Abarat".There are dragons,talking animals and all sorts of ugly as well as beautiful creatures/humans/animals.There is also alot of magic and spells etc.(it has almost everything you would look for in a typical fantasy story like..kings,princesses etc)..In this story there are also tales of love.One in particular I would describe as I go on....Anyway,when Candy finds herself in this fantasy world,she is quickly amazed and curious.She meets the John brothes.Which is basically eight People stuck together in some unimaginable way!The John brothers are thieves and they have with them a stolen key.They manage to talk Candy into going into a tower to "put on a light".As she puts on this light,a sea called the "sea of izabella",instantly fills the area.And the area becomes a sea!And while all this is happening a bad guy is after the John brothes,to get the key from them.The john brothers give Candy the key to keep.And later they promise to take it backSo now they simply want Candy to go back to the normal world(minnesota),which is known as the Hereafter by the Abaratian people and hide there.But Candy insists on going with them to the Abaratian Islands.And the John brothers agree to take her.The start to swim in the" sea of izabella" towards the islands.Soon after Candy is separated from the John brothers by the water currents.She then gets help by some "underwater card players".They take her safely to on of the islands,where she is safe for a while.Candy then meets a man who begins to show her around the island.She is later kidnapped by a giant moth.Meanwhile,the John brothers meet a few people on board a ship.Their mission was to rescue a man called Finnegan.And later in the story the John Brothers offer their help in finding Finnegan.Let me tell you a little about Finnegan...he was supposed to marry a beautiful princess.But on his wedding day she was eaten by a dragon.Finnegan then made himself a promise to kill all the dragons he could find.But somewhere during his adventures he went missing....So these people abroad the boad with the John brothers are friends of Finnegan's.And they want to find him..These people know that the John brothers are thieves,but they ignore it and offer the John brothers a ride on their boat.Please don't get it wrong...These John brothers are thieves,but they are still good people!At least so far in the story they are.Anyway,during the boat journey a terrible dragon damages their boat and harms them....later the John brothers and the other crew members go onto the closest island...which is the island they intend to start looking for Finnegan.But in this part of the story the John brothers are badly hurt from an earlier attack by the dragon!So,he is unconscious....Before I go on,let me just say that so far there is only one main villain in the story.He is bad,but bad as he is it is impossible to hate him.His is a sad story by itself.He was in love with a woman.And after asking for her hand in marriage she refused.And he realized that she Hated him.For one simple reason:he was very ugly!His heart was badly broken and it fueled his rage throughout the story....(his name is,"Christopher Carrion)(I know so far some things don't make sense.I don't expect them to,at least not yet.Because like I said,this book is only the first.And at the same time it is difficult to summarize it.So I am trying my best to write about the book without writing the whole story down!)Let me go on now:Candy finds herself on one of the islands where she is temporarily held hostage by a magician.She soon escapes with the help of the magician's slave.Upon escape she and the magician's slave(Malingo)find themselves heading towards the twenty fifth island!Here Candy meets the three sisters.(the ones I mentioned at the beginning)These sisters reveal to Candy that she has a destiny and a purpose in the Abarat.(it is not said what).Candy is confident that she has been in the Abarat already and she has feelings of being there.Though her thoughts are still yet vague.Pretty soon Candy leaves the twenty fifth island along with Malingo.(she doesn't leave the island willingly though,but the keeper of the twenty fifth island made her leave,forcibly).They journey away from the twenty fifth island and continues...................(the story ends)(The twenty fifth island is known as the island of "time out of time".It contains all the past continuous and future continuous actions at the same time,it is seemingly a sort of "brain" for the other islands.There is a lot of mysterious things about this island that is not yet fully esplained.I hope that it would be in the future sequels).And also,before I forget,in the ending of the story it can be clearly seen that Christopher Carrion(the lord of midnight,who is the main villain so far and the leader of one of the islands) is planning a war against the other islands....restlessly he ponders,in the darkness of the island,repeating but only one word...Candy...Candy...Candy...At the end of the book there is an appendix(klepp's Almanak)which explains alot about the twenty five islands.And alot more.I think it was very thoughtful of Mr Barker to put this in.After reading this appendix,things start to make alot more sense..And it helps to prepare you for the sequel....."Days of magic,Nights of war"..........Enjoy................this review was written by Nigel.
5 I really like Candy Quakenbrush a lot. She's a really eccentric likeable charachter, who is well-portrayed by Mr. Barker. Her unusual personality would easily be a turn off in many other books, but in Arabat, it gives her an amount of reality that really endears her to the reader.I just can't believe that they'd attempt to make a movie out of this!
3 Just how do you get an ocean in Minnesota?  To have it appear out of no where is an interesting concept.
4 I kept delaying buying this, kept looking at it in stores, turning it over and reading the dustjacket blurb.  Finally I just took the plunge, thought "It's Clive Barker, what the hey" and bought it.  Boy am I glad I did, and also glad I didn't wait around for the paperback to come out.I became a little cautious reading the first page and started thinking maybe I was a little too old for this, but there was a connection with Candy Quackenbush - I knew what she felt like because I'd been there too, not many years ago.  Anyway, I'm not going to go into depth about plot (others before have been kind enough to do that for me) but I will say this: it's imaginative, colourful, funny, disturbing, and a damn fine read.The hardback is great to have, it was a pleasure to turn the glossy pages and unexpectedly be met with beautiful colour illustrations.  I felt a great disappointment when I got to the end and realised that I had to wait for the next book to come out!This is one of those books that you'll buy for your child only to find you can't tear yourself away from it!  I hope the next instalment is just as enjoyable!
4 This is BEAUTIFULLY written. Great imagination, plot and characters! Anyone into fantasy should read this fabulous book. I can't wait 'till the next one comes out.
5 My copy was in very good condition, and the story is excellent! I'm saving it for a gift for my brother. :)
5 The AbaratBy Clive BarkerBook review by Hannah .HCandy Quackenbush thought - and still thinks, that Chickentown, Minnesota is the most boring place in the world. She hated her life. Chickentown revolves around - what else - chickens. Stupid, worthless, chickens. She lived there all of her life, and knows nothing else. Candy longed for something new and exiting, and one fateful day, she finds it.One day, her middle school class was giving presentations about ten important things about Chickentown. She gave a presentation about Henry Murkitt, whose Grandfather founded Chickentown. She also wrote about Henry's demise, supposedly a suicide. Her teacher was in a bad mood, and gave her an F. She threw the paper onto Candy's desk, and knocked some of Candy's supplies off the desk. "Pick that up!" the teacher said, her voice rising, " Pick that trash up!"  Candy was not feeling so joyful herself. "No," she said, "you knocked it down, you pick it up." From there, Candy was sent to the principal's office and instead of going, she ran. Down the hallway, through the door, she ran out to an old lighthouse in the middle of a huge field outside of town. This is where the adventure begins.When she came to the field, Candy saw a very odd sight. A little man with antlers! And on his antlers were heads! She befriends this man and helps him get back to his world. She does this by climbing up the lighthouse steps and throws a ball into a little cup. Somehow she summoned the sea to Minnesota! Candy is swept off to the Abarat with this man. Abarat is a world of wonder and mystery, kind of like a young child's imagination. The Abarat is made up of many islands, and each island is a time. There is midnight isle, where it is always midnight, and many other isles where it is always one time. At the Abarat she meets card-playing sea-sippers, Tarrie cats, and geshrats. Clive Barker has created a fabulous mixture between Alice in Wonderland and, well, something out of his own imagination.When Candy gets to the Abarat, she finds herself being pursued by Christopher Carrion, the prince of the Midnight isle. He sends Mendelus shape after her. Shape is a vicious and brutal... well, I cannot call him human, but he is an amazingly horrible being. He enjoys singing lullabies to his victims such as this one. " Forget the future, forget the past, life is over, breathe your last." Candy finds herself lost in the mystery of the Abarat, and the mystery of the Princess Bella. Want to find out more? Read the book, and let yourself be swept away by the waves of the Abarat.
5 and used thouroughly original ideas......the only clich&eacute; in this book was the beginning with Candy being bored with her home and wanting an adventure...gimme a break...amyways almost every single thing in this book is creative and fun to read, however, it is darker than the Harry Potter books. The fabulous pictures only enhance the experiance of reading abarat.the sequel to this book came out it is called Abarat: Days of Magic. Nights of war. I am glad there is a sequal, if there wasn't, well, Abarat drops off abrubtly with out an ending, but so did the Fellowship of the Ring, so read it, it will be good!
5 Clive Barker's first novel in his four part series, "Abarat" is a fantastic fantasy story for children and adults of all ages who might have enjoyed the classics such as the "Chronicles of Narnia" or "Alice in Wonderland".  It all starts with Candy Quackenbush who is bored with life in the small town of Chickentown, Minnesota.  One day, after running out of an embarrassing situation in school, Candy comes to a mysterious lighthouse in the middle of prairie and with the help of the  character of John Mischief (whose brothers all live on his antlers!)  Candy summons the sea of Mama Izabella and journeys to the fantastic land of the Abarat, where only the imagination is your limit.  But trouble awaits there where villains are anxious to get their hands on the mysterious girl who comes from the human world of the Hereafter.  "Abarat" accomplishes everything that high fantasy needs to have to be successful; believable and likeable main characters, scary villains, imagination, a wonderful world to explore, and magic!  Barker's talent for storytelling results in a wonderful new fantasy series that is worthy to be held in the categories with all of the other children classics.  The full color paintings and illustrations also painted by Barker are an added bonus to the story and they will draw you in even further to the adventures of Candy. This story is not to be missed and it is highly recommended fantasy!
4 I really liked this book. The illustrations threw me off at first, but the art is actually very well unique and adds to the story. I also like that it's not all "unicorns and rainbows". Very excited for the next book to come out later this year.
5 barker is a  genius period  own all read all love any and all books and movies  ten stars if possible
4 Sometimes I find it hard to get into a fantasy book that is part of a series. I feel like all the author does is try to set up characters and settings. That wasn't the case here. We meet our heroine, Candy Quackenbush of Minnesota, right away and her journey to the islands of Abarat starts quickly. I enjoyed the several stories besides Candy's that were being told at the same time, for I was curious where other characters had gone and what they were up to. I also thought the pictures were great to help me imagine what the creatures Candy met looked like. I really can't wait to the read the next book in the series.
5 Candy Quakenbush lives in a small town named Chickentown in Minnesota.  She always feels different from the other people in Chickentown and she is not really friends with anyone there.  One day after running away from school, she meets a boy named John Mischief and his seven brothers, all of whom have the first name John, in a field outside of town.  She is later swept away with John Mischief and his brothers to a strange, new world on the Sea of Isabella. This new world is called the Abarat, where there is and island for every hour of the day.  Everything is different in the Abarat; the star constellations are completely different from Chickentown and a myriad of it's inhabitants are beyond Candy's imagination.  But with all of these whimsical people, there all also evil ones, such as Christopher Carrion and Otto Houlihan the Criss-Cross Man.  Follow Candy on her adventures and explorations in the amazing Abarat.I really like this book a lot.  It was very different from other books that I have read and it was unique.  I thought that it was interesting how there was an island for every hour and that each island was different from all of the others.  The only thing that I really did not like was that Abarat got somewhat boring and slow at times, but when it began to get too boring, something would always happen to quicken the pace.  Also, I like how that characters and inhabitants of the Abarat were all different and no two characters look exactly alike or had a personality like another.  Abarat was also very descriptive and everything was explained well.  There were also pictures throughout the book to help readers imagine scenes, characters, and events well.  Clive Barker, the author, used very good figurative language, so it was very easy to picture the book.I think that Abarat is a book that both boys and girls, kids and adults, would enjoy.  People that like the Harry Potter books might also like this book because it has some magic and fantasy creatures in it.  If you have read other books by Clive Barker, you would enjoy Abarat, too.  Any one that is a fan of fantasy, magic, fiction, or is just looking for a unique book to read would like Abarat.  Abarat also has a sequel called Abarat : Days of Magic, Nights of War.
5 Well, others have covered the plot so I won't do it again.What I will say is that I found this magical and felt myself revelling (spelling?) in the sheer creativity and "otherness" of this book.Truly, though, be prepared to let your imagination roam and create this marvelous place, Abarat, in your minds eyes.Some books require that you slow down your reading and digest the imagery being created to fully enjoy it.  This, I believe, is one of them.  Then again, maybe it's only because I'm an adult.  Younger readers may see this world immediately.There are rewards aplenty here.  Let yourself see them.
3 ...so call me shallow!  But the roughly 100 colorful oilpaintings gracing this book's glossy pages are marvelous!  It is certainly a beautiful book to look at.Unfortunately, this only conceals the sloppy prose and absence of plot for the first third of the stoy.  It was this first third I enjoyed most:  the main character Candy Quackenbush doing research on her home of Chickentown, Henry Murkit's mysterious suicide, Candy's escape from classroom to prarie.  I loved how, as she walks toward a windswept ridge, she begins to find pottery shards, shells and dry fish carcasses.  An ocean in Minnasota?? But then...the book gets a bit weird.  Umm, make that a LOT weird, as in hallucinatory drug-induced weird.  Sea skippers?  I can buy that. A 7-headed fugitive?  Okay...  But as for squid-goggles, crawling disembodied eyes and a glass-jar-headed villain???  Over-the-top craziness with no semblence of structure!Arabat is a fantasy world with no rhyme, reason or rules.  Anything the author can mentally conjure up goes.  But what bugged me most was that the main character Candy had no motivation or quest in Arabat except to stay out of the way of Lord Midnight.  She wanders (or floats) about aimlessly, wondering "why am I here?"  The question is never answered...neither does she grow or undergo any sort of change for the better.  I was starting to think she deserved to be sent back to Chickentown USA.  Maybe an actual plot will be revealed in book two of the series, but I hardly have the patience to find out.
5 I've read unauthorized accounts of the astonishing personal and incredible musical story of Steve Earl's life. I was particularly interested in reading this book because author Lauren St John was granted unrestricted and candid access to information by Steve Earl and his acquaintances. I imagined that such a book would be worth reading. It definitely was. St John did a fabulous and comprehensive job. If you know anything at all about Steve Earle you appreciate that being comprehensive about him is no small feat.
5 WE FOLLOWED HIS RAW ROCK A BILLY FROM CANADA. WHEN HE WAS A PUNK AND DRUGGUIN UP.....HE WAST THE BEST
4 I would recommend this book to anyone that is at least a casual fan of Steve Earle's music.  The book is intriguing because of the reckless life that Steve Earle leads.  Ironically, it seems that it is this recklessness which distinguishes him as a great song writer; He goes through so many highs and lows and is able to transpose these emotions into songs. If you are familiar with Steve's songs, then you may even enjoy the book even more. The book allows you to gain insight into the circumstances surrounding him at the time that he wrote a particular song.
2 As an example of celebrity biography, this book is passible; it, at least, held my interest enough to allow me to finish it. Unfortunately, I had picked the volume up with the hopes of gaining some insight into Steve Earle as a musician and songwriter, not a mass of gossip about a person who happens to be a musician and songwriter.St. John amply demonstrates the shortcomings of a journalist's approach to biographies: the facts are--these, as noted in other reviews here, not being well checked--presented sans interpretation or insight and there is nothing to be gained from this book that could not be gained by reading sundry articles by other journalists.The author, again as noted in other reviews here, clearly is a fan and just as clearly does not seem to know much either about music per se or the specific traditions Steve Earle fits into and is in the process of transforming.Don't throw the book away if someone gives it to you, but don't bother buying it, either.
4 Steve Earle is emerging as the talent many critics and fellow musicians predicted he would become years ago, before his battle with The Big H almost killed him.  I, for one, am glad to see Earle's continued evolution through songs and books.  This book's only flaw is one I can forgive if not completely overlook: the author's obviously deep love for her subject.  Her praise for Earle is a little over-the-top, albeit she does temper it with detailed reporting about his failures as a father and husband (hell, for that matter as a boyfriend!), as a performer and a bandleader.  If you like your stories told with honesty and truth, you'll love this book.  I did.
4 There is stuff in this book I doubt Earle remembers, but it's to his credit that he has survived to become the vital artist he is. Your appriciation of him will grow as you learn more about his intelligent, but frequently "ill-informed" (to put it nicely) ways.
5 Steve Earle is a remarkable man who has led a remarkable life.  He has pushed the boundaries of country music making more than half a dozen excellent albums, relentlessly chasing his muse at the expense of his relationships with his family, wives (married six times to five different women) and children, he has overcome a serious drug problem (so serious it nearly killed him), he has been to prison, he has been a political activist fighting against the death penalty.Apart from the short prologue (which hints at the drug problems to come), the book is written in a strict chronological structure, chronicling his childhood in small town Texas, his song writing apprenticeship at the feet of Townes Van Zandt (a good teacher but a bad influence) and Guy Clark, the creation of his early groundbreaking albums against the background of his serious relationship with heroin and his many marriages, his descent into personal hell under the weight of his drug addiction and his time in prison before he emerges, clean, to re-launch his musical career making even better music, becoming more active in protests against the death penalty, finding love again and starting to try to resolve his relationships with his children.The biggest problem author, Lauren St John, faced was how to do justice to such a complex character who has led such rich (and difficult) life in a little less than 400 pages.  There is so much information to include that it sometimes makes it difficult to paint of picture of the man himself.  Within the constraints of the genre, St John has done a very good job indeed.  What emerges is an immensely driven and complex man who has led a tempestuous life - he is apparently hugely charismatic and charming but also clearly a difficult man to deal with and at times, self-destructive.  This book does not view Earle through rose-tinted glasses it is often brutally honest about his failings and his behaviour (particularly during the darkest days of his drug addiction) - as such it sometimes makes unpleasant and depressing reading.  However, in many ways it is a tale of redemption through creativity and as such is optimistic and uplifting.  It also helps that Earle has a great talent for the memorable one-liner, some of which had me collapsing in laughter.There is one caveat: the book is not finished.  It finishes with the Guitar Town reunion tour before Jerusalem was released, so the controversy provoked by that album and in particular the John Walker's Blues is not covered.  However, this is a minor caveat; this is still an excellent book and well worth reading (particularly if you are a fan of his music).
4 I'm buying copies of this book for each of our kids - to show them one path through life they shouldn't even consider walking down.  Steve Earle's life story isn't really all that new.  Other artists, including numerous musicians have had difficulty with drug addiction following bouts with success in their craft.  But Earle's story is nonetheless chilling and at times painful to absorb.  The facts come crashing down like broken glass, leaving the reader to ponder just how Mr. Earle managed to survive THAT disaster.I gave this book four stars and in terms of literary quality, that is a generous rating.  I agree with reviewer Dale Miles's conclusion that a skilled editor could have helped significantly with the writing quality.  To be more specific, I'd have enjoyed a more in-depth analysis of Earle's music and of the music that inspired him.  I'd like to know more about his philosophical and political beliefs - simply put, I'm sure more flesh could have been put on the bones of this story.Aside from those criticisms, I must admit that I'm hearing Steve Earle's music from a new perspective now.  Back in real time, I'd heard of his addictions and of his battles with the music industry, but the numerous hard-luck stories revealed within Hardcore Troubador have a cumulative effect on the reader.  Now, when I think about how I reacted to his weathered appearance at the Johnny Cash CMT tribute event, it all makes more sense.  Earle's life episodes have certainly given him the blues and folk foundation from which he has drawn to create beautiful art, but I pity the man for what he's lived through in order to produce it.
2 I love Bio's. I love Earle's music.  I expected to really enjoy this book and I did not.  It was the first bio, of hundreds, that I nearly did not finish. There are so many problems.  It is ruefully padded.  Far too long to impart such little info.  I kept wondering why Dave Marsh or other competent biographer did not write this book.  Was it self edited?  Was it edited?  It seemed to me that while Earle may have cooperated, almost all the stories are from other (mostly family) sources.  I think she had them for months and Steve for a day.  These stories are sometimes followed by a short, often very short, confirmation quote from Earle.  Sometimes Earle does not remember or confirm it.  One thing is for sure. I bought a book about Steve Earle.  I got far too much non Steve family story stuff which is quite nice at a family reunion but not something that should be inflicted on an innocent reading public. The authors overall style does not reflect talent for the bio.  There is far too much explaination of news and pop references.  For example, several pages about "in cold blood" and it's relationship to the death penelty and Earle's opposition to it.  I read ICB several times.  Have seen both movies several times.  The first one many times.  Read and saw Copote discuss it.  Don't you need to give a little credit to a person who purchased Steve Earles "bio"?.  Way too much explaination about well known facts.  Then it is the political tone.  Of course I was aware of Earle's far left politics.  But the author seems left of Earle.  Too much "assumptive" author opinion.  Her opinion's, which do not belong there in the first place are often stated in a matter of fact way as though everyone with a brain agrees with her and or Earle.  For instance folk, country, blue grass and rock music was stolen from black people or native americans, etc.  If I disagree I must be a racist.  Another example is during passages that show the depravity of Earle's herion abuse, which started before he was near shaving age.  She always points out that alcohol is an evil drug and sometimes provides an example.  Where is the beef?  A brilliant song writer.  A real life Fonzie like cool and confidence.  A drug addicted monster who badly damages and uses those who love him or try to help him.  There is a great story not being told here.  Clyde Barrow was a hell of a nice guy when he did not shoot you.  Was it mean old capitolism that made Steve keep shoving it in his arm?  Wasteing his genious and abusing people. Was it the guitar that attracted or made them put up with it? Where is the source of this power?  Where is the truth?  Why do people take his causes seriously when during years when he had herion in his body nonstop?  From cover to cover the author uses "guitar town" as Earle's opus?  Was "guitar town" Earles opus?  Was croc/rock Elton's opus or "benny". Of course not.  Maybe their best known.  This smacks of an author who loved Earle's politics going in but did not really understand his music. Or the music it must be compared to to understand it. I did not know this was a love letter written by a fan with plenty of excuses for unexcusable behavior.  I would have expected the far left crap all the way through if it had been an auto-bio.  But her point of view sounds like the New York times.  Not a pop music biographer.  There is a good book yet to be written about Earle.
5 With so many unauthorized and even authorized bios out there about talentless and useless &quot;celebrities&quot; I am so glad to a see a book that finally gives due to a true artist, someone with actual, measurable talent - Steve Earle. With complete subjectivity - I must admit I am a huge fan of Steve Earle. I have been so since his first album, Guitar Town. Since then I have &quot;re-found&quot; Mr. Earle's work over the last 5-6 years. With each album that he puts out he tends to raise the bar slightly higher. But the bar he raises is his own, one that only he must reach and overcome. His bar is not one that can easily be reached by too many artists. This book covers not only the artistry of the man, not just the music but what drives the lyrics behind the music. If you are a fan of Mr. Earle's music then this is a must-buy. If are only a passing fan or someone who is slightly interested in the man, the genere of his music (which is hard to define) or just looking for some insight into the creative mind - then I hight recommend you buy this book.
4 Steve Earle chose to dive into the fires of hell at a young age. Before the age of 30 he had tried just about every drug under the sun and was a hardcore heroin addict. What's amazing is that Steve managed to do all this, still write amazing albums and perform and tick off everyone who cared for him in the process. Such is the life of a drug addict.St. John's often unflattering biography (written with Earle's co-operation and input from friends, family members and former friends and business associates)captures this dynamo in action; he knew from the start what type of songs he wanted to write and record. It was always a matter of finding someone that would let him do it. The same thing goes for his drug abuse. He managed to go down for the third time and still save himself. He also managed to alienate just about anyone that cared for him without any insight into his immoral and reckless behavior.Luckily, the same insight that allows him to inhabit the characters of his often heartbreaking songs, eventually allowed him to see himself for what he was; a junkie wielding his needle like a bulldozer and rolling everyone and everything he cared about. He still disagrees with some of his former associates, lovers, wives (he's been married 4 times and had two children out of wedlock)but he's just as apt to turn that critical eye on himself and attack his own behavior in the past.He's still an amazing writer and performer. Unlike his mentor Townes Van Zant, Earle managed to recapture his life before his self destructive behavior took too much of a physical toll (the best quote from Earle--"If I thought I'd live this long I would have taken better care of myself" applies to him as much as to Van Zant). He just managed to finally capture the demons driving him, bottle them up and put them on the shelf for display in his songs. They'll always threaten to break out but at least he has a place to put them where they'll do less harm to him and others.He could be (and sometime still is) an awful person to those he loves. Fortunately, he recognizes the addictive behavior that drove him for so long and drove those around him away. Hardcore Troubador is a harrowing but irrestible read--just like the very drugs that almost destroyed Earle.
5 I'd never really heard of Humphrey Davy or William Herschel, and barely heard of Joseph Banks.  But these scientists and others presented in this excellent book are described along with their discoveries, and help frame the context of the age in which they lived.  I know almost nothing of the Romantic period, and this book makes me wonder why.If we could only teach these stories instead of some of the junk that TV and movies give us so often.Congrats, Richard Holmes, on a great job teaching and storytelling.
5 Not for everyone but a wonderful book for those interested in the history of science.  The depth of scholarship is offset by a marvelous lightness of tone, making this book a pleasure from every point of view.
4 This book chronicles the lives of a number of (primarily British) scientists and explorers who lived and worked during the late 1700s and early 1800s in the so-called "Romantic Age" - a time which the author, Richard Holmes, calls the "Age of Wonder."  I liked the book because it was well written, taught me some history, and was unique in several respects.The most unique aspect of the book is the extent to which Holmes co-mingles the histories of the poets and scientists of the Age, and my feeling is that this is both one of the book's strengths, and its weaknesses.  One of the main points Holmes makes throughout the book is that though we tend to think of the Romantic Age as antithetical to science, it was - in fact - a time in which many important scientific discoveries were made.  Moreover, Holmes argues that a number of the Romantic poets - far from being reactionaries against science -in fact embraced it, and incorporated scientific concepts into their works.  The book is peppered with Romantic poems that contain scientific references.  Intertwined with the biographies of the scientists of the Age, these poems make a compelling case that the scientists and poets of the time worked together as peers, rather than as intellectual enemies.  Holmes goes on to point out that several of the Romantic poets studied science in school, and that several of the scientists of the time dabbled in poetry.  The poets and scientists both belonged to an elite, intellectual class.  They knew each other professionally, and - sometimes - socially.This is all quite interesting, and offers a unique view of the Romantic Age.  However, I'm not 100% convinced that Holmes is being altogether fair in his descriptions of the extent to which the authors and scientists interacted.  Holmes is, after all, a well-known biographer of Romantic literary figures, and it is clear in this book that he wants to tie his scientific subjects back to his field of literary expertise.  That makes me a little suspicous.  Did the scientists and authors of the time *really* live synergistically?  Or has Holmes - with the bias of a man who has researched literature for 50 years - cherry-picked the data to serve the book's agenda?Similarly, I fault Holmes for not making a better distinction between the scientific community and the broader population.  In his book, Holmes often makes it sound as if the entire country of England - and much of Europe - was tuned in and engaged in the scientific advances, debates, and public lectures of the time.  But this was certainly not the case, because (among other things) a full 40% of the English population in 1800 was illiterate.  I strongly suspect that the scientific debates of the time were confined to a very small, elite subset of the population...but if this was stated in the book, I missed it.  Thus, we are left with a mistaken impression of the extent to which science was on the minds of the common person.The book has a few other flaws.  For one thing, it is loosely structured around the life of Sir Joseph Banks, (president of the Royal Society from 1778 - 1820).  While it is a clever idea to structure the book in this way, Holmes is - unfortunately - forced to stray from his own framework by Mr. Bank's inconvenient demise in 1820 - more than a decade before the end of the history he wants to relate.  At the same time, the book gets bogged down:  Holmes stops discussing scientific advances, and fills a chapter with descriptions of the mind-numbingly-dull end-of-life crisis and fantasy writings of Sir Humphrey Davey.  Blah.In spite of these issues, the book is really quite good.  One thing I liked about it was the way in which Holmes interprets the writings of his subjects, and offers insights into what they may have been thinking or feeling at the time.  As a rule, I tend *not* to like it when historians take liberties with facts, inject interpretations, and make conjectures.  I do not like it when history is turned into historical fiction through speculation.  However in this case, the interpretations that Holmes provides - and the conclusions he draws from them - are convincing and insightful.  Thanks to his analysis, a diary entry...or a poem...or a paragraph in a scientific lab notebook - becomes a window into the life of the scientist or poet who wrote it.  It really works, and it makes the book much richer.  I wonder if the reason why Holmes succeeds here - while other authors fail - is that as an expert on Romantic poetry, Holmes has made a career of interpreting writing, and is therefore very good at it!Overall, this was an interesting read, and I'd recommend it.  I learned a lot about the lives of the scientists William and Carolyn Herschel and Humphrey Davy, and the explorers Joseph Banks, and Mungo Park - as well as a little bit about some of the romantic writers, Mary Shelly, Keats, and Coolidge - to name a few.  I am particularly intrigued by what I learned of the poet Erasmus Darwin - the grandfather of Charles Darwin - who seems to have written some really interesting scientific poetry (e.g. The Botanic Garden).
5 The author makes this history read like a nail biting drama - what will Davy discover next? Will he foil his scientific genius with his outsized ego and penchant for fly fishing? I raced through the chapters to find out what happens next (200 years ago). There must have been 1000s of sources all wrapped together and glued with intermittent poetry to tell a coherent and compelling brief history of the romantic era scientists. Well written, engaging, and a pleasure to read.
5 I just want to note that Michael Dirda gave 'The Age of Wonder' a wonderful review in the Sunday (8/2/2009) Washington Post.
3 Look, I get this is an academic subject but to draw me in you have to write a whole lot better. I gave up halfway through this book as although I found the information on the Mongolfier brothers' ballooning, Joseph Banks' life in Tahiti and William Herschel's exploration of the stars really wonderful, the chapters all began to sound exactly the same.They'd all seem to start off introducing the topic or person with background on their parents and family life leading up to whatever it is they became famous for. Then we'd end all chapters with some connection to a Romantic poet.I also found the whole book way too English-centric. Yes, there are French scientists and inventors thrown in but I just felt could it really be that Britain rules the science waves, too?Anyway, another annoying point is the fact some totally fascinating aspects are never fully explained. Apparently back in 1700s, ordinary people attended scientific and medical lectures and this created "stars" of these people. It seems unfathomable in this day and age so was this the way the world was back then pre-movies/TV?Then there's the whole ability to actually earn a living by having royalty pay for scientists to tinker around. Again, a different era as today scientists would be employed by the private sector or in universities. There's also the case of William Herschel originally making a living in music by farming himself out as a music teacher cum conductor in small towns around England. I found that totally fascinating as if every little town competed against every other town for some musical status.These nuggets do make the book rise but then are dragged down by this dirge-like text. This book needed a much sharper editor to pare it down to crisper text. The thing is 466 pages long and has a 58-page index! That's all well and good if you doing an academic paper but this is put out by Harper Press for the general public. Cut the chafe and get to the wheat of the matter and this book would be a solid 5 stars.
3 A decent book with some great chapters and passages, especially early on.  But Holmes is more in love with his subjects than most readers are likely to be and the book is at least 100 pages too long.  The latter half is mostly biographical details of courtship and marriage, politics within the Royal Society, and scientists struggling to preserve their reputations.  Read voraciously, then skim.
5 Great read!  It's a well written presentation of the intellectual challenges and insights that gave rise to our current appreciation and delight in the natural world.
5 This is a marvelous book, depicting an era where scientific work was far different than it is now.  One did not need years of training or huge government investment to make a major discovery back then, but rather hard work and ingenuity.  As an example, an amateur like William Hershel, a composer and instrument-maker could become the greatest astronomer of his generation.  What's more, the discoveries were intelligible to all educated men of the time and could affect the arts, as we see from scientific comments of writers such as Samuel Johnson, Coleridge, Keats, Shelley.  Who would ever have known that the author of the RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER also coined the word "psychosomatic" and may have coined the word "scientist"?  The writer of this book did.
5 Richard Holmes has succeeded in writing a brilliant account of a magical period of British science.If you have any interest in the lives of some of the leading men and women of the early 1800s who advanced our store of hard knowledge of the physical world, both on earth and to the stars, or of those who thought about such questions in a poetic way--buy this book. And, purchase it as well for any bright youth of your acquaintance.Flesh and blood people, burdened with personal problems and subject to the prevailing thoughts of the day, populate this book. How they achieved is as interesting as what they achieved. Mr. Holmes brings together literature and science of that era under the common question that still drives the best of both: "Why?"
4 Ever considered the relationship between poetry and science? Though they now seem disparate and at odds, the literary and scientific communities were once closely linked and often intertwined.  During this "Age of Wonder," some scientists were nearly as apt to write a poem as a thesis.  Richard Holmes sets out to paint a picture of this wonderful time when creativity and scientific innovation were flowing freely.  This is a nice image and provides an interesting premise for the book.  However, Holmes' portrait of the Romantic era glamorizes the lives of a few for the sake of a theme and downplays the lives of the majority at the time.After a positive review in Time magazine piqued my interest, I started reading this book.  Having been unfamiliar with Holmes' previous work and not read any other reviews beforehand, the interlacing of poetry within the text caught me by surprise.  At first, the poetic lines seemed out of place and distracting.  By the end of the book, I had learned to appreciate this clever device for its resultant effect.  It serves greatly to underscore the explicit theme of interdependence between the creative and scientific worlds during this time.Though exceptionally well-researched, this book is, at base a misrepresentation of facts.  It could be stated that it is a deliberate romantic portrayal by selective distillation of the stories of thousands of scientists from the era.  More accurately, Holmes has written a conglomeration of biographies of some of the more interesting and atypical scientists and presented it as a historical depiction of the period.  Without belaboring the point further, potential readers should be aware of this.Once you have accepted the above, it is a fascinating read that does a fantastic job of describing the lives of some truly notable figures in history and their momentous impact to the world.
4 This is a sort of appetizer for anyone interested in the cultural context of 19th century science. There are some howlers in the notes (for instance, the Doppler shift was *not* used to determine the distance between the Milky Way & the Andromeda Galaxy), so I wonder who was Holmes' scientific fact-checker. On the other hand, many biographies of great scientists are amazingly smallbore, & Age of Wonder broadens the view.
3 Released to tremendous critical acclaim, 'The Age of Wonder' is a mesmerizing journey through the rise and development of English science from the mid-18th century to mid-19th century. Since this coincided with the birth of Romantic poetry - mainly propelled by the likes of Coleridge, Shelley, Byron, Keats, Wordsworth et al - Holmes calls this era of science the era of 'Romantic' science. It is a fair description because apart from being closely attached to some of the aforementioned poets, the scientists of this era came to share the same sense of wonder and awe of the discoveries they were making as their literary counterparts.The narrative is anchored by one Sir Joseph Banks, whose influential 40+ year tenure as the president of the Royal Society saw the nurturing of such homegrown talent as Humphry Davy and Michael Faraday and immigrants such as the brother-sister duo of William and Caroline Herschel.We begin the book with a young Joseph Banks landing on the shores of island of Tahiti in 1769 as part of one of James Cook's legendary voyages. Tahiti was seen as Paradise by contemporary Europeans. Banks spent considerable time on that island fraternizing with the locals and eagerly learning their customs and their language. He returned to his native England a universally revered hero for bringing back riveting stories of new lands.From there Holmes spends each chapter describing new advances in the age in chemistry, astronomy, exploration of Africa, and (in a delightful chapter that dispenses a lot of arcana) ballooning.We learn about the Hanoverian immigrants William and Caroline Herschel who changed astronomy forever and almost instantaneously extended our notion of the universe with their home-made telescopes of great magnifying power. We learn about Mungo Park, the doomed Scottish explorer who died during his heroic exploration of Africa and sparked many a poems and lores. We learn about Rozier and the Montgolfier brothers and their balloons which captured the imagination of the French and the English.In each chapter Holmes combines letters, journals and contemporary reports to weave a gripping story. He takes us right to the place of the action and makes us feel emotionally (and physically) close to the main cast of characters. We feel we are right there with Davy and his young assistant Faraday during the tense months they spent inventing a new safety lamp for miners. We can see the new comets that Caroline Herschel saw through her seven-foot telescope.Holmes artfully closes the book by describing the rise of the new breed of scientists - John Herschel, Charles Darwin, Charles Babbage et al - and the aspirations and ambition they brought to the fore. I also enjoyed how he consciously highlighted the achievements of women scientists like Caroline Herschel (the first woman to ever receive a stipend from the King for her work as astronomer's assistant) and Mary Somerville.The reason I gave three stars to this well-researched book is Holmes tends to digress too much. It is clear he has in-depth knowledge of Romantic poetry but his constant infusion of the views of these poets becomes too distracting sometimes. Additionally, he has a tendency of ascribing intent and views to these poets and scientists where none might exist. This speculation is needless and often detracts from an otherwise fine narrative. He also focuses on minutiae sometimes which mars enjoyment of the book.But don't let these criticisms keep you from reading this fine, unique work. It is definitely a great experience if you can overlook the flaws I mentioned above.
5 This book is a thrilling account of the personalities that shaped 19th century science and paved the way for professional scientists. Holmes provides a compelling tale about what it was like to do science in the romantic era. In the beginning of the book, we find science to be a gentleman's game, where ambitious, thrill seeking men of leisure set out to probe the depths of the natural world. While the adventures of Banks and Park feed into the common notion of the Romantic-era ethos in which this century was defined, the stories of Herschel and Faraday gives us a real sense of how scientific discovery often happens through pain-stakingly careful and systematic examination of subject over time (in many cases years). This book describes how science proceeds while giving us a glimpse into how each scientist dealt with the setbacks, misgivings, and ultimately triumphs that come through perseverance. A must read for both the practicing scientist as well as the enthusiast or historian.
3 I bought this book because of the glowing reviews, and the glowing reviews are correct. However, this book simply isn't my type of thing and I stopped half way through. The book consists of various chapters chronicling a biographical sketch of a scientist from the &#34;Age of Wonder.&#34; The book is well researched and can be interesting, but reading biographies is not what I had in mind.
5 I heard about this book at Chicago Lit Fest and was delighted to purchase such an uplifting book. It is a book filled with awe inspiring stories of scientist in a previous age:the Romantic Age of Science. What appealed to me is not only the readability of the text but also the passion and exuberance with which the stories are told.  In the back of the book there is a 'cast list of people' who are vivaciously told about in the book. It is delightful to read such a detailed and formidable book such as this.
5 - Holmes has created a special language that travels with ease and grace through poetry and science- the narrative (nonfiction as it is) weaves together tales of exploration, electricity, gasses, astronomy with some of the best literature written in the same period- it is mind-blowing to me that he was able to take on something like this, undaunted, and neither get carried away nor become pointlessly fixed on details- he has the perfect measure for the right amount of information to include- even when a paragraph or page or chapter is so dense as to require multiple, back-to-back, re-readings, it is refreshing to revisit the passage because it is so well written; it feels the same as when you go right back to the top of the page and start over again when you realize what a beautiful piece of prose you'd just read in a work of fiction- the book exemplifies the kind of tragic/flawed yet deeply charming heroes the Romantic Era was all about -- the stories about Humphry Davy, John Herschel, Joseph Banks, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Shelley are poignant. Under Holmes's story-telling, they are so human and so extraordinary- this book will make you cry. It'll also make you laugh!
5 This is a book to savor. It is to be read slowly and maybe with a notepad handy. I learned so much from reading about the pioneers of the Romantic Generation.
5 I enjoyed this book immensely! The lives portrayed were amazing and captivating. I am sorry to finish reading it. I would love to see these mini-biographies made into a screenplay and turned in to a mini-series! This is a truly inspirational and informative read!
2 While there are some very interesting facts there are way too many details about things and people that you won't possibly care about or remember.  It seem like it takes forever to get to the interesting parts.  I have read 10 very interesting books this Winter but couldn't get through this one even though I tried several times.  This book could have been 60% the length it is and then been a decent book.
5 Although nowadays Romanticism and Science, as well as Science and Poetry, seem to inhabit the antipodes of thought, there was a time when both Art and Science stimulated and fed each other, dialogued and grew together. Men and women of science often found inspiration in Romantic visions, for example of the individual's emancipation from the forces of Superstition, and of the infinite possibilities open to the human being. For their part, poets and artists read, in awe and amazement, about the new avenues opened up by science, attended the overcrowded lectures where new discoveries were presented, and got together with scientists in social meetings where high subjects were discussed. Scientists, still far away from academic ossification, poked around in every discipline, and were at the same time theoreticians, experimenters, explorers, and adventurers. They frequently risked their lives trying to grasp Nature's secrets. This fortunate dialogue between Art and Science produced and unprecedented explosion in creativity and inventiveness.This theme, fascinating as it is, shines even more brightly in Richard Holmes's hands, who tells a lovable and enriching story. Necessarily, the cast of characters is a gallery of genius eccentrics (and even madmen). It begins by recounting Joseph Banks's incredible voyage aboard the "Endeavour", under the command of Captain James Cook, a trip during which in 1769, in Tahiti, Venus's transit in front of the Sun was first measured, a crucial step towards determining the precise distance between Earth and Sun. As soon as the young and extremely gifted Banks returned from that epic trip, which included the reclamation of Australia for the British crown, he became the grand patriarch of European science, an unforgettable and vital person.Next follow the stories of such fascinating people as William Herschel, the German music teacher who became the foremost astronomer of his time, and who, with his talented sister Caroline - another indelible character - discovered Uranus, the first new planet to be seen since Antiquity. The first aeronauts, the balloon designers, builders and riders, provide funny stories which moreover signify the beginning of air transportation and the space age, now almost defunct. Explorers also contributed a lot to knowledge, frequently paying with their lives, as in the case of that strange man, Mungo Park, who died in a remote location, tragically, in the middle of Africa. Another long but indispensable story is that of the extravagant Humphry Davy, the genius kid from Penzance who became the inventor and discoverer of many things, including the Laughing Gas, a predecessor of modern anaesthetics; and the safety lamp for miners, among many other things in an immense body of work. Final appearances include Davy's assistant researcher, Michael Faraday, whose work on electricity and electromagnetism would be seminal.This is simply a great, totally enjoyable book on that truly wonderful age, the age of Romantic art and science, told from a human perspective which makes it come to life in a fascinating way.
3 What's Romantic science? Fear not, there's no discussion of the particularity, it's just science.Richard Holmes is a celebrated biographer of the romantic poets. Here he turns his attention to the scientific geniuses of the age. Beautifully written as ever, it is only when you finish the book that you'll start to have doubts.Was Astronomer Royal Maskelyne as fluffy a bunny as here he appears? (in Dava Sobel's viewLongitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Timehe was the very picture of the selfish machiavellian bureaucrat)Why is there a long chapter on (mostly French) ballooning which even Holmes (nice pun) describes as "something of a scientific cul-de-sac"?Why is Shelley so prominent? He never met any of the principals of this book (Banks, Herschel, Davy).Is the selection of scientific geniuses a bit skewed? Nothing about medicine, little about geology, metallurgy, biology - and as for practical progress based on science like manufacturing and engineering, forget about it.Do Davy's poems merit pages and pages? Might we not appreciate some laboratory notes?The illustrations are nice, but why so many poets, especially the standard views of them?This book on reflection seems to be a bit of a grab bag of discards from the author's researches in the romantic age. To be fair, Holmes has mastered the science as it appeared then. He could probably even explain the nuances of the phlogiston / oxygen debate. But he has not written a comprehensive history of Romantic science. He has written well, though. You'll enjoy this book.
5 This book is a fascinating voyage back to the Romantic Age in Europe when there were still far flung parts of the globe to explore, most of the chemical elements awaited discovery, and time and space were found to be much vaster than anyone had expected.  Even more wonderfully, scientists and artists were not naturally at odds--chemist Humphry Davy and poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge were friends, Percy Bysshe Shelley attended science lectures at the Royal Society and a musician, William Herschel, became the leading astronomer of England. Poets looked to the brave new world of science for inspiration, and many scientists--including Davy and Charles Darwin's grandfather Erasmus--wrote poetry.  While scientists were perfecting the inductive reasoning of Newton and Francis Bacon they also used poetic devices like analogies to advance their understanding and inspire their research.  It was an exciting and unsettling time and that makes for a great reading experience.
5 Brilliant job--a great topic, excellent writing, everything you want in a book. Don't be set off by the length. It is an easy read.I am fascinated by the history of science and technology. This book is a must for those interested in a broad overview of the time period covered. Davy, those wonderful and crazy fellows with air balloons, the voyages to the Pacific to explore....and so on. A real delight is how the author eemplifies what CP Snow alluded to as two cultures---science and the humanities. In this book they find one another. There's even some hints of sex...scientists and sex--what a tease!Just as important as its relevancy is the writing. This is a gifted author. His writing flows effortless, it is punctuated with pithy observations (e.g., the author must have had a great time visiting the homes and neighborhoods of many of the main characters--how poignant that most are still there but not even celebrated for what happened there).The book made me wish that we might still have individual greatness in the sciences, that we had something akin to a singular scientific academy like the one that existed in those days. Perhaps a hundred years from now humans will be able to recognize, like this author, the important social, literary, and scientific currents that flow through today. I hope so.
5 Richard Holmes dates the period of Romantic science as extending (at least symbolically) between two celebrated voyages of exploration: Captain Cook's expedition around the world aboard the Endeavour which began in 1768, and Charles Darwin's voyage to the Galapagos Islands aboard the Beagle, which began in 1831.While this is a group biography, covering a number of different scientists at work during this period, the lives and discoveries of three men are central.  First is Joseph Banks (1743-1820) who, as a young botanist, was on board the Endeavour when she reached Tahiti in 1769.  Banks features throughout much of the book: he was President of the Royal Society for over 40 years from 1778.The other two central figures are William Herschel (1738-1822) and Humphry Davy (1778-1829).  These men were stars of what Coleridge called the `second scientific revolution' in his Philosophical Lectures of 1819.  Richard Holmes considers that this second revolution was primarily inspired by a series of breakthroughs in astronomy and chemistry.`The notion of an infinite, mysterious Nature, waiting to be discovered or seduced into revealing all her secrets, was widely held.'We follow a number of different journeys in this book: Banks, and the `ambiguous paradise' of Tahiti.  William Herschel's ambition was to construct a reflector telescope, an instrument that `might plunge deep down into the sky and explore it like an unplumbed ocean of stars.'  Hershel's work, together with that of his sister Caroline - herself an astronomer - is covered in detail here.  Humphry Davy writes of his exploration of nitrous oxide: `By degrees as the pleasurable sensations increased, I lost all connection with external things; trains of vivid visible images rapidly passed through my mind and were connected with words in such a manner as to produce perceptions perfectly novel. I existed in a world of newly connected and newly modified ideas.'But it is the detail of Humphry Davy's invention of the miner's safety lamp that focussed my attention.  Even more than the fact that the best mould for making a metal lens for a telescope involved pounded horse-dung.Read, too, about the first balloonists, who went soaring from the earth in the 1780s. They learned far more about the earth than they expected, in their search for knowledge of the skies.  And, there is also a chapter about Mungo Park's (1771-1806) expeditions in Africa.  I had not previously heard of him.The journeys are emotional, imaginative and intellectual as well as physical.  There's a thought-provoking chapter entitled `Dr Frankenstein and the Soul', and consider the `Vitalism' debate.  We now know that galvanic and electrical energy cannot create life from inert matter, but what imaginary monsters have been created as a consequence?I thoroughly enjoyed this book: discovered some new learning of my own as well as finding a new context for some previously acquired knowledge.In 1833, William Whewell coined the word `scientist'.  Perhaps coining this term, even though it wasn't widely adopted until some years later, really defines the end of the period of Romantic science.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
5 FANTASTIC book, highly recommended.  A history of British science roughly congruent with the life of Joseph Banks.  Riveting, it brought the times to life.Especially of interest, IMO, to the skeptic/atheist movement, as it shows the foundation of their beliefs.
4 First off, this is a highly readable and entertaining work about an overlooked era of scientific achievement. There exists a gap in general science history between the foundation of Newton and subsequent progress of Faraday/Maxwell. Holmes brings this period into focus in the midst of a Romantic age while we ride through the streets of London in a carriage to an evening's science lecture and special effects extravaganza. This is all good. But Holmes looks at the era through the forty footer where the sweeper might have been a bit more effective. We follow Humphry Davy from first breath to last gasp in a detailed biography that at times simply distracts from the good stuff. On the other hand, I am much obliged for the details presented on William Herschel and Caroline. I was astounded by their accomplishments and wondered why this was new to me. I've read a lot of popularized science yet did not know of the team who expanded our narrow universe into deep space and manifold galaxies, who unveiled the evolution of the stars. Perusing my bookshelves, John Gibbin's The Scientists gives William Herschel two sentences; Arthur Koestler in the Sleepwalkers, no reference; Bill Bryson, two sentences and a footnote; Timothy Ferris' The Whole Shebang, no reference (although he gives them 10 pages in Coming of Age in the Milky Way) and so on. So thank you for that, Mr Holmes. The biography of Joseph Banks is also more balanced than Davy's nuanced depth, while the balloonists and jungle-hacking journey through Africa of Mungo Park expand the range of exploration. Then there are the poets, a seminal breed in a time possibly lost on the modern reader who might not appreciate the scope of poetic influence prior to the Twentieth Century with its more dynamic communications media. In a polarity reversal, unless you are acquainted with the Romantic poets' lives, you'll get scant help within, but the attention to their scientific influences is right on.Mr Holms characterizes the emotion and intuition of the Romantic movement as reactionary to the formalistic and austere science pressing down on society and challenging its need for a Biblical creation and judgment. True enough, and we see a reflection of it yet again today as science flirts with DNA, cloning, and continued evolutionary revelation while the villagers in America light torches and teabags and chant in the streets, taking their cues from the electromagnetic medium that fuels their outrage. I personally feel that understanding the history of science, knowing of its hard-earned advance, and of the men and women who defied conformational thinking to free humankind from mind-numbing superstition, provides a wholesome appreciation of progress and the tremendous accomplishments of present-day research. Holmes ends with a summary statement reprising the rigid debates of science versus religion, science versus the arts, science versus traditional ethics. I would hope that by now - moving along rapidly in the Twenty-first Century - that we've earned the objective right to shift that inquisition to religion versus science, religion versus mythology, religion versus morality, and religion versus human rights.
4 This book gives a more in depth human touch to some of the earlier scientist or natural philosophers of the 18th. and 19th. Century. Although many are aware of the famous astronomer William Herschel less are familiar with the history of his sister Caroline. From her stunted growth due to childhood illness to her discovery of numerous comets as well as her struggles latter in life I find these travails through life intriguing as to the make up of their personalities.The start of the book about Joseph Banks for whom I mostly plead ignorance is intriguing not just for the experiments carried out or Banks discovery of new plant life as a botanist, which are important, but his interaction with the people of Tahiti. His ability to live amongst them and participate in their culture as well as take a lover and some might say "going native" for a period of time along with some of his shipmates makes for interesting reading. Even the behavior of the ships captain James Cook and his more brusque behavior toward the Tahitians leading eventually to his demise some years latter on the island of Hawaii is interesting from a humanistic standpoint of what made these people tick or behave in the manner they did.Although this is not a book that you will probably read page by page with searing interest as some sections are rather dull and better skipped the overall reading of the book is well worth the buy. Some lesser know historical figures such as the Scott Mungo Park who along with 40 men disappeared during their trips into the heart of Africa makes for intriguing reading.
5 After a long, dry season of disappointing reads, it is always particularly exciting when something finally comes along that can really quench my thirst. THE AGE OF WONDER did just that.  This is the engrossing story of the Romantic Age of British Science, roughly from 1770-1830. About halfway through I realized that the scientists of the age (the term "scientist" wasn't coined until the very end of this period) were the pop stars of their era. Their lectures were sell-outs. The first one-way street in London was created to ease the traffic jams in front of the lecture hall during Davy's chemistry lectures. His audience consisted of large numbers of adoring young female fans.Both the Beauty and Terror of Science, as promised in the subtitle, are chronicled. The Beauty is evident. The Terror is not predominantly of the Dr. Frankenstein type, although this is discussed. The Terror referred to is how the discovery of deep time and deep space rendered a divine creation unnecessary. Science didn't exclude it. What Science said was that it wasn't necessary to explain the universe. This was as fundamentally unsettling then as a confirmed extraterrestrial landing would be today.This is most definitely written for the lay reader.  It's meant to be a popular history.  And it succeeds on those terms.  It is quite anecdotal, almost picaresque in the way it moves from one episode to another.  What binds the parts into a whole are the fully explored lives of Joseph Banks, William Herschel and his sister Caroline, and Humphry Davy.  So yes there is science (although not overly technical), but there are very human stories here too.  It is well written and engaging from first page to last.  Highly recommended.
4 I bought this book thinking it was by the other Richard Holmes, the military historian one.  Serendipitously, I have now discovered my mistake.Really, this is a "biography" of modern science, set around the experince and influence of Sir Joseph Banks, from his early voyage to Tahiti - and its sexually liberated "maidens" - to the end of his life as President of the Royal Society.  In between we visit scientists, inventors and explorers - from Mungo Park to Sir Humphry Davy, the Herschel siblings, the first hot air balloons...so many things that we take for granted today grew out of these inventions, discoveries, and the new way of thinking they represented.While Banks is the central character in this saga, the action swirls away to others regularly: Banks is the lens through which we view this "Age of Wonder".  This works, and terribly well.  The story being told is simultaneously of the growth of science, and the beginnings of the modern world.For any student of science, or of history, this is an important book that does indeed show the beauty, and terror, of science.
5 Richard Holmes' chronicle of British science during the late 18th and early 19th centuries is a must read. The cast of characters is large, and includes the incomparable Joseph Banks, the brilliant and eccentric German astronomer William Herschel, his equally accomplished sister Caroline, the intrepid explorer Mungo Park, and the charismatic chemist Humphry Davy. Together they form a community of scientists living in an age unlike any other. Holmes does an amazing job of immersing the reader in their pre-Victorian world.I especially enjoyed Holmes' constant attention to the interplay between literature, poetry, and science during this period. While Banks, the Herschels, Davy, and their many companions redefined the universe through science, the great Romantic authors such as John Keats, Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley, and Lord Byron explored the meaning of poetry in an age of increasing rationalism.Holmes brings to life a fascinating period, one filled with drama and a sort of heady madness as an entire society rushed headlong, even recklessly, into a new era of discovery. This is nonfiction at its very best. I give it my highest recommendation for anyone interested in history, science, and the Romantic period.
5 Richard Holmes ranks as one of the great biographers of our time as readers familiar with his two volume life of Coleridge and his magisterial look at Shelley can attest. In "The Age of Wonder," Holmes looks at how science shaped the Romantic Era. He offers powerful looks at Joseph Banks, the Hersechels' astronomic discoveries, balloonists, the exploration of Africa and Humphrey Davy's experiments with gas and his creation of the safety lamp. It's a wide array of subjects but Holmes ties them together beautifully by threading lives together and showing how English scientists and thinkers from this era influenced each other. As always, Holmes is an excellent craftsman of sentences and this is a very readable work while remaining scholarly and insightful. Highest recommendation.
1 $25 for a kindle book????  They've got to be kidding--especially when there's a print version available for $1 more.  This is outrageous and should send any interested readers straight to their local library.
5 Holmes' book well deserves the critical plaudits printed all over its cover. This is a well integrated story of the emergence of the modern "scientist" in the late 18th and early 19th century. Focusing on biographies of botanist Joseph Banks, the Herschel astronomy family and safety lamp man, Humphrey Davy this narrative shows how (largely through the networking of Banks) a culture of science for society rather than individual study emerges. The cast list interwoven by Holmes is broad as well as enormous: the Montgolfiers (a very entertaining chapter on ballooning) and explorer Mungo Park (who I remember mainly from a stained glass window in my primary school, close to where he grew up) but more significantly the close relationship between the people of science and the new Romantic literary movement. So we have the Shelleys, Southey, Coleridge and Byron attending lectures, sampling exotic gases as well as exchanging verses and prose with the scientists. A culture of Romantic celebs! In terms of A level language - a genuinely synoptic work from a master of biographical writing.There are surprises: the emergence of Caroline Herschel as a great scientist of note in her own right as well as the driving force behind her two brothers. Davy is shown in a much less sympathetic light (and is perhaps over emphasized here at the expense of more focus on continental connections to the movement as a whole).The book is well presented to. Apart from the usual footnotes I liked the device of printing key supplements to the main text at the foot of the relevant page. There is also a cast list that acts as a good reference to the galaxy of names mentioned (and which you might remember only vaguely from school science lessons).Like the best of writing at the end you want to read on - about the new wave of scientists that come through - Faraday, Babbage and the significance of Mary Somerville. Perhaps there is scope for a follow up to the 470 pages of tight print presented here.....
3 I'm hard pressed to understand the glowing praise this book received from 'official' reviewers.  TAoW is not an extraordinary piece of writing.  It's an eminently decent piece of writing.  It is not an exercise in an entirely new kind of biographical writing.  It is, rather, an old-fashioned sort of history/collective biography, one that tells the story of a handful of lesser-known "great men" of science (and one great woman) whose scientific practices and world view were part and parcel of the so-called Romantic Age or -- in Holme's charming formulation -- the Age of Wonder.The scientific era under study in this volume is, indeed, a fascinating one.  It is also one that has been studied ad nauseum (which isn't to say, of course, that there isn't plenty of room for further study).  What this reviewer found disappointing about TAoW resonates with what other critical reviews on these pages observed:  though strong on storytelling, TAoW is weak on thesis building.  TAoW taught me a lot about the lives and the minds of a handful of scientists working at the cusp of modern science.  But it taught me very little about the world they lived in and the place of science in it.  Put differently, TAoW gave me a very strong impression of the wonder that a handful of science-minded persons, at the turn of the nineteenth century, felt when they gazed upon the world, but far less of an impression of what made theirs an "age of wonder"  distinct from the age(s) that preceded and followed it.On balance, the virtues of TAoW (fine writing, interesting subject-matter) make it well-worth reading.  Even at 3 stars, I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the history of science, the history of ideas, or history or biography in general.  Just don't expect a very "deep" read.
3 This is a review of the audiobook edition of the book.I had trouble getting through this book, it was very dry and slow. The beginning, focusing on Bank's experiences in Tahiti, was wonderful. However the narrator does little justice the book. His voice and expression is very robotic and nasally, which made even the most exciting details come out sounding as if he were reading a dictionary.The book does manage to capture the feeling of the age, especially when discussing early attempts at flight using various early hot air balloons. So many people dismissed the concept as a fairly useless trick, and didn't have the capacity to even seen the potential of how flight could change the world.I also enjoyed the passages discussing Caroline Hershel. I found her story to be particularly fascinating and appreciated the depth the author went into discussing her and her brother's lives and achievements.It was also fascinating to learn how so many of these early scientists were also equally interested in and talented in other arts such as music and poetry.If you are especially interested in science, especially chemistry and astronomy, you will greatly enjoy this book.
4 Reading this book reminded me of Cyril Connolley's adage that inside every fat man is a thin one wildly signaling to be let out. There is much good writing here, about an exciting period for the emergence of modern science, populated by many fascinating characters.  And it appears to be based on a lot of original research.  But what a pity that one of the first requirements of modern popular histories is that they should extend to 500 pages.  Poetry by Sir Humphrey Davy?  For the most part we could do without it.  Similarly, in this context, that of Byron and Shelley; some dreary speculation on the lines of "as he did such and such a thing, he must have been thinking...."; the author's evangelistic promotion of atheism;  and the inclusion, especially in the early chapters, of any available sexual titillation, much of which is in any case based only on speculation.But the book is worth reading. The Age of Wonder, well named, opens with Joseph Banks' stay on Tahiti in 1769.  He was a member of an expedition sponsored by the Royal Society and led by Captain James Cook, the primary objective of which was to observe the transit of Venus across the sun.  Banks returned to England with a huge number of botanical and other specimens, and much carefully recorded  anthropological and other information, founding his reputation as a popular, if essentially untrained and amateur scientist (throughout his lifetime scientists were known as philosophers).  He was in due course rewarded with the Presidency of the Royal Society and it is through his Presidency that the link is made with much of the other material in this book.  He and the Society did much to encourage and facilitate the work of the young Humphrey Davy, who eventually succeeded Banks to the Presidency. Davy died in 1829 and it is with his death that The Age of Wonder as a book essentially ends.  Many related developments were still to come - in particular, Michael Faraday had yet to produce the work on electricity and electromagnetism for which he is best known - and Holmes rightly anticipates much that at the time lay in the future.Besides Banks, Davy, his famous miner's lamp and other discoveries, the book majors on William Hershel, his development of telescopes and discovery of Uranus; also sister Caroline and her independent discovery of eight comets; Central African explorer Mungo Park; and  the early development of hot air and hydrogen ballooning. Many other late eighteenth and early nineteenth century players also feature.  For some it might be possible to discover as much, if not more, from other sources, but this book - which is exceptionally well indexed and has a useful Cast List as an Appendix - would still be worth checking as a route to discovering how individuals interrelated - Sir Humphrey Davy to Sir Walter Scott, for example, or Joseph Banks to King George III, who in turn was not averse to popping round to a garden party at the home of William and Caroline Herschel. It was indeed an Age of Wonder.
5 Romanticism and the second scientific revolution co-existed.  There were breakthroughs in astronomy and chemistry.  New scientific institutions were established.  There were public lectures.  Joseph Banks as a form of romantic rebellion taught himself botany.  The book opens with his story, a voyage to Tahiti under Captain Cook.  The round the world expedition was organized by the Admiralty, but financed by the Royal Society.  Banks was admitted to many aspects of Tahitian life.  He had skill in language.  He witnessed the Tahitians surfing.  The British expedition, the Endeavor, prepared to leave Tahiti the second week of July in 1769.  By 1771, half the company dead, Banks felt little exuberance upon his return to England.  Hawkesworth wrote the official account of the expedition.  Banks was elected President of the Royal Society in 1778.  He became Director of the royal gardens at Kew.  By 1787 he was suffering from gout.Attention next moves to William Herschel, an amateur astronomer and professional musician.  In 1781 Herschel discovered a new planet. By 1774 Herschel had assembled a five-foot reflective telescope.  It was unparalleled in light-gathering power and clarity.  The discovery of Uranus was a product of Herschel observational genius.  The discovery was not owing to chance.  Herschel made fantastically prolonged and demanding sweeps of the sky.  William Herschel brought out noteworthy papers in 1784 and 1785.  In 1785 Banks convinced the King to give Herschel a research grant, renewed in 1787.  At a time when William was absent, his sister Caroline discovered a comet, becoming something of a celebrity in the process.  In the end at least seven were discovered by her.  The Herschels sought to erect a forty-foot telescope in Slough.  One of the emphases of the book is Herschel's concept of deep space.Interspersed with the discussion of astronomy is a section on the advances in hot air ballooning, something of a dead-end, although there was progress in meteorology.  Percy Shelley, during the winter of 1812, was fascinated with balloons.  Mungo Park was the representative Romantic era explorer of Africa.  His son Thomas developed an obsession of solving the mystery of Mungo Park's death.  Joseph Banks was Park's patron.The book goes on to describe, among other things, Humphry Davy's nitrous oxide researches.  He conceived the idea of pain-free surgery.  Subsequently Davy lectured that science was intellectually and even spiritually therapeutic.  Davy's influence resulted in chemistry joining astronomy and botany as favorite popular scientific pursuits.  While traveling in France with Michael Faraday, Davy identified a gas as fire-damp, methane, using the scientific method of observation, experiment, and analogy.  Later Davy hit upon using fine-gauge iron mesh to be used in a safety lamp for miners.  Following the death of Joseph Banks in 1820, Davy was elected President of the Royal Society.Richard Holmes's grand survey of Romantic science includes poets and philosophers as well as scientists.  The gifted biographer of Shelley and others has exceeded himself in this work.  At the end there is a Cast List along with the Bibliography, References, Acknowledgements, and Index.
3 What is the hullabaloo about this book? What does it add to our knowledge of either nineteenth century science or Romantic literature? In order not to scare off the litcrit crowd, Holmes skims very lightly over the science, which is (presumably) the reason why we are interested in these people in the first place. Speaking as a litcrit/humanities emigr&eacute;, I could have used slightly more enlightenment about the science underlying Davys's experiments with nitrous oxide or the preceding context of chemistry under Lavoisier and Priestly. However, we are spared these weighty subjects like children who are told about sexual reproduction only in vague or allegorical terms ("You want the truth? You can't handle..." etc.). OK, the Romantics were not as averse to science as high-school texts claim. Surely any English major should know that. Oh well, the book contains a decent bibliography at the end for the reader interested in expanding his horizons.
5 The Romantic Age (1750-1820) in Europe was a time when science and literature rubbed excitedly together, attracted by a shared love of Nature and an urgent desire to explore her secrets; it was a time when poets studied science, and scientists wrote poetry. "The Age of Wonder" exhibits a winding path across this landscape, from which sublime vistas and lively views open up on every side: explorers encounter Tahiti, and vice-versa; balloonists discern the patterns of village, forest, and river from an aerial perspective; astronomers pioneer the knowledge of deep space, and geologists the knowledge of deep time, while chemists transmute the chaos of nature into the order of its newly-discovered chemical elements.Richard Holmes guides the reader on this journey using a sequence of linked biographies - explorers Joseph Banks (Tahiti) and Mungo Park (Africa), astronomers William and Caroline Herschel, chemist Humphry Davy - to view the Romantic Age of science through the lens of their lives and personal writings. Literary stars like Byron, Keats, Percy and Mary Shelley, and Coleridge appear in turn, albeit as satellites of Romantic science (e.g., Mary Shelley's Frankenstein), rather than as entire galaxies of Romantic literature. The science in the book is presented by and for the enthusiast rather than the initiate, and is both effortlessly accessible and vastly entertaining (the first "Mile-High Club" in a balloon, Davy's "scientific" dedication to getting high on laughing gas).There is not even a hint of the "academic" in Holmes' writing, although it is quite thoroughly informed (see his endnotes, index, bibliography, and capsule biographies for proof, if any is needed). There is much food for thought here, about topics ranging from Vitalism to the Argument From Design, C. P. Snow's "Two Cultures," experiment vs. theory in science, the growth and structure of scientific institutions, administration and research, and public support of science. The book touches on all these areas, and many more, as they naturally come up in the course of its narrative.By design and intention, this is a book about English, not Continental, science; Holmes is a literary biographer who specializes in the English Romantic Age (I intend to immediately buy his volumes on Coleridge, just on the strength of "The Age of Wonder.") While scientifically literate, he is not a scientist or a philosopher or historian of science. What the reader gets in "The Age of Wonder" is a book that deftly, even stunningly, illuminates the spirit of English science in the Romantic Age. It is a real pleasure to recommend it.
5 THE AGE OF WONDER: HOW THE ROMANTIC GENERATION DISCOVERED THE BEAUTY AND TERROR OF SCIENCE provides a riveting history of the men and women whose discoveries fostered the Romantic Age of Science. From a botanist's discoveries in 1769 to how the 'Age of Wonder' emerged from explorations and the efforts of William Herschel and sister Caroline and others, this is a powerful pick for any interested in how science and trends develop.
4 I recommend this book highly.  The chapters on Joseph Banks's voyage to Tahiti, William and Caroline Herschel's incredible achievements in astronomy, Mungo Park's breath-taking expeditions to Africa deserve ten stars not five. I cannot recommend them too highly. They will be of interest to people of all ages and are told brilliantly.I also admired how the author connects the scientific advances in English society to the contemporary poetry of Byron, Shelley, Keats and Coleridge.  That said, I feel the book does not achieve the kind of grand synthesis of arts, science and other disciplines, as some of the blurbs seem to claim.Finally, in the chapters on the Herschels, and especially in the last third of the book which mainly centers on Humphrey Davy, there was too much, in my opinion, recitation of marital and similarly domestic matters that seemed far too quotidian. They fall far short of the wonder that appears elsewhere in "The Age of Wonder". I wish they had been edited out.
5 Holmes focuses on the era between 1768 and Captain James cook's trip to Tahiti and 1831 and Darwin's trip to the Galapagos islands, labeling this time period the second enlightenment, the romantic period where reason and imagination powered science and where the central question seems to have been, just exactly what is life and/or the force behind/within us?  Each chapter focuses on a particular invention and/or discovery (telescopes and the discovery of Neptune or the development of safety lamps for miners, for example) and the person or persons responsible.The first chapter starts with Joseph Banks, one of the scientists that accompanied Captain Cook and later the head of the Royal Society for the period under examination in this book. He follows with and focuses on William Herschel, known for his astronomical discoveries, and, surprisingly, on his sister Caroline, who was quite a scientist in her own right. Other scientists and their discoveries lead us through the development of medicine, laughing gas, safety lamps and ultimately to the split between the Royal Society and the development of a new scientific society, The British Association, by the young scientists fighting against the old way of doing things.But he book is more than just a chronology of events and lives; Holmes does a wonderful job of portraying both his own excitement at this age of wonder and the discoverer's excitement.  While there was certainly skepticism and in some cases angry replies (particularly to any idea or invention that challenged current day notions of God), most people who were involved were interested in pursuing the inventions, finding ways to fund them and getting recognition for the people.  It was a fascinating era and Holmes does a good job of balancing between recreating interesting lives to engage readers while not elaborating unnecessarily on the known facts.  This isn't a story but a re-creation of an era from a lively and excited voice.What makes this a particularly unusual account is the frequent visits, both literally and, well, literarally (if that's a word), from some of the romantic poets and authors with pieces of poetry complimenting various sections and interactions and influences between the scientists (Shelley's Frankenstein for example) and the poets, highlighting how the romantic urge was present not only in the literature of the time but also in the pursuit of science. And, the two complimented and influenced one another.One of the most intriguing stories is one that I knew nothing about, that of Mungo Park, an explorer who sets out to uncover darkest Africa only to have the realization that perhaps Europe is the Dark Continent, and not Africa. Unfortunately, after only two expeditions, Park is murdered by natives when he does not observe their customs.I also want to mention the pictures. Usually, in a book focused on an era this long ago the pictures are drab black and white drawings of the men discussed, but in this book, suitable to the title, the pictures are often beautiful paintings or artistic renderings.There are some nice additions at the end to help out the reader including a "cast list" in case of confusion about the many people mentioned and a bibliography.If you finish the book and are hoping to read more along the same lines, The Philosophical Breakfast Club, by Laura Snyder, starts up where Holmes leaves off.
5 Flights of fancy in the first balloons.  Harrowing adventures in the tropics. Discovering Uranus and hundreds of nebulae.  Self-experimentation, with nitrous oxide and poetry. Beautifully written, fun to read.  Can't miss.
4 If you like history, science, romance, adventure, culture and all things veddy veddy British, this book is excellent and very enjoyable read. Vivid accounts of several key historical figures that played prominent roles in the development and recognition of scientific and cultural understanding of the world, the heavens and our existence in general. Not only the historical account of their achievements but the personal day to day existence which humanizes these figures. It will transport you back to late 18th century England and what must of been a wonderful time to be alive. Would make a good Masterpiece Theater mini series.
5 This book consists of a number of brilliantly written and fully rounded biographies of scientists and discoverers - extensively covering their private as well as their public lives - and the reception of their work during the Romantic Period.The first chapter, called `Joseph Banks in Paradise', is about Banks' activities and their descriptions when he visited Tahiti in 1768 as a botanist on  Captain Cook's voyage of that year.  One `paradisal' feature of which Banks took full advantage was the free sexual behaviour of the Tahitians.  The chapter also tells the story of Omai, the Tahitian whom Banks introduced into English society.  Later, as member and eventually President of the Royal Society, Sir Joseph Banks became involved with encouraging many of the scientists dealt with in later chapters, and he is a presence throughout the book.For instance, when he was no longer able to travel himself, he got the Africa Association to sponsor the explorations in West Africa of Mungo Park, to whose two expeditions in 1794 and 1805 - the second ending with his death - another rivetting chapter is dedicated.  These journeys would inspire poems by Wordsworth, Southey, Keats, and Shelley.Two chapters are devoted to the astronomer William Herschel who, with his remarkable and initially home-made telescopes, probed deep into the heavens and discovered a planet (Uranus) and nebulae which had never been seen before.  Later he came to develop the idea that the universe had not been a static creation but had ever been evolving - a notion that deeply affected Romantic poets like Keats.  There is a touching portrayal of William's devoted sister Caroline who for eighteen years (until his marriage) acted not only as his housekeeper but, in the middle of the night, as note-taker of his observations of the sky.  Once, while William was away in Germany in 1786, she herself discovered a comet that had not been found before, and by 1797 she had found six more and had been recognized by the Royal Society as an astronomer in her own right. She lived to the age of 98 and would follow with knowledgeable interest the astronomical discoveries in the Southern hemisphere made by her nephew, Sir John Herschel, in the 1830s.Then there is a chapter about the `ballomania' which followed the first flight of Montgolfier's balloon.  The English scientific establishment was inclined to put French enthusiasm down to French flightiness, but eventually the interest and ballooning experiments spread to England also, of which there are some entertaining accounts.There are two fascinating chapters about Humphrey Davy, who was thrilled with the new science of chemistry and who experimented, dangerously on himself to start with, with a variety of inhalants, especially nitrous oxide, which would, two generations later, be used as an anaesthetic, as Davy himself thought it might be.  In low doses it transforms the nature of perceptions, often in a pleasurable way and opened new dimensions to the romantic experience, as with Davy's friends, the poets Southey and Coleridge. Davy was a poet, too, and moved in literary circles as easily as he did in scientific ones.  In their turn, the romantic poets frequently incorporated in their works reflections on the scientific discoveries of their day: no notion of Two Cultures during that period!The second chapter about Davy tells us, step by step, how he invented the safety lamp which could be taken down the mines without the danger of its flames setting off explosions of firedamp (methane) that had been costing the lives of hundreds of miners. Already knighted for his earlier work, this invention led to more honours being heaped upon him, culminating in his election as President of the Royal Society after the death of Sir Joseph Banks in 1820.  In that position he was nothing like as genial or, above all, as generous to younger scientists - his former assistant Michael Faraday and William Herschel's son John among others - as his predecessor had been, and in his vain old age he was nothing like as appealing as the other characters in the book.  But his last work, `Consolations in Travel, or the Last Days of a Philosopher', an imaginative work with many autobiographical elements, is `one of the most extraordinary prose books of the late Romantic period' in which he marries his conceptions of science with Romantic visions of Nature.Later Romanticism, as Holmes points out, was to see Science and the sense of Wonder  not as allies but as antagonists, with such as Carlyle  in 1833 accusing scientists of destroying the sense of wonder with their `Mensuration and Numeration'.  (But Wordsworth had surely made the point as early as 1798, with famous his lines:"Our meddling intellectMis-shapes the beauteous forms of things:We murder to dissect.")Having devoted most of the book to the three giants - Sir John Banks, Sir William Herschel and Sir Humphry Davy, Holmes devotes his last chapter to next generation of scientists:  Michael Faraday, Charles Babbage, John Herschel, William Whewell who coined the word `scientist' in 1834, Mary Somerville after whom the Oxford College is named; and the book more or less ends with Charles Darwin's departure on HMS Beagle, when it had started with Banks' departure on HMS Endeavour 62 years earlier.  Perhaps Holmes will one day devote a whole book describing the work of that generation in as full and fascinating detail as he has to their predecessors.
5 Stimulating Travels in TimeThe name of the book is, "The Age of Wonder" and the author is Richard Holmes. I have always had a keen interest in science and the life stories of scientists. Moreover, I have long thought that there was something magical about the middle of the 19th century. It seemed to me that it was then, that scientific accomplishments had blossomed like an apple orchard in spring. This was the age of discovery with men like: Gregor Mendel, Louis Pasteur, James Clerk Maxwell, Emil Fischer, Thomas Edison, and Charles Darwin. I had not given much thought to the forefathers of these men. This book filled in that time gap for me and I am richer for the journey.Holmes takes the reader back to the late 1700s and early 1800s as if one were transported by a time machine that focused on the lives of British scientists of that era. Three names will be unforgettable to the reader and they are: Joseph Banks, William Herschel, and Humphry Davy. The book starts out in 1769 with Joseph Banks setting foot on the island of Tahiti on an expedition under the leadership of James Cook. The observations made by Banks of the Tahitian people would make him famous. He attended their ceremonies, slept in their huts, ate their food, recorded their customs, and learned their language. His adventures read more like a fascinating novel than a historical story. The reader is in Tahiti with Joseph Banks living those adventures. After returning to England, his career skyrockets and he is ultimately honored by being elected president of the Royal Society 1778. From that post, he will help promote the careers of other promising British scientists, whom we shall meet.William Herschel only rated a few paragraphs in my high school science books. However, the complete story of this man and his dedicated sister, Caroline, are awe-inspiring. Most people know that William Herschel discovered the planet Uranus 1781. There was so much more to the man and his accomplishments and contributions to astronomy. Originally a musician, Herschel felt himself drawn to the world of astronomy and learned to make the best telescopes in the world. With this advantage in instrumentation, and a disciplined, dedicated approach to observation and record keeping, he made enormous advances to the science. As an example of Herschel's insight, I had long believed that the fuzzy nebula were first identified as galaxies by Hubble in the 20th century. Yet here is Herschel reaching the same conclusion a century earlier. Herschel was a brilliant pioneer and he deserves the recognition. Holmes makes you feel as though you were there and has you experience the joys and disappointments of this man's life. Caroline's story is no less exciting.No less stimulating is the story of Humphry Davy. His scientific advances are in the field of chemistry, which was in its early stages of discovery in the early 1800s. Most people associate his name with the invention of the safety lamp, which changed the mining industry from one of immense danger due to explosive gases to one of much greater safety. However, there is a lot more to Davy's story. He made great contributions to the science of gases and their application to human medicine. Again the author makes you feel like a fly on the wall, experiencing life at that time.Besides these three individuals, Holmes tells the stories of other British scientists as well. Moreover, the stories blend together so that one comes away with a feeling of community and nationalistic pride (I felt myself identifying with the British). It was another time and another place, with different opportunities and different human goals. I realize that if I had actually made that time travel trip, I would have great difficulty understanding the English language of that time. Holmes is my translator, putting the words into sentences that make sense today.I really loved the author's style of writing and looked in the front of the book to see what other books he had written. He had done such an excellent job of historical research, organization, and presentation of the material, that I assumed he had done other books on the history of science. Instead, what I learned was that his area of specialty was poetry. And so you will see segments of poems in this book and a greater influence of poetry on these scientists in the latter chapters.I really enjoyed this book and found it to be delightful to read throughout most of it. Thus, I highly recommend it to you and hope that you find it as enjoyable as I did.Ralph Hermansen, September 22, 2012
5 This is an incredibly engaging look at the scientific establishment right before its "Golden Age." The book focuses on the Herschels, Humphry Davy and explorer Joseph Banks, but intersects with the literary figures of the day (Shelley, Byron, Keats) and debunks the idea that science and literature operate in different spheres.
5 Holmes' Age of Wonder is beautifully written with the language at times approaching the poetical.  It is a wonderful introduction to the people and science of the early 19th century. It is not a definitive work  and there is not much about the terrors of science so some  students of science might find it inadequate. It is non-fiction that reads with the ease and enjoyment of fiction. it also led to my doing further research on the people and the  the science of the age.
4 Richard Holmes is the Romantic period's best biographer.  In The Age of Wonder, Holmes draws readers into the lives of many of the key scientists of the period:  Humphry Davy, Caroline and William Herschel, William Lawrence, John Abernethy, Johann Ritter, and Joseph Banks.  Who knew what it took to make a 40-foot telescope? Who knew that Joseph Banks exchanged metal nails for sex in Tahiti?  Romantic critics are indebted to Holmes for making this material so lively, and for putting an end to the notion that the Romantics were hostile to science.  And yet a real limitation of this book is that it pays little heed to the ways in which science disciplined wonder, whether through careful observation, experiment, philosophical speculation, literal language, or mathematics.  And there is a tendency for biography to displace science.  All in all, this is a valuable study and a good read.
2 The book is basically a series of biographies of lesser known, but important scientists and explorers during the 17th and 18th century.The first part of the book, about Joseph Bank's adventure of discovery of the civilization and culture of early Tahitians (a tropical paradise populated by exotic women with liberal sexual traditions, among other things), is an excellent read.  Here Holmes manages to keep the book interesting page after page.However, after that spectacular start, things start to slowly go downhill. I just found the biographies of the other people to be relatively boring.  Things pick up every once in a while, like when Holmes narrates the Balloon-mania that gripped that time, but overall, the tone of the book was just a bit too slow for me.Am not even finishing this book, moving on to something hopefully better.  Maybe I'll finish it some other time.
4 The Age of Wonders provides entertaining and informative stories of scientific groundbreakers and the effects of their discoveries on all of us.
5 While explaining "how the Romantic generation discovered the beauty and terror of science," Richard Holmes focuses on what "became the first great age of the public scientific lecture, the laboratory demonstration and the introductory textbook, often written by women. It was the age when science began to be taught to children, and the `experimental method' became the basis of a new, secular philosophy of life, in which the infinite wonders of Creation (whether divine or not) were increasingly valued for their own sake...Finally, it was the age which challenged the elite monopoly of the Royal Society, and saw the foundation of scores of new scientific institutions, mechanics institutes and `philosophical' societies."Although Holmes poses and then responds to hundreds of questions or has others do so, "the book remains a narrative, a piece of biographical storytelling. It tries to capture something of the inner life of science, its impact on the heart, as well as on the mind. In the broadest sense it aims to present scientific passion, so much if it which is summed up in that childlike, but infinitely complex word, [begin italics] wonder [end italics]."In the Epilogue, offering an especially eloquent and compelling conclusion to his book, Holmes acknowledges that "there is a particular problem with finding endings in science. Where do these science stories really finish? Science is truly a relay race, with each discovery handed on to the next generation. Even as one door is closing, another door is already being thrown open...."But science is now continually reshaping its history retrospectively. It is starting to look back and rediscover its beginnings, its earliest traditions and triumphs, but also its debates, its uncertainties and its errors...Similarly, it seems to me impossible to understand fully the contemporary debates about the environment, or climate change, or genetic engineering, or alternative medicine, or extraterrestrial life, or the future of consciousness, or even the existence of God, without knowing how these arose from the hopes and anxieties of the Romantic generation."But perhaps most important, right now, is the changing appreciation of how scientists themselves fit into society as a whole, and the nature of the particular creativity they bring to it. We need to consider how they are increasingly vital to any culture of progressive knowledge, to the education of young people (and the not so young), and to our understanding of the planet and its future. Foe this, I believe science needs to be presented and explored in a new way. We need not only a new history of science, but an enlarged and imaginative biographical writing about individual scientists..."The old, rigid debates and boundaries - science versus religion, science versus the arts, science versus traditional ethics - are no longer enough. We should be impatient with them. We need a wider, more generous, more imaginative perspective. Above all, perhaps, we need the three things that a scientific culture can sustain: the sense of individual wonder, the power of hope, and the vivid but questing belief in a future for the globe. And that is how this book might possibly end." And indeed so it does.Congratulations to Richard Holmes on a brilliant achievement. Bravo!
5 I have found the history of British science to be one of the best ways to study the intellectual history of the 19th century.  This book, which focuses upon the period between Captain Cook's first voyage in 1768 and Darwin's Beagle journey in 1831,takes the story of British science back a bit earlier, and explains some of the important precursor developments to the later dazzling Victorian period. If that was all it did, that would be plenty for the author has written a fine scientific history.  But the book is far richer than even this accomplishment for it seeks to establish ties between science and the British Romantics, surprisingly demonstrating that not only did Romantic poets and painters not run away from science, some of them embraced and even engaged in it.  Along the way, the profession of scientific researcher emerged as well as some of our basic ideas about scientific progress.The narrative is built around a series of significant individuals, for whom the author creates scientific biographies. The first is Joseph Banks (1743-1820) who became the godfather of British science during this period from his post as President of the Royal Society.  One of the major sciences that underwent development during this period was astronomy; several chapters are devoted to the pathbreaking work of William Herschel (who discovered Uranus) and his sister Carolyn who pioneered new developments and telescopic designs. In the process their work turned the attention of artists to the skies and the evolutin of universe.  A chapter catches the excitement of early balloonists and the Romantic wake they left behind as they explored the skies.  Exploration was anordsother feature of the period, and was encouraged by Banks who had been on Cook's first voyage to the South Pacific.  Mungo Park (1771-1806) anchors a chapter on this, and his tragic disappearance (as well as many other African explorers) reminds us how overwhelming a challenge African exploration presented during this period. Chemistry was another of the major sciences that took off during this period, as demonstrated in the fascinating activities of Humphry Davy (1778-1829), who pioneered in studying gases, electro-chemical analysis, agricultural chemistry, and became a great popularizer of scientific developments. The author frequently links up scientific developments with poetry, with Coleridge, Wordsworth, Keats, Byron, and Tennyson all making appearances, some supportive others not, and with painters whose portrayals of balloons and scientific breakthroughs conveyed the excitement of the period.  Davy himself wrote poetry which he recorded in his lab books along with experimental data.Many of these scientific developments seemed to challenge traditional religious views and raised new philosophical issues. I found the discussion of "Dr Frankenstein and the Soul" highly interesting. The "Vitalism debate" of 1816-22 centered on the issue of whether there was a life force at work, despite scientific scepticism.  Naturphilosohie, a form of scientific mysticism, arose to challenge materialistic interpretations of life. The author does a fine job in explaining how Mary Shelley's novel pictured scientists as being potentially dangerous and raised fundamental issues about the human soul. By the 1830's the British Association for the Advancement of Science is launched and we are on the cusp of the "golden age of Victorian science."The author seems equally at home in science or poetry and art, having written extensively on Coleridge.  The book includes a large number of breathtaking color plates which help the reader grasp what the narrative is discussing.  The research is impeccable, with 27 pages of notes, a 12-page cast list of mini-biographies of anyone mentioned in the text, and an 11-page bibliography broken down by topic. Poetry is not my thing.  Nonetheless, i found this book to be incredibly rich in ideas and perceptive analysis.  A rare bird to be sure.
3 I always feel bad when I disagree with those glowing reviews.  But in this case, it's warranted.This is a fine book, well worth reading.  It just isn't that groundbreaking, or novel.  It does not come close to paying off the elegant title.Holmes may be an expert on Romantic era poetry, and he has obviously learned a lot about the lives of Banks, Faraday, et al.  But he falls short, far short of linking the philosophy of the Romantics to the science of the day.  There is no consideration of the "beauty and terror of science."  A few pages are given over to Mary W. Shelley's creation of Frankenstein's monster, but no connection is forged between the piece of fiction and the terror of science.All that being said, I am glad I read it, and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading superficial biographies of great minds.
5 Like the polymath intellectuals of the times, The Age of Wonder reaches across multiple themes and disciplines, combining biography with the history of science, literature and even social change. Holmes' biographical accounts carry the reader through the book, each figure serving as a new torchbearer in the progression of science in the age--and each figure also bringing new questions as that same science slowly reveals a universe far vaster and stranger than the easily defined world of the old philosophy. The Age of Wonder is a book about discovery, both exciting and frightening--discovery that removes surety as much as it offers hope. To read it is to read the opening of the human mind, and to be called again to look at the world with wonder.I am Scott C. Waring, author of novels George's Pond & West's Time Machine.West's Time MachineGeorge's Pond: Created in the Beloved Tradition of Charlotte's Web
4 I won't repeat what the other commenters have noted here, but will add that if you don't approach this book with false expectations, then it can be read with good results. Aside from a few editorial errors (typos with dates, etc.), it is very well written and I found it difficult to put down after becoming immersed in the story. For a topic with the potential for being dry and technical, it's remarkable how the author has been able to masterfully weave such an engrossing narrative. For this I think it has earned its somewhat deceptive and overly inflated title.In order to achieve a readable narrative, there are long sections of the book devoted to general biographical material. If the reader relaxes his/her expectations, this material is fun and interesting to read. The most important theme of the book--how Romantic values influenced the course of scientific endeavor between 1770 and 1830--is woven in and around the descriptive narrative. This could have been developed more fully, but considering that science is not the author's background I think he did an admirable job of bringing together such disparate themes as he did. When one considers how he handles Herschel's contributions to astronomy within the context of Romantic values, it's really quite remarkable what he has been able to accomplish.This being said, one should not read this as a substantial text in the history of science without understanding its context or in reading other texts that are more formally histories of science. As a specialist in the history of science, I found the author skirted around important scientific topics, and gave short-shrift--to the point of distortion--of other issues or problems in the history of ethnography, astronomy, and other topics handled here. This gave me pause on occasion, but not enough for me to question the integrity of the book itself.All in all a highly recommended and fascinating treatment of the material.
4 The Age of Wonder; is lengthy account of science and knowledge as it grew and developed during the mid 1700's through the 1800's.  this is a wonderful work by the author, but not a book I would recommend to a novice astronomer or science student.If one takes the time to read the biographies of historical astronomer's, explorers, and scientists, it will greatly assist in becoming familiar with the numerous characters in this book.I enjoyed it very much.
2 This book was not quite what I expected but I misunderstood the title when I bought it. I was expecting a history of scientific discovery of the late 1700s and early 1800s and how society reacted to these discoveries. I found the initial chapters on Joseph Banks, William Herschel, Caroline Herschel, and others to be fascinating. Richard Holmes explained the advances made by these scientists in a very clear and compelling manner. It is these chapters that resulted in the rating that I gave this book. However, when Holmes reached the discussion of Humphry Davy the story broke down for me. Holmes used more direct quotes here than elsewhere in the book and began a more earnest discussion of how the Romantic poets reacted to science, but not how the general population reacted. There was so much discussion of the poets that any thread of scientific discovery disappeared. I stayed with the book until the chapter on soul when I gave up. There just was not enough on science. It is possible that later chapters returned to a more science-oriented theme and perhaps one day I will revisit the book. However, I have read books that have veered away from where I thought that they were going, but nonetheless found them interesting, but not so this book. Perhaps it is my ignorance about the Romantic Age and its poets which I gladly confess, but I cannot recommend this book to anyone who is not well-versed in the poetry of this age.
4 The Romantic era is indeed an age of wonder, when science was fun and close to punk rock. Holmes' 500  page account brings all these stories of discovery to life with sweet details. It does not take a historian or a scholar of Romanticism to see the beauty of this book and the message it conveys. Through a series of connected biographical accounts, or what the author calls "a relay race of scientific stories," readers are taken on a kaleidoscope tour of one breakthrough after another. There are more to the era than such household names as Newton and Descartes.
5 It must be tough to be this Richard Homes and at a cocktail party where a guest comes up and says, "Gee, I loved your book `Redcoat: The British Soldier in the Age of Horse and Musket,'" and have to explain that while you appreciate the compliment, that book is by the other Richard Holmes.  Yes, History lovers, we are very fortunate that there are two Richard Holmes, one a marvelous biographer, this one, and the other among the finest military historians of the age, the other one, and after reading `The Age of Wonder' by this Richard Holmes, and `Redcoat' by that Richard Holmes, I've come to the conclusion that one can't go wrong in choosing either for one's next read.  There are enough excellent five-star reviews of `The Age of Wonder' for me to add only that any book whose frontispiece is one of my favorite paintings, `The Orrery,' by Joseph Wright of Derby, is likely to be a hit with me, and it was.  If you're interested in the period, you will be fascinated by the read.  Then buy and read `Redcoat' and you'll be prepared if you ever find yourself at that cocktail party.
5 I read many books about math and science.  It is rare, however, that a book on science gives me the kind of pleasure that this book does.  It stands close to unique among books in the field: more than history or biography, it is a microscope on an era told through the biographies of some of the important scientists of the period.This story spans a time period from roughly the late 1760's through the mid 1830's.  It starts with a beautiful chapter on the exploration of Tahiti by Joseph Banks.  Soon after his return, Banks becomes president of the Royal Society.  From this powerful position, Banks drives the development of British science for the next forty years so we see him continually pop-up as the rest of the book progresses.After Tahiti, the main scientists we follow are the great astronomer, William Herschel, and his sister, Caroline (a great astronomer is her own right), as well as the chemist, Humphrey Davy.  We learn about their great scientific discoveries, of course (Herschel is famous for the discovery of the planet Uranus while Davy launched the field of electrochemistry and invented the miners' lamp that bears his name).  We also get some great information of the importance of ballooning which developed during this time.  Still, Holmes gives us so much more.  He shows how this science flowed from the Romantic culture of the time and how these scientists were reflections of it.For example, though I have read many other works about these two men, I never really gave much thought to Herschel as a musician.  His training and early working life was that of a musician.  Astronomy was a "hobby" at which he happened to excel and which he melded into his life.  Davy, for his part, is often considered the inheritor of Bacon in his respect for inductive reasoning and experiment; however, I never realized the important of his friendships with key poets of the period (Coleridge, in particular), and his own attempts at writing verse. It gives quite a different perspective on the man.  In fact, Holmes gives us a wealth of information about the impact of Romantic authors on the acceptance of science by the public at large (Mary Shelly's Frankenstein being the prime example).  Davy's famous public lectures on science are another example of this relationship.As the book draws to a close, Holmes also does a great job of showing how the generally positive view of science during this period began to give way to darker musings.  Romantic spiritualism begins to give way to atheism, which creates ripples in the wider culture with which we continue to deal.  The unity of "natural philosophy" gives way to specialization (physicist, chemist, botanist, etc.) which puts up walls between the branches of science.  The groundwork of the modern age is being laid.Even a book as wonderful as this has some flaws.  I found the brief chapter on Mungo Park to be sort of a strange aside to the general flow of the narrative.  Holmes also assumes some knowledge on the part of the reader that may not be generally known to the non-scientific reader.  (For example, he often mentions the strained relationship between Davy and Michael Faraday, but never really explains it.  Anyone familiar with science of the period would know about this but others may not.)That being said, I got the sense while reading this book that it would have great appeal to many non-scientists.  I plan on suggesting it to a number of English teachers I know whose lessons on Romantic poets may benefit from Holmes' insights.  This is definitely not a book for scientists alone.  It deserves a wide readership.
5 This historical survey of scientific discovery in Britain from the last half of the 18th century up to the first half of the 19th century introduces us to a group of men - and unsual for the male-oriented culture of that time, a few women as well - whose accomplishments have stretched well into the 20th and 21st centuries, even as their fame has somewhat dimmed over this same span of time. Holmes' book goes a long way toward restoring their well-deserved honored place in our collective awareness. Structured into chapter-long mini-biographies of the most prominent scientists of their day - most notably the astronomist William Herschel, the chemist Humphry Davy, and the physicist Michael Faraday - the book's center of gravity is the explorer Joseph Banks. His career as president of the Royal Society spanned the years of their various endeavors, and his tireless efforts on each of their behalfs spawned much of the funding that supported those endeavors. We get to witness Herschel's discovery of Uranus and Davy's invention of the safety lamp for miners, and can only marvel at the incredible ingenuity required to work without the technology that we take for granted today. A few of the stories Holmes chooses to relate are of lesser interest - an early chapter on the balloonist fad that seized Britain and France during these years struck me at first as trivial and by its conclusion as somewhat tedious - but none is without at least some charm, due in no small part to the author's clear love of this age and of the people who lived in it. Perhaps the most dramatic piece in the book is his retelling of Mary Shelley's classic novel Frankenstein. The novel's plot is of course riveting enough, but Holmes' authoritative description of the contemporaeous philosophical debates about the appropriate limits to scientific attempts at reviving dead organisms. and of how these discussions informed Shelley's viewpoint, adds a revealing new level to our appreciation of this classic tale. And on a broader scale, this is the achievement of the book as a whole - by shining its light on these "leading lights" of centuries past, The Age of Wonder affords us a more profound appreciation for so much of what we enjoy, and perhaps take a little too much for granted, in our own time.
2 I was interested in this from the description, and received it as a gift. But I'm personally interested in the science, and there are much more informative (and interesting) treatments of the history of science in that period. The prose about art was too dense for me. I'm sending it back.
4 Growing up, I was never really fond of history or science, not to mention history about science, and I think mainly it was because of the way these subjects were introduced and taught to me in school, which was by rote memory and for the purpose of good performance in standardized tests.  For me, it was a sad case of high scores without true, or lasting lessons or interests. On the contrary, a book like this, to me, makes history and science come alive and exciting and relevant to our everday life, it shows the continuity, and the close connections between literature, music, art, science, philosophy etc.  It is amazing and refreshing to learn about the incredible versatility of the scientists--Banks, Herschel, Davy, Brewster--who were not the stereotypical modern day "geeky" engineers/scientists, these scientists actually wrote music and poetry, and were explorers and philosophers!  And the writers and poets of that time went to science lectures and incorporated science into their arts!  Painters and writers had dinner parties and discussed philosophies in scientific discoveries! (We are not talking about old,white hair sages here, we are talking about relatively young people.  I guess when you don't have to tweet every hour about the food you ate or how many hours you excercised or what Lidsey Lohan was wearing, you can actually think about more profound things.)  As the author writes in his epilogue, the rigid boundaries between science vs art, or religion or traditional ethics are no longer enough.  We need "the sense of individual wonder, the power of hope, and the vivid and QUESTING belief in a future for the globe." Take it from Newton, "I do not know what I may appear to the world; but to myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great Ocean of truth lay all before me." This book is educational and informative, but not in a dry textbook way.  It was FUN!
4 It's hard not to compare this book to Chabon's earlier Kavalier and Clay.  While similar in certain ways, this book's themes are quite different, and overall it doesn't measure up to the earlier effort.  But it is a worthwhile read anyways.The premise of the book is very fanciful; basically, it exists in a universe parallel to our own, with the primary difference being that instead of a Jewish homeland being carved out of Palestine after WWII, a homeland was carved out of southern Alaska.  This homeland was temporary though, and in the present day is about to revert to the United States.  Within this world, a murder mystery unfolds, which eventually gets to the heart of the reversion and a Hassidic sect that plays a Mafia-style role in the community.Some might object to the overall premise not being politically correct (if you're a staunch Israel supporter), and to the Mafiosi in Hassidic clothing.  These didn't bother me, and the overall Jewish tone of the place, as well as the large amount of Yiddish phrasing and names, appealed to me.  My main objection was to the central murder mystery, which was written in typical hardboiled detective fashion, and seemed a little beneath Chabon's literary abilities.But the characters are very well drawn (not nearly as well as in K & C though), and most of all the prose is as good as any American writer I know of.  Chabon's metaphors are extensive and extended, and always remarkably apt.  The plotting is adept and the book is a quick and compelling read.  I'll certainly keep reading Chabon in future.
4 If you read fiction for the plot elements or a compelling story, skip this one.  If, however, you read fiction for the dizzying exhibition of a writer using language like a chisel, creating a gorgeous piece of art in the process, then you shouldn't skip this one.  Buy it and savor it.Chabon again displays his almost eiree ability to craft new phrases and force the reader to just submit and go along for the ride (paraphrased - "his voice was molten rubber dropped into a bucket of ice").The story of Jews relocated to Sitka, Alaska forms an interesting backdrop, if for no other reason than for the sheer audacity of its historical recrafting.  The detective/noir style never suffers under its own weight, as it might from the heavier-handed.One is left wanting a good yiddish phrase book, however!
5 Chabon possesses an unconstrained imagination, a linguistic facility and a consistently optimistic outlook that are exceptional among active English-language writers. All of these are represented brilliantly in Yiddish Policeman's Ball. Some other reviewers that did not enjoy the book complained that it was only relevant to Jewish people (or those who actually live in places where there are REAL JEWS!). I think this is equivalent to saying that any novel set in a time or place other than that of the reader can only be understood and appreciated by people that come from that time and place. Such a viewpoint defeats the very purpose of fiction -- namely, to transport the reader to a place created by the author's imagination. And in Yiddish Policeman's Ball, the very premise is an alternate history, which by definition does not comport to ANYONE'S reality. That does not mean that the book lacks contemporary relevance. Quite the contrary is the case, as this examination of what the plight of European Jewry post-WWII might have been had the State of Israel not been successfully created in 1948 helps the reader to appreciate why the survival of the Jewish state is so important to modern Jews and those that value the persistence of the only modern Western=style democracy in a region full of despotic and anti-western Muslim states. Given the enormous significance that the Middle East plays in global affairs, including 2 wars involving the US and Europe in the last decade, that facet of this book is extremely relevant to any reader.  But that is not the primary reason to read this book. Read it because Chabon's writing can make the reader truly feel what the characters are experiencing in the story. And despite the often miserable circumstances and outcomes for some characters, his stories manage to retain a faith in fate and never cross the line into despair. That is a nice place for anyone to spend some time.
1 I fell in love with Chabon's work after reading "Mysteries of Pittsburgh" and "Kavalier & Clay," but this one is a snoozer, as was "Summerland," though "Summerland" is more of a kid's book, and I'm not a kid.
1 The Yiddish Policemen's Union, by Michael Chabon, is a fiction book that's appropriate for bathroom reading, for which it was picked up. It's currently #4 on the NY Times Best Seller list (Hardcover Fiction).The book starts out with an unpleasant alternate reality premise... the Israel war of independence was lost, the Jews in Israel were booted out, the refugee's of the Holocaust had no where to go, and the US set aside a small territory as a temporary Jewish haven. In Alaska.Which has little to do with what the story is about, but sets a weird background for an average dirty grimy detective story. A down and out police detective, he's a drunk, he's divorced, he's living in a hotel who's other occupants are all petty criminals, finds a neighbor who's been murdered. And naturally, he investigates.But the background, a modern day Jewish refugee camp ala the "Palestinian" refugee camps of Lebanon (which are their own cities), gives the author an opportunity to insult, make fun of, and especially degrade, zionists, orthodox Jews, chassidic Jews, and Judaism in general.It's a world that's the seedy side of Brooklyn, but 100% Jews. It's language of the 'hood', but with all 'hood' terminology replaced with Yiddish words.And, as far as I can tell, it's primary purpose is to show that zionists are plotters and thieves, chassidim are criminals and fools, orthodox Jews are ignoramuses, oh and that chassidim are either criminals or fools (or occasionally both). (Yes, I know I wrote that twice.) Special mention is made of the foolishness of belief in Moshiach and manipulation through messianic fervor.Besides all that, the style of writing is poor, making the book a difficult read besides being an unpleasant one. Unfortunately, it's a quality printed book. Unfortunate, because otherwise it would be useful as either scrap paper or toilet paper.Rating: Zevel (that's Yiddish for Garbage). But it's #4 on the NY Times Bestseller list.
4 Michael Chabon is a writer that many other writers are envious of: he's young, he's brilliant, and his books will undoubtedly survive long after his is gone.  Pulitzer Prize winner for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay  aside, Chabon's writing seems almost effortless, but is pure craft and magic.  Unlike John Irving, who plots out the complete story beforehand, and then meticulously crafts each sentence and paragraph to be perfect (which is why he can take up to five years to finish a book), Chabon has both the story and ability from the start in creating his piece of art.The Yiddish Policemen's Union, like his other books, takes you to a place you never could've imagined.  In this alternate reality, during the time of the Second World War, two million Jews are transported from Germany to Alaska, where they create their own small civilization meshed in the bitterness of their treatment in Germany and their treatment in Alaska, a cold and distant place from the contiguous United States.  The main city is known as Sitka, but there is little independence, and any whisperings of nationalization are immediately quashed.  Yiddish is the primary language, with very little American spoken.  Little happens in this people's history from World War II to the present, other than a pathetic World's Fair that now only retains the constant reminder of the reaching stone structure known as the Safety Pin.  Sitka is not a happy place for anyone, as they dream of Zion and their return to their true home.Landsman is our main character, a policeman who's been in the service for many years but has little to show for it, apart from a trashed hotel room, a failed marriage, a dead sister, and his own depression over the state of his life.  And it is then that he finds out about the dead body in the room nearby.  A man has been murdered and the case begins.  With his partner, Landsman travels around the area, picking up clues, and trying to piece together the ever-growingly complex case.  At the same time, his ex-wife returns to the precinct now as his boss, with the news that big changes are happening and all outstanding cases must be dealt with post haste.  But as Landsmen digs deeper, he finds a larger plot taking place, involving more bodies, and more importantly the death of his sister.  The pressure increases from important people in high places, as Landsman with the help of his partner and ex-wife - who he is growing close to again -  get closer and closer to the truth.While my hope is that Chabon will return to this incredibly developed world in future stories, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is nevertheless a thrilling mystery: a Sherlock Holmes case with a Jewish twist, that keeps the reader hanging on until the end when the case is solved, and everyone seems happy.  However, the state of Sitka and these many homeless Jews remains in jeopardy, to be resolved perhaps at a later date.Originally written on April 29th, 2007 Alex C. Telander.For more book reviews and author interviews, go to [...]
4 In an alternate history, the Jews who were victimized during the Holocaust are resettled to Alaska, instead of Israel.  They are given control over the region for sixty years, at which point this land will revert back to the United States.  Nobody knows what will happen to the Jewish population at that time.It is two months from this reversion, and Detective Meyer Landsman has bigger troubles on his mind.  He's still pining after his ex-wife, and he has several cases to pin on someone.  His biggest problem, though, is the murder case he's been ordered to drop.  Despite the orders and the trouble he might cause to himself and his partner, Landsman can't seem to let go of this homicide.  Once he starts to investigate, he finds that the story goes deeper and might be even more dangerous than he imagined.I loved the whole idea of an Alaskan Jewish homeland.  I liked the way the characters interacted with each other, and the different ways they viewed their precarious situation.  Dialog was fascinating and amusing, sprinkled with enough Yiddish to keep me intrigued, while still being easy enough for me to read.  Landsman was a likable character, as was his cousin and partner, Berko.I would have liked to have seen more of the relationship between Landsman and Bina; very little was shown of why they broke up or why they might have fallen in love in the first place.  I also would have liked to have seen more of the reversion madness.  I was looking forward to finding out what the United States government had planned for Alaska, and was disappointed the story ended before we had a chance to see it.
4 I absolutely loved Mr. Chabon's poetic prose; wonderful words that instantly paint perfect pictures and create emotion, both humorous and hurtful. It was a little long for a mystery.
5 Incredibly creative, wongerfully engaging, and since it's Chabon, skullfully executed.  The denouement drags a little and lacks tbe thrill of the first 3/4s of the book.  I can't tell if that's just because all the surprising imaginativeness occurs earlier and there's no need and no room for it as things play out can the end.  Or maybe Chabon just didn't know how to bring it all together in the end.  Still, I loved this book and recommend it highly.
5 I picked up this book almost at random, drawn by the unique cover art.  I almost put it back down, until I saw that Michael Chabon had won the Pulitzer prize for fiction in a recent year.  I figured anything by a Pulitzer winner was worth the time to read.I was not disappointed.  I was sucked into the world of Sitka, Alaska so thoroughly I had to remind myself frequently this was a piece of "alternate history."  I have rarely seen such vivid characters brought to life, living their lives against such vibrant backgrounds of blended fantasy and reality.This book reminded me why I write fiction, and Michael Chabon has given me a new standard to aspire to.  If you have the chance to read "The Yiddish Policeman's Union," do so without hesitation!
5 This is a remarkable work by an extraordinary writer, probably his best to date. At heart, it is a detective story--a very compelling mystery that begins when Detective Meyer Landsman is summoned to the room of a murdered man sharing the fleabag hotel where Landsman lives. Landsman is a detective for the Jewish police force in Sitka, Alaska, where Jews have been relocated following World War II, and the murder leads him into a complex, tangled conspiracy. Chabon has created an alternate reality that is completely believable and fascinating, and he spins out his story with such perfectly chosen language that the reader is compelled to slow down and savor every word.
1 I like alternate history, Alaska, and a decent mystery novel.This was awful. The first Chabon book I read was, of course, "Kavalier and Clay." It was great, so I read "Mysteries of Pittsburgh," which was disappointing. This was just awful. I didn't understand what was going on most of the time, I couldn't figure out what the Yiddish meant, the writing was choppy, and the plot didn't seem to be able to make up its mind about which way it wanted to go.I only finished it because I had nothing else to do when I was at work. If I had thought to bring some logic problems with me, I would have given up on this mess about 100 pages in.
2 This was my first book by this author, and given its success with critics and public I had high expectations. Expectations also fed by the very interesting "fictional history" premise of the book. After reading (part of) this book, I am not sure I will ever get started with another one of his books that I purchased a while ago (the one that won the Pulitzer).But on the bright side let me say that I do think Mr Chabon is a very creative and (with one caveat) skilled writer. Then, why did I give up after a while? First, I am not well versed (or particularly interested) in yiddish jargon and after a while the book got very, very tiresome. But for this, of course, I cannot blame Chabon. After all, I had to expect it, silly me. Second, and for this I DO blame Chabon, I have very low patience for authors that use forced metaphors 2-3 times per page and this is what Mr Chabon does in this book (really, just try to open a few pages at random and see for yourself). I think they teach you in "Creative writing 101" that the excessive use of metaphors is one of the most common shortcomings of poor writers and I tend to agree (although of course I would not go as far as saying that Mr Chabon is a poor writer. This book just did not suit me). At some point, I could not take any longer and I gave up.I would not say that this is a "bad book", but I really did not like it. Do stay away from it if you have a low tolerance to metaphors.
1 I got the paper version at Goodwill for two dollars, I think, after waiting forever for it to come out in an ebook format.  Then 2 weeks after I bought the pBook, I saw it was available in eBook form.  By waiting so long, the publishers lost a potential full price sale since I was primed to buy it in ebook format. Alternate history is a secret vice of mine. But all in all, it worked out well for me.The book was INCREDIBLY boring.  I have NO idea why the reviews were so overwhelmingly positive.  I slogged through about 2/3s of the thing solely on grit and determination before I gave up.  But Chabon beat me, beat me down hard.  I kept thinking, "Man! This needs a funny talking robot, or a sword fight, cute aliens, or something". At the very least he could do what Harry Turtledove does when things get slow and throw in some fake Nazi stand ins.I might try one of his other books (if it's cheap enough) just to see if this book is an aberration.  I hate it when I have a bad feeling towards a writer based on one sample.
4 Chabon has to be not only one of the most talented writers of his generation, he's got to be the bravest.  Any writer who wins a Pulitzer (as Chabon did for his tour de force novel, *The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay*) is under pressure to perform the same legerdemain and the temptation to play it safe must be strong.  Instead, Chabon has gone on to write fiction that defies any expectations that he might have created with his earlier work.  He has also freely opened himself up to the kind of criticism that Philip Roth received in his early years (e.g. with *Goodbye, Columbus* and *Portnoy's Complaint*) with his not-always-flattering portrayal of his people.*The Yiddish Policeman's Union* has been widely reviewed and doesn't need another plot summary.  By now everyone knows that in the alternate universe Chabon creates, the small, surviving Yiddish-speaking world of Eastern Europe has been transferred as a piece, after the Holocaust, to the Alaskan panhandle.  In real life those same (pitifully few) survivors settled in the United States, Argentina, and Israel, among other countries, where their children became American Jews, Argentine Jews and Sabras -- Jewish but no longer Yiddish-speaking.  Chabon's whimsical (to use a pretty word for it) creation of a world in which the culture that Hitler destroyed survives -- courtesy of the isolation of the new subzero ghetto -- is the most intriguing aspect of this novel.  Combining that fantasy with the conventions of detective fiction (picture Harry Bosch on the tundra with a six-pointed star for a badge) is just the wind beneath his wings.On a personal level, I wish the author had made the book more accessible to non-Jewish readers.  This major literary achievement deserves to be read by the widest possible audience, and I'm afraid that readers unfamiliar with Ashekenazi Jewish history and culture will find it confusing and dense.  Chabon is right not to turn this into an educational tract, but what an opportunity to let more people know about the scholarly and pious aspects of this society.  At the risk of sounding like those early Roth critics, a reader with the right predisposition could put this book down with his worst fears confirmed: that the average Orthodox Jew is a really a latent gangster.  Then again, readers with that predisposition probably wouldn't get very far in the book anyway.Get That Novel Written
3 If amateur filmmaker Ed Chigliak from "Northern Exposure" reimagined his hometown as populated entirely by Dr. Joel Fleischman and his extended family, the result might well be The Yiddish Policemen's Union.Detective noir is a tricky genre to read. The chapters usually plod along slowly, heaping new colorful character upon new colorful character and hiding tiny plot bits in the cracks, most of which are throwaways but a few of which are vital to remember if you want to follow the story. Here, in addition, you also need to follow a glossary of pseudo-Yiddish terms used liberally throughout, track how the universe in the book differs from reality, and digest Chabon's sometimes overly purple prose.So, it was a tough book for me to read, and I can't say I enjoyed it. But I still recommend it, if only because of the wildly original world Chabon has created. It'd make a hell of a TV show.
3 Overall I really liked this book and had mixed feelings about the experience. The beginning, maybe about 40 pages or so, was a bit difficult to absorb. It was hard to get accustommed to the players and their histories. I found it a bit confusing and had to keep thumbing back as I read on. The ending was a bit convoluted and the payoff a bit dissapointing. It just came up on me more suddenly than I liked. However, what I really loved about the book was that it was saturated with a real-feel ethnic quality that made me smile and laugh, sometimes out loud, all the way through. I am not sure whether this will touch all readers who do not share the ethnicity of the characters, or who did not grow up in a Jewish family with parents and grandparents who spoke Yiddish or used Yiddish expressions, and or who came to the US from Poland, Russia, Germany, etc. during the late 1800's and early 1900's. So, although there were problems for me with the plot, I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know the characters, I was captivated with the dialogue, and I was drawn in to the settings. For instance, I especially liked when two key characters who were divorced from one another met in a local restaurant and one was eating blintzes and the other noodle kugle. Not the typical meal you read about in novels. There was a feeling of being at home with many of the characters. It reminded me of being with some of my extended family growing up and always being in earshot of a sort of cadence and phrasing around the dinner table. That Chabon captured that feeling and evoked something in me that I have not felt for a long time is remarkable. What a challenge it would be for a screenwriter and director could take this book on as a project, clean up the plot and bring these great ethnic characters to the big screen and make them universally accessible. I would love to see this happen. Who could do justice to this? Maybe the Coen brothers. If you're reading this, how about it guys?
3 First of all, this book is far from my favorite style. But I gave it a vote since the author is so well awarded.This book is based on pure fiction events of a possible political world situation if the Nazis had caused much more disgrace than they had and also that a nuke had hitted Germany.Tha said it states that the jews would not have Israel. Inside this plot the author evolves it story.Personally, I didn't like the ways it was written due to the fact that lots of references are made for the jewish comunity and I don't know nothing about it. My fault.Besides that, the plot itself is intersting, but could have much more pace. The wrtter in many ways focus on so many small details and gives too much attention to it at some point that I almost quit reading the book.If it had more pace and more focus it would be much better!! For me at least ;-) Either way, it is a good book.
4 A great novel makes you feel like you've entered an alternate reality that evolves naturally, like real life.  In this novel, reality doesn't flow.  It inches along with the obvious assistance of the novelist. There are too many strange place names, relationships, situations.  I very frequently had to stop and work too hard to figure out who a character was, where he was, and what was happening. Too bad...because otherwise I liked the book alot. Good story, interesting themes, well-made points...and I love the whole idea of the "frozen chosen."  Three and a half stars.
2 The author created such an unbelievable scenerio for this book that it was too difficult to accept.  Fantasy is fine; sci-fi is fine, but this was neither; it seemed to be trying to be passed off as real world.  As a result it flopped - for me anyway.  The author has talent; he shouldn't waste it on nonsense.
2 I should have liked this a lot -- nicely noir, alluringly alternative history, etc. etc. But I made it about halfway through and abandoned the effort. Maybe it was the general bleakness of the whole mise en scene, or maybe it's just a bad fit for me. My husband, for example, loved it. But after this and "Final Solution", I shan't feel obliged to try Chabon again soon.
4 This was a really interesting book. I think for a jew or a person who is more familiar with the jewish (yiddish) would appreciate it better. Some parts get very dry and boring (especially the beginning) but the end is very very good!
4 Imagine if FDR's idea of making Alaska, and not Israel, the homeland of the Jews, had happened. In Michael Chabon's new book, this alternate history has happened. For sixty years the Jews have lived in Sitka, Alaska and the rest of the world has seemed to has forgotten about them. News has come of a Reversion occuring. All the Jews will be kicked out of their home and safe haven in Alaska if they don't have official papers to make them a resident. First Israel, now Alaska-where will all these Jews go?While everyone is worried, and thus drinking their worries away, a murder has been committed. Homicide Detective Meyer Landsmen is called to the scene of a murder in the hotel where he lives. The victim looks like a typical druggie, but Landsmen isn't fooled by the looks of the scene. He knows there's something more sinister going on here, so he starts interviewing people and asking around about this unknown man. When Landsmen finds out the identity of the druggie, the investigation takes a whole different turn. This wasn't just a drug addict gone wrong; this was someone important, especially important to the Jews. Did someone kill this man to hurt the Jews, or is this an elaborate cover up of something political? Who is this man and why would someone want him dead?The Yiddish Policemen's Union is like an old detective novel with an alternate history, but with a Yiddish flavor to it. The Yiddish words are all used in context in this book, so it isn't that hard to understand their meanings. I would categorize this book as 80% mystery and 20% history. The Alaska imagery is minimum, which leaves the reader without a true feel for this unique place.Chabon's writing is beautifully poetic and always intelligently written. I had high hopes for The Yiddish Policemen's Union-but for me, it did not surpass The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay. Nevertheless, it is an interesting book, but the mystery aspect overwhelms the history, which takes a back seat.Armchair Interviews says: Popular writer produces another exciting book.
5 The Yiddish Policemen's Union by Michael Chabon: Ghetto Mentality RetrogressionReview by Arthur L. FinkleMr. Chabon writes a masterpiece of a "what-if" portion of history. In this case, what if the Jews lost their War on Independence on 1948?The solution was one proffered at that time, of region in Sitka Alaska for a 40 year term, after which there would be no more sanctuary.In clear, lyric writing, Chabon brings out the historical facts and dress them with the "ghetto mentality" prevalent in European Jewry. No longer did the "New Jew" posses the Spartan-like Israeli warrior; instead, we still have the pacifistic minority who try to eke out a living. We see that self-determination is not even on the radar screen for this forlorn group.This mystery is shrouded with "Jewish-isms" - the cerebral approach; psychological turmoil; lust for life (over cover); some of the underground elements (which include some of the arcane elements of the red heifer paradox). It even characterizes the Chasidim, as the Other, as well as the fractious Jewish community.I used this book in a book club with extraordinarily good results, particularly showing how the World War 2 generation coped to survive in a world hostile to Jews.The Yiddish Policemen's Union: A Novel (P.S.)
5 I picked up this book after seeing the title recommended again and again. It is not only an intriguing story but is well-written as well.  Chabon has that rare ability to pack a lot into every sentence, never wasting a word. I thought his style was a little hard to read at first, but once I got into it, I was rewarded over and over by his mastery of the language and his ability to tell a terrific story.I immediately got a copy of his pulitzer prize winner, which is an easier style to read. Chabon is a real find if you like well-written literature.Slynn
2 The whole story was hard to follow, not enough preliminary background.  I skipped through most of the last 30 pages.
5 There's more inventiveness in this book than in the last 20 books I've read. Maybe this is a commentary on what I read -- but I don't think so.  Michael Chabon creates an alternative world in which tens of millions of Jews from around the world have been relocated to Alaska and, relatively speaking, prospered from the 1940s to the early 21st century.  They have maintained their various sects and subsects, as well as the cultural heritages of the nations from which they arrived, and they have kept the rich Yiddish language alive. The book takes place on the eve of their expulsion ("Reversion" is the term used by the US Congress) because they have become so numerous that the US doesn't want to give them citizenship or statehood.In this world, Meyer Landsman, a police inspector, operates on the margins. Due to his own personal demons, he's living in a flophouse where a murder is committed, and he sets out to solve it.  In this sense, Chabon emulates (and in many ways) satirizes the classic detective novel.  Landsman is a wisecracking, hard-drinking, utterly uncorruptible force -- the exact kind of guy who gets himself into trouble with his bosses and the political and business leaders who pull the strings in society.But in this case, the society is totally foreign to anything that reall exists in America, and it carries with it all the mysteries of a 5,000-year old religion that's faced one holocaust and diaspora after another.  Landsman's search for the killer of the heroin addict in the flophouse leads him to ultra-religious Jewish mystics, heartless mobsters, and the highest levels of government.  He confronts his own disbelief, while maintaining his personal integrity.  And he starts to face up to his demons that disintegrated his marriage and turned him into a drunk.Meanwhile, into this mean world, Chabon instills beauty at every turn.  There are so many lovely turns of phrase that the writing puts most novelists to shame.  Example: at one point, Landsman is in bed with a woman, and he "whispers into the teacup of her ear."  There are literally a hundred more like that.This is a book that you can immerse yourself in.  Soak it up.  Revel in the language.  Marvel at what-might-have-been.  And chuckle at the plot and wisecracks.
2 I read the New York Times rave review for this book and ran out and purchased it. I stopped reading after about 50-pages. For the life of me I couldn't relate to the story, or characters, and certainly didn't understand any of the much touted humor. I would advise anyone who is thinking about buying this book to read the "sample" pages first.
4 Bought this for my wife - she read it in a matter of hours (couldnt put it down).  If you are looking for something good to read (especially beach side) this is for you!
4 Hard for me to get into. Descriptions sometimes too precious. I had the audio version, which is very well narrated. The story did pick up and I liked it a lot by the end. The author's comments made me think further about the book and appreciate it more.
5 I admit to beginning THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION with a bit of trepidation. The premise (a temporary Jewish homeland in Sitka, Alaska) seemed odd, and I still have memories of how (for me) the initial promise of bothMysteries of PittsburghandWonder Boyshad ultimately worn thin before tales' end.More fool me. Here is the most succinct way I could review YIDDISH POLICEMEN: Not a page was turned without Chabon's marvelous language causing an eyebrow to be raised, a sentence re-read and savored, or a chuckle elicited. The plot's premise is actually spectacularly intriguing, but it's the characterization and dialogue that really pay the dividends here.Okay, so I lied. Here is the most succinct way I could review it:This is the best book I've read this year.ASIDE: While I'm not an entirely uninformed gentile, I will confess to a hankering for a glossary of the plentiful Yiddish terms used herein. (And I've even read Michael Wex's magnificent treatise on the language,Born to Kvetch: Yiddish Language and Culture in All of Its Moods.)
2 How could you take such an exciting idea and  make it into such a tedious, boring, overinflated novel. I'm sorry, this writer is talented and smart, but he's no John Grisham, who as a writer is not as talented and smart, but he sure knows how to tell a story. This guy hasn't a clue, and I don't think he has any respect for readers to tolerate all the nonsensical, convolutions, the Jewish shtick is OK, but way overdone, of plot. I said to myself, is this ever going to be interesting, or worth reading--no less all the time and effort it took to write it--the answer was a resounding NO.I think any sane editor would have told him, very early on, Michael this is terrible, you have a gem of an idea and talent but, when is this novel going to wake up from its frozen pickled herring slumber.YAWN. YAWN. YAWN.If it wasn't for the professional critic's hype this thing would land on the remainder table in a flash. Definitely not worth your time.The best thing about it is the cover.
5 If you like your sci-fi with an alternate universe that creates a fascinating twist on the world you live in, and if you also like an old-fashioned cop story with intriguing characters and a well-plotted murder mystery full of surprises, then this is a book for you.  Chabon has created such nuanced characters that you feel you met them years ago as you share his protagonist's story (not to mention the wonderful humor laced throughout the book that leaves you laughing out loud at times).  It was one of those books that you did not want to end ... although the ending was perfect.
5 His best yet!  Funny, fascinating, richly detailed, fast-paced, intriguing and--perhaps best of all, because it's not usually Chabon's hallmark--well plotted and structured, with a satisfying ending.  Truly masterful.  His Kavalier & Clay won a Pulitzer, and this one is sure to win that too, at the very least.Lest I sound like a shill, this book might not be for everyone.  It's got a lot of Jewish shtick in it.  After you get into it, though, the language seems natural.  Or at least as natural as the patter (patois?) of old hard-boiled private-eye stories, only more elegant.  And as the old Levy's bread ads used to say, you don't have to be Jewish to enjoy it.For me, it's heartening to find someone my age who just keeps getting better.
1 My book club selected this book based on the strength of "The Adventures of Cavalier & Clay" and because Chabon is such a gifted writer.  I was very disappointed with this book.This follow-up to the Pulitzer winner is regrettably self-indulgent.  Not sure who the intended audience is but it wasn't me.  It seemed like Chabon couldn't decide whether he wanted to write a fantasy, an homage to 40's detective mysteries or a love story.  In my view, he did none of these.  And the ending is so preposterous that it exceeded my 'willing suspension of disbelief' limits to such a degree as to insult my intelligence.All that said, there are a few passages that are sheer magic but all they do is remind you that this is a failed attempt by a very gifted writer.
1 I can summarize my review as follows: This is the best-written cheesy mystery/thriller EVER.I stayed away from reading this book when it first came out because nothing about it appealed to me. I'm not Jewish, I hate alternate history, I don't read mysteries or thrillers, and I've never been to Alaska. The only reason for me to ever read this book is my faith in the author. I sense the publisher felt the same way since you'll notice the author's name is much larger than the book's title on the front cover and spine and the back prominently talks about all his OTHER works. It's like they're saying, "Who cares what this about; it's Michael Chabon, one of the best freaking writers alive! Buy it!"The thought that keeps humming through my brain is: whatever possessed the man to write this? To me, this is like Picasso writing a cookbook or Einstein publishing a book of poetry. It's a complete waste of talent for such a great writer to concoct something that's part a mystery that isn't mysterious and part a thriller that isn't thrilling.If you haven't read the other reviews and such to know what this debacle is about, it's about Meyer Landsman, a policeman cut from the John McLane mold in that he generally shambles around with a hangover all the time since his marriage--to his former partner and current boss--broke up. He's woken from his stupor by the manager of the motel where he lives to investigate a murder next door. A mysterious chess-playing heroin addict has been murdered. As Landsman investigates the killing, he's drawn into conspiracies that involves Hasidic gangsters (the leader of whom is like a Jewish Jabba the Hutt), a fanatical American government that makes the current regime seem tame, and dairy cows.[Here's Your Spoiler Space!][There, You've Been Warned!]In this alternate universe Palestine is still in Muslim hands, having routed the Zionists in 1948, but the arrival of a Messiah--Jabba's son, who is the aforementioned chess-playing junkie--signals that it's time to bring on a new Crusade to bring on the End of Days.As the plot continued to get more ridiculous, I kept hoping for Mr. Chabon to pull a rabbit out of his hat, but that never materialized. Instead, the end seems tacked-on and by then the solution to the mystery makes little difference, so that it's completely underwhelming.I suppose the biggest problem I have--and I'm sure others will have as well--is the colossal shadow cast by the author's previous adult novel, the Pulitzer-winning "Adventures of Kavalier and Clay." This novel is nothing like that, except for Meyer's fascination with the World's Fair and in the grand Chabon tradition one character turning out to be gay. The most notable difference is that while "Kavalier and Clay" had a sunny optimism of two poor kids bringing a dream to life and embracing The American Dream, "Yiddish Policeman's Union" is as dreary as its Alaskan setting, mired in a world of bitterness and hatred that is perhaps a dark reflection of our current situation.On the technical side, the writing is of course superb, beyond reproach, 5 stars, and a heap of other complimentary adjectives. It's just that this great writing is in service of a plot better suited for Dan Brown or the "Left Behind" boys. On the whole, I don't know who this novel is aimed at. Mystery/thriller/alternate history fans will not enjoy the literary style or the heaping helping of Judaism or the slow pace with almost no payoff. Literary fans will enjoy the writing style but (should anyway) find the plot trite. I suppose if you know a lot about Judaism, you can tolerate alternate history, and you liked slow-paced mystery/thrillers with almost no payoff this is YOUR book. Me, I'm going to disavow its existence.I'm going to tarry a moment longer to put forth a theory. The victim who sets this whole thing into motion, Mendel Shpilman the chess-playing junkie, is credited as the Messiah of the Jews with allegedly magical powers of healing and so forth that makes him a superstar at an early age. But Mendel grows weary of this gift and so goes into hiding, spending his time shooting heroin and hustling chess games for money, squandering his tremendous gifts. In a way you could say the same of the author. "Kavalier and Clay" made Mr. Chabon a superstar, but ever since then he's done the next best thing to hiding in putting out a children's book, a Sherlock Holmes novella, pulp magazines, comic books, and even contributing to the story for "Spider-Man 2." And now we have a cheesy mystery/thriller. Perhaps art does imitate life and in this case that would be a very sad thing.That is all.PS: I heard the Coen brothers of "No Country for Old Men" and "True Grit" (among others) are adapting this into a movie, which gets me excited. If anyone can turn this piece of junk into something watchable, it's them.
4 I'm joining the admiring half of this discussion of Michael Chabon's "The Yiddish Policemen's Union."  There are very few authors writing today with anywhere near the imagination, creative use of language or sheer courage that Chabon brings to this book.  (Which is not to say that I think it quite reaches the standard set by "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Klay.")Whether you eventually weary of the unrelenting Jewish cultural references or just the bleakness of the northern setting of this novel, you just have to plug on through this story because of the visible genius and gutsiness of the language and outlandish storyline.  Chabon also gets a lot of credit from this reader for the sharpness of his political satire and his very cynical, but dead-on view (through his characters, of course) of the clumsy and short-sighted machinations of the U.S. Government in foreign and domestic affairs.Chabon certainly knew in the creative process how far out on a limb he was going with this book's orientation and how likely it would cost him a lot of admiring readers (witness the span of opinion in the Amazon reviews).  But to his credit, he has chosen to take this very original approach and the risks that go with it.In my opinion, this is a very well-crafted novel with much to recommend it.
3 Never quite got into it.  I bought it because someone else raved about it.  What more can I say?  Thanks
5 Imagine for a moment the world today if, instead of victory in the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the nation of Israel had suffered defeat. Those Jews who had established residence in Palestine were expelled from their homeland. They turned to the United States for assistance and were awarded a portion of land in the territory of Alaska in the Federal District of Sitka. Now, one-half century has passed and a policy has been enacted by the U.S. that will evict all Jews without recognized legal status from Sitka. Sovereignty over that land where Yiddish is the official language and power is exercised by Hasidic Jews will terminate on January 1, 2008.This historical underpinning for THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION is but one of countless ironies that saturate the novel. Jews in Alaska find themselves being treated in a fashion similar to Palestinians in the contemporary Middle East. This is the universe that Michael Chabon has created, the existence of which raises countless provocative questions for Jews and Gentiles alike.Lest readers believe that an Alaskan Jewish homeland is the groundwork for a political novel, THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION is actually a detective saga in the 1940s style of Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett. Chabon's sleuth is Meyer Landsman, a down-on-his-luck Sitka homicide cop called upon to investigate the murder of a drug addict who resided in the same rundown hotel as Landsman. The investigation takes the detective into a strange world of Lubavitch Orthodox gangs and crime-boss rabbis.The dead man who used the leather straps of his tefillin (Jewish prayer artifacts) to tie off his arms prior to injecting heroin into his veins was also the son of a powerful rabbi in Sitka. Like any detective caught in an investigation where powerful people have a vested interest in the outcome, Landsman and his partner, Berko Shemets, must be full-time investigators and part-time diplomats. Throughout the investigation Chabon reminds us of his constant refrain, "It's a strange time to be a Jew."Reading THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION one cannot help but notice the irony and complexity of Chabon's writing. The Jews of Sitka are in many respects the Palestinians of the 21st century. They owe their existence to the largess of others and know not what the future portends. By focusing his novel on a Jewish character toiling as a police detective, Chabon is seeking to establish for readers that the true nation of Israel is a nation like all other nations, where people toil in all professions seeking nothing more than to be left alone in their daily endeavors. It cannot go unnoticed that the protagonist of this novel is named Landsman, the Yiddish word for a fellow countryman. Sitka, Alaska, the erstwhile home of the Jewish nation, is where we all come from.THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION is one of those rare books that many will think is remarkable, while some will find it intolerable. It will offer different interpretations for different readers, and you may have to read it more than once. There is no doubt, however, that this book will be widely discussed in the coming months and even years. In the future, Michael Chabon may be mentioned in the same sentence with Phillip Roth, Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud for this work of enormous ambition and insight.--- Reviewed by Stuart Shiffman
4 This is a very unusual book!  I opened this book with the author's Pulitzer-Prize winning book (The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay) in mind, and immediately started to bog down.  This book isn't much like that one (points to the author for wanting to break new ground with his fiction), and I had the sinking feeling that I'd be in for a lot of boring descriptions of chess.  (Thank God that didn't turn out to be the case.)Plus, there's more un-italicized Yiddish words peppering every page than you can shake a stick at, and there's no glossary.  So unless you're a 80 year-old European rabbi, you'll probably have to cruise along, absorbing the gist of each Yiddish word from its context.  Fortunately, Chabon is such a fine writer that you can adjust to this easily enough.Our hero Landsman is a washed-up detective who lives in a crummy hotel.  His marriage broke up a few years back, his sister died while piloting her small plane, and he may soon have no home.  In this alternate-history world, Alaska rather than Israel became the temporary safe haven for the world's Jews after the Holocaust.  Now Alaska is set to revert back to American control, and for reasons I never quite understood, the Jews of Alaska may be homeless once more.Landsman has a more immediate problem to worry about:  when he's called to a crime scene in the very hotel where he lives, he realizes that someone murdered a fellow resident.  He takes this personally though he didn't know the man.  His ex-wife, now his supervisor, warns him off the case.  The police precinct in general is supposed to dump unsolvable cases and tidy up before everyone bails out of Alaska. But Landsman launches a secret investigation with his long-suffering partner.  This leads him to the mysterious closed society of the "black hats" (Hasidic Jews who, in this alternate reality, personify organized crime).  The murder victim turns out to be more important than they initially thought.Problems I had with this book:  (1) the relative slowness of the beginning (unavoidable given the complex world-building that Chabon has to convey).  By the time you meet the black-hats, the story starts cranking along at a good pace.  (2) the abrupt and somewhat unhinged way that the ending came together.  You may get there as I did and get fed the explanation that Landsman receives, and think, "All this was a plan to do WHAT?"  It's a little unbelievable.Things I liked about the book:(1) the world-building.  This version of Alaska is very poignant when you consider the fact that Yiddish, known to be a tremendously flexible and expressive language that was preferred by countless scholars and literary luminaries including Isaac Bashevis Singer, is hovering on the brink of extinction these days.  In Chabon's Alaska, which is wet and cold and gloomy, the culture is European and the main language is Yiddish.  There is no Israel and there is precious little Hebrew outside of the synagogue.  If, like me, you know almost nothing about Jewish culture, you're going get absolutely fascinated as you read.(2) the characters.  Landsman is cranky, wry, self-deprecating, and dogged.  The friendships between him and his partner, and him and his ex-wife, are complex and funny and a delight to read.  As a reader, I wouldn't hesitate to follow these characters through a story way more far-fetched than this one.As mysteries go, this story is much slower moving than fans of the genre will be used to (because it's so top-heavy with all that world-building).  But I definitely recommend The Yiddish Policeman's Union, especially for those reader who want something that they've never seen before!  Chabon fans should be pleased.
3 TYPU is a science fiction, or at least speculative fiction, detective story. In the novel, Israel was wiped out in 1948 and refugee Jews were allowed to settle in Sitka, Alaska. At the start of the book, the US government is giving the land back to the Alaskans and the Jews have to leave in less than three months.Meyer Landsman, the lead character, is an alcoholic detective sliding into oblivion, living in a fleabag hotel, divorced from his wife, Bina, who has been promoted to his boss. Landsman is notified that a junkie has been executed in the hotel, shot in the back of the head. On the table is a chess set. Chess is a theme that weaves through the novel.Despite Bina's order to put the case in the dead file, Landsman and his partner, a half-Tlingit Jew named Berko Shemets, investigate. The case leads them to the Verbovers, an orthodox Jewish crime family with powerful connections. They discover that the junkie was reputed to have mystical powers of knowledge and healing, and may have been the Messiah. According to Jewish legend, there is always a Messiah on Earth, waiting for the time to be right. Eventually they uncover a conspiracy that combines mysticism and power politics and includes multiple threads from their lives, both old and new.If you're a fan of Westerns, when the lead pushes open the saloon doors, you can almost guarantee there's going to be a fight. If you are a fan, you lean forward. If not, you go out for popcorn.So, have we seen the Alcoholic Detective, the Big Last Case, the Big Conspiracy before? Yup. It becomes a question of how well it's executed. The conspiracy is a good one and fits right into the world Chabon has created. The world he's created is well-fleshed out. I was enchanted that the cops frequently refer to someone they're questioning as `Sweetness.' Landsman isn't particularly compelling as the lead, but I liked Bina and Shemets, his partner, and the junkie was well drawn. I thought the conclusion of the book lacked drama, although it fits into the noir tradition. The reason for the junkie's murder was a little weak and the deduction about firearms that leads Landsman to the murderer is suspect at best.Chabon writes well, for the most part, but he leans on his similes more than he should. He describes a woman's voice as sounding like an onion rolling in a bucket. Nope, doesn't work for me.He also overwrites sometimes: "Shpilman takes the photograph from Landsman and, with both hands, brings it very close to his face, straight up into the precinct of his right eyeball. He's only nearsighted, but there is something vampiric in the gesture, as if he's trying to drain a vital liquor from the photograph with the lamprey mouth of his eye."Yeah. Mike Pohjola said you should kill your darlings. That one should have been strangled.When he isn't trying so hard, some of his writing has the crisp feel of Hammett or Chandler: "Landsman watches her walk across the dining area... He bets himself a dollar that she won't look back at him before she ... steps into the snow. But he's a charitable man, and it was a sucker bet, and so he never bothers to collect."That's good stuff.I have another quibble with the book - it's written in present tense instead of past tense. When did that become a thing and how do we stop it?I enjoyed the book, but I don't think I'll go back and read it again, so I'll give it 3 and a half, rounded down to 3 stars.
2 CD/unabridged/Alternate History: How did I like the book? I was glad when it was over. The writing is good and Chabon is the king of the similes.  The similes do become annoying.  The plot is simple, murder, and the interview with Chabon at the end was interesting on his concept of the book.The Sci-fi: Yiddish is a lost language.  It ended because of the Holocaust.  The alternative history is that the USA offers a spot for the Jews after the fall of Israel.....in Alaska.  Sixty years later, twelve weeks away from the USA taking the land back and the Jews have to get a passport and find somewhere else to go.  Because this is alternate history novel, the book is listed at sci-fi and has won awards for Sci-fi.  There is no "science" in this fiction.The murder plot: It starts out okay, but goes off in a strange direction.  I had to go to Wikipedia to look at a plot summary.  There are points that you thought were going to be important and mean nothing.  I had to listen to the ending twice to find a motive to the murder.  The murder of another character is glossed-over.The characters: There are a lot of Hebrew names and most of them start with L.  They are similar and makes the sorting out of suspects difficult.Do I recommend it, not really.
5 I totally escaped into this fantasy world and enjoyed the complete translation of language that Chabon affects here.This was my companion on a one week road trip and I easily finshed it at nights in the hotel and by the pool etc..Found this on the NPR 250 best sci-fi books - the list before they cut down to 100.Really enjoyed it.
4 Michael Chabon is an absolutely beautiful writer although I have to admit this novel for me was a bit of a mixed bag. As imaginative and creative was the 'what if' scenario the book presents, for me there was an element of removal in not being overly familiar with Jewish customs and culture.However, the story is still engaging, and his prose is like a fantastic wine bouquet that is great to wrap your mouth around,with a finish nearly as full as the first literary sip.
3 Whenever people ask me who my favourite author is, or at least, what my favourite book is, I always say Michael Chabon's "Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay".  Needless to say, I was quite eager to get an advance readers edition of this book, but I left it feeling a bit disappointed.The story is rich, interesting, and dynamic, as are all of Chabon's.  The prose is electric, fresh, and humorous as always.  The characters are so fully developed, the setting is so panoramic, that the book itself seems almost like a documentary rather than a fictional novel.And yet...I think my problem with it lay in the accessibility of the story.  I am not Jewish myself, but I live in a city with a large Jewish community so I have fringe recognition and understanding of Jewish mythology.  But my fringe-ness was not nearly enough to get through the premise of the book, which was almost like a Da Vinci code noir sham novel with its religious and mythological references.  I think if I were more in tune to Jewish culture I perhaps would find the book much more thrilling and meaningful, but as it was, I found it confusing, and at times stilted when trying to determine where the story was going and what aspects of it were particularly significant to the plot and the characters.The book itself follows a detective by the name of Meyer Landsman in the Jewish district of Sitka in Alaska (think, Israel in Alaska) as he unravels the significance of a seemingly meaningless murder under a ticking clock set by the sudden end to Jewish sovereignty in Sitka.  Along the way there are an astounding number of connections, twists, and interesting characters to entertain (or confuse), and it seems like Sitka is the smallest region on earth the way everyone knows everyone - or at least thinks they do.I would still reccomend this book, but only if you possess a strong knowledge of Jewish history/mythology/culture, or if you are willing to do a bit of research (Wikipedia might help) before and during the reading of this novel.  And truthfully I've said the same about part of Kavalier & Clay - before lending it to anyone I always caution them to look up "golem" quickly so they can understand that aspect of the text.A wonderfully written text, if not necessarily the triumph that K&C; ever was, and a solid part of this year's line-up of fiction nonetheless.
5 I will agree that this book was a little difficult to get into.  It took a while to become acclimated to all the Yiddish words and phrases.  But once I got in sync with the author I found myself on an entertainingly funny and imaginative ride.Detective Meyer Landsman is informed that another occupant in his hotel has been murdered.  His initial investigation determines that the victim was the estranged son of the most powerful rebbe in this mythical Jewish settlement in Sitka, Alaska.  Landsman also discovers that the victim may not have been just an ordinary person.  In fact, the victim was once a child genius whose `blessings' were thought to have created miracles - he was thought to have possessed Messiah-like potential.  So why was he murdered in later life in a fleabag hotel?  That is the tale of discovery that author Michael Chabon takes you on.  His wit and imagination makes the complex plot so wildly entertaining.  A 5-star recommendation for sure.
1 I'm Jewish but this book is too much even for me. Boring barely begins to describe it. I'm a major big-time reader so for me to quit after nine chapters you know it leaves much to be desired. Normally I hate to stop and will slog through. Not this time. Feh!
4 I can appreciate the creation of a convoluted combination of yid intellects facing career suicide as a context in which people sometimes speak American to express the perverse reality in which Christians mildly expect to cheer up at the end of the world. I started reading the book a week ago in homage to the darkest part of the year. Minnesota is not Alaska, but it has snowed and been cold this winter. Finding perverse pleasure in a situation that avoids existing people but explores many aspects of literary life with chess as an illustration of how people use their minds to visual the nature of problems that reach back to ancient religion to make black hats a symbol for strict social control that gives an author opportunities to drop comic comments on some relationships that really wish supernatural powers were helping to end what is going on instead of sucking up anything Kant would consider a fetish made The Yiddish Policemen's Union worth reading for me.
3 Chabon has bushels of writing power, but in this book he seems to be trying too hard--to be Chandler, to be an auteur, it's not clear--but way too hard. His overreaches for run-on simile and metaphor make the book self-conscious and at times the writing seems almost high-schoolish in its artsy eagerness. Other times, he'll write a passage of surpassing beauty and/or wit.I get the feeling from this book that Chabon felt out of steam on trying to find a new framework for his writing; nothing has been at the level of Kavalier and Clay (how many things could be?), and that must be difficult. His premise is imaginative and gives room for him to unleash his vision, but coming so soon after Philip Roth's graceful, humane and masterful "The Plot Against America," even this concept of reimagining mid-20th-Century Jewish history seems derivative.
3 Michael Chabon created a totally believeable alternate reality, complete with an understandable lexicon and a history with depth. I enjoyed the story and felt empathy for the main character, the flawed Meyer Landsman. However, this book started slow; it took a little while to grab me. And while I found it generally inventive, the end felt a bit reminiscent of "Skinny Legs and All" by Tom Robbins. That's not necessarily a bad thing. Chabon has a wonderful sense of humor and a great imagination. I will continue to read his work.
5 With mouth agape, I just read those negative reviews. I can't believe it, no, wait, I can. The book isn't easy, it isn't full of trashy scenes of greed, sex, easily understood 4th grade vocabulary or vampires.  That must be it.  The minute you tell me you read it for your book club, that's the minute I know why you trashed this book.  Book clubs. Can't choose your own reading or need group validation so you know what's good? Can't discern that otherwise?O.K...now for less vitriolic verbiage. This is a great novel. I used the glossary, and I used a dictionary of Yiddish terms. I am not Jewish, Alaskan or a huge fan of alternate history, but I am a huge fan of Michael Chabon!  If he writes it I will come.  His mind is not the usual mind, his pen is not the usual pen, and his wildly intricate thought processes fascinate.
4 The imaginative and well-realized setting is an alternative Sitka, Alaska, which in this slightly alternative world has served as the temporary homeland for the Jews, thanks somewhat reluctantly to the United States. It's a bussling city of two million whose inhabitants speak a combination of Yiddish, Esperanto and American English. Now, after 50 years, the U.S. is taking the area back, causing yet another Jewish diaspora.Landsman, the protagonist, is a down-and-out police detective with drinking problems and ghosts from his past whose obsession to solve the murder of a drug addict leads him to a much bigger plot. In other words, a by-the-numbers detective story. And as with any fiction, it is the setting, the plot and the characters that make it work. This one works well. The sub-Arctic setting is vivid, the characters are fascinating and the plot--which is tied inextricably to the alternative world--grabbed me and held me.One note: The Evangelical characters were a bit cartoonish; however, that did broaden my view of how Evangelicals must be perceived by Jews, secular and devout. And that's one of the reasons we read, correct?
5 It's fascinating reading the difference of opinions on this book. No doubt about it, this is an incredibly ambitious effort: A political what-if, a murder mystery whodunnit, all wrapped up in the prose of a very serious novel.This novel IS dense, and if you're not into interior observations, you might well skip this book. For me, the story and setting sucked me in like no book has in many years. An alternate version of the holocaust, a Jewish homeland in Sitka, Alaska, a Yiddish Detective drinking his way out of marriage lands in a fleabag hotel where a junkie chess player is murdered.If I were to make a suggestion to Mr. Chabon, it would be to include a dictionary of Yiddish terms in the back of the book. As one of the goyim, a little help with some of the terms would have helped. I get lost after ganef.But all in all, this is one of the most memorable novels I ever read. A great novel does 3 things:1. You are immensely happy when you are halfway through it, because you know you have half of a great book to go.2. You savor the last few pages the way you savor the last bites of a great meal.3. Whatever you read next pales in comparison. My next book was "The Looming Tower" by Lawrence Wright, which won the Pulitzer Prize. After reading the first few paragraphs I realized I was back in the world of non-fiction, and no matter how well done, it was flatland, 2 dimensional. All the interior wealth of "The Yiddish Policemen" was gone. It felt like looking at Xerox copy of a wire photo after spending an afternoon at the Louvre.
5 Michael Chabon has carried off a considerable achievement with THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION.  Few writers can unite as many different genres' conventions as he has into a work that is a satisfying artistic whole.  There is alternative history, hard-boiled detective noir fiction, action thriller, and then there is generous humor and pathos wrapped up in a beautifully rendered world textured by symbolism and cultural references.The alternative history background: 60 years ago in 1948, the young Israeli state fell to Palestine and Jews were again sent wandering.  The horror and guilt of the holocaust still a recent memory, the United States, led by Roosevelt's Secretary of Interior Harold Ickes, carves out a place for them on Alaska's panhandle (he actually proposed this).  Today, the city of Sitka resembles the bustling Jewish quarters of old European cities.  Sitka men wear serge suits, skull caps and ties under their parkas.  The region has established economic success with the development of a popular wireless phone and a small motorized 3-wheel vehicle.  There is a pall hanging over the city, not just the grey of a November sky:  relations with the native population have never been warm and fuzzy and due to some riders on the Ickes deal, it is soon time to turn sovereignty over to the American Alaskans.  Reversion is the American term. Diaspora comes to mind for the soon to be dispossessed Yiddish of Sitka. Not a good feeling.The mystery-thriller party:  down-on-his-luck police detective Meyer Landsman is awakened in his fleabag hotel room by the news that there is a dead body in another room.  The deceased is loaded with heroin and shot in the back of the head.  There's a chess board in mid-play nearby and the victim's name is a pseudonym borrowed from a renowned chess expert.  The wide-ranging complicated plot quickly swells to incorporate Landsman's own sad story, his half Indian/half Yiddish cousin who is also his work partner, Landsman's ex-wife who is now his captain and a tour of the greater schemes, gangsters and culture of the Sitka region.Much depends on Yiddish culture and motivation, and Chabon carefully explains it for the outsider like me.
1 I usually adore Michael Chabon's work, whether it be a quick read like "Mysteries of Pittsburg" or a hearty, slow-burn page-turner like "The Adventures of Kavalier and Clay". Like other reviewers who gave this book a poor rating, I simply couldn't get past the first few hundred pages of "Yiddish Policemen's". Initially, I felt dense, perhaps as if I was missing something crucial Chabon was trying to get across to me the reader. However, what really WAS missing were two of Chabon's strengths: engaging language and characters the readers actually care about, even if they have a hard time liking them. If you ask the question "I wonder what happens to this guy at the end of the book?" and the answer is "Who cares?", it's time to put the book down, and move on to the next tome.
1 Like other reviewers, I, too, abandoned this book. I had read and heard so much about it (and let's not kid ourselves--the cover is really cool!) but I found myself straying from the story. The murder mystery is lost in the political/religious/cultural aspects of the novel, and none of those things held my interest long. I really just wanted to know "whodunnit."
3 I have very mixed feelings about this book. The alternative history is interestingand believable.  The characters are embedded in the history, as opposed to some bookswhere the history feels contrived to allow one or a few scenes. The characters arevery human, a mixture of strengths and weaknesses and most of the charactes have motivesthat are sometimes base and sometimes noble.  The writing is skillful; I felt Iwould recognize some of the scenes and people if I encountered them.The book seemed to emphasize stereotypical Jewish characteristics. I got the same feelingI get when I encounter most black family TV shows: I don't want to be here; I'm embarrassedto see this.  Only the good writing got me to finish the book. I think I would haveenjoyed it more if the book was considerably shortened.  Some of the writing rules mighthave been: Most nouns and verbs should not appear in public with out a modifier. Simplemodifiers are not as nice as similes and metaphors. Two of them are better than one.Have lots of parenthetical phrases.  No, I don't have suggested edits. Many words andphrases that Strunk and White fans would strike out are inventive imagery, even beautiful.I listened to it, rather than turning pages.  I have no Yiddish, but felt no regret thatI could not stop to look up a word. The unknown word was either obvious from the contextor did not seem to matter.
3 I've read a lot of Chabon and loved every book until "The Yiddish Policemen's Union".  Actually, I think this'd make a better movie (think 'Chinatown') than a book.  Of course, you'd miss Mr. Chabon's gifted writing style.The problems for me though are that the story is basic, there are too many characters, and the main characters (Berko and Landsman) I could care less about.  I think Chabon could have developed them much better.I definitely have a love/hate thing with this book though.  I love Chabon's writing, but this book just didn't live up to his standard.  I think it was it's uniqueness, not it's entertainment value, that caused it to wind up on so many Best Books of 2007 lists.
1 Michael--Why do you think that the Jews in Alaska would speak Yiddish? A substantial number of Jews are from Arab countries and speak Arabic. Typical Ashkenazi ethnocentrism. I wasn't crazy about Cavalier and Clay and this is worse. I give up.
2 I am a fan of ethnic mysteries, but found this too obscure to follow. All the Yiddish references were too specialized for me to understand. This detracted from the plot.  If I had a stronger perspective, I.e. being from a Yiddish background or having more knowledge of Alaskan culture, geography, etc, perhaps I would have enjoyed it more. As it was I was too bored to finish the book.
2 I wanted to like this book, based on the wonderful reviews. I did enjoy the first few chapters, but the story kept getting bogged down and after several attempts to finish the  book, I gave up. Another reviewer said that this was not a typical mystery, so maybe that is what I was looking for.
5 Why this one? The reviews were stunning, it sounded like a "good read," I was about to take a trip, cognitive science requires energy, why not? This book is stunning. Chabon constructs his story with the precision of Bach and the glory of Mozart with just enough Stockhausen to make your fillings ache. Do you have to know yiddish? Well, it can't hurt. But any online yiddish dictionary can fill in most of the interstices. [...] Mel Brooks and Woody Allen movies can usually be understood on a number of levels: casual, Jewish, Yiddish-understanding Jewish, and New York Jewish. Chabon also has a number of levels -- all of them wonderful. What a lovely experience!
5 "The Yiddish Policeman's Union" raises the literary bar, vaulting into the top tier of fiction and establishing a new standard for the detective/murder/noir genre. Literary, fun, tragicomic, profound and light all at the same time; a masterful and daring act of luminosity. Chabon shines.
4 I hope Chabon's other books are better than this one. It was a satisfactory introduction but it didn't quite live up to the Chabon hype
3 Oy vey, this is one of those books that I know I should like, that has everything I would normally look for in a book, but for whatever reason it never really takes off for me.  The setup: in 1940, before the Nazi "Final Solution" really takes off, a Jewish settlement is established in Alaska (Sitka).  It is a lease, pending establishment (presumably in the Middle East) of a permanent homeland.  Come "present time" the lease has ended, the Muslims/Arabs have destroyed Israel, and the two million Jews in Alaska are about to be kicked out and dispersed again.At its root, this is a murder mystery, where a murdered man is found by a homocide detective, who is then warned off the case by his superior.  Being a typical curious (and in this particular case, self-destructive) detective, he defies his superior and the investigation leads him through the various sub-sets of Judaism, including the secretive "Black Hats" (Hasidics) and the westernized "Yids" (European, Yiddish-speaking Jews).  The book is full of rich details, both real and extrapolated.  For example, derogatory terms are used by these Sitka Jews when referring to themselves (much like current African Americans use the "N"-word).  The book's best character is probably the "Boundary Maven", who encloses areas with string so that they are "indoors" and therefore immune to certain Sabbath laws.  It is these details of Jewish customs, and the liberal use of numerous Yiddish terms (note there is a glossary in the back of this paperback edition), that make this novel an immersive experience.And yet....  The main character, upon whom much depends, is just not that interesting.  He is self-destructive.  He is an alcoholic.  He lives in a pigsty.  And he's just not interesting enough to want to root for him, or care much about him.  Similarly, the conspiracy plot is one of those conspiracies that EVERYONE except the main character knows about.  The Black Hats know about it.  So do the FBI, the local police chief of the nearby Tlingit First Nation, the manager of a bush-pilot airport, and even one of the main character's relatives.  And not one of them is going to spill the beans to the main character?  The fact that I noticed things like this are evidence that I did not get sufficiently drawn in to the story, and that my mind was wandering at points.It's a good book, but not a great book.  It's fun, but not too much fun (certainly not "raucous" or "hilarious" as described in the critic quotes on the cover).  In another bizarre choice, the voters of the Hugo Award called this the best science fiction novel of the year.  Call me old-fashioned, but just because something is "alternate history" doesn't mean it's science fiction, any more than magic (Harry Potter or Amercan Gods) or fantasy (Paladin of Souls) is science fiction.  Its other awards (e.g. Sideways Award for Alternate History) are more obvious, and it is undoubtedly a well-crafted alternate history novel.
3 It was hard to get into this book.  Neither the setting (mostly unrelieved gloom)nor the characters (Not Nice People) made an attractive first impression, and the plot showed so few signs of life that I almost gave it up a third of the way through.However, something kept drawing me back to it.  As my mind's eye adapted to the dark atmosphere I started to find things to admire -- grim humour, an odd sense of honour, and dogged resilience in an (apparently) lost cause -- that kept me going right to the end.Not an easy read, not even enjoyable, but certainly memorable.
3 When earlier in the year on NPR I heard about Michael Chabon's The Yiddish Policemen's Union, I immediately knew I wanted to read it, yet within twenty pages I began to suspect I'd made a mistake in buying what was far more a film noir sort of tale than the sociological one I'd been hoping for. So, yes, I was disappointed in this book. It starts off with a scenario sure to whet curiosity, this Jewish colony existing and thriving in Alaska, but whereas I wanted the novel to be an exploration of this intriguing concept, it was a crime story instead. I admit it wasn't a bad detective novel and I did stick around to see how it came out, but I'm not a big fan of that genre as much as I am one of alternate history, and I wanted to see more concentration on this hypothetical Yiddish culture atop the Pacific than Chabon gave it. I guess my giving this book three stars instead of higher is more reflective of my own disappointment than in this being in any way a bad book, because it wasn't. It just was not what I wanted it to be and I bet I'm not alone there.
4 This is a very engaging novel built upon an interesting concept that keeps you sucked in. There is a lot of humor to be had and it is a clear throwback to noir fiction of the early 40's. Anyone who is looking for a good mystery would be hard pressed to find a better one than The Yiddish Policemen's Union.
2 The book is too steeped in yiddish culture and weirdness to keep me interested. n n n n n n
5 "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" by Michael Chabon, was originally published on May 1st 2007.  The story is set in an alternate reality, where the U.S. agreed to implement the Slattery report, which provisioned land in Alaska as a temporary refuge for European Jews in 1940.  That decision led to the Sitka settlement in 1941 (in the story), and Israel was destroyed in 1948, but the story itself takes place in a modern day world resulting from that history.  There are other significant historical changes hinted at in the story as well, but they are not important to the overall plot.  The other key factor is that the temporary refuge is about to end, after a 60-year period, and it appears that it will not be extended.The story itself is a detective story, and the hero is Meyer Landsman, a homicide detective, who is investigating the murder of an unknown man (initially) who was known as a chess player.  Landsman's partner is half-Tlingit (Alaskan native) half-Jewish man named Berko Shemets.  Landsman's ex-wife (Bino) is promoted to be his commanding officer, and the interesting character list goes on and on from there.  Chabon creates wonderful characters that are not just two-dimensional figures and each is a distinctive character to the reader.  In addition, the entire world is textured and contributes greatly to pulling the reader into the world he has created.This book received a number of awards, including the Hugo and Nebula Awards for Best Novel, the Locus Award for Best SF Novel, and the Sidewise Award for Alternate History for Best Novel.  It was also considered for the British Science Fiction Association and the Edgar Allan Poe Awards for Best Novel.  Chabon has also won the Pulitzer Prize, though that was for "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay" and not this book, but it does speak to Michael Chabon's skill as a writer.  I definitely recommend this book as it has a good mystery, a unique and interesting alternate history, and a lot of humor, which makes for a very enjoyable time for the reader.
4 What if, after WWII,  the displaced Jews had been temporarily settled in Sitka, Alaska, rather than Israel? What if, sixty year later, the State of Alaska revokes their charter? Throw in a murder at a seedy motel where Jewish policeman Meyer Landsman lives and you have the gist of THE YIDDISH POLICEMAN'S UNION.I had a hard time getting into the book, mainly because Chabon seems more concerned about style than story. He's not bothered by cramming as many as a dozen similes into a single paragraph, and the Yiddish slang he employs is often indecipherable. However, there is much to like about the book. Meyer Landsman is a completely original shamus. For one thing, he's afraid of the dark with a touch of claustrophobia thrown in. And he named his son Django, one of the coolest names I've heard in a while. He also hates chess, which is significant in this case, since the murdered man was a chess master of sorts, and he leaves a clue for Landsman to decipher regarding the arrangement of a chess set left at the scene of the murder. Another original element is Landsman's part-Indian, part-Jewish sidekick, Berko. Berko's father, Meyer's uncle, is a scheming spy master who plays both sides against the middle who will become instrumental in the solution of the murder. There's also a love interest, Bina, Meyer's ex-wife, who just happens to be Meyer's boss.YIDDISH POLICEMAN also has some funny moments. The detectives eat in a newspapermen hang-out called The Front Page, "with its clotted milk and its coffee fresh from a stint as a barium enema." The dead man, who proved to be a holy man, was also unstinting in his devotion to 613 commandments, and the Jews in the continental United States were referred to as "Mexicans." The following quote describes Berko's hero worship for Landsman when they were young: "If Landsman had been talking about becoming a blowfly, Berko would have fund a way to learn to love dung." The novel also has some deliciously subversive things to say about messiahs and political manipulation.Landsman's investigation takes us to the Einstein Club, where we're introduced to several Orthodox Jews and chess fanatics who will become instrumental in the plot later on. That's one of the problems I had with a the book. Some of them are re-introduced a hundred pages or so later, having been wiped from my memory banks. One of them, a man named Itzik Zimbalist, one of the principal actors in Michael Chabon's satire (if that's what this is) is the boundary maven, whose job it is to subvert Orthodox restrictions against work on the Sabbath.Most of them won't talk to Landsman, but there is a hint that the dead man may have something to do with the Verbover sect, a criminal empire run by the Verbover rebbe, who, having survived the Holocaust, managed to convince himself that the end justifies the means.There were times when I got the impression that this would be the novel Sam Harris would've written if he'd written a novel about religious lunacy. At one point Landsman says, "I don't care what is written. I don't care what supposedly got promised to some sandal-wearing idiot whose claim to fame is that he was ready to cut his own son's throat for the sake of a hare-brained idea."
4 Some years ago, Michael Chabon (pronounced SHAY-bon) purchased a phrasebook entitled "Say it in Yiddish." He wondered what place one could travel to in which a phrasebook would be useful (as Yiddish is such a rapidly disappearing language) and wrote an essay about it [1]. Now he has gone on to write a detective novel that takes place in just such a place: Sitka, an imaginary homeland established for the Jews in remote Alaska (this was an actual proposal from the US government before World War II as a potential refuge for European Jews).The story itself is a fun read, but that's not what makes this book exceptional. It's the language. First, Yiddish is interspersed throughout, including Chabon's plays on Yiddish (cell phones are "shoyfers," which is the Yiddish version of the Hebrew "shofar," the ram's horn used "in Biblical times chiefly to communicate signals in battle and announce certain religious occasions and in modern times chiefly at synagogue services on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur" [2]). This results in, as the Slate reviewer writes, Chabon's "paradox: a mass entertainment largely inaccessible to the masses" [3]. And yet, even for readers like me who know only a couple words of Yiddish, this smattering of foreign words somehow enhances the reading experience.The same is true with Chabon's marvelous may around metaphors. Not all of them bring a clear image to mind ("He talked like a sausage recipe with footnotes"), but they are so clever that I don't mind the occasional interruption of the flow. To demonstrate, here are my five favorite metaphors from the book:5. A narrow pile of dirty white brick and slit windows, three or four blocks off the tawdriest stretch of Monsatir Street, the place has all the allure of a dehumidifier.4. He talked like a sausage recipe with footnotes. [Yes, I had to put it again. I have no idea what this means.]3. Its Philipino-style Chinese doughnuts beckon like glittering sugar-dusted tokens of a better existence.2. "See this, sweetness?" Bina has fished out her badge. "I'm like a cash gift: I'm always appropriate."and the very best:1. A gun of wind has blown down from the mainland to plunder the Sitka treasury of fog and rain, leaving behind only cobwebs and one bright penny in a vault of polished blue.If you like clever dialogue (sometimes a little too clever, but that - again - is a lesser evil), witty prose, and an exciting mystery, then read on. The climax is a little disappointing (only a little), but since the prose is the real star of the show, even that doesn't take much away.I listened to and recommend the audiobook (10 CDs), narrated by Peter Riegert. The reading is excellent, and the audiobook has an informative interview with Chabon at the end. I've only read one other Chabon book (The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay); I enjoyed that one significantly more, but that's a high bar.Note on content: the book has a little violence and quite a bit of strong language, including significant profanity.[1] "The Language of Lost History," Harper's, October 1997.[2] "shofar," Dictionary.com.[3] Ruth Franklin, "God's Frozen People," Slate, 8 May 2007.
4 While not lacking brilliance, Chabon goes over the top with the wordplay and humoresque flippancy to the point of distraction.  Nonetheless, the spare jewels, such as the following, make it worth the price of admission.  "Meyer's seed, even now, may be wandering through darkness toward redemption, striking at the membrane that separates the legacy of the yids who made him from that of the yids whose errors, griefs, hopes, and calamities went into the production of Bina Gelbfish."  I was reminded at once of Abba Eban (Personal Witness) when he wrote, "For peace to be born, its parents must meet at least once."  There is a reach of profundity here...
5 Remember in the old Star Trek episode City on the Edge of Forever? Kirk saves Edith Keeler and some how Earth's timeline is altered. It's not until Spock discovers that Edith was a sort of lynch pin in time, that she had to die so Earth could go on its normal way. In The Yiddish Policeman's Union, the Pulitzer-winning author of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, the always entertaining Michael Chabon, takes a real historical idea - a-pie-in-the-sky proposal in 1940 to open up the Alaska Territory to European Jews.While Congress killed the real plan and in the book, a character named Anthony Dimond is the divergence point, Chabon takes on the classic What if scenario and spins a wonderful tale of alternate Jewish history. Added on is a glorious, hilarious Raymond Chandler style detective story.We are introduced to Meyer Landsman, an alcoholic homicide detective with the Sitka police department, examining the murder of a man named Emmanuel Lasker in the Zamenhof, a fleabag hotel where Landsman also happens to live. Landsman notes how professional the murder looks; the man was shot in the back of the head execution-style, the gunshot silenced by a pillow. Landsman notices syringes, packets of heroin, an open cardboard chess board in mid-game, and a beat-up copy of Siegbert Tarrasch's book, Three Hundred Chess Games.From there the novel unfolds like a flower, as Meyer navigates his way through red herrings and his failed marriage with fellow officer Bina, who is no his superior. Chabon takes us down this brilliant alternate history filled with appealing -and not so appealing -characters right out of the golden age of film noir.A triumph.
3 It is part science fiction and part mystery. Or Yiddish Policeman is fully both. Thus just by that it is hard to classify. Whether you have a Yiddish background, or great exposure to a Jewish heritage, or an Alaskan one, the world creation by Chabon elevates this story to a level beyond the common in either genre.Yiddish Policeman's is a very good book. It is a well deserved edition of exceptional literature. An achievement and worth reading. Is the mystery a little weak and perhaps a bit like a television mystery episode, in parts. Is our protagonist too intimately caught up in the details of the mystery, again perhaps. But as the story stretches out, these become small quibbles that do not detract that this is a phenomenal piece of writing.The narrative and detail in creating the world soon has you engrossed in that world so you can believe in it. Would the jews wish to resettle to much safer Alaska, then to the very turbulent holy land? Probably not, but with speculative fiction, once you give into it, then the new worlds builds upon itself. Would oil be cheaper if there were no wars in the mid-east, or would there still be wars there over other issues.Since we are concerned about the Jewish settlement in Alaska, we don't really even care about such. We become consumed about the world Chabon has crafted. Even thinking that perhaps more in this world would be nice to visit again.
5 This has to be one of the strangest novels I've read in many a year. I've read, and enjoyed, many works of alternative history. I'm also a fan of detective novels, especially the hard-boiled variety pioneered by Chandler and Hammett. I'm also something of an afficianado of Jewish culture and writing, though I'm not Jewish myself. I've been a fan of Herman Wouk's, for years, and I was especially a fan of the late Anton Myrer, and also of Chaim Potok. I'd never read anything by Michael Chabon before, never heard of him prior to the furor created when he won the Pulitzer for Kavalier and Clay. I'm not, in any real sense, a fan of modern, non-genre fiction. I like mysteries, some historical novels, and a few science fiction and fantasy books, though my tastes there tend to be very picky. All of that being said, I decided to try this book based on the appeal and the subject matter, and I wasn't disappointed.Meyer Landsman is a homicide detective in Sitka, Alaska. The world however is different from the one we know of here. In our real world, in 1940, there was a proposal to open Alaska up to the refugees from Europe, especially the Jews. The non-voting congressman from Alaska lobbied hard and successfully to thwart the proposal. Author Chabon creates an alternative universe where the aforementioned congressman steps in front of a car crossing the street in Washington, and the proposal becomes the law. The Federal Government creates the "Federal Department of Sitka" and settles all of the Jewish refugees on several islands in Southern Alaska. The city of Sitka has a population of 4 million, and a vibrant culture that's slowly dying because, after sixty years, the U.S. Government has decided to close down the Federal Department and allow the land to revert to the control of the Tlingit tribe of Alaskan Indians, who own the surrounding land. They have been involved in clashes with the Jews repeatedly over the years, and have made it clear that since they didn't want to accommodate refugees in the first place, when they get the chance they'll tell the Jews to leave unilaterally.Landsman is a prototypical detective. He drinks too much, he's not too smart, he's bad at following orders, he smells a bit. He's also a bit unconventional, at times: his ex-wife is his boss, and his cousin (a Tlingit Indian adopted into the Jewish faith) is also his partner. Landsman is living in a residence hotel, waiting for the end of the Federal Department, when someone kills a heroin addicted chess player who lives in another room in the building. Landsman feels some sort of kinship, and also a measure of insult that the killer dared to do this right under his nose, so to speak. As a result, when the ex-wife/boss tells him to back off on the case and let it go, he balks and decides to investigate anyway.This is one of the strangest, most interesting books I've ever read. The author is obviously a fan of the hard-boiled detective novels of the previous century. He combines their style with a unique Yiddish argot that's sometimes hard to follow, but never impenetrable (at least to me) and frankly at times amusing. I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it highly to almost anyone.
5 When I read this book I was stunned by its imaginative premise--that the State of Israel failed in 1948 and the U.S. offered part of Alaska (the Sitka District) for settlement by Jews from around the world. I learned later that this idea was actually floated by FDR, but never acted on. With the support of then-U.S. President Harry Truman and the resilience of its people, Israel survived and thrives almost 60 years later. Still, while no longer amazed, I'm still very impressed at how completely Chabon imagines and describes this cold world of the Jews, inhabiting Sitka on a 60-year lease from the U.S.While operating at the same high level of imagination as in his triumph,The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, Chabon writes a much different book here. The scope of time is something less than a week rather than 50 years; the action is all "confined" to the Sitka District, large but still smaller than Kavalier's world that stretched from Prague to Antarctica to New York City. Kavalier was historical fiction at its best. Yiddish is a whodunit wrapped up in a made-up history. The closest parallel I can think of Philip Roth'sThe Plot Against Americain which the U.S. elects isolationist Charles Lindbergh as President while war rages in Europe, with the kidnapping of Lindbergh's baby acting as the whodunit.All this is not to say that the reader is somehow shortchanged by "Yiddish". Into the murder mystery, Chabon works in world class chess, Hasidism (which at some level resembles the Mafia), bush pilots, the Judeo-Eskimo community (there's one he probably had few live experts to consult with), espionage, Judeo-Arab tensions, protagonist Meyer Landsman's challenge of doing police work for his now supervisor ex-wife, along with a whole host of Yiddish cultural references that can't be enumerated without better understanding of that culture and more space. Lurking in the background is the "reality" that the 60-year lease with the U.S. is about to expire and only a small number of Jews with "useful" jobs will be allowed to remain. Now that I write all this, my evalution of the breadth of Chabon's imagination is working its way back toward amazing.I'm not sure how the reading public will handle "Yiddish". Chabon fans will enjoy it, but will be making the impossible comparison to "Kavalier." Detective story fans make me disoriented by the imaginary setting and all its unfamiliar cultural references. Someone looking for historical fiction might be put off by both the made-up history and the seemingly simple-minded detective story about a murdered chess player."The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is not quite a 5-star book, but at 4.5 I'll round up for Chabon's amazing imagination. I recommend the book to all Chabon fans and to the adventurous among readers of current American fiction. A work by such a special talent has to be given a chance. I don't think you'll be disappointed. Well-read teenagers might enjoy it too--there's nothing in here that's particularly offensive, but it's a long step from typical young adult novels to "Yiddish".
4 I think you have to be Jewish, or very familiar with Jewish culture, to appreciate this book fully. In a world where waitresses don't say, "May I take your order," but instead say, "Eat the egg salad," and then bring it whether you ordered or not... it's easier if you know the culture.That being said, this book is a great read. Chabon is a master of metaphors, some of which made me laugh out loud. The mystery is also very intriguing. Unfortunately the conclusion is cumbersome and unsatisfying and prevents me from giving five stars.
4 Writing is a craft as well as an art and at times the craftsmen is tempted to create something just to see how it will turn out.  These self indulgent trinkets are rarely masterpieces, but can often be windows into how the craftsman approaches his craft.Reading 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union' one can see Mr. Chabon playing with the elements of his craft.  He takes a standard plot (a murder mystery) a set of stock characters (a hard-boiled detective, the whacky partner, a black-clothed villian, etc.) and jumbles them up with far less expected elements (an alternate reality history, a political thriller-esque twist, a chess heavy plot and a heaping dose of Yiddish and Jewish Culture) to give us a book that creates a fascinating world that is very far from our reality but can also be instantly believed and inhabited by the reader.As with all 'adventure' novels, the characters are secondary to the plot.  Meyer Landsman, the protagonist, his ex-wife and boss, Bina, as well as his partner are not quite as 'round' as his characters from 'Kavalier & Clay.'  Don't let that dissuade you.  This is still a very good book.If the characters aren't carrying this novel, the plot which Mr. Chabon has crafted is up to the task.  While a bit slow to reveal itself during the exposition, the action intertwines wonderfully with little glimpses at the pseudo-history that Chabon has invented, deft commentary on many real-world issues, and Mr. Chabon's ever present ability to make the reader so present within his world that he or she can feel the Alaskan cold and smell the cigarette smoke.  If you want a synopsis, there are plenty of other reviews that recap the plot.  I've always thought books are better read 'cold' to keep the reader guessing.In the end, 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union' suffers not from any failure of Mr. Chabon's prose but because of its nature as a sort of literary thought-experiment.  While the book struggles at times under the weight of its own ambition and the bredth of its imaginativeness, those attributes are also best reasons to read 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union.'
2 Hard to believe I put it down with only 75 pages left, but I did.  Chabon is much too taken with his own gifted writing in this book.  My expectations were so high after the superb Wonder Boys and The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay that perhaps I'm overly negative.  Maybe if I were Jewish I would have appreciated this book more, but I'm not and I didn't.
4 I enjoyed this book a lot.  Chabon is a great writer. His anti-hero in this book, Meyer Landsman is a not-quite-typical gumshoe detective, addicted to plum brandy and solving crimes and wrestling with the failure of his marriage.  What's not to love?  His sidekick, half-cousin Berko is also his partner and is also half Indian, half Jewish.  And just as they begin working the case of Landsman's murdered neighbor, ex-wife Bina becomes his new boss.Set in Sitka, Alaska, the story is filled with details and history; politics and relationship issues; religion and addictions and oh, yeah, chess.  Meyer's dad was a chess prodigy and taught him to hate the game.  The murder victim is found using the alias of a chess master and with a chess game set up in his room, and there is quite a bit of chess strategy and lore in the story.This book is sort of an immersion in Jewish culture and there is quite a bit of Yiddish language in this book--and more than once I had to look up words and even wished for a glossary a few times!  This could be off-putting to some, but it didn't really bother me.  The story is good enough to warrant a bit of extra effort.My take: A great crime fiction story with great plot, setting and characters.  It's full of conflict and intrige and very well written by an excellent author.
3 In my opinion, this book is overwitten but I am still enjoying it.  I am reading it in stages.  I will pass it on to see what my friends think of it. It's okay.
4 Excellent descriptive writer. Kept my brain working to keep names straight.  Wanted a bit more with the ending but had to keep reading.  Historical fiction in a way.
5 Chabon created an interesting alternate history - and filled it with a crazy bunch of misfits, loonies and megalomaniacs. And those were the 'good guys'! The editorial reviews above give away too much of the story already, so I won't add anything about the storyline - except that it was fun to read.This is a dark mystery that's also part sociological and Judaical study. It was well written, as always by Chabon, but it did make too much use of undefined Yiddish. The humor and tough-guy lingo made up for that. There were enough twists and turns to keep the brain cells engaged from start to finish.I was on the last page long before I wanted the story to end. If you like noir and a bit of 'what if this had happened in history', then you should grab a copy.
1 I tried.  Swear to God.  I sat through 100 plus pages before I put this going nowhere novel down. (and I really wanted to like it...Really did)  It was so painfully slow and the subject matter so tedious I could never follow the mystery.  I understand that to fans this makes me dull witted and lacking in cerebral structure and they might be right but I found it impossible to get through.  Nice cover art.
1 A man is found murdered in a fleabag hotel in Sitka, where Jews found a temporary homeland for at least 60 years after the Holocaust.  Turns out the man might have been the messiah, and gave justification for the planned destruction of Dome of the Rock. The murder investigation shows that even without a messiah, the plan continues.The story is tedious, characters dull, and plot convoluted. Don't waste your time.
5 It took me awhile to get used to the setting of _The Yiddish Policeman's Union_ and the premise behind it (the 1948 war that created the state of Israel failed, the Jews given a temporary home in Sitka, Alaska).  Once I got past that, I was blown away by the characters and story.Chabon's characters are painfully human and beautifully written.  The mystery itself takes a while to fully develop, as the characters play out their relationships, but there is a satisfying resolution for those who are patient.  While some may be frustrated by the effort and detail put into the characterization, I found it endearing and it served to pull me further into the story.Simply put, I enjoyed the book immensely and I highly recommend it.
5 I'm in the middle of this book now and don't want it to end. Chabon's prose is delicious. However, for full enjoyment and appreciation, I think a smattering of knowledge of Yiddish might be necessary.
5 Seldom will you have an opportunity to read a book that offers so much fine writing, imaginative fancy dropped in lightly to expand your mind, wit, and examples of how we are our own worst enemy by assuming we know what's going on rather than getting the facts.  If you are Jewish and know Yiddish, you'll have the extra benefit of many good-humored, self-directed jokes:  In places, you'll think you've stepped into a Neil Simon comedy.  And there are lots of nods to fine literature throughout the book to keep the serious reader entertained.To give this book a conventional book review does Mr. Chabon a disservice.  How can I best summarize The Yiddish Policemen's Union?  Expect the wildly unexpected.Most novels try to fit tightly into a genre.  By following certain conventions, readers have an easier time following what's going on and are soon basking in reflected pleasure from other books they've read in the genre.  If you mash together genres instead as Mr. Chabon has done, the results can be chaotic, humorous, and revealing about the flaws in the genres.  This book combines so many genres that you'll probably find yourself losing track of how many are referenced in one place or other.The Yiddish Policemen's Union isn't one of those books that you should read quickly.  You should savor each conversational exchange, each scene, and each historical, social, cultural or biblical reference as you might savor a fine wine.  Sip slowly, stop, and experience as many flavors as you can.I have two warnings however.If you are looking for a book that's exactly like The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, you've been misinformed.  The same author is involved, but the two books are quite different.If you think you are going to read a conventional murder mystery-police procedural, you've set your sights in the wrong direction.  Yes, there are crimes, investigations, and mysteries, but they aren't the heart of the book's appeal.  If you apply only that lens, you'll probably complain that the second half of the book doesn't work very well.  Putting together all those genres means that the murder mystery-police procedural aspect cannot proceed as smoothly as you are accustomed to experiencing.To me, the book's greatest feature is the variety of ways that Mr. Chabon communicates his ultimate message that redemption is available for us all . . . if we simply get busy and seek redemption.Enjoy a great read!
5 Imagine the Jewish homeland was in Alaska rather than Israel -- but the status of the Jews living there is not clear -- in fact, they have to move any time now, so they are making plans for their future.  In the midst of all that, our hero, detective Landsman, a Yiddush Policeman, needs to solve the murder of a man who may have been the Messiah -- it's a detective story, it's a family tale, and its an &#34;alternate history,&#34; that will have you laughing and feeling many other emotions besides joy.  Michael Chabon is an excellent storyteller and he seems to know Jewish culture very well which makes the story work on so many levels.  Definitely a must read for anyone who likes a literary story set in a detective novel.
2 The title is catchy and different enough that you just may want to read this book.I suffered through it. I did not think it was funny, nor did I think it was particularly clever.The author tried very hard to be novel and creative, and he succeeded in that aspect alone; but,novelty and creativity does not necessarily produce a book worth reading, and that is certainly the case with this book.
5 I am going to say this right out in front - I do not think that I have enough general knowledge of Jewish religion and culture (particularly Yiddish culture) to have gotten full meaning and value out of this book. But I did greatly enjoy it anyway!The novel is set on an alternate Earth, where after WW2, the new Israeli state failed. The US set aside a part of Alaska for a new Jewish homeland for some sixty years. When the story begins, the sixty years are nearly up, and the millions of Jewish people who live around Sitka are living in fear over what the future holds for them, and their future as part of the state of Alaska rather than the Federal District of Sitka.A divorced police detective named Meyer Landsman has a lot of problems - especially since his new boss in homicide is the only love of his life - his ex-wife, whom he feels he let down in the worst possible way. His beloved sister died in an accident. He is working on drinking himself to death. He really doesn't want to investigate the murder of a bum living at the same seedy hotel as himself.But the investigation starts to get interesting when he discovers that the murdered man just may have been that generation's messiah; that the victim had ties to the most important and corrupt people in Sitka; that there might have been an international conspiracy centered around him; that there might even be ties to his sister's death...Now if only Landsman can survive performing the investigation...A really interesting genre bender!
3 ... it finished as well as it started.Chabon does a great job creating a fictitious world set in a Jewish homeland of Sitka Alaska.  The story of Meyer Landsman, the Sam Spade of Jewish detectives, sets out to solve a murder of a junkie who lived in his building.  The mystery evolves in true Hammett/Spillane style with plot twists and interstingly complex characters.Chabon's writing pays great homage to the noir writers of old, and he adds his own considerable flair.  A particular favorite is when he says an FBI agent's haircut is somewhere between that of an astronaut and a pedophile scoutmaster.The book suffers, unfortunately, from two flaws.  First is that a non-Jew will have a hard time understanding some of the book.  A partial Yiddish glossary helps somewhat, but it's woefully incomplete.  Other aspects of Judiasm, particularly those practiced by Eastern European orthodox groups, are barely explained.  If you didn't know the term "black hat" beforehand, you won't get it from this book which is too bad, because Chabon uses the term often.The second and more important flaw is the way the plot evolves.  The bad guys in the book are a group of orthodox gangsters who carry out a conspiracy to take back the Holy Land. In the book Israel doesn't exist as it does today.  The nature of the conspiracy is poorly explained, and Chabon does a poor job of explaining how it ties into the overall plot.It's too bad that a book containing so much excellent writing also contains such big problems.
5 Ok, so I'm not Jewish. Not even close. But I read this book without putting it down for the alliterative joy of the language, the fervent flow of words.  The Plot?  Who cares? Read on!
4 I've been reading Chabon since I first picked up "The Mysteries of Pittsburgh" over a decade-and-a-half ago, and it's been fun seeing his writing evolve with each new work. I believe that "Kavalier and Clay" is one of the best American novels of the past ten years, and that's not even because I'm such a comic book fan; it's just an extraordinary novel on many levels.  When I heard of the concept of "Yiddish Policemen's Union," I was worried that it sounded a bit too high concept; then I considered that Chabon is such a great writer that I'll forgive him for anything - even his recent "Simpson's" voiceover where he and Jonathan Franzen got into a fistfight.  Luckily, no forgiveness needs to be granted (like Chabon couldn't care less anyhow; who am I in the Kakutani-era of literary criticism?) Chabon's newest novel is just further confirmation of his skill.This book is unique as it's not a speculative novel masquerading as Jewish noir, nor is it noir with a glossy veneer: it's everything at once.  The questions of Jewish identity and what will happen to the community once the Reversion happens never takes away from the main tale; it's so well tucked in with the main action that Chabon never goes off on a tangent. All the while, Chabon plows ahead with a mystery that will set off chuckles of recognition as he hits and bounces upon every noir convention like a pinball.  Informers, grieving mothers, loyal partners, the obligatory moment when an unconnected crime enters the frame - it's all there, but with its overlay of the Jewish community in the north, it feels fresh.A few reviewers have commented that they missed out on Jewish in-jokes.  I'm a goy through and through but didn't feel I was missing anything by not picking up on them, so do not let that keep you from reading the novel.  I want to read the book again just to get a feel of the words and unique narrative style that follows the grammatical phrasing of Yiddish. (Another exceptional touch.)By setting the novel at the end of an era, Chabon has also been able to sidestep any possibilities of a franchise with "the continuing mysteries of ..." Actually, that doesn't sound like it would be such a bad idea but I'd rather Chabon take on a completely new subject.Bravo, Mr. Chabon.
4 This is the first Chabon book I ever read and still my favorite. The characters feel like real people I could have met.
1 The premise sounded so interesting! Why did Chabon have to ruin it with his boring story? Some of his turns-of-phrase are superb, but overall, I didn't care about the story or the characters. I recommend this to no one.
3 I've avoided Michael Chabon because frankly, I try to avoid hyped writers and books - they tend to disappoint.  But I heard so much about this from so many sources I trust that I finally caved; overall, I am glad I did, though it was a close one.  In retrospect, I would wait for the paperback.The Yiddish is a bit confusing at first, but context teaches you a lot - I am not Jewish and don't know very much Yiddish beyond the tiny bit that goyim like me pick up from living in NYC - it was not hard to figure out most of the Yiddish used.Loved the alternative history, the believable relationship between Meyer and his ex-wife, and the whole concept of the Messiah born in every generation and how that plays out in the story.  Prose was excellent.However, I was a little surprised.  A detective novel?  Michael Chabon?  I guess I never would have put those two together.  This is my first Chabon novel, and he is so revered (and I so love good authors and great novels) that I will probably give him another chance - but if you've never read anything by Chabon and want to be a rabid fan, don't start here.
4 I liked the book more than I expected I would.The author used a number of words I had to look up in the back, the words were a number of words that were Yiddish.
5 In this novel, Chabon spins a great many literary plates as he crafts this novel which crosses genres and styles.  A mystery novel which delves into the nature of Jewish exile and redemption; an alternate universe (post-modern style) where the Jews have a temporary homeland in Sitka, Alaska; a mediation on the subject of home versus homelessness, and a version of hardboiled detective fiction, but with prose which is richly textured and crafted.  For Chabon's sentences are brimming with surprises.  The wild typography of his prose is nothing but extraordinary.  And his imagined world in Jewish Sitka is so fully realized, it is difficult to believe that it is not a real place: It is richly drawn with a steady and unwavering hand.  With so much promise consistently delivered throughout, the end suffers from a bit of deflation.  In a novel of grand ambitions, the end jogs to its conclusion, as if with all the themes spent, there is little energy left to run and break through the tape.  That said, this is still an extraordinary novel; a colossal accomplishment.
3 Three or four times a year, I ache for a sprawling, stylistic novel such as this. Having traveled recently to Israel, I was drawn by the Jewish tones of history and conflict. Oh, and the gorgeous salmon and aquamarine cover hooked me for good. I was ready to experience my first Chabon masterpiece.The story starts with the tragic but only slightly noticed demise of a chess aficionado with an addiction. The detective on the case is Meyer Landsman, at first glimpse a stereotypical literary detective with his own substance-abuse issues. Beyond his internal conflicts, Landsman is also facing the alienation, once again, of his fellow Jews. They've lived in relative peace in Sitka, Alaska, but now near the end of their reprieve. They will soon be exiles of the world, carrying the burden of long-awaited Messiah while despised by anti-Semitic forces. Tlingit Indians have interests of their own in the region, not to mention "black hats," religious Jews with an agenda all their own.Chabon weaves these coarse yet colorful cords together into one great tapestry of a novel. His characters are vibrant, the dialogue witty, and the bits of mystery divvied out in even fashion. What appears to be a mystery, is also a thriller, is also a social commentary, is a diatribe on the plight of Jews, both secular and religious.Page by page, I was awed by Chabon's prose and metaphors. The man is a genius at putting words together. Chapter by chapter, I found myself distracted by the endless details that often had little to do with the fairly standard plot, once all is unfolded. Yes, this is a bold hybrid of a book, deemed even braver in light of Chabon's Pulitzer and the expectations that surely come with that; nevertheless, I kept wondering if he was trying to impress me with his sentences or his story. He succeeded with the first, not so much with the second. His thinly veiled disdain for the Zionist cause only increased my unease, as the story became a lecture of sorts.In conclusion, the mystery is resolved and the character conflicts are given adequate response. I can't help but admire any author able to corral all these elements into one cohesive work, full of quotable lines and vivid scenarios. Unfortunately, the mishmash of styles and ideas kept me from being able to lose myself in the story.
4 Readers who enjoy mysteries will find much to like in THE YIDDISH POLICEMEN'S UNION. This includes a flawed but likeable protagonist, an involving story that unfolds with surprising turns, fully realized secondary characters, and terse but funny dialogue. While there may be better mysteries, TYPU shows that the gifted Michael Chabon is very comfortable working in this genre.But if, like me, you don't really enjoy mysteries? Then, what you get in TYPU is an example of an exceptional literary talent content to work within a limited form. Yes, in reading the reviews on this forum, I find people who see great originality. "Chabon set his murder mystery among black hat Jews." "He combined a mystery with a provocative alternative history." But can't someone with Chabon's talent push the boundaries of the form? In my opinion, this didn't happen.I've read THE AMAZING ADVENTURES OF KAVALIER & CLAY, WONDER BOYS, and THE FINAL SOLUTION. Like most people, I think ADVENTURES will last. But, I also think that the element that made ADVENTURES great--not the terrific writing but the presence of powerful and disturbing dark forces throughout the book--is missing in WB, TFS, and TYPU. Instead, what Chabon creates in these three novels are genre books--a campus novel and two mysteries. For Chabon, ADVENTURES might have been the great book that emerged before he settled into a wonderful but lesser pattern. You see, the talent doesn't overflow in his later books to create something new and unprecedented. Rather, the talent produces, say, Meyer Landsman in TYPU and Grady Tripp in WB, who are sympathetic and likable losers that lurch from calamity to calamity, but still get the girl.Early in TYPU, there were also spots that seemed a tad long. Then, I found myself ticking the similes and metaphors, which, in retrospect, is a terrific way to appreciate what Chabon can accomplish. Here are some that I ticked in Chapter 31.o "It's not light oozing through so much as a residue of light, a day haunted by the memory of the sun."o "An invisible gas clouds his thoughts, exhaust from a bus left parked with its engine running in the middle of his brain."o "When he comes back, he looks like his sinuses have been pulled out through his ears and he blames Landsman for it."Chabon is definitely a writer to watch. But is he only seeking that sweet spot in the market, where literary talent is content to achieve a best-seller?
2 I had heard about this book and this author, and figured I would get around to reading it. What prompted me to actually buy it was the coupon from Borders I received for reviewing the first four chapters.These first chapters were intriguing. I naturally thought the whole book was going to be like this - a unique combination of various genres. Being of Eastern European Jewish descent myself, I looked forward to a lot of the Jewish in-jokes other reviewers have mentioned.Unfortunately, as others have also mentioned, the tone became as dreary as the weather, and there was virtually no payoff to plodding through to the end.I will defintely read his other works. They all can't be winners.
4 Landsman, with all of his flaws, is a character who gets under your skin and quickly becomes that lovable underdog that you love to cheer on.  The culture, language, uncertain future for the Sitka Jews, and setting are great characters too, bringing a richness that most stories (regardless of the format) simply don't have these days.The murder mystery felt lost at times but always pulled itself out, which made the main plot feel less important than the setting.  This was the only flaw I found with this book.  However, it did give the sensation that I was reading page after page of description that didn't have any real meaning.  Ultimately, this does resolve itself.  The murder does get solved.I understand how this novel won both the Hugo and Nebula award.  All of its elements of alternate history and the fantastic push The Yiddish Policeman's Union into a place where a book about cops becomes a wonder of soft science fiction.
1 I cannot believe this won both the Hugo and the Nebula Awards!  It's like it's written in a foreign language.  Don't waste your money, unless you know Yiddish!!!
2 Peel away all the Yiddish jargon and what I found left was your average cozy mystery.  I understand a lot of Yiddish and I still found myself having trouble following the dialogue. It was confusing keeping all the names straight. "Yid" this and "Yid" that - everywhere like too much salt on the meat. OY. And please, with all the Yiddish jargon to make us feet right at home in fantasy-land Jewish Alaska, and then he writes about "noodle pudding"? What?!?!  Why not just say kugel? For goodness sakes. I found this book tedious to read and get through. Ultimately a somewhat satisfying mystery. But I don't get all the hype unless it's just for the sake of uniqueness. Sorry.
1 I seldom write scathing reviews and try to find almost anything redeemable in a novel, but The Yiddish Policeman's Union had me wondering if there was anything I liked about it other than its attempts to be creative. I found the book to be completely nonsensical, overbearing and tedious. I nearly put this book down several times, but felt compelled and determined to finish. In the end, I didn't think it was worth the time; it was an extreme disappointment.The noir mixed with alternate history is an interesting and unique bit initially, especially in the first chapters, but it eventually the plot becomes a jumbled mess, with detours and nonessential events happening as we pass further along. One problem is the meandering:  there is little focus, as there are about five or more subplots happening simultaneously, some which get way out of control, and some that are not that necessary to the book's outcome. The novel also becomes more outlandish and absurd with each passing page, becoming burdened down with wild conspiracies and goosechases with Landsman and company that spiral into Da Vinci Code, National Treasure-like territory.Another aspect that might have been fun at the beginning, but wore its welcome out rather  rapidly was the whole washed up , loser, alcoholic, I don't give a care about anything in the world detective bit from Landsman.  His personality goes from clever to downright annoying within the scope of a few chapters, him and Birko sort of the alt-history Yiddish version of Lethal Weapon buddy cops. Yeah, yeah. I get that Landsman is cynical, and there is an element of satire involved here, but the way the author presents him to us isn't very creative, unless  f-word responses and derogatory remarks connote clever, witty, insightful character development. By novel's end, he is pretty much the poster child for the snarky, cynical detective, but without anything redeeming to make you care one way or another: nothing ventured, nothing gained.Elements of noir are glossed over minimally and superficially. Gritty to this author is having crude remarks from most of his characters. In a noir you might find snappy dialogue or witty remark, but here the dialogue is rather lazy and uninspired.I don't think I've read a book that took a nosedive as quick as this one. It was a big disappointment, especially considering that the premise seemed fairly interesting and promising.I'm willing to give Chabon another chance. Maybe someone can give me a recommendation.
4 I have read, and thoroughly enjoyed, several earlier books by Mr. Chabon, so I approached this new one with great enthusiasm. First of all, he creates an alternate history of the world, where John Kennedy marries Marilyn Monore, the atomic bomb is dropped on Berlin in 1946, there appears to have been a war in or with Cuba, and in 1948 the Jews are swept out of Palestine by the Arabs and become settled in the Sitka area of Alaska, with a 50 year grace period offered by the U.S.. All of this is a background for an excellent murder mystery, and a lot of tossing around of Yiddish words which were initially confusing, but became clearer with repetition. I found all of the characters interesting and very well drawn, and the plot really grabs hold of you. The reason this is a 4 rather than a 5 star review is that I found the depressing attitude of the main character a read downer. He's just a bit too morose and negative for my taste, but overall he does a creditable job in his unusual situation. Most people will enjoy this book, as I have, and speculate on the "what ifs" it presents.
5 No doubt this is a weird, some wacko book! But reading it, it gets with every page more interesting and describes very convincing personalities although I need to admit it is not for every one.
4 In the slightly-alternate universe of Michael Chabon's The Yiddish Policemen's Union, the Zionist movement came to an abrupt end in 1948, its settlers were ousted from Palestine, and a significant fraction of the world's Jewish population landed in and around Sitka, Alaska, carving out an uneasy community where Orthodox Jews, Russians, Americans, and native Tlingits rubbed shoulders. In the years thereafter, dreams of statehood for the Sitka District emerged, but they were slowly strangled, and now the arrangement with the United States is nearing its expiration date. In a few months, the Jews of Sitka face deportation and an uncertain future. Where, exactly, is anybody's guess.Sitka Central District Police Detective Meyer Landsman is spending a typical evening in his fleabag hotel room, drinking himself into oblivion, when the manager knocks at his door. In a room downstairs, a junkie lies dead, a bullet in his brain and a chessboard on the table beside him. His I.D. bears the name &#34;Emanuel Lasker&#34;---a famous chessmaster of years past, but certainly not the emaciated, blondish kid sprawled on the bed. There's no sign of forced entry, struggle, or theft, and the victim was dispatched with a single shot to the back of his head. Landsman's pickled synapses sputter, then make a connection---this was an execution, not a suicide.Landsman's investigation will take him deep into a labyrinthine world of gangster rabbis, Orthodox zealots, oily politicians, and his own personal ghosts. Everything connects to the dead junkie, and it's beginning to look like the future of Sitka's Jews, for better or worse, might hinge on who he really was---and why he had to die.&#34;It's a strange time,&#34; Landsman muses, &#34;to be a Jew.&#34;~~~If there isn't already a genre called &#34;Jewish Noir,&#34; Pulitzer Prize-winning author Michael Chabon has invented it with The Yiddish Policemen's Union. He wields the alternate-history trope with a light touch, just enough to set up a world simultaneously familiar and disorienting, and plunges his booze-soaked flatfoot into a bizarre mystery that will be either his death or his redemption. It's an absorbing read, full of memorable characters, astonishing descriptive prose, and the smart-aleck wisecracks beloved by fans of Dashell Hammett and Raymond Chandler.Chabon helpfully provides a brief Yiddish lexicon in the back of the book, but most of the ethnic lingo is easily decipherable from its context. Chabon marinates his alternate Sitka in a credible Jewish diaspora culture, tinged with American and Tlingit influences, and it doesn't take long to believe his grafting of gritty noir sensibilities onto a sleepy Alaska panhandle city, however crazy that sounds on its face.Though it launched strong and sustained an admirable velocity and trajectory through nearly 300 pages, it didn't quite stick the landing for me, falling back on some stereotypical villains motivated by a plot twist that felt like it dropped from the literary bomb-bay of a Jerry B. Jenkins thriller. Ah, well. Once past that odd lapse, the story returned to its strengths and its focus on the central characters, finally unmasking the killer and recounting the circumstances of the murder, and I left content, if not fully satisfied, with the outcome.In sum, a good read, particularly for fans of mystery and noir, masterfully written. Chabon's vivid, tactile mind-painting of characters and landscapes alone are worth the price of admission.Note: The sensitive reader should expect a lot of harsh language---the story confirms the old adage that English is the language to swear in, even in a community where everybody converses primarily in Yiddish. A series of personal tragedies has caused Landsman to abandon his faith in God, and he expresses disdain, anger, and bitterness toward God, and those motivated by their belief in God, often in graphic terms.
3 I had expected to love this book. Too bad.First off, let me say what I did like-- Chabon can *write*. The prose is spectacular, the concept great. Alt.history generally annoys me like fury, especially WWII related alt.history. But this was nice. The idea of a temporary Jewish resettlement in Alaska is very smart. I bought it. It worked.I've been trying for a while to figure out what didn't work, exactly, about The Yiddish Policemen's Union. I think it has something to do with the mystery. Mystery writing is really an interesting genre. It's all about love for something-- a love that comes out through the observation of the detective (professional or amateur). The detective is the last of the damaged romantics, the cynicism a thin veneer on his basic romantic instinct.Chabon gets that, sort of, but it doesn't quite work here. I think that it's mostly because Meyer isn't used to examine anything except Chabon's glorious concept. I get the cynicism. I get the cleverness, but I somehow miss the love. (Do I sound like a hippie?) I spent the first 100 pages bouncing hard off this book, and only eventually was able to tuck into it. And even then, I didn't ever feel as though I got below the surface.Like I said, such a good concept, but I think the book would have been better served if Chabon had picked a simpler mystery and focused with more resolution on the characters. They shouldn't have to compete with the scenery for this kind of work.
5 Wow that's how to connect detail, there were no loose ends or and pointless detailing. From beginning to end it all came together.
5 a friend recommended the book to me - what a great story to learn more about the Jewish culture, especially Russian in AK. CHABON paints a vivid picture of Sitka, AK with his words
4 I quite enjoyed The Yiddish Policemen's Union. The core is a who dunnit mystery, but the greater theme is an exploration of redemption. Based on an actual proposal to carve out a section of Alaska for Jews displaced by WWII and the Holocaust, Chabon paints a vivid picture of a place so odd and unique you can almost believe that it did exist.
2 I thought at the end there would be some great insightful, philosophical meaning to this book. I kept reading it even though it took five weeks because I don't speak Yiddish and there was no plot to follow. At the end, and this is a spoiler, all that happens is nothing. It was probably the worst book I have ever stubbornly stuck through. I really like this author, and you can tell he expended a ton of energy and time researching and writing this long novel, but in the end it was all wasted. It just isn't that good and is completely uninteresting. I wait anxiously for his next book.
3 Considering the high praise this book received from the critics, obviously I missed something. My interest in this book went from being fascinated by the setting and the mystery to disappointment in an ending that made little sense. It helps, I presume, to have a basic understanding of the Jewish culture and of Yiddish. I found the book hard going at times but pushed on expecting to be rewarded by an exciting ending. It didn't happen. The book did revive my interest in Chess, a game I want to renew my interest and skills in. I even ordered a book on the subject from Amazon.
3 Chabon's mastery of English grammar and Yiddish culture is excellent.  However, this is a meandering character study with a detective plot thrown in for God knows why.  I lost interest when his ex-wife became his boss....read a few more pages and then sighed &#34;igivult'.If anything, the book reminded me of &#34;A Confederacy of Dunces&#34; (which I detested).I gave it a 3 because I'd only gone partway through it.  I doubt the rating would have improved with a full read based on what some of the other commenters have said.
4 In this alternate history meets detective novel, Jews were resettled in Alaska in 1940. Why? Because of the fateful death of Anthony Dimond, the Alaskan Territory delegate to Congress who did not wish that the Jews should settle in Alaska. Still two million Jews died in the Holocaust. An atomic bomb fell on Berlin in 1946. The new state of Israel fell after three months. Russia is on its third republic. Marilyn Monroe Kennedy was the wife to JFK and Hebrew is all but extinct while Yiddish is the thriving language of the Jews in Sitka, Alaska.And so those Jews arrived in 1940 to Sitka, Alaska. But they arrived to find 50,000 Tlingit Indians already there. Thus prevented from spreading out, they were forced to recreate Vilna rather than create a pastoral dream. And now The Great Reversion is coming. The Jews must leave the home that they created with nowhere to go. Still they must leave in two months.Into this maelstrom is thrown a murder. The murder of the heir to the most powerful clan of Jews in Alaska. A murder that our protagonist, Meyer Landsman, is intent on solving while almost all around him try to prevent him from doing just that.Part alternate history and part crime fiction, this book is a slow buildup to a stunning climax. Because the murder that is at the center of the book is just the tip of the iceberg. And below that tip? The future of the millions of Jews in Alaska and the future of the geopolitical status quo.
5 Riveting read, or more accurately--listen. The audio book (unabridged, thanks be to Yahweh!) perfected my skills at maintaining the speed limit in Texas (75) through OK and into AR while leafing through the discs to synchronize the fade in/out jangos (did I just make up a new musical instrument?)Peter Reigert provided flawless renditions of dialect, tone, diction, and syntax for every character--what an accomplishment! (Performance Readers are the unsung heroes of successful audio books)I read Chabot's Mysteries of Pittsburgh and Wonder Boys many years ago, but will catch up on his other novels as soon as I get off the road.I may listen again just to be certain I didn't miss a word!
5 Michael Chabon does not write for the masses, he doesn't write for the elite, and he surely doesn't write for the critics.  He writes for himself and for posterity (doesn't sound too profound or profane, does it?)  This will not be an easy book for people to read, because it comes down at you from so many levels, that you have to be prepared at all times for a new conceptualization of where you are, and where the book is going.For those who are Yiddish-challenged, you will not miss out on anything except some very in jokes, just like you do when you read Haruki Murakami.  It not anything to do with snobbishness, it's just that you don't have the cultural background to understand the joke and it would take too long to explain it.  Example 1: there is a road in the District of Sitka called South Ansky Street, which is abbreviated asS. Ansky Street.  Back in the early 1900s there was a Yiddish writer who wrote under the name of 'S. Ansky', this isn't a great joke, but then what can you do, and it doesn't make any difference to the story.  Example 2:  when a reference is made to an american president, JF Kennedy, his wife is mentioned in her famous pink pillbox.  Her name is Marilyn Monroe Kennedy (cute Huh!).Anyway....The story itself begins as a mystery, but in truth even at the end, which is a mix of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' and the 'Book of Revelations'; what it appears to me is that Chabon is writing about belonging.  Ask anyone who comes from a emigrant minority, and they will tell you that there is always an intangible longing for your place of origin.  This was true for many years for the Armenians, Poles and Baltic People (Letts, Estonians and Lithuanians); and is still true for the Kurds.  Everyone wants a place they can look to as home.Near the end, when it looks like he and all the 'yids' will have to vacate 'Sitka' because of the "Reversion"; Landsman say, 'I carry my home in my hat' but it is said with a sadness of the sole.  Said by someone who wishes they had somewhere they could plant roots, and know that their grandchildren's grandchildren would be there to see results.  Any European Jew can tell you about the greatness of Vilna, which for over a thousand years was the 'Jerusalem' of the diaspora.  But during and after WW2, almost every symbol of a jewish culture was obliterated, and it is the capital of Lithuania under the name of Vilnius.  Before the was it was over 50% Jewish 45% Polish and 5% Lithuanian; now it's 95% Lithuanian, and Jews go to visit what's left like visiting a cemetery.In the end, this is a book about people and how they see themselves as not just parts of some tribe, but how they interact with all the other 'peoples' on the planet.  A phenomenal story and written in a style that makes its' points without beating you over the head with them.
5 You won't be unintentionally jarred by the interpolation of Yiddish and Alaska. For all the strangeness of its alternative-history setting, the plot is as finely crafted as if it had been put together with woodworking tools. I mean this plot is as good as one by Thackeray. It's a love story, a good one. I did figure out the main aim of the conspiratorial combination long before it was revealed. There is not a dull character in the whole thing. This book was a superlative choice for a poolside book on my Alaskan cruise vacation.
5 In 1948 with the collapse of Israel, the question of a Jewish State is temporarily resolved when Alaska becomes the homeland for the Diaspora Jews.  However, the agreement is that this is not the Promised Land as the Alaskan Settlement Act authorized a sixty year lease.  In two months, the Reversion occurs raising the question what to do about two million Alaskan Jews.Sitka police detective Meyer Landsman relies on alcohol to keep him from going over the edge.  His marriage died alongside the abortion of their birth defected fetus while his sister died in a plane crash.  His sleuthing skills no longer are keen as he does not care whether he solves a case or not.Shocking even himself, a murder in his dumpy Hotel Zamenhof awakens the once dedicated cop inside of Landsman as he goes for one last piece of glory knowing he will be unemployed once the reversion is implemented.  The victim Emanuel Lasker was a harmless heroin addict who played chess; no apparent motive surfaces as to why he was executed.  Even more surprising is his former wife and suddenly current boss have reentered his life and he has been promoted the police chief for the final sixty days.  Still Landsman allows nothing to intervene in his uncovering the identity of the culprit; that is nothing except some hazy rumor that his sister was murdered instead of dying in an accident.This interesting alternate history police procedural frozen Noir provides a fascinating spin to the twentieth century issue of the Jewish homeland.  The kvetching levels are stratospheric as fears of being abandoned again lead to the historical chosen mantra "It's a strange time to be a Jew."  Landsman is an interesting character who finds redemption in the murder investigation.  Though a conspiracy takes away from the prime theme of what if the Jews were placed elsewhere, readers will appreciate this innovative thriller.Harriet Klausner
5 I had to write this review, even though I'm only a little way through the book.  Already I'm mad for it - I can't get enough of it.  It's a scream.  I'm writing down every funny line and calling all my friends, who are probably baffled by my messages on their answering services, like: "he describes a hotel as having "ashtray charm,"" or "there's a woman who is so irritable her welcome mat reads, "Get lost!" or - "He's a good man - he even read a book once with footnotes."  But I don't want to give any more away.  I just feel envious of people who haven't read it yet and get to experience the funniest (and occasionally heartbreaking) stand-up fiction shtick since the last Roth I read.  (Say that ten times fast.)  I'll check in again when I've finished.  I can't imagine the book getting funnier...already I'm plotzing.
5 This is a book I am not allowed to read in bed, as my husband is opposed to books that make me cackle while he's trying to sleep."  According to doctors, therapists, and his ex-wife, Landsman drinks to medicate himself, tuning the tubes and crystals of his moods with the crude hammer of hundred-proof plum brandy. But the truth is that Landsman only has two moods: working and dead. ...He has the memory of a convict, the balls of a fireman, and the eyesight of a housebreaker. When there is crime to fight, Landsman tears around Sitka like a man with his pant leg caught on a rocket. It's like theres a film score playing behind him, heavy on the castanets."Our hero, detective Landsman, has spend the night in his partner's bed. Which was invaded by small children. It was not restful. Upon rising, he speaks to his hostess"  You have a serious toenail problem among your youth," Landsman says. "Also something, I think it might be a sea otter, died and is rotting in the little one's diaper."Chabon is never going to convince me that he has NOT shared a bed with a four-year old at some point.Also:"  Every generation loses the messiah it has failed to deserve.I finished it up yesterday. At then end, all the plot lines slammed together is a frothy stew of of beautiful coincidence. This book caters to my known preferences for character-based writing with a coherent plot. Nothing that happened was out of character, and the writing was lyrical and expressive.I think the theme of this book is redemption. There is a running chess motif. Landsman's heart is described as making a "knight move in his chest", which is really evocative. I thought the last third of the book was a little slow, but I ripped through it at a pretty good pace, so it's not like it was so sludge-slow.One of the interesting things I noticed was that I was unclear on when exactly the story was set. There were more and more clues, but it started like it could have been an alternate history Maltese Falcon, and as the story goes on, it becomes more and more firmly seated in time.Read this if: you like alternate ethnography and history, if you have a burning need for more Yiddish flavor in your life, if you are a fan of chess, character-based writing, or weird lyricism.Avoid if: you hate ambiguous endings, "artistic" writing, noir, or hats
4 Good gift for the right person
5 Just finished Michael Chabon's amazing novel, "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" today, and must say that it is probably my favorite book of the year (2007).  Set in an imaginary future where exiled Jews have been resettled in Alaska after the failure in 1948 of the Jewish state, the book is an homage to Raymond Chandler detective style writing.  In fact, it's Chandler meets Dickens, with flip metaphors (an ugly building described as "a rat cage in a fish tank"), and richly imaginative descriptions of setting, such as Dickens' trademark fog in "Bleak House".  Jews in the snow.  Bleak stuff for the protagonist, Meyer Landsman, a policeman who finds himself investigating the murder of a mysterious former chess prodigy, heroin addict and messiah.  Naturally, Landsman is warned off the case, but persists anyway, out of some obscure sense of duty.Here Chabon describes the failed "Big Macher" mall, where he hopes to  find a suspect, but ends up getting shot:"Landsman straps an extra clip to his belt and drives out to the north end, past Halibut Point, where the city sputters and the water reaches across the land like the arm of a policeman.  Just off the Ickes Highway, the wreck of a shopping center marks the end of the dream of Jewish Sitka.  The push to fill every space from here to Yakovy with the Jews of the world gave out in this parking lot...Landsman leaves his car at the median and hikes across the giant frozen blank of the parking lot toward the front door.  The snow is not as deep here as in the streets of the central city.  The sky is high and pale gray, with darker gray tiger stripes.  Landsman huffs through his nostrils as he marches toward the glass doors, their handles pinioned like arms with a dangling length of blue rubberized chain."Everything is provisional, tentative, and possibly pointless, as wheels within wheels turn, threatening to crush Landsman.  Added to the stock noir mood is the fact that, after 60 years of "temporary" safe haven, the Federal District of Sitka is about to revert to American hands in a few weeks, leaving the Jews to make their own way in the world, again, as usual.  Landsman is a man trying to redeem himself, in a world where there is little reward for asking too many questions.It's a tremendous book, richly imagined, funny, complex and a joy to read.
3 Interesting primarily because of the novel futuristic societal setting in which the action takes place.  Otherwise the noir style is overdone, and the story itself middling in keeping one's interest.
1 This was a mildly entertaining novel.  It has way too many Yiddish words for easy reading.  It would have been nice to have a note inserted early in the novel that there was a Yiddish dictionary in the back of the book.  Even there not all words are explained.  The reviews said it was "hugely entertaining".  It was not.  It was imaginary but weird.  Suggest one pass on this one.
3 Of course, Chabon is always a writer worth reading, but this book is a disappointment compared to Kavalier and Clay.  There is no original voice here.  It's Chabon trying to be a Jewish Martin Cruz Smith. Well written but just not as magical as I expected from such a wonderful writer.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Imaginative premise, compelling characters, innovative prose. The only reason I didn't give it five stars (I'd have given it 4.5 if that were possible) is that I would have expected, especially  from a Jewish author, a better understanding of his people's  millennial yearnings of return to their ancestral country. There's an undercurrent of negative attitude to Zionism in this book, that reflects the superficial fads of the Sushi-Organic- Latte-Obama crowd, to which this Berkeley based author probably belongs. Hopefully he'll grow wiser on this subject when he matures.
4 Interesting mystery, not always fast moving but gradually keeps you involved.Anew approach for me and I love &#34;geographic mysteries&#34; and this one gives a goodbackground on the Jewish settlements in Alaska.  A Fun read.
4 Interesting look at some of the aspects of the Jewish plight following WWll.  Until reading this book I was not aware of the Alaska connection to the resettlement of Jews.  Entertaining and informative.
2 I read and enjoyed "Kavalier and Clay", but this book was difficult for me to read and understand.  The hebrew words and vernacular were unfamilar. A brief included glossary would have been very helpfull .  I found myself thumbing back to reread parts in order to follow the story.  This is especially true of Chapter 39, which gave no indication that a flashback was worked in. Also, the constant comic repartee and wisecracks was badly overdone, I thought.Jack H Bryan
5 I just finished reading this book and had actually tried to read it slowly so I could savor the rich language he uses in his writing. So many unexpected word usages and I thoroughly enjoyed just that but in addition his story line made me want to continue reading far past the end of the book.
5 A hard boiled homicide detective, beaten by the world, finds himself awoken, bottle in hand, by the manager of the flea bag motel where he now finds himself in residence. Another resident, a junkie, has been murdered, bullet to the back of the head, assassination style. Likely this set up sounds familiar, the opening to countless novels penned by Mickey Spillane/Raymond Chandler wannabes. Not so for Michael Chabon's gripping "Yiddish Policeman's Union" for this detective, Meyer Landsman works the mean streets not of New York or Chicago or Los Angeles but the Sitka Alaska Federal District, home to 3 million Jews given temporary refuge in 1939 from the growing maelstrom of Hitler's Europe.Chabon's novel weaves such a creative and tight web one hardly knows where to begin. With the author's well researched alternative history where the Jewish State of Israel fails still born in 1948 and the so-called "Frozen Chosen" build a home in the far north? With his cleverly imagined Yiddish slang and the fully realized city of Sitka, offered to the reader in such detail that one can smell the cheese on the blintzes in the cafeteria where Landsman often dines, see the snow on those dark cold streets, remember the short lived excitement of Sitka's hosting the '77 World's Fair, and taste the famous cherry pie served by the non-Jewish couple in Sitka's airport? Or, perhaps, this being a work by Michael Chabon, a reviewer should dwell on the themes of alienation, identity, and redemption which form the current that runs through all of that excellent author's work? Any of these would be worthy topics to consider and I could wax poetics regarding the "Yiddish Policeman's Union's" success with each.Yet spending too much time on any of these might detract from the pleasure readers are sure to find in this wonderful novel. As with Chabon's previous work, the perfectly sculpted sentences, laden with pathos and a sly wit, will surely give readers pause. Likewise will you come to feel you know his characters as though old acquaintance, such as Berko, Landsman's cousin and partner, a half Indian orthodox Jewish bear of a cop, with his two children and a third on the way. For all of these reasons, any reader will find much to delight in this excellent novel, perhaps Chabon's best to date. With skill and humor, he has elevated the noir genre, paid homage to the likes of Raymond Chandler, and given you a gift that you will surely treasure.
3 I am a Michael Chabon fan, at least I read Mysteries of Pittsburgh and Wonder Boys and loved them both.  But this effort missed its mark for me.  It is not a great alternative history and it is not a great detective story.  I do feel one would enjoy it more if you were familiar with Hebrew.  Chabon can write, make no doubt, brillantly, but this novel was simply to hard to follow.  Just when I was you were getting into a segment, the yiddish started screaming or the focus changed.  Sorry I can not recommend it.
1 I heard so many good things about Chabon that I decided to read his new book. I am struggling. It is hard to understand--too many Yiddish phrases that I don't comprehend. I have lots of Jewish friends, so you would think that something would be familiar. Oh well, I will try to finish this book as I hate to give up on anything, but it will be hard. Don't think I will try Chabon's other books.
3 An interesting premise.  A little convoluted but &#34;oh well&#34;.  I have never read another book that was quite like this one.  It held my interest throughout.
3 The story was inventive--the relocation of Jews to Alaska. Alaska of all places?! There are more than 200 reviews of this book and many seem to be gushing about this book--saying that Chabon is a genius.Well, I disagree. He's a storyteller sure, but a gifted genius? No. I pushed through this book thinking it will get better, it will get better. It starts off and I felt like my copy was missing a pivotal section that somehow better explained things or just plain set things up better. I am not a huge fan of this author (I prefer Ayelet Waldman's work, his wife), but the gushing critic reviews made me think that this was a must read book.I found the story choppy at times. If you like the crime noir genre this is your book. Overall, I was glad it was a fast read at my local library, since it's definitely not a book that I'd add to my personal library.
5 I loved the book. I enjoy well-written detective fiction from authors like Elmore Leonard and Dashiell Hammett and Yiddish Policemans Union was a prime example. True to the genre, witty, and exceptionally literate. The characters and street names were wonderful. There are many Yiddishisms translated into English, that I would have liked to have been in Yiddish with translation as a footnote. For example, "hock mir ein chinik." It's a great expression when someone keeps annoying you. It refers to the sound of a teaput cover rattling from boiling water. I recall Chabon expressed this as rattling the pot. Not as good.He created a highly believable and very human diaspora in Alaska, that might actually have happened.I would LOVE a sequel!
3 Hard-boiled homicide detective Landsman, has to deal with a murder in his flophouse apartment building. Landsman, a alcoholic mess after a personal tragedy, is one of those great detective inventions; the tough smart cop, who is just a bit overwhelmed by the circumstances he finds himself in, but keeps fighting for the truth regardless of his personal well-being.  Assisted by a giant Native Alaskan Jew, Berko, who is as much brother as he is partner, and his ex-wife, now boss, Landsman delves into a case that deal with organized crime, Orthodox beliefs, and a murder victim who is a messianic figure in the community and maybe more than that. All this as the time limit for the Jewish settlement in Alaska, where in this alternate Earth the Jews have now settled instead of Israel, is reaching an end, threatening to leave the Jewish people homeless again. I wish I could say Chabon pulls it off without a hitch. There is so much right here, the dialogue, the descriptions and even the fantastic setting all add up to a novel well worth your time, but it gets bogged down in needless complexity, a labyrinth of twists and turns that end up confusing the narrative and creates a novel that reaches too far for its humble origins. Maybe Chabon was using Hammet's DAIN CURSE as a model, another book where the exciting journey reaches a conclusion that leaves the reader wondering exactly what the point was. Despite this I liked the book, but finished thinking it should have stayed true to its pulp roots instead of reaching for an ambitious finish that is not quite achieved satisfactorily.
5 Prior to U.S. involvement in World War II President Roosevelt proposed establishing a temporary Jewish settlement on the Alaskan panhandle. In The Yiddish Policemen's Union, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay Michael Chabon takes that premise and creates an alternate reality in which the impending "Reversion" (the frozen Chosen are about to be displaced from their temporary homeland) is but a few weeks away. Initially this is mere backdrop for the story of Meyer Landsman, a Sitka police detective suffering a bad case of bottle abuse the result of a never-born child and subsequent divorce, the possibility that his sister was murdered, and a father who committed suicide.Landsman awakes in his fleabag hotel room one morning to learn that one of the other tenants has been murdered. Landsman learns the corpse is a chess prodigy and heroin addict, but also the wayward son of a powerful head of a Jewish sect and, possibly, the key to the future of the "Alyeskan" Jews. Against the orders of his boss, who also happens to be his ex-wife, Landsman's investigation, with help from his half-Tlingit, half-Jewish partner and half-cousin, takes him into the underworld of Orthodox black-hat gangs and crime-lord rabbis.Chabon pays homage to Hammett and Chandler but manages to bring something new to the genre, and although some readers may find the narrative pushes the limits of their endurance - characters have skin "as pale as a page of commentary" and rough voices "like an onion rolling in a bucket;" "In the street the wind shakes rain from the flaps of its overcoat;" he writes of his protagonist, "Something wistful tugs at his memory, a whiff of some brand of aftershave that nobody wears anymore, the jangling chorus of a song that was moderately popular one August twenty-five summers ago." - others will be entranced.If the plot of Policemen's Union is a trifle complex and its denouement - composed of elements of international terrorists complicated by a religious conspiracy and a group of end-of-the-world zealots - a little over the top, Chabon's treatment of this alternate history, its discount houses, seedy bars and pie shops, is razor sharp. The settings, the characters, the narrative all drive the plot. In Landsman Chabon has created a Jewish Phillip Marlowe (replete with porkpie hat); but where Marlowe is rather one-dimensional, Landsman is the everyman antihero, as prone to fits of self-pity and the urge to return to his room, and his bottle of slivovitz and his World's Fair souvenir glass, as he is committed to solving the mystery of this murder and tying it to the untimely death of his sister, all the while ruing his divorce while lacking the courage to make amends. The reader is compelled to follow Landsman across the pages to see what happens next, who he will meet next, whether it's the pie man's daughter or the diminutive Tlingit police inspector named Willie Dick (honest!).Chabon also deftly explores the relationship between fathers and sons as well as what it means to be displaced - a people without a homeland, or as Landsman himself says, "My homeland is in my hat."Highly recommended.J. Conrad Guest for The Smoking Poet
5 Have just finished my second time through the book and remain dazzled. In this outing more than any of the others that came before, Chabon modernizes and Americanizes the magical realism of Gabriel Garcia Marquez to create a work that seamlessly blends fantasy and reality to create an alternate universe that is at once exotic, meticulous, poignant, and brutal.What starts off as a fairly familiar-seeming plot (morally and emotionally bankrupt detective with nothing left to believe in but the truth, no matter how devastating, investigates a crime, uncovering layers of duplicity, brutality, and betrayal) soon assume entirely unfamiliar contours when you realize that the setting is an alternate universe (in which the Jews, post-WWII, have been settled not in Israel, but in Alaska); the crooks are a sect of ultra-conservative Jews; the locals are Tlingit Indians; and the murdered man may be the world's long-awaited Messiah. Now add chess, espionage, ancient Jewish law, snow-streaked streets, bush pilots, heroin, love, yiddish slang, wolves, red cows, and miracles ... top with Chabon's brilliant prose ... mix thoroughly, and watch something brilliant happen.Ultimately, this book isn't about a crime: it's about a succession of rootless people yearning for a place to belong. It's the timeless search of the Jews for a homeland, of Meyer Landsdown for a reason to believe, of a boy messiah to be accepted for who he is rather than who everyone wants him to be, that elevates the book to something much, much more ambitious than simply an exercise in yiddish noir. As anyone who has read Kavalieri and Clay knows, Chabon is as deft at creating fully-realized, sympathetic characters as he is at crafting dazzling metaphors. You don't have to believe Chabon's alternate history to understand that beneath the literary fireworks, this is a story about diaspora and the fundamental yearning of all living things to find their way back to the place where they belong.
5 Never an avid fan of mysteries, nonetheless I enjoyed every minute of this tale of the vicissitudes  of life as a Jew in small town Alaska. Outrageous plot outline though it was, one can swallow this story hook, line and sinker. Loveable characters, high spirited action, and pervasive good humor keeps one wanting more by this writer.
2 To me, this was like Chabon trying to be Dan Brown (and I am a fan of Chabon, but not Dan brown).  Too many characters, the plot line is too complex and fantastic.  I like fantasy, I like revisionist history, but at some point the story for me became discombobulated and way to far reaching.  I liked the general story of the death of Mendel Shpilman, but the side plots were too numerous and far fetched. Readable yes.  Admirable, no.
4 I'm glad not to live in Alaska! I'm not the typical murder mystery reader but this novel is much more than a murder mystery. With a somewhat confusing beginning, due to the unorthodox setting and the unfamiliar language, this was a great novel. The main character, Meyer Landsman doesn't seem very lovable at first meeting, but as the investigation becomes intertwined with his own life, and his story is revealed, bit by bit you become his biggest fan.
5 Michael Chabon's novel, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is potentially one of the best alternate history tales I have read. This was done with an amazing writing style and unique character developments. The protagonist, Detective Landsman, is just the kind of tragic romantic that is so recklessly enjoyable.The world this character lives in is on an island in Alaska, the Federal District of Sitka. This place has acted as a refugee sanctuary for the descendents of Holocaust survivors. Since the State of Israel was whipped off the map in a war with Arabs in 1948, Sitka has become a Yiddish-speaking metropolis in America's last frontier. But not all is well, since the one thing that most Jews didn't plan for is about to occur. Reversion. Soon, the District of Sitka will be reabsorbed into the Union as American Territory. The day was coming and they always knew, but for people like Landsman, it just seems a bit too much like old news for the Jews.Regardless, Detective Landsman has a homicide to resolve with his trustworthy, half Tlingit, half Jewish partner, Detective Berko. The homicide occurred at Landsman's own hotel, of which he is a resident, and after so rudely being interrupted from yet another night of drinking, Landsman decides he must take on the case. But he must solve it before reversion occurs, otherwise the case will be thrown out. The new commanding officer of the homicide department is an American educated woman named Bina, who also just happens to be Landsman's ex-wife.If things weren't awkward enough, they would become detrimental later. The victim of the murder turns out to be a Mendel Shpilman, son to a Hassidic crime boss, the Verbover reb, Mendel has also been hoped to be the Tzaddik Ha-Dor by most Hassidic Verbovers. A potential messiah who may be the coming prophecy of a reestablished Jewish state. Future investigations lead Landsman to his own dead sister's involvement with Mendel. Turns out that many of the Verbover's have been training to destroy the Islamic shrine, the Dome of the Rock, and once again carve out a state of Israel in the Middle East. They were planning on using their ordained messiah to lead the cause. They also do this with a sympathetic US government, supportive of Zionism.Landsman just wants to find the murderer. It's discovered that Mendel did nothing more but beg for a mercy killing for all the hardship he was releasing onto the world. With Mendel, the Verbover's were going to use the ordained messiah to lead Jews into the new state of Israel built on the blood of the Muslims. But what cross-dressing chess player wants that responsibility? No, all Mendel really wanted was to make a living off playing chess and to find himself a nice Jewish man to settle down with. The Verbover's didn't take to kindly to such a plan or lifestyle.Overall the novel is written in a classic detective noir style. But the setting changes the mood of many things. Mixing Yiddish words and Alaskan landscapes becomes quite a treat for the imagery and the dialogue bestowed to the reader. I definitely recommend this for anyone interested in crime, detective, noir tales, suspense, anything like that. But this novel also becomes a love story between the reunited Landsman and Bina who care little for a reestablished state of Israel. Their nation is the Yiddish Policemen's Union.
3 It would be especially enjoyable for people who understand all the Jewish idioms and language references.  I find it hard to follow the story line at times.
4 Gosh, I wanted to so badly to find this book 100% perfect so that I could call it one of my all-time favorites and chalk it up on my "best books ever read" list. For a while there, it certainly seemed that way. Given that this was my first real exposure to Michael Chabon, I was delighted to find his writing to be tight, controlled, concise, amusing, intelligent, and powerful.  I would easily point to the style and composition of "Union" to be its best and strongest feature; Chabon simultaneously parodies and pays homage to the kind of purple prose found in classic hard-boiled detective novels, packing in a lot of over-wrought and over-the-top metaphors that noir masters like Hammett and Spillane would have approved.I also greatly appreciated Chabon's imaginative alternate history, painting a different timeline where a mass of Jews, fleeing the Nazi onslaught, establish an independent community in the chilly wilderness of Alaska separate from the government of the United States. In addition, many of Chabon's characters are compelling and richly imagined; Landsman, Berko, Bina, Chief Willie, and even Mendel Shpilman (never appearing in the novel except dead on the first few pages and only described through the conversations of other characters) are all compelling and rather lovable. (I'm kind of hoping that Chabon does a sequel, or maybe just a spin-off with Berko.) I'd say I loved 90% of "Union."Sadly, the plot petered out toward the climax. I felt as though Chabon wasn't exactly sure how to end his novel and frantically knotted strings together in order to make it work, causing the merely adequate conclusion to feel cobbled-together and ultimately unsatisfying. After I finished the book, I skimmed Amazon reviews and was glad to see that I wasn't the only person who felt this way. Perhaps if Chabon had spent a few more months on it, maybe added another 30-50 pages worth of story, he would have come up with something much more gratifying. (Was he on a deadline or something?)That said, I'm still quite happy that I endeavored to read "The Yiddish Policeman's Union." In the future, I will certainly read other works by Chabon as I still find him to be a quality story-teller; I'm thinking my next stop will be "Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay" as I hear quite often that it's, well, amazing.
2 Chabon disappoints with his latest ambitious novel of an imagined Jewish state in Sitka, Alaska.  Where  Philip Roth succeeds in The Plot Against America, Chabon's alternative history falls flat.  The Yiddish Policemen's Union fails on several levels:  too many tangled plot threads, heavy handed metaphors and similes choke the prose,  and the weltschmerz-burdened characters do not engage.  Chabon tries way too hard to be clever.  As a result,  the writing feels labored and inauthentic.  I commend Chabon for taking on this gargantuan project -- a noir science fiction murder mystery with Jewish themes and literary aspirations.  The premise is inspired.  Nevertheless, for this reader -- a fan of Chabon's earlier works -- sticking out The Yiddish Policemen's Union was heavy lifting to the end.
5 Full disclosure; I saw Michael Chabon speak and I'm from Pittsburgh. That aside this is an example of a curious man with a great talent for writing, that works out very well for us readers.Not satisfied with bringing great characters and past times to life, Chabon creates an alternate history that was believable and useful in the conveyance of human behavior that transcends time and place. His use of language is the best in our times and his lessons are never dogmatic.I can't say that this is better than Kavalier and Clay, but I can say that it doesn't matter, if you like great story tellers this book is for you.
2 Michael Chabon is certainly an interesting writer.  This novel, an alternate-history noir detective story, is perhaps a case of the author showing off his considerable inventive genius at the expense of developing a story.  While Chabon's setting is intriguing and his descriptions are very clever (if a trifle overwrought at times), the characters are rather cartoonish, the dialogue is pretty stilted, and the various plot lines are never really resolved satisfactorily.  I thought the abrupt ending was a slap in the face to the reader who had hung in there with Chabon the whole way.  So &#34;The Yiddish Policemen&#8217;s Union&#34; (which &#8220;union,&#8221; btw, was not really a major part of the story, and it was never clear if it was actually a joke) gets five stars for inventiveness and the creativity of its setting, plus overall writing style &#8211; but then loses three of the stars because the story is never fully developed, and the ending was horrible.
4 Preceding the Reversion/Rapture, the messiah is taken to Heaven. Only the messiah is a drughead, and he's taken with a bullet on the head. So, somebody has to clean up the mess, and find out who did it. And the task falls to Meyer Landsman. From there follows a hard boiled novel with all the usual ingredients, tough cops with porkpie hats, snub-nosed bad guys, but once again the tough cops are not so tough (in fact, they barely shot anybody) and the snub-nosed bad guys are hassidim scholars. All in all, a very well fleshed-out uchrony, with fitting language, which does not dissapoint.
1 I really tried to finish this book.  Didn't make it.  Author wrote this for Jewish people.
4 As a reading experience this is one of the best books I've read this year, and I am glad I invested my time in it. To summarize and not repeat what has been written in plenty of other reviews here: the prose is enchanting and the rich complexity of the characters and the world make for an all-enveloping vision as I read through the story.However a few things threw me off about this book, namely, my own experiences with Yiddish. As a language and a culture that I have encountered through my family (predominantly secular) and through my associations with Hasidic Jews (obviously orthodox), Chabon's Yiddish seemed a bit off, and although it wasn't a deal-breaker for me, it took a little getting used to. This book's Yiddish just isn't exactly the Yiddish I know, however, I make no claims to speak the language or have lived a Yiddish life. I finally came around to accepting Chabon's setting in Sitka, Alaska as more of a, "If this were what we got instead of Israel," senerio, and since I've personally had a lot of exposure to Hebrew, Israel and modern Israeli culture, I felt Meyer and Berko fit in a little better as I found myself seeing them this way.The plot also disappointed me on a certain level, as it starts off so seductively as we slip into a noir-of-sorts city that makes its way into a bigger world; I was fine with letting go slightly of that dark noir ambiance, but I was not pleased with how the book concludes; the wrap up betrays the theme of the book in some ways as it ends uneventfully (an explosion reported on the TV doesn't count for much with me), bad-guys sort of winning, nothing too learned to take away except that Meyer is getting old and contending with the idea that he needs to settle--his story to tell, at the end, was already told, better to have left it at that than to make it a tale he's now going to share with a journalist.On a final positive note, the characters are robust and so very real, especially the Black Hats who are without exception brilliantly written.
1 The nicest thing i can say about this one is that Chabom has done better!This is not a review in the strict sense, but my badly addled mind reacting to a horrible book.  I cannot dignify this to be either a novel nor comedy, well written or not.I accept the basic premise (Israel overrun in 1948 - "alternate history") - which becomes the story line.  However, the book is a combination of some the worst stereotypes (and stereotypes of stereotypes) and ugliness pretending to be comedy I've seen in years.  I was sick to my stomach.  I cannot believe that Chabon is such a  self hater...  And I will stop there......
3 I did enjoy this story but felt like it got a little bogged down in places. I probably would not read another in this series.
4 You were expecting, maybe, the moshiach?  Or the masterpiece of Michael Chabon's illustrious career?  Yiddish Policemen is neither, though there is a lot to like in this book, mostly because Michael Chabon is a seasoned author who is not afraid to take risks.  That spirit of adventure provides the soul of Policemen, yet it also sows the flaws.First, let me say that this is not a Jewish book.  Kavalier and Clay was a Jewish book; this is a mystery.  Which is all to the good from my perspective, as I grew up reading the classics of the genre, and though I've drifted away from mysteries in recent years, there's nothing I love more than an exquisitely crafted mystery.Policemen is not an exquisitely crafted mystery.  It reminds me of so many action movies  (and I predict Policemen will hit the big screen: note the cinematic touches throughout) that exhaust the theatergoer with their frenetic activity and plundering of emotions, yet have plot holes big enough to hold a lifetime's worth of bubbe's honey cake.And that's my biggest gripe with Policemen: during the last third of the book, he tosses in so many characters and threads of subplots, only some of which lead somewhere, that even a dedicated reader (I've already read chunks twice to see if they made more sense to me; they don't) risks feeling dazzled or stupid or both.But I am willing to forgive the confusion because it's a book that keeps you turning pages.  Reading Chabon is taking a walk in a magical woods studded with linguistic gems and quirky, original metaphors that convey the essence of the characters while they delight the reader.Much has been said in these reviews about Yiddish, and here I have to applaud Chabon for his bravery in avoiding the hackneyed American Yiddishisms - you will not find an oy vey or a schlep in this book - and exploiting lesser known words and phrases. Although Policemen in a book with universal appeal, anyone who is Jewish or knows much about the religion will get a few extra grins out of the in jokes (kind of makes up for all the nuances we missed in Da Vinci Code and its brethren).  Beginning with the name of protagonist and the storied name of his hotel, the wink-wink humor is abundant.  The notion of a heroin addict using tefillin to tie off, for example, or the ubiquitous "donated by..." plaques may be minor plot elements, but they will thrill (or possibly shock) your average Jew.And that brings me to my second gripe about the book: that it doesn't fulfill the promise made by its premise.  I live in the United States, as do most of the Jews I know.  We have no plans to emigrate to Israel, and yet its presence gives us a foothold in this ever-changing globe, providing us with the courage to say "never again" and the ability to enjoy sleep unpunctuated by Nazi nightmares.  Because of Israel we Jews have a home.  Chabon sets up an alternate reality without an Israel, but he does not explore the ramifications of that different path.  If that is not the book he wanted to write, then why the back story?I understand that the publication of this book was substantially delayed, and can only speculate why.  This is a solid 4.5 star book--better than just about anything else you'll pick off the shelf (or order through amazon)--but when you're hoping for a tour de force, a comparative mish mash is bound to be a disappointment.
2 A very esoteric book that i hoped could be good and informative reading, but I stopped reading after a couple chapters.  Maybe for others a good book
5 "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is the remarkable answer to the question Chabon must have asked himself after "The Amazing Adventures" Pulitzer furor died down: "OK, smart guy. Can you top this?" Whatever he may have thought then, he sure has gone and done it this time. Chabon's latest literate, literary and lyrical novel is set among the Orthodox denizens of the District of Sitka - the improbable homeland made available to displaced European and Palestinian Jews "temporarily" by the American government in a rush of uncharacteristic humanitarianism in 1948. (Why a Jewish homeland in Alaska, not Israel? And why in 1948? Read the book.) Everything about "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is dark - the sometimes ethnic but always funny humor, the climate, the characters, the unpredictable future after Reversion (when the land grant is slated to end, a matter of months after the action), the murder-mystery centerpiece around which all else revolves. It is the dark aura of the story more than the ingenuity of the mystery's solution that distinguishes it so clearly from the often uplifting narrative that is its Chabonic predecessor. Yes, there is laugh-out-loud dialogue. Yes, there is the remarkable development of the quirky characters for which Chabon is widely and justly known. Yes, there is psychology and philosophy and, as the pace of the writing and the rush toward...what? accelerates, a sense of impending doom. But the writing...ah, the writing. This is Chabon at his best, and then some. If you are a word person - if a novel cannot, for you, be a fine novel, even a unique novel, without truly masterful use of language, then "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is the book for you. Don't plan on reading it through at one sitting. It is a novel to be savored, and reflected upon, and anticipated - all at once. Buy it. Read it. Share it with your friends. And then sit with me and wonder what in Heaven's name the fertile mind and amazing pen of Michael Chabon will produce for us next.
2 I've read most of Chabon's stuff, including the disappointing "Summerland." Most impressive was K&C;, though "Wonder Boys" was, for me, the most enjoyable. This one I've set aside about a third of the way through. Am reminded of an exchange in "Blazing Saddles:"Taggart: I got it.Hedley Lamarr: What?Taggart: Let's kill every first born male child in Rock Ridge.Hedley Lamarr: Nah, too Jewish.
5 A fun alternate history book but it may be that, for goyim, enjoyment is fostered by growing  up in a neighborhood in which fractured Yiddish a la American was or is spoken !
3 Michael Chabob falls short on this one.  I found Michael Chabon's latest offering to be slower moving than I have come to expect of him.  The Yiddish language makes the book more complicated and difficult reading.
5 Michael Chabon has rewritten history. Israel never existed. After World War II millions of Jews have been suckered into accepting a homeland in unforgiving Sitka, Alaska, but the U.S. is about to make them disperse again in the upcoming Reversion. A detective, gloomy, miserable, depressed Meyer Landsman is investigating the homicide of a druggie who could very well be the Messiah, but as Chabon says, "Every generation loses the Messiah it has failed to deserve." The addict, a great chess player, is murdered in the same fleabag hotel where Landsman lives. A chess game is a crucial clue.It seems as if detectives like this one who work in cold climates like Henning Mankel's and Martin Cruz Smith's cops have to be melancholy, morose losers. Landsman is separated from his wife Bina who also happens to be his boss. He's incorruptible and is committed to finding the murderer no matter what, even if he's a klutz.Chabon is a brilliant, risk-taking stylist, insanely creative, fiercely comic, complex writer, and a master of the simile. Of his hero he says, "He hopes and fears that he looks only like a loser, dragging his bad luck in a satchel over one arm." Chabon's characters are weirdos, theater of the absurd escapees. Meyer falls down, gets shot at, beaten up, but somehow muddles through. The least of Chabon's worries is political correctness.Stick with the author on this off-the-wall journey that is a mystery, political satire, a love story, and you'll be well rewarded.
2 It would be easier to accept the storyline of this book if it could be classed as parody or satire. However, much of the book is straightforwardly disrespectful of traditional Judaism.  Irrespective of where one stands on the practices of the various orthodox, reform, etc sects, the primacy of Torah is central (unless a reconstructionist of course).  Almost every Jew in the book - there are a half-dozen goyim - is caricatured as an admixture of stupidity, venality, obsessivity, criminality and vacuity.  Any character with role-model potential is revealed as concealing multiple cloven-feet.  Hasidim are portrayed as a cross between the Yeti and something from the Sopranos.  One can laugh at satire if any sense of contrasting balance is insinuated into the narrative.  The central characters are so full of abyssmal self-pity that they become relentlessly boring.  There is a good book in there but one about 50% shorter.  The meandering of the story is tedious - what's the point of the brief appearance of 'Mexican Jews' speaking 'desert Hebrew' (which I assume is an oblique reference to Ladino). Unworked out chess metaphors, which are stridently identifed as hinge points in the plot, lack dramatic credibility.  The Jewish run but American government funded dairy farm is just a prop to get the plot out of a mire of self-doubt.  Overall, I would have liked to read a shorter book with a tighter dramtic elaboration of the characters.  Thankfully, I received the book as a present.
5 In Michael Chabon's brilliantly imagined and realized "The Yiddish Policeman's Union", Jewish refugees from Hitler's Holocaust have thrived for sixty years in the Federal District of Sitka, a semiautonomous refuge carved out from Alaska, creating a culture as distinctive as those of their American Indian neighbors, rich in Yiddish speech and music, while preserving a European Jewish culture threatened first by Nazi Germany, and then, shortly after World War II, by invading Arab armies extinguishing the newborn state of Israel. In slightly more than two months, the district will be reabsorbed into Alaska, its current inhabitants faced with the unenviable choice of immigration elsewhere. District Police homicide detective Meyer Landsman has ample personal problems of his own making, and doesn't need another unexplained case just weeks before the Reversion. However, he's confronted with solving the inexplicable murder of one of his neighbors in his residential hotel; the victim, a drug-addicted former chess-playing prodigy, shot dead, execution style, who, in his youth, was viewed by fellow Hasidic Jews as a potential Messiah.  When ordered by those ranking above him to drop the case, Landsman plunges relentlessly ahead,  willing to sacrifice not only his honor but also those of his closest friends and family, finding himself increasingly ensnared in an intricate Byzantine-like network of politics and faith with links as remote as Washington, D. C. and the Holy Land itself. Michael Chabon pays ample homage not only to Philip K. Dick, but also Elmore Leonard, in a fast-paced realistic literary style that's a most fertile mix of Dick's "The Man in the High Castle" with Leonard's "Get Shorty", resulting in one of the most compelling novels of alternative history science fiction in recent years.  The 2007 recipient of the Hugo Award for best science fiction novel, "The Yiddish Policeman's Union", is not merely a great work of science fiction, demonstrating his ample affinity and understanding of it, but also one of the most important novels in Michael Chabon's distinguished oeuvre of literary fiction.
5 Should anybody kvetch?This novel has a completely original premise:  that, during the Holocaust, the US created a systematic program to house Jewish refugees in Alaska and, as a result, a sizable urban community flourished there.And, as with any urban community, there are problems:  crime, sociological frictions, crime, interpersonal disconnects, crime...The story centers around a "hard-boiled" Jewish detective who is trying to solve an unusual murder and manage his personal life, too.Men are inherently lonely, and hard-boiled detectives exemplify that lonliness.  In this book, protagonist lonliness is taken to a logical extension, but what makes this really funny is the author's masterful use of Yiddish/American/Alaskan language combinations to produce some really funny puns.He sets a new record for metaphor and simile, too.  Since I love Hammett, Chandler, et al, this book was a joy to read.One piece of advice:  since the narrative is very compelling you might be inclined to read it quickly.  Resist that temptation:  slow down and enjoy!
4 Chabon's got one, an imagination, perhaps fueled by mind-altering substances. Clever he is. And funny. And a Yid. He's a Yid creating a frozen Yid country called Sitka that longs once more for Jerusalem. No modern Israel here. That didn't happen. Instead, all the Jews went to Alaska after WWII. Onto this landscape comes Landsman: damaged goods. And his big bear of a police partner, Berko Shemets, is a nice foil for the dark, perhaps insane Landsman. Landsman, the unbeliever in a land of fanatics, is drawn to a body in his wretched hotel. The body has a small hole in the back of its head. A chessboard and its pieces sit near the body. The dead man was a Yid and a drug addict. Landsman shouldn't care, but he does. That's just the kind of person he is. His biggest fault is his conscience. Landsman is a genius cop with a photographic memory. He lives off his hunches and his wits. The dead man bothers him. He wants to know who put the lead in the guy's brain.The next day Landsman finds out that his ex-wife, Bina, is now his commanding officer. Their relationship is pure sarcasm, Yid humor, love and hate and all kinds of feelings in between. It brings wonderful energy to these pages, and the dialogue between them snaps out like stuff from classic screwball comedies such as "The Front Page" or "The Twentieth Century." Great stuff. Then, for reasons to be learned later, Bina tells the two cops to lay off the hotel murder. Case closed. No reasons offered. What's that all about?Well, if you haven't gotten hooked by now, you're an uncatchable fish. This book is often incredibly edgy even though Chabon seems to be a connoisseur of words who often enjoys frolicking in lexical dustbins to pull out the obscure referent. The book is about a culture that still exists somewhere in Brooklyn and Israel, and about genre itself. It's a parody of a detective novel that can sometimes be read as the real thing, which makes it exceptionally good parody. It's a hilarious comedy and a bizarre Coen brothers movie, very particular on the details. Chabon also has taken up the mantle of the great Mordecai Richler ("The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz," and "Solomon Gursky Was Here," among others) and has mastered orthodox Jewish miasma.Altogether, this work is sheer entertainment, although I have to agree with some reviewers that it ran out of steam after 300 or so pages. I found myself getting frustrated with all the alleys Chabon was taking me through. And I just wanted the thing to resolve itself already!  So just speed read toward the end, but don't deprive yourself of a truly unique piece of craftsmanship. You'll enjoy it in spite of some faults. One piece of advice: The text is littered with Yiddish expressions which give it its unique "flavor." Go to one of the Yiddish sources Chabon provides in his acknowledgments section at the end of the book. The book will be all the richer for you if you do.
2 Unfortunately the plot is not.  Starts off with a homicide case, throws in an extra one with no impact on the plot (but it does give the protagonist a chance to shoot someone), veers off into crazy conspiracy theory nutjobbery, and finally runs out of gas and pulls over to the side of the road without resolving anything.The Yiddish was fun, the alternate history take was fun, but at the core the plot needed another couple trips to the kitchen.
4 I loved Kavalier & Clay, and after all the hype surrounding this book, I was expecting to love it too. Unfortunately, Chabon's melange of Raymond Chandler noir and the fate of the Jews didn't quite work for me. This book was far more memorable for its individual scenes, characters, or even turns of phrase than it was for its total effect.Like other reviewers, I could have used more background on why the Jews came to Sitka and what turns of life and politics brought them there. The assorted cops, thugs, low-lifes, and no-lifes that populate the story were ultimately not very distinguishable from those who populate any hard-boiled detective fiction. Yes, they were Yiddish-speaking Jews with interesting accents and turns of phrase, and they represented an alternative and desperate Jewish history, but once the reader gets past that exciting frisson, there's not much left.Chabon is always interesting and always worth reading, but I think this is a noble but not fully successful effort.
4 No need to give another synopsis, plenty of those here already.I do recommend this one, it succeeds beyond a genre or genre-mixture. As one would expect from Chabon, this is a vivid, well-crafted winner.
5 Let me say that I love Chabon.  He is one of the most brilliant writers of our time.  His prose is beautifully constructed, his characters interesting, his use of simile inventive.  And while I enjoyed this piece of fiction very much I felt the trouble with combining a literary work with a whodunnit caper was that the words, all those beautiful words and beautiful sentences and descriptive prose, sometimes got in the way of what was going on.  Instead of driving the story they bogged it down.  Still, the writing is so good as to be one of a kind.  Read his work just to learn what a great writer writes.
4 This book was a pleasure to read. Chabon's writing is witty and rich in substance without being unnecessarily long-winded. The self-loathing of the main character (and that charater's reflection on same) is simply fantastic. I am now going to begin reading everything else Chabon has written.
2 There have been enough reviews of Michael Chabon's "The Yiddish Policemen Union," that I see no advantage in summarizing the plot of his book once again. What I want to discuss is the author's confused and confusing use of two languages.In Chabon's author's note he acknowledges Reb [sic] Valadimir Nabokov. That "Reb" was completely bilingual. He understood the character of Russian as well as English; he wrote books in both languages. When it comes to being bilingual, Chabon is no Nabokov. These days, progressive editors permit authors to use foreign words or terms without italicizing them, provided readers will understand them from the context, because they are repeated often enough. Chabon's first mistake is using hundreds of Yiddish words that readers cannot understand from the context. Some reviewers suggested that Chabon should have added a Yiddish glossary at the end of the book. Chabon's readers are not college students who must struggle with obscure texts with words they need to look up. His second mistake is a complete lack of understanding of the spirit of Yiddish, even though he is familiar with the vocabulary. For instance: He refers to the personal weapons of the cops in Sitka as "sholem," which is supposed to be a translation of "peace maker." (Are there cops today who refer to their weapons as peace makers?) It borders on the ridiculous to use this Yiddish word for a weapon, because it just means peace (without "maker"). If this is supposed to be a Chabon linguistic joke, non-Yiddish-speaking readers won't get it; and most Yiddish speakers will not be amused.As Chabon tells his story, the Jews of Sitka speak mostly Yiddish. If that is so, the protagonist, not a particularly well-educated cop, would not think in terms of an "inverse satori," a Japanese Zen Buddhist concept. Readers may feel that "satori" was used solely to show the author's erudition. If Yiddish is the prevailing language of Sitka, one would assume that the inhabitants would speak it idiomatically. Why would they say, in THEIR language, "I want you should," which native-Yiddish speakers sometimes use in English?Yiddish is an earthy language, given to simple and very strong expressions, not the baroquely ornate English the author uses throughout the work. I have no quarrel with his style, but it does not fit into the language of Sitka. It is, to use a Chabonism, de trop. Foreign words in an English text are the frosting on the cake. The cake is the plot. Shakespeare wrote Hamlet without using Danish words, and Romeo and Juliet without Italian.I'll end with my own obiter dictum - I believe I have caught the Chabon linguistic bug. How can one write about a Jewish autonomous region in Alaska, established in 1948, without mentioning Birobijan? It is a remote area in Siberia, adjacent to the Chinese border that Stalin established in 1928 as an Autonomous Jewish Region - a Soviet planned competitor to the emerging Jewish homeland in Palestine. There are at least two striking similarities: The biting cold of Birobijan in wintertime (probably worse than in Alaska), and Yiddish as a semi-official language. Just as in Sitka, even under the communists, there must have been ordinary Yiddish-speaking cops on duty, to keep the new inhabitants in line.
4 Chabon is one of those authors that will get my business each time they publish a new book.  Chabon combines the best elements of a hard-boiled murder mystery with a history that may have unfolded if my people would have been helped to flee to Alaska in the 1930s.  At one point Yiddish was spoken quite a bit by relations I never new, in New York City apartments I never saw, but reading this novel made me feel close to my kin.  Grade:  A
4 For the first few pages, I figured I was in New York City.  After all, where else would there be enough Yiddish-speaking policemen to have a Union?  But more and more I realized it didn't fit, so I read the book flap and got oriented.  I realized that in order to appreciate this book I was going to have to let go of everything I thought I knew about history, time, place, and American Jews, and let the author create his fictional world to replace them.  Once I did that, I embraced Chabon's enticing Raymond-Chandler or Robert-J-Parker characters and their unique Yiddish-speaking but entirely different world -- a tenous existence in a harsh climate and a marginally hospitable world, shaping another new existence for a people that has had to create a new existence out of nothing more times than I can count.  (Picture the "Big Macher" department-store-cum-Walmart an Alaska, one of whose main exports is wireless phones.)  A very clever fictional universe and a very clever plot, with questions woven in about politics, ethics, and the meaning of life.  It's a bit of a roller-coaster ride -- you never quite know where you are going or what's around the next bend.  A challenging and refreshing read!
4 This book by Michael Chabon was a different kind of police mystery - it is Jewish.  This is a good, if different, read and one that I enjoyed.  The characters are good and the plot is interesting.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the 'Isms'"
2 Gave 2 stars in fairness because I couldn't get  way through, though I went much further with this than usual due to the author's reputation and early hype.Needs a Yiddish glossary.  I understood about 2/3's but people from Utah will be stumped most of the time.
4 Terrence Rafferty's review in the New York Times ends with: "Nice novel.  You were expecting maybe the Messiah?"  This is a good description of the novel in three ways.  For one thing, it captures the Yiddish cadences that Chabon painstakingly creates for his characters.  As a die hard Chabon fan, I am used to reading his fiction with a dictionary at my side.  The thing with this book is that dictionary needs to be in Yiddish.  I thought I knew a lot of Yiddish for a goy, but this novel proved me wrong.  There is no glossary at the back of the book (too late did I notice that Chabon provides the address of a Yiddish-to-English website).Second, the remark about the Messiah is central to the mystery at hand.  There are conspiracies in this book of Biblical proportions.  As in The Final Solution, Chabon delves into the mystery genre here - the difference being he is channeling Dashiell Hammett instead of Arthur Conan Doyle.  His omniscient third-person narrator uses Yiddish slang to create a tough-edged voice.Finally though, it is a "nice novel" - it doesn't live up to the magnificence of Kavalier & Clay (but then, what could?).  It is like Scorsese following Goodfellas with Cape Fear.  The book is an alternate-history novel in which the Jews have been relocated to Alaska instead of Israel (and, after reading the book, I guess Chabon feels that this was a spectacularly bad idea).  It is full of fanciful creations - most notably a Hasidic sect as an organized crime family and a rabbi as a Don.  Chabon is right to champion plot and genre, and it does work in this book - but it still left me slightly hungry.  I recommend this book - as I recommend everything that Chabon writes.  Just don't keep us waiting seven years for the next one.
4 Interesting fiction from a real suggestion -- that Jews settle in Sitka, Alaska while Russia still owned it. The question would be what would happen when the USA took over. Yiddish was the language, and &#34;Jewish characters&#34; populated the story which is coached in &#34;stereotypical views&#34; of bleak Russian life.
3 Too often, reading this book felt more like something I was willing myself to do because of Chabon devotion rather than something I wanted to do. About 3/4 through it started to spark, but it never really fired.That said, it's still far better written than anything you can buy at the airport.Missing Kavalier and Clay, LOVING that book jacket.
3 I throughly enjoyed the book.  It started out a bit slow, but I got sucked in pretty quickly.  I would describe it as an often dark, sometimes funny, thoroughly entertaining mystery novel.  And I liked the chess angle, too.I'm a bit confused by all the complaints about the Yiddish-isms.  I'm not Jewish.  I don't speak a word of Yiddish.  And, frankly, I'm not all that familiar with the Jewish culture.  But I had no problem understanding the Yiddish-isms in their context.
4 I loved listening to these CDs.  The reader, Peter Riegert, used accents brilliantly to bring the characters to life.  It took a bit to get into it, but once in, I can't imagine hearing anybody else ever read it.To me the mystery was secondary to Meyer Landsman's character - flaws and all - and his love for his ex-wife, loyalty to his partner/cousin, and justice for the murdered man.  The language is vivid and rich,  and there is much interesting information about Jewish culture and Judaism.Michael Chabon had a fantastic idea in the Federal District of Sitka - refuge to homeless Jews for 60 years after Israel falls after 1948.  Mr. Chabon brings it to life and integrates it with the native Alaskans and "southerners" beautifully.  There was much to think about politically and regarding religion in this book.  I will probably buy it and read it after having listened to it.
3 Michael Chabon is a fabulous novelist and two of his books are great works - "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay" and "Wonder Boys".  However, The Yiddish Policemen's Union fails to clear the high bar set by his previous novels.  Chabon cobbles together an interesting detective story, but the setting in an alternate history sabotages an otherwise inviting tale.  The Jewish-Alaskan environment probably sounded irresistible when first conceived, but it ultimately trips the effort.Kasey Cotulla[...]Sacramento.
4 What a fun read, loved the characters, loved the setting and the plot is excellent. I often watch certain televangelists who have tied 'the end of time' to events that have allowed them to join with certain conservative Jewish elements to this end. So the plot is well grounded in tv realities.Michael Chabon gets kudos and plenty of them for this tale that winds the elements of longing for redemption and total despair into these meaty characters.Perfect summer read
4 I felt the cold,recognized the people, tasted the food, knew the restaurants, and experienced the city and landscape.  I have never been to Alaska. My exposure to Yiddish comes from living in NYC.  A one page glossary of the terms would have been helpful. Why not?
5 I have to admit, when I started reading it, was not sure I was going to finish reading it. But after a while say a chapter, I could not put it down and wanted to keep reading it. well done.
5 I almost gave up on this book.  I'm not Jewish and I found the generous serving of Yiddish words to be very discouraging and a barrier to appreciating the book fully.  At page 150 I was ready to put it down, but because the book received so much praise (I think the Economist called it one of the best books of 2007), I forced myself to continue and am so glad I did.  I finally got into the groove of the novel and found myself awestruck by the way the author's words could capture such true-to-life feelings and conversations.  The author's writing style and the way he can write a conversation between characters makes other authors' representations of characters and words seem contrived.  WARNING - Plot spoiler:  He even got me to accept the eventual reuniting of Detective Landsman and his ex-wife as a perfectly natural thing (even though at the beginning of the book, the only thing I hoped for was that the author would not pander to the audience's natural desire for happy endings).  All I can say to those who are turned off by the book is to keep at it, you'll be rewarded.  You may even speak Yiddish by the end of it.
5 This was my first exposure to this author and it was a great story with mystery, cultural facts and a little touch of romance. I chose this book because I was intrigued by the premise and it was executed well. I liked that the facts about Jewish history and culture are scattered through the story and the mystery aspect is good. I got the audio version of the book because I read that Yiddish phrases are used extensively and that was a good move because I know I would not have gotten managed to get the pronunciation correctly. I like the fact that the style was hard boiled similar to Chandler and there was a fatalistic undertone as with some Jewish books that I have read. It was long winded in parts but sometimes it takes awhile to tell a story you just have to wait because everything adds to the overall tone and feel of the novel.
5 I wonder at the reviewers who gave this book minimum stars and negative reviews...Did we read the same book?  Only Michael Chabon, a writer of enormous spirit and heart, could have created a character such as Lansman and a place such as Sitka reinvented as a Jewish settlement.  This alternative reality is so rooted in possibility that the pages fly by, with the danger of laugh out loud situations.  (Be warned:  it's dangerous to read this book in public.)  It's fun, it's informative, and was well worth the wait.
3 The Yiddish Policeman's Union is a somewhat futuristic tale in which all the Jews have (temporarily) been relocated to Alaska. Of course, the time is quickly approaching for the Jews to leave Alaska, and thus life is...shall we say...a bit hectic. The story centers around a forty-something detective who hasn't coped with either his son's death (which in part caused his divorce) or the mysterious death of his aviator sister. He's a miserable creature, an alcoholic, and he lives in a cesspool of an apartment. In fact, the must-solve murder about which the plot revolves takes place in the afore-mentioned apartment building. And, of course, for added challenges our main detective is "re-united" with his ex-wife-who happens to be his superior-and discovers that the apartment death is related to his sister's death, and then the Jewish mafia shows up, and and and....This was my first work by Chabon, and while I don't necessarily think it should be my last, it sadly will be my last for a long while. The plot was too bizarre for me, and I could not empathize with the hero at all. As the end neared he also seemed to take on an almost Rambo "you-can't-kill-me" quality that was completely unbelievable. Writing-wise there were quite a few puny turns of the phrase (for example, "sholem" is a variant of "shalom" which was connected to "peace" which was connected to "piece" which was connected to "gun." Ergo, in this novel, "sholem" meant "gun") and the glossary in the back helped quite a bit. I think Chabon definitely had some strong skills but his plot was too crazy and his character wasn't substantial enough to hold my attention. This is not a book I would recommend highly.
5 I loved this book. OK, it wasn't as amazing as Cavalier and Klay, but that's partially due to the fact that I now expect to be surprised by Michael Chabon. This novel's premise - an Alaskan Jewish refuge for people who survived the holocaust and the failure of the state of Israel in 1948 - necessitates the kind of leap readers made into Philip Roth's Plot Against America. It's a little like science fiction, but once you're in Chabon's Sitka, everything else looks a lot like the world we now as seen through a noir filter. There was enough Yiddish to delight but not so much that goyim like me would need a dictionary. Whenever the narrator noted that a character started speaking American, I would imagine how rich this book would be if it were all in Yiddish. The characters inhabited their own surreal city, where Isaac Bashevis Singer, Dashiell Hammett, and the Philips Marlowe, Roth, and Dick would be perfectly at home. The plot was appropriately convoluted and pop - I particularly enjoyed the way Chabon combined the messiah, Zionist attacks on the Dome of the Rock, and the collusion between Christian fundamentalists and the American government in creating both a new Jerusalem in order to bring on the rapture. I wonder what readers of Left Behind would make of all this.I found the main characters very appealing - especially the Tlingit-Indian Berko Shemets and the divorced Meyer and Bina, who are forced to accommodate themselves to changing circumstances. The effect of abortion on their souls and their marriage was vividly rendered, complemented as it was by other stories of parents, children, and missed opportunities. In a story full of fata morganas, dishonest cops, unrighteous rabbis, and broken promises, those who come out all right in the end speak plain truths and find their heaven here in the broken and temporary world. Hovering over the novel is the spirit of the great chess master, Nabokov. Like Vlad, Michael Chabon seems to have intimations that there's more going on than meets the eye, but he also knows that the divine is immanent in the love we share, the moves we make, the truths we tell, and words we spin into the stories that tell us who we are.
5 Michael Chabon constantly continnues to surprise. Each novel is so different from the last and all are engrossing. Keep writing Michael
5 Set in a Sitka, Alaska, that has a massive Jewish population, refugees from both World War II and a failed attempt to found a modern Israel, we have: a murder mystery. Richly and elegantly written, this Hugo and Nebula winning novel features religious fanatics, secret agents, convoluted plots, chess, and a wealth of vivid, memorable characters. Highly recommended.
4 This was an interesting read, extremely well-written.  The characters were terrific- multi-dimensional, not 100% likable.  The concept of a world without Israel and the Jews living in Alaska was fascinating.  The detail and thought of what it would look like and how it would play out kept me reading.My only criticism, and this is not of the author, but rather my own laziness, is that it was difficult to understand the Yiddish references.  I'm Catholic and my lack of knowledge of Judaism also played a part.  I didn't know what was fiction and what was real.I actually enjoyed this more than Kavalier and Clay- it was more creative.
5 said the words out loud those who had assumed Yiddish was a language of the past only, suddenly felt it had been revived.  . . .  It seemed to be saying `khbin nisht vos ikh bin amol geven. I am not what I once was. Ober `khbin nisht geshtorbn. Ikh leb. But I did not die. I live."  Irena Klepfisz.Yiddish is certainly not dead in Michael Chabon's "The Yiddish Policemen's Union".  In fact, the primary language of Jews throughout the "Pale of Settlement" (where Jews were allowed to live in Imperial Russia) suffuses this book with the rich aroma of a language whose every word can take on a paragraph or even chapter of meaning in the hands of the right speaker.  Chabon is one such speaker (or writer) and "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is a book that is rich in enjoyment."The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is an artful blend of genres, a blend of crime fiction and alternate history.  I think of it as a blend of Dashiell Hammett's dark crime stories like "Red Harvest" and Philip Roth's alternate-history novel "The Plot Against America".Chabon has created a world in which there is no Israel. Rather, Israel had been crushed in the 1948 Arab-Israeli war. Since that time the United States, partly as a result of guilt over the Holocaust has created a temporary homeland for displaced European Jews in and around Sitka, Alaska.  Yiddish, not Hebrew, is the primary language.  As the book opens, close to 60-years after the end of Israel, Sitka is due to revert back to U.S. control and the million or so inhabitants face the prospect of being stateless refugees.  The hero, or protagonist, is Detective Meyer Landsman. Like one of Dashiell Hammett's characters he is a flawed, down-on-his luck cop with nothing much going for him except a strong sense of right and wrong and a personal integrity of the highest order.  He is a drunk, he is divorced (and his ex-wife is his commanding office) and he lives in a flea-bag hotel.  He is awakened out of something of a stupor and told a murder has been committed in the hotel.It does not quite do Chabon's book justice to say that the story line is primarily that of Landsman's investigation into the murder of this stranger in his fleabag hotel.  That is certainly how the book plays out.  However, that is simply the structure of the book.  As in Hammett, there is a murder in a town filled with greed and corruption and the path Landsman must walk is filled with hurdles and hidden minefields.  As in Roth, the story of Landsman (which in itself is a Yiddish word that may be roughly translated as fellow countryman) is the story of a people set adrift and apart.  It is a story of a people bobbing in a sea without an anchor, without a homeland.  It is poignant but, ironically, it is poignancy without the schmaltz.Chabon's writing, like Yiddish itself, is rich and thick with meaning.  But more importantly, it is both funny and thoughtful.  The barbs and insults and sarcasm with which the characters express their fondness for each other and their scorn and loathing is, in my opinion, dead-solid perfect.  As I read "Yiddish Policemen's Union" I could envision the body language and sense the arched eyebrows or sneers on the lips of the characters as words come tumbling out of their mouths in a torrent.Although I won't say anything to reveal the plot, I think Chabon shows excellent pace and timing in developing the plot.  He neither rushes to expose too many details too soon nor leaves everything to a summary revelation at the book's climax.  Chabon keeps the pot boiling and that kept me turning page after page after page long after I should have turned out the lights for the night.One slight cautionary note:  I grew up in a Queens, New York neighborhood at a time when Yiddish words and expressions were sprinkled liberally throughout every conversation both in my family's apartment and throughout my neighborhood.  However, if you don't have any prior experience with Yiddish I suggest going on line and keeping a Yiddish-English web page handy if you find you have any difficulty with the odd word or phrase.  Ultimately the pleasures of this book so far outweigh the minimal burden of pondering the occasional strange word. I mention it just so the potential reader is aware in advance that they might see a few words that may not be readily understood by every reader.I got a great deal of pleasure from reading Michael Chabon's "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" and recommend it heartily. L. Fleisig
3 Book was a bit confusing and slow at times, but it picked up in the middle sections and truly kept my interest.
4 I have been very impressed with Chabon, esp. The Amazing C&K;, but his work can tend to bloat a bit.  That is the case with this novel as well, but boy, what a world he has imagined for us!  The post-WWII Jews have been settled in Alaska, not Israel, and Chabon sets us at the center of a murder investigation of the son of a famous Hassidic rabbi, whose murdered son ranged far from the fold.Just a bang-up job in general, but again like with C&K; it is draggy in the second half.
3 This novel is well-written but I never really got sucked into it. I'm sure there are others who might appreciate the setting, themes and characters more than I did.It was enthralling at a few parts but a chore at several others, especially the first hundred pages, so 3/5 stars.
5 If you open this book expecting a murder mystery, forget it. If you're expecting a treatise on Jewish angst, forget it. And if you're expecting an alternate history adventure, wrong again. But if you can handle all three rolled into one package then this book is for you.Expect to feel frustrated quite a few times. It's OK, that's what the characters are feeling. But stick with the story, it'll move faster than you realize.
5 will you receive such a gift as this novel.  The story line is superb but secondary to the reason I loved this work; Chabon writes with such crisp text, rich allegories, colorful metaphors, and originality that I was simply blown away.  Simply stated, the second or third best read in a decade.  And I intend to reread it this summer.
5 The world MC invents in TYPU bears strong resemblances to an actual world which has, for the most part, tragically, passed into history.  Though nothing in TYPU requires specialist knowledge on the part of the reader, it's hard to imagine that readers coming to this novel who have no familiarity with the world in question (its people, its culture, its language) could really appreciate what MC achieves in TYPU.  TYPU is story-telling of the highest order: terrific prose; an endlessly entertaining (and unpredictably meandering) story-line; a hugely imaginative piece of speculative fiction; and (icing on the cake) one of the funniest (yet most bracing) books I've ever read.  To boot, it's also great food for thought.  TYPU is an outstanding novel.
5 I thought that it started out strange. The death of the young man in the hotel where the police man lived. But no preface about him and why he was a drunk. But I couldn't help but to keep reading. Bear killing his father was a good way to end the story
2 Chekhov said that if there's a gun in the first act, somebody had better use it later on. Chabon violates this principle completely. While the Yiddish Policemen's Union is imaginative and literate, it also completely fails to follow through on its provocative premise that in nine weeks potentially the entire Jewish population of Alaska is going to be expelled. More worth reading for the atmosphere than the story.
5 I am not Jewish but I appreciated most of the Jewish humour in this book. Michael Chabon had me laughing from the start.
5 The Yiddish Policemen's Union was my first Michael Chabon novel, and is still the one I like best. Fascinating historical premise, good story, and excellent writing--it was such a pleasure to read.Of the 3-4 dozen novels I read in 2007, this still stands out as my favorite.
4 I think Chabon writes the most wonderful prose, and his fantasy is very imaginiaative, but I find him tedius to read because he puts so much in a single sentence. Maybe tedius isn't the right word, maybe just SLOW would be  more appropriate.  He's not an author that you can skim over lightly.  But I do love reading every single word.  I would recommend it to a select group of friends.
1 This novel is vastly overrated. I do not like novels in which the tone of the novel is one of belittling and condescending.  It just did not interest me at all. I wanted to like it, I am interested in Jewish life, Interested in alaska, but the authors attitude was evident in the book and I did not like that tone of one upmanship. Totally boring.
3 Having finished The Adventures of Kavalier & Clay a few months ago with a sense of post-coital satisfaction, I admit to having high expectations when I began The Yiddish Policemen's Union. Michael Chabon sets the novel in an alternate universe, wherein Israel failed as a country in 1948, and the US set up the District of Sitka in southeastern Alaska as a temporary settlement for displaced Jews. Now, the sixty year lease on the District has only two months to go, and Detective Meyer Landsman, homicide division, is under strict orders to finish off his backlog of cases, preferably without the annoyance of actually investigating them. But the more Landsman tries to figure out the murder of a junkie who lived in his building, the further he becomes drawn into the scheming motivations of the orthodox underworld.Chabon structures the novel's language to match his historical revisioning. "I felt like I had to invent a whole new language, a dialect," he states in a NY Times article, reprinted in the P.S. paperback edition. This dialect helped me feel as if I were in a different place, one where Yiddish, hostility, and humor merge to form a detective who reads as if from behind the fog of a hangover. Unfortunately, this also keeps Landsman from feeling real. Indeed, although the third-person narration stays with him throughout the novel, for me, Landsman was one of the least interesting characters.More involving is Landsman's partner and cousin, Berko Shemets, a half-Indian man whose multiculturalism opens the door for the novel to explore issues of ethnic tensions in and around the District. Since Chabon shoves a lot implications about US foreign policy and religious fervor into the last part of the novel, it would have been nice if he took his time in considering those matters through thoughtful characters like Berko. In the end, though, The Yiddish Policemen's Union depends more upon deus ex machina plot devices than careful layering and presentation of complex themes.
3 Although this is my first book by Michael Chabon, I have a couple of others to read and had heard a lot about him. Although I found this a pleasant read, I have to admit this book was not at all what I expected. I think that I expected somthing a little more cohesive, a little funnier, and full of some great wit and sarcasm. Instead I found a book that started very slowly and veered off course many times. For example, although the book began with the discovery of a murder, the author did not get to the meat of that story until about 200 pages into the book. In addition, that story was hidden among a lot of rambling, and sometimes confusing, discussion about the characters in the book. In my opinion, most of this discussion detracted from the actual story. Once the author actually got to the story of the murder investigation and the conspiracy surrounding it, I began to enjoy the story. It seemed though, that just as I was getting settled in, the authour would ramble off down another side track. In defense of the book, though, the characters were complex and unpredicatable, and the information on Jewish mysticism and culture was interesting. Overall, I felt the author's descriptions were colorful and engaging, and in that respect enjoyed his writing. There were a few gems in the book like when he referred to the Jewish in Alaska as "the Frozen Chosen", or his description of what it was like to sleep in a bed with a two and a four year old, or how a huge person could hurdle a tall fence. All in all, I felt it was an enjoyable read, but it just didn't quite "get it."And thank goodness for the Yiddish dictionary in the back of the book.  I would have been lost without it in some places.
5 Chabon, master of metaphor and the exuberant author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay," now turns his multi-talented hand to the Jewish speculative alternate-history detective-noir novel.Morose, keen-eyed, alcoholic Meyer Landsman is the best homicide detective in the temporary Jewish state of Sitka, Alaska. Divorced, he's been marking time at a fleabag motel until Sitka reverts back to American control in two months time and the Jews are once again dispersed.The US bestowed Sitka on the Jews after the shocking post-Holocaust failure of the infant Jewish state in 1948, but only as a 60-year reprieve. What happens next is anyone's guess. The one thing that's clear is that the Jews will not be invited to stay.So there hardly seems much point in pursuing the murder of a solitary chess-playing heroin junkie. Indeed, Landsman's new boss - his ex-wife Bina - tells him and his partner to drop it and concentrate on closing their outstanding cases or consigning them, along with the new case, to cabinet nine."Filing a case in cabinet nine saves less space but is otherwise the same as lighting it on fire and taking the ashes out for a walk in a gale-force wind."The mystery of the junkie's death, though it turns out to carry considerable weight, at first seems a lot less compelling than the characters and setting.Landsman comes with considerable baggage. His father, a fanatical, tormented chess player, came to Sitka a refugee from the German camps, his whole family wiped out. He committed suicide while Landsman was still a boy and his primary legacy to his son was a deep and abiding loathing of chess.Landsman's father had a friend, Hertz Shemets, who escaped Europe a little sooner and landed in Alaska, where he proceeded to put down roots and tentacles, running counterintelligence for the FBI and siring a Tlinglit son. His sister married Landsman Sr.So Berko Shemets, Hertz' Indian son, is Meyer Landsman's cousin. After his mother's death in a riot between Jews and Indians, Berko came to live with the Landsmans and grew to revere Meyer. He even became a cop because Meyer became a cop. And now they are partners and the scales have mostly fallen from Berko's eyes.Sitka itself is a place where it rains 200 days a year. "Fat streamers of fog twist along the streets, smearing headlights and neon, blotting out the harbor, leaving a track of oily silver beads on the lapels of coats and the crowns of hats."The Jews may have no homeland but the Indians they replaced in Sitka do - and they want it back.Against this background of history, hostility, incongruity and uncertainty, Landsman tenaciously works at the murder of the junkie, who called himself by the name of a dead chess master and turns out to be carrying considerable baggage himself.As Landsman and Berko work the case it takes them into every corner and angle of Sitka from the tough ex-Israeli commandos to the impenetrable "black-hat" sects who have recreated exact replicas of their European shtetls; from the history of modern Jewry to the promises of the ancients, from the core of prejudice to the accidents and consequences of history.Chabon's gift for description is a marvel; his visuals leap off the page. His language is brilliant, dazzling, breathtaking, but it never just flaunts itself for beauty's sake. Every word advances the narrative.Here's a glimpse of his meeting with the boundary maven, the man whose complicated and essential service for the black-hat community will gain Landsman a toe-hold entry."The maven's face is bony, mostly nose and chin, evolved for noticing, probing, cutting straight to gaps, breaches, and lapses. His full ashy beard flutters in the wind like bird fluff caught on a barbed-wire fence. In a hundred years of helplessness, this would be the last face that Landsman would ever turn to hoping for aid or information, but Berko knows more about black-hat life than Landsman ever will."A terrific, complex novel, with a hint of Martin Cruz Smith's Arkady Renko in the protagonist and a story only Michael Chabon could write.
4 Like other reviewers I bought this book after reading Kavalier & Clay.Unlike the others, I didn't compare the two when writing the review.It's not fair to the author, the reader or to the book as it stands up by its own merit.The premise of the book is simple: what if Israel lost the 1948 war, the Jews were driven into the sea and Roosevelt's proposal of establishing a Jewish state in Alaska passed (I'm sure the deciding vote belonged to Storm Thurman).  Thus the setting of Sitka, Alaska - a town where Yiddish is the native tongue and kosher is the law of the land - is born.  The tale is weaved around an alcoholic, yet highly moral, homicide detective, his ex-wife (now his boss), his missing sister and a bunch Jewish mobsters hiding behind their religion (but which mobster doesn't).Throw in a wannabe messiah as well and you got yourself a story.The novel has a noir feel and smoothly moves along like an old familiar pulp detective novel, the story has some rich Jewish imagery from old Europe as well as jokes and, like the old Yiddish tales, each paragraph is crafted to be rich in meaning and thick with symbolism.This is a good book but, for me, a slow read.  Maybe the symbolism was too much, maybe I had to re-read some parts or maybe I just didn't "get" several points.Yet, I enjoyed the novel very much.I felt it dragged a bit in the middle, but quickly picked up.  The story is interesting, the premise is brilliant.  This is not just a "Jewish murder mystery", but also about Diaspora, a search for a home and a community which is being ostracized from the world.
3 Am I the only one who read this book and thought that all Jews must hate themselves, or at least that Chabon must think that they do? Although the language and writing of this book was beautiful as many reviews have said, that was about all the book had to offer. And even the beautiful language distracted from the story, which might not be a bad thing. I read the entire book with the feeling that I must be missing something, and I can only imagine what someone who's not Jewish would have felt, with all the Jewish allusions and Yiddish terms sprinkled in. Yet even that failed to seem real to me. Although the speech of some of the characters occasionally had a real Yiddish flavor to it, the book as a whole did not, even though we were supposed to believe that the characters all thought and spoke in Yiddish all the time. For "what if" fiction like this, I'd stick to Roth's Plot Against America, a somewhat less flawed book.
5 I found myself rereading favorite passages, turns of phrase and lyrical adjectives, just to enjoy them all the more!  Beautifully written, suspenseful and imaginative.
5 had heard praise for this book for years, and am glad i finally got around to reading it. a wild crime novel set in a "could have been" current day reality that doesn't exist, with lots of insights into stuckness, addiction, self-loathing, relationships, power, and tribes.
5 This book is simply excellent, I couldn't put it down until read through. Chabon's imagination is hard to beat. Yiddish Policemen is just as good as The Amazing Adventures and Wonder Boys. The characters, plot and setting is great, and now we can only hope for the Coen brothers to make a movie out of it as rumoured. Only they could pull it off.
1 I checked out the audio version of the book to listen to on a long drive.  Chabon describes his characters and setting with incomparable wit and originality.  Unfortunately for every line of dialog, there seemed to be 100 lines of beautifully written description of things I didn't need to know and characters who were purely incidental to the plot.  Some editor should have told him that in a mystery, something has to happen. The plot has to move.  We got the murder right up front but two discs and two hours of listening later, all we know is that the victim was a chess player and heroin addict named Frank.  I couldn't stand it.  Stopped listening after disc two. Mystery lovers don't have the patience.
4 This was not an easy book to read.  First because of its setting in Alaska in a time that never happened.  I know the small town, and in the book it is a very large city with a population about double the population of the whole state.  I easily got past that and enjoyed the chance to think of what have been.  The next hurdle was the way the story jumped from here to there, from past to present to what never could be.  Expressions unknown to me are defined in the back of the book but that's one of the difficulties I have when reading on my Kindle.  How to easily move backward and forward in the text.  I'm sure it's possible but I haven't learned how.It was a challenge to read.  I read too much for the pure escapism.  This was a lot more than that but in the end that's all it was.I recommend it to friends, I look for opportunties to discuss it with friends.  I want to know what they saw in it, thought about it and what I probably missed.
3 I read this because it was on Rita Morino's favorite book list.  I think it would be more enjoyable to those who know the Jewish traditions better than I do.
2 I loved Kavalier & Clay and really wanted to read this, but wow--what a difference.  First, one really needs a Yiddish dictionary to weed through this.  Secondly, I found it just plain confusing.  Each time I picked it up to read, I would have to go back and reread parts to remember what had happened.  Lastly, and I don't mind depressing novels, but this one just seemed cynical, dark, and as if the author was toying with the reader.Must admit, there were some times, I found the writing interesting and visual, but overall, just sorry I wasted my time when there are so many other titles that are on my list to read.  (I gave up on this with only about 80 pages left, a rare occurrence, but I finally admitted defeat).
5 Alternate history, like sci-fi and fantasy, is one of those genres that is nearly unreadable due to its infestation with goons and dorks. Much in the same way that science fiction and fantasy novels are larded up with extraneous detail about the world the story takes place in, alternate history writers are obsessed with vomiting out useless information about their books&#8217; settings, destroying any possibility of character development or an interesting plot. Philip K. Dick&#8217;s The Man in the High Castle is about the only enjoyable alternate history novel I&#8217;ve ever read, mainly because its setting&#8212;a world in which the Nazis won World War II&#8212;is believable and it doesn&#8217;t drown you in an avalanche of superfluous information.With The Yiddish Policemen&#8217;s Union, I can add another book to that list.The only reason I bought this book&#8212;or even heard of it&#8212;was because I&#8217;m a huge fan of the Coen brothers and had read that they were planning to do a film adaptation. After reading it, I can definitely understand why the Coens were attracted to it: The Yiddish Policemen&#8217;s Union is an enthralling blend of hardboiled crime novels, dry humor and history. While at times it&#8217;s more pastiche than original, it comes together to create a story more than the sum of its parts.The premise of Policemen&#8217;s Union begins with the Slattery Report. In 1940, Interior Undersecretary Henry Slattery recommended that the U.S. allow Jewish refugees fleeing Nazi Germany to settle in Alaska, which would serve the dual purpose of getting the Jews out of harm&#8217;s way while developing Alaska&#8217;s vast natural resources. Despite support from other members of Roosevelt&#8217;s cabinet, the plan was killed before it could be brought to a vote before Congress. In Michael Chabon&#8217;s story, however, the untimely death of Alaska Territory delegate Anthony Dimond results in the Slattery Report being passed into law.As a result, only a fraction of Europe&#8217;s Jews are killed in the Holocaust, and while Zionists do succeed in setting up an independent Israel in 1948, it is conquered and wiped out mere months later due to a lack of manpower to fight the surrounding Arab states. Policemen&#8217;s Union is set sixty years after World War II in Sitka, which has become a massive, sprawling metropolis on the brink of extermination. It&#8217;s the eve of Reversion, when Alaska will return to gentile control, meaning all the Jews will have to emigrate.The beautiful thing about Chabon&#8217;s premise is that this is where he leaves it. While he mentions other aspects of history in passing, he doesn&#8217;t belabor the novel&#8217;s backstory, instead depicting the lives of Sitka&#8217;s Jewish residents though subtlety and omission. The defining theme of Policemen&#8217;s Union is alienation, a common trope in Jewish literature but explored here in a way that is original and refreshing. Sitka&#8217;s residents primarily speak Yiddish, cutting them off not only from gentiles but from their fellow American Jews; they are restricted from traveling to other parts of the U.S.; their society is anachronistic, preserving aspects of European Jewish culture long after the rest of the world has moved on.The novel&#8217;s protagonist is Meyer Landsman, an alcoholic, divorced, middle-aged homicide detective assigned to investigate the murder of Mendel Shpilman, believed by many of Sitka&#8217;s residents to be the messiah. Landsman&#8217;s sad-sack yet determined personality calls to mind Rick Deckard in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?; he is consistently bossed around by his superior and ex-wife Bina and relies on his partner, the half-Indian Berko Shemets, to pull his feet out of the fire every time he gets in a jam. Much of the novel&#8217;s comedy comes from Landsman&#8217;s Sam Spade fantasies constantly colliding with reality.The other clever aspect of Policemen&#8217;s Union comes from Chabon&#8217;s use of Yiddish. He claims his inspiration for the novel came from an old translation guide he found in a bookstore called Say it in Yiddish; his dialogue is peppered with various Yiddish phrases both authentic and original, giving the book a flavor all its own. For example, snitches are known as &#8220;shtinkers,&#8221; while hitmen are referred to as &#8220;shlossers&#8221; (literally &#8220;mechanic&#8221;).While the main plot of Policemen&#8217;s Union follows a somewhat predictable path for detective novels, the story remains engrossing due to Chabon&#8217;s tight dialogue and the book&#8217;s unique setting. Chabon&#8217;s prose is economical and only dives into repetitious overwriting on a couple of occasions. Additionally, the plot ties into contemporary American culture in a pretty creative way. I won&#8217;t spoil it, other than to say that if you know how Jewish and Christian relations work in the U.S., it won&#8217;t surprise you much at all. I would love to see what the Coen brothers make of this book.My one complaint with Policemen&#8217;s Union, or at least with the Kindle edition, is the way the book&#8217;s glossary is organized. Chabon helpfully provides an index of all the Yiddish slang used in the novel, but the Kindle version lacks hyperlinks to it, meaning you need to stop reading and manually flip over to the glossary every time you come across a new word. It&#8217;s not a huge deal, but it&#8217;s a little annoying. The book would have been improved had Chabon used footnotes instead.Otherwise, if you enjoy detective fiction and alternate history, The Yiddish Policemen&#8217;s Union is a great entry for both genres and is absolutely worth your time.
4 Taken at face value, the Yiddish Policemen's Union is a slightly slow mystery coupled with an alternate history about Jews living in Sitka, Alaska.  Sure, you could classify this book as a mystery, but that's not what makes this book special.  Chabon skillfully paints a picture that we continue to recognize today - the story of Jews, marginalized by society, showing resilience through a rich culture.  In real life, you could substitute Israel for Sitka - both generally undesirable tracts of land developed into something that the Jewish community can be proud of (complemented by food, music, dialogue-  the things that make diaspora Jews unique).  While one could argue that Israel is paradise, the land of milk and honey, it took something to make it that (readExodus by Leon Uristo see what "Israel" was like before it was founded).  While the book falls a bit short as a mystery, it holds its own as a tale of culture and community.
4 Super entertaining.  If you're Jewish, probably doubly so.Do not hesistate.  Buy it.  You won't be sorry.  Plus if you've never read Chabon before, you're in for something far more fascinatingly delectable than you could ever imagine.He's the real deal.
5 "Listen darling".Everyone conversation I have; even with a complete stranger eventually the topic  moves to this wonderful book! I have only read 120 pages but the enjoyment is so good it hurts:Here is how I describe  the main themes topeople I meet in the street:(1) Funny -- equal to the best of Woody Allen(2) Sad like Malamud(3) Full of bitter sweet insights about the Jewish People(4) Poetic(5) A subplot about compulsivity and chess(6) History of the jewish people(7) DeliciousCan I stop now darling?The book is a mystery.. on many different levels.. so I will not tell you more.And best of all I purchased it for 16 bucks on amazon!!Mel Feuerman
1 A tremendous effort to turn a phrase, saying very little and heading no where. The book didn't even make a good short story.  On a scale of 1 to 10, this gets a 2.
1 I am a great fan of alternate history; my library probably has over thirty volumes in this genre. However, this was the second WORST alternate history that I have ever read -- both in terms of alternate history and as a novel.The only reason I finished this book is that my wife and I are reading it for a Jewish book club discussion. We differ markedly in our preferences, but both of us agree that the sytax is disjointed, the plot is minimal, and the overall enjoyment level is at zero.The alternate history is developed in less than two pages of explanation -- and it does not make sense. If the Jews lost in 1948 in Palestine, why did the Holocaust only have 2 million casualties? Furthermore, it is noted in passing that Russia fell during the German invasion and Germany was defeated by the United States with an atomic blast over Berlin. What of the Free Polish State (1950) mentioned? None of this is more than a gloss over a rather mundane and ugly detective story -- a noir novel of blackness and boredom.The Yiddishisms are more than sufficient to make an untelligible mess. The population actually appears to be very "New York"; there is no real discussion or explanation of how the society has evolved.A novel that is so bad on so many levels, I can't wait to see how the rest of our discussion group fares with this.This was my first Chabon novel -- and in all likelihood, my last.
5 The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a delightfully fun read set in part of Alaska set aside as a refuge for the Jews after the Holocaust.  The United States, after the Israelis lost their war for independence, leases the territory to the Jews for sixty years. But now the lease is up and most of the Jews will have to find another home.  This sets of a series of events that starts with the death of a chess prodigy and continues through convolutions that would take the Eruv Maven to sort out.Instead of Hebrew and redemption, the they speak the Yiddish of exile.  Many of the metaphors that seem odd in English work well when understood that it is meant to be understood as a literal translation of the Yiddish (translated back to Yiddish it works).  Buildings and streets have names culled from the cannon of Yiddish literature.  The reader familiar with Yiddish language and literature will have to stop every few pages to laugh with recognition, at least until the tragedy embedded in the plot becomes apparent.The reader unfamiliar with Yiddish will definitely miss most of the inside jokes, like a Shoyfer (Shofar-ritual horn -- Cell phone), Sholem for a gun (Shalom-Peace-Piece),and  Shomer (watchman for a corpse before burial).  Leo Rosten's The Joys Of Yiddish could be a helpful companion book.
4 This novel is funny, entertaining, sad, and well written. The plot centers around a murder investigation in the Jewish State of Sitka.  Detective Myer Landsman who lives in the hotel where the victim was found is assigned to the case.  Myer is an honest cop who wants find justice for the murder victim. There's pressure from higher up to stop him. Meyer is the classic world weary detective. Time is running out for Meyer and the Jews of Sitka  ( two months)before it reverts back to Alaska.If this was a film The Jewish Policemen's Union would be filmed in gray, black, white, and blue (sort of like the Blade Runner). There's a criminal Orthodox sect (black hats), a half Jewish,half Native American detective, a very, very, short Native American tribal police chief, master chess players, and other interesting characters.This off beat novel will hold your interest with it's setting, plot and characters.
3 The language and descriptive phrases Mr. Chabon uses are hard to pile through. Is is a lesson on Jews in Sitka and I never knew there were so many sects!
4 The Yiddish Policeman's Union is my third Michael Chabon novel proceeded by The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay and Wonderboys. Although not reaching the heights of Kavalier and Clay, Yiddish Policeman's Union, surpasses the pot filled orgy of Wonderboys. Like Chabon's other work, the writing is rich and detailed with everything English majors will love. There's a distinctive noir feel present throughout this book that gives it the feel of a old school detective show like Perry Mason. Added in here is an artful retelling of history after Israel is destroyed in the aftermath of World War Two complete with a replacing of Mein Kampf. Chabon's books often make the reader think and provide an engaging reading experience in the process. As an added bonus for the fans of political conspiracy the ending is perfect fit with any great conspiracy man has created from the moon landing to the Kennedy Assassination.
3 Make no mistake, Chabon is a tremendously skilled writer. His descriptive phrases, his metaphors, and the way his narrative just flows would make and writer jealous. And his imagination is far reaching; creating a modern Yiddish-speaking world in Alaska, complete with a detailed history, is something to admire (although the idea no doubt had its origins in FDR's suggestion of Alaska as a Jewish homeland). Behind the descriptions and the counterfactual history is a story right out of Raymond Chandler, complete with a self-destructive detective who goes on searching for the truth even when he knows it'll only cause him grief, and a dame who can't help but love the big lug.So yes, it's a very clever work. But there's also something disturbing here. Chabon's Sitka is an obvious stand-in for Israel, and it's not a very nice place. It's run by a few powerful men- Rabbis, Russian gangsters- and it's corrupt through and through. So are most of the people, for that matter. Every observant Jew, save one, and the one religious Christian we meet are liars and cheats who will violate any law, and kill when they have to, to advance their own vision of the world. The Jews of the lower 48 are portrayed indirectly as fools who innocently finance the work of evil and duplicitous men.While I was impressed with Chabon's skill, in the end I came away feeling very disturbed. Chabon has, through his own ignorance, embarassment for his own people, or self-hate, written what to me seems little more than a vicious diatribe against the Jews, and Israel. And that's very sad.
4 This is a great detective novel set in an alternative future where world Jewry has been given a temporary home in the Alaska Panhandle. Although the setting may sound odd to readers of general detective novels, this should not turn the reader off. The setting is exotic, but Chabon has written a real pot boiler. I highly recommend this book.
5 This is a fascinating book -- and on a number of very different levels. The setting is an alternate yiddishkeit, in which word got out in the late 1930s of the Nazi liquidation of the Jews and the U.S. reluctantly established a "temporary" home for refugees in the Alaska panhandle. The population of the Sitka Federal District swelled again when the nascent state of Israel collapsed in 1948, and now there are several million Yiddish-speaking Jews swarming in the area -- "the frozen Chosen." But reversion of the district to the State of Alaska is coming in a couple of months and the Sitka Jews will become wanderers again. But that's just the background! The main plot concerns homicide detective Meyer Landsman, resident of a seedy hotel since his divorce, and his attempt to figure out who murdered another resident of the hotel, Mandel Schpilman -- who turns out to be the son of the Verbover Rebbe, a major Hassidic leader and a deeply corrupt man. The investigation leads to a much wider plot involving American evangelicals trying to arrange for the End Days (just like the neocons in our own universe), and it's a finely drawn mystery. But there's another storyline involving Landsman's partner, the half-Tlingit Berko Shemets, whose father, a real piece of work, ran the FBI's Cointelpro in Sitka. Then there's the now-suspicious death of Landsman's bush-pilot sister two years before, after transporting Schpilman to a secret base run by the conspiracy. And the tension between the detective and his ex-wife, who is now his boss at Sitka Central. Throughout the book, Chabon displays a lyrical version of classic Chandleresque noir dialogue, and the characterizations are at least five-dimensional. The humor is dark and distinctly Yiddish in flavor. A marvelous piece of work.
5 The Yiddish Policemen's Union is simply a delightful book.  Chabon's playful and intelligent language use is what fans have come to expect from this gifted author, and this novel does not disappoint. However, while Chabon's language is entertaining, it is his deftly drawn characters that make the novel so worthwhile.  The protagonist is a true "hard boiled" detective, and in this character Chabon deftly captured the tension and paranoia so important to the genre.  What is particularly fun about the novel is that Chabon did not ignore plot at the expense of character development, drawing readers into a storyline full of intricacies and conspiracies. Chabon's obvious homage to and love for detective fiction felt fresh and energetic. I highly recommend this novel for those looking for an intelligent, humorous read.
4 I'll be honest I havn't finished the book yet but I am pretty close. His writing style is fun to read and he has some good analogies/anecdotes. The only downside with this book is that I don't know much about Jewish customs, traditions, or names and so some things get lost in the translations when talking about any of the above, or items relating to Jewish culture. Don't let that stop you though its fun to read.  Also maybe try to find a paperback instead.
4 Jews, Alaska, chess, and murder: usually these subjects don't have a lot in common. That is until you read Michael Chabon's new novel "The Yiddish Policeman's Union" where these elements come together to create the core of this quirky noir story.Chabon's novel is based on an interesting conceit: What if Jews had not been able to settle in Israel after World War II and, instead, were granted temporary residency on the Alaskan panhandle?The original plan was set into motion around 1939 by Harold Ickes (Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Secretary of the Interior), in response to a plea from a Jewish community in the town of Neustadt requesting permission to settle in Alaska and escape the imminent threat of Nazi Germany.The settlement was proposed in the Alaska Territory as a way to work around the United States' existing immigration quotas, but fell through due in large part to a lack of political support and backlash from Alaskans who feared the prospect of foreign settlers for myriad reasons ranging from racism to increased competition for jobs.In the novel, however, Ickes was successful in bringing his plan to fruition and Jewish refugees were given the Federal District of Sitka as a temporary settlement. That was sixty years before the start of Chabon's novel when Sitka is getting ready to revert to the United States leaving the fate of the Alaskan Jews largely unknown.Amazingly, all of these events are just a backdrop for Chabon's actual story: an edgy murder mystery.When Meyer Landsman moved into a local flophouse nine months ago he wasn't looking to do much more than spend some quality time with his bottle of slivovitz and "the shot glass that he is currently dating" until Sitka finally reverts. Landsman's plans change abruptly when the body of a local chess prodigy turns up in the hotel.For reasons that elude even him, Landsman feels obligated to investigate the murder despite pressure from his new boss/ex-wife and other higher ups to drop the case. As the investigation continues, Landsman and Berko Shemets, his half-Tlingit partner, find themselves sucked into the underworld of the black hat community of the Verbover Jews and their nefarious undertakings.Chabon also throws in several conspiracies, a cover-up scheme, a pseudo-terrorist plot, and lots of Yiddish phrases just to keep things interesting. This last touch is because the novel has the unique characteristic of being a novel written in English about characters who do not speak English: they all speak Yiddish instead.So "The Yiddish Policeman's Union" does require a bit of energy to read. At first, nothing is going to make sense. But Chabon eventually pulls it all together. The Yiddish phrases slowly start to become comprehensible, as do the various subplots Chabon incorporates into this very unique story.Chabon's prose has a strange charm, which might be expected from an author who won the Pulitzer Prize for "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay," a novel whose plot largely centers around a comic book hero. The narration is hard-edged, often gritty, but always with a smile threatening to form. (Jews from south of Sitka are referred to as "Mexicans.")From the first line, this story will grab a reader's attention. Written in the present tense, it has an immediacy fitting for a book that tries to recreate the style of Raymond Chandler's hard-boiled detective stories in a Jewish community.Chabon starts off strong with a vision that he vividly crafts on the page. This vision begins to falter in the second half of the novel as Chabon becomes wrapped up in the complicated conventions common to noir stories. The explanations for several conspiracies come off as convoluted, if not entirely out of nowhere. The novel's ending, too, is not as strong as its opening.Shortcomings aside, Chabon has done a great service to the genre of speculative (or "what if?") fiction by showing that it is possible to write a serious S. F. novel.
5 The plot is intriguing, the characters interesting...but what really makes this book amazing is Chabon's writing itself...inventive, descriptively unique in a way that dazzles. When describing one of the characters (er, let's call him "portly") sitting in naked in a steam room..."That body, the horror and the splendor of it, naked as a giant bloodshot eyeball without a socket. Now it emerged ponderous from the steam, a slab of wet limestone webbed with a black lichen of hair. Litvak felt like a fogbound airplane buffeted by updrafts into the surprise of a mountain."Nuff said.
3 As science fiction, it worked.  As a mystery, not so well.  I loved the alternate history created in this book, but overall I can only rate the book as so-so.  To keep this spoiler-free, I can only say this was the most unsatisfactory ending for a mystery novel that I've read in a long time.
1 I bought this book because of the wonderful reviews and publicity it received.  YIKES!!!  Was I disappointed!  If Chabon had submitted any part of this book as a freshman English paper, he would have received an "F" for his diction.  The story was interesting and I did finish it, but the language was forced and jerky in its tempo.  It is a strange time to be a Jew ...or not...
4 I loved the charecters, and thought the prose was sublime.  The plotline and resolution were OK, but to reiterate, Chabon's prose was fantastic.  He kept me going no matter what I thought of the story, which was good, just not great.  I will buy his other books for sure.  I really love the way this guy writes.
2 As seems to be true for many reviewers, I thought Kavalier and Clay was a pretty entertaining, well-written book. However, I hated Mysteries of Pittsburgh. Unfortunately, despite a reasonably interesting plot, this book bears a stronger resemblance to the latter than the former.My problem with Chabon is that he tends to pick up one literary device and really bludgeon it to death in his books. (And I'm not talking about really deep literary devices.) For example, in the case of Mysteries of Pittsburgh, this involved his tendency to use runs of three adjectives when describing something (e.g. "She was slender and blond, with a green-eyed, small-nosed, nondescript kind of face.") Now, it's ok to do this every once in a while, but when you do it so much that the reader starts noticing, it's an obnoxious, annoying, pretentious way to write. I couldn't read more than two or three pages without thinking, "There's another freaking triplet of adjectives! Stop doing that!"In the case of the Yiddish Policeman's Union, the problem is excessive use of similes, especially ornate (and sometimes really bizarre) similes. Of course, a book would be pretty bland without any sort of figurative writing. Again, however, when taken too far, it just becomes obnoxious, annoying, pretentious. I eventually took a pen and started marking the margin at each particularly egregious example. Needless to say, my copy was pretty marked-up by the end.A possible game for your book club: Find the stupidest simile in this book. Warning: There are tons to choose from. Some of my favorite examples (which aren't all technically similes, but you know what I mean):"Berko notes also that Landsman has been crying; one eyebrow shoots up, hangs suspended, drifts down like a tablecloth settling onto a table.""Landsman affects to take an interest in the way that fire turns cured tobacco to flakes of ash.""Night is an orange smear over Sitka, a compound of fog and the light of sodium-vapor streetlamps. It has the translucence of onions cooked in chicken fat." (????)"The kid is sound asleep. He smells like a piece of cut apple that's starting to turn. He digs his toes into the small of Landsman's back with care and without mercy. He grinds his teeth. The sound of it is like dull shears on a sheet of tin." (Two great ones in four sentences, can he beat it?)"He rides down the elevator feeling as if he has stepped out from under the onrushing shadow of a plummeting piano, some kind of jazzy clangor in his ear. The knot of his gold-and-green rep necktie presses its thumb against his larynx like a scruple pressing against a guilty conscience, a reminder that he is alive. His hat is as glossy as a seal." (Yes he can! With some doozies!)And my personal fave:"Shprintzl Rudashevsky's wide face takes on a philosophical, even mystic, blankness. She looks like she's wetting her pants and enjoying the warmth."If you think that this style of writing is "stunningly evocative" or "breathtaking" (to quote some of the nonsense reviews on the jacket of the book), then this book is for you. But if you're like me and a little of this type of writing goes a long way, then don't bother.I generally did like the plot of the book (and didn't find the "Yiddish" dialogue difficult to follow or distracting - you can figure most of it out from context.) But I'm sorry, I just can't enjoy a book that drives me crazy with its excessive, obnoxious, often unnecessary use of a single literary device. I got the feeling that Chabon is very pleased with his ability to write - or should it be, to get away with writing? - in this way. But it just drove me crazy. (A related point is that I found much of dialogue to be excessively melodramatic, and descriptions of people and places were too portentous and overblown.)
3 Michael Chabon is a fluid and talented writer, probably one of the best in the business.  He knows how to write a great sentence and cares greatly about having stories with a real plot and arc.  Like just about any writer, he is best when he writes about what he knows.  When that happens you get excellent novels like Kavelier and Clay (he knows about comics) and Wonder Boys (he knows about academia).However, Chabon doesn't know about Orthodox Judaism and doesn't know Yiddish.  The result is a book where the talent level outshines the content.  If you don't know Yiddish, maybe this book works for you.  But if you do, it has a certain quality - the Leo Rosten cutesy approach to Yiddish - that gets tiresome fast.  If you don't know Orthodox Jews, maybe this book works for you as well.  But if you do, then you know that Chabon fails to capture the nuance of Chasidic culture.Ultimately, this book suffers from a lack of research.  Chabon should have gone to a place like YIVO and taken an intensive Yiddish course.  He should have spent some time living with Chasids.  The end result - given Chabon's talent as a writer - would have been a book that rings true.  As it stands, this is a very shallow work both in terms of language and human heart.  Imagination - and Chabon has imagination aplenty - can only get you so far.  He needed to get off his butt on this one and do some of the heavy lifting that would have made this book worth more than an airplane read.I'm betting that his next book will be much better.
3 Hard to fathom and follow, thanks to too many cutesy Yiddish expressions and associations.  And I'm familiar with Yiddish.
5 It's taken a long time for Michael Chabon to write a real follow-up to his award-winning novel, The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay.  During this seven year or so period, Chabon wasn't exactly idle:  among other writing, he did produce an interesting novella (The Final Solution) and a forgettable young adults novel, Summerland.  None of this, however, really like another Kavalier & Clay type of book.  The Yiddish Policemen's Union is that long-awaited novel.Although it doesn't really fit into one single genre, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a mix of classic hardboiled mystery and science fiction (although technically, I suppose it fits better into that ambiguous genre of speculative fiction).  Chabon has constructed an alternate reality where the state of Israel was never established; instead, Jews were given an area in Alaska to act as a temporary homeland and refuge from the horrors of WWII Europe.  The emphasis here should be on "temporary"; sixty years after its establishment, the Federal District of Sitka is about to revert to the control of Alaska.  Some Jews will be allowed to stay, but many will be kicked out.With Reversion just a couple months away, homicide detective Meyer Landsman gets involved in a murder that most people don't want solved.  Landsman is a typical hardboiled detective in the mold of Philip Marlowe or Lew Archer:  he drinks a lot, has little in the way of money or friends and is constant defiance of authority.  To make matters worse, his boss is also his ex-wife, Bina, who wants the Reversion to go smoothly (hopefully leading to both permanent residency and a job).The murder victim is a heroin addict staying at the residence hotel that Landsman is living in.  Since Bina doesn't want open cases, she has this one put in the cold case file, but Landsman feels obligated to solve a killing that took place more-or-less in his home.  The victim, however, is not a mere junkie; instead he turns out to have been a potential Messiah, a role the victim did not exactly enjoy.  There are, though, many who did want this Messiah, including the victim's father, a powerful rabbi.To solve the crime will require all the standard things a hard-boiled detective needs to go through:  gunfights, blows to the head, threatened job loss, powerful enemies, and so on.  What's actually going on turns out to be more complicated than a simple killing.  What makes this stand out from a routine mystery is, of course, the exotic setting, which is where Chabon really shines:  he has created an alternate world which is well-constructed and essential to the story.While really good, this is not a perfect novel; it's biggest flaw is that starts somewhat slow, but when it does pick up, it moves right along.  Overall, this book is worth the wait:  it's not Kavalier & Clay, but it's close enough.
3 I so wanted to like this book as it was a bookclub selection.  However, I got completely bogged down in the use of the yiddish terms that was used through out the book.  All the other members felt the same way.  By the time we got to the end the language was such a struggle that the story got lost.  We needed a glossary.
5 Mr. Chabon never ceases to amaze me. The way he can put words together and create a world this beautiful is incredible.Despite having read the description of the book before reading the book (they never mean as much as when you are half-way through the book) I was still startled by the fact that Chabon had created this alternate universe, one so believable that I'd like to live in it for a day to hear that much Yiddish slung back and forth.Each chapter can be a little daunting to get back in to if only for the beautifully crafted metaphor that is used to describe even the ugly things in this world.I keep using the word beautiful to describe Chabon's prose. There is no other word.About the story: It's great, captivating all the way through, and resolves quite nicely without spelling every little thing out for you.
1 I have to admit, I was expecting a lot more from this book. I'm a big fan of alternate histories, and as Chabon's book came so highly recommended to me by a friend, I suppose my expectations were quite high.These are my main problems with it:1) Chabon takes far too many liberties with his lame metaphors and "creative" prose for my liking. I found myself having to re-read much of the book, trying to figure out exactly what he was trying to say. I've never been one to gravitate towards "high-end" literature, but I am myself a writer who has been lambasted by many an editor to say exactly what I mean to say, and to use words to describe things they're designed to describe. I had the distinct impression that Chabon was stretching words and metaphors to make himself sound intelligent much of the time. But it didn't work for me.2) I could never get into the characters either, which probably had something to do with my reaction to his use of language in general. In any case, I found the most important ones to the story quite two-dimensional. They never really seemed real to me. And without seeming real, it was difficult to care about them.3) Part of the charm of this book for some people is Chabon's liberal use of Hebrew and Jewish terminology. I can't really knock him for that, because for those who appreciate it I think this would add depth and colour to the narrative. However, taken with the points mentioned above, it made it all the more cumbersome to read.I should mention on a side note that my wife enjoyed the book, so don't let my own review entirely dissuade you if you're into symbolic literature that is attempting to moonlight as a detective story.
3 Welcome to Alaska, the temporary home of a large Jewish colony now on the edge of repatriation.  Chabon has set his sights high, again, but this time there seem to be so many pieces to put in place, so many portraits to paint in his newly formed universe, that at times the book feels more like a heavy wade than a pleasure.  Sure, we all know Chabon can write his contemporaries off the page, but I have the feeling this will be remembered as a novel that landed just wide of the target.  If you're going to play with a genre like mystery, you take on not just machinations of plot, but also of pacing and that's my main gripe despite the gorgeous prose.  After 150 pages of a mystery, you'd usually like to know more than that the story revolves around the body of a former chess player.  It's hard to think of a writer with Chabon's skill doing anything that isn't deliberate, but just because he sets his new world in Alaska, did it have to move at such a glacial rate?
4 I just finished "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" by Michael Chabon.  It is a lovely book that takes place in an alternative Universe where, after WWII, Jewish refugees were sent to a temporary homeland in Sitka, Alaska.  Now, in the present time, the territory is reverting to US jurisdiction, and policeman Meyer Landsman is trying to solve his last case before the dissolution of the territorial police force with the help of his partner, Berko Shemets, whose father was Jewish and mother was Tlingit.1) You will like this book is if you love language.  The style is a hybrid of the purplest of Raymond Chandler's tough-guy prose and the highest baroque of S.J. Perelman's. Each sentence has to be examined for its parentage, and most of them glow in the dark.2) You will like this book if you enjoy a new prism to view history.  It's a challenge to pick out what's the same in this alternative universe and what's different.  I'm pretty sure there's no cartoon character named Schapish the Dog.  And I'm pretty sure the US didn't drop nuclear bombs on Berlin.  But you will find yourself believing there was a 1977 Sitka World's Fair because it seems like it should have happened.  And you can almost taste the Manila-style donuts.3) Chabon has created a nonexistent world that captures the imagination, and in doing so, he pays tribute the the ability of all people to create homelands in their head and heart.The book isn't perfect; sometimes the cliches are just moved along on autopilot, and Landsman's failed marriage is rather perfunctory.  For the most part, however, it's a joy.  Highly recommended.
4 I read both books on the 2 for 1 and actually liked "When Life Was Egg Creams and Baseball Teams" much better. Its about a Jewish boy growing up in the NY area back in the 60s although the author doesn't tell you in his summary the story is about a Jewish boy. Its light and pretty amusing and good nostalgia. Anyway, regarding the Yiddish Policeman, I'm not a big fan of Chabon's writing but I did find this one of his better books, probably because I grew up with a lot of Yidish speaking relatives and neighbors so I could relate to the characters. It was funny and entertaining but not very believable though not a requirement of fiction genre. I did find this a long read and a bit dragging but if you stick with it it ends up pretty good.
4 Not many people could pull off a plot about a Jewish policeman in a Jewish settlement in Alaska. Chabon shows his talent and imagination in this book. This is expected from a Pitt graduate. I enjoyed it, hope you will.
3 I had read glowing reviews of this book, so picked it up as my beach read this summer (okay, I know it is a couple of years old, I am not up on my bestsellers).Those reviews, including many you see here on Amazon, are certainly right that Chabon imagines a wonderful, fully realized world that is wonderful to behold. The book takes place as the Jewish territory of Sitka Alaska is about to revert to US control, so there is a longing, bittersweet feeling of something coming to an end - even if that thing never had a real life begining. I loved the setting that Chabon creates.The main protaganist of this story is also very sympathetic. You feel his pain. Both he and the deceased are wonderfully drawn, fully realized characters. The ties between the two draw the gumshoe ever deeper into the case, into which he has been called off by his boss (who also happens to be, conveniently enough, his ex-wife. Sparks ensue).The main story line is straight from Chandler. At one point, the book becomes a more or less standard whodonit, albeit in a unique & imaginative setting, with some very compelling characters.The ancillary characters, however, are not nearly as well drawn. And then the book COMPLETELY jumps the shark. Suffice to say there is a grand cabal at the highest levels, driven in part by the faithful but mostly by the cynically opportunistic. While some of the beliefs of some Jews about the signs of the coming of Messiah were interesting for me (a goy), the story spins wildly out of Chabon's hands at this point. By the end, both he & the reader are just happy for it to end.Final note: don't be deterred by the yiddish. Most words you get from context; to the extent needed, my edition included a glossary.This is an ambitious work, and worth reading - just know there are some bumps in the road.
1 I bought this book, because like some others here I was duped by the hype, and also because -- appearance-wise -- this paperback is one of the most gorgeously designed I've ever seen.  They certainly gave him the star treatment.But what about the content, you ask?I couldn't finish it.  I got almost halfway through and because I felt like ripping my hair out I had to put it down.  An overly fussy style coupled with a plodding pace is a recipe for BOREDOM.  I do like challenging stuff, stuff that's different, outre', whatever you want to call it.  But this book tries WAY too hard to be "literary" and "clever" and so becomes obnoxious as hell.  This is exactly the kind of book that gives "literature" a bad name.  I'd rather read anything by James Patterson or Danielle Steele (and I hate those guys) than be forced to finish this book with all its over-baked metaphors, similes, and show-offy nonsense on every page.I think Chabon would've done well to heed some of John Gardner's advice about writing:"...such writers do present characters, actions, and the rest, but becloud them in a mist of beautiful noise, forever getting in the way of *what* they are saying by the splendor of their way of saying it.  Eventually one begins to suspect that the writer cares more about his gift than about his characters."Also:  "He tries to make every chapter zing, tries dense symbolism and staggeringly rich prose; he violates the novelistic pace."P.S. -- The fact that this book won a Nebula is a joke.  I can think of at least a dozen Sci-Fi writers who are way more talented than Chabon, but who aren't getting anywhere near his level of fame and financial success.  It really is a cruel world.
5 This is one of the most peculiar, most fun, and in places sweetly sad pieces of fiction I  have read in years.  It is like life itself: a tragedy with elements of farce. It is a weird sort of noir detective story set in an alternate universe where an obscure plan from the Roosevelt Administration was carried out and part of Alaska, rather than Palestine, became the Jewish homeland.Characters include a sort of Jewish Phillip Marlowe with a warped sense of humor and a bush pilot sister who is three times the man he is, Orthodox Jewish Native Americans, Hassidic rebbes who are also gangsters, born-again Christian G-men, a occult master of string, chess prodigies, an alleged talking chicken, and a reluctant almost-but-not-quite Messiah. All of this and lots of cold, rain, and salmon. What could be better?
4 I enjoyed reading this.  I had trouble with the Yiddish and accessing the glossary was not as easy on Kindle as it is in a book.  It opened my eyes to a population in Alaska that I never knew existed.  I was mesmerized by this part of Jewish history.  The main character was understandable and lovable.  I would like him as a friend.  It is comfortably written and a good read.
5 Like many reviewers, I found this book hard to follow, but I gave it a chance and found myself getting into the flow of the story.  What I was confused about, I let go, and then I was swept into the telling of an amazing tale.  I eventually found it hard to put down.After finishing the book this morning, one of the wonderful things I love about reading happened regarding the journey it takes you on and the connections it forges.  I watched Bill Moyers Journal which I had taped and was amazed to watch the short film about John Hagee and CUFI, Christians United for Israel and Moyers' discussion with Rabbi Michael Lerner and Dr. Timothy Weber.  Suddenly Michael Chabon's story did not seem so outlandish.  Suddenly I was sore afraid.
5 I read K&C; and wasn't able to finish it.  So, I wasn't inclined to pick this book up.  What sold me was the discounted CostCo price.  I'm *so* glad I bought this.How to describe it.  Philip Marlowe meets the Talmud in Alaska, and so much more.The book's a page turner.  The characters are well-drawn.  The suspense remains right up to the last 20 or so pages.Since I'm not Jewish, I'm sure I miss a lot of in-jokes.  Nonetheless, I can't recommend this book highly enough.
4 In Michael Chabon's alternate universe, several million Jews inhabit Sitka, Alaska, thanks to the fall of Israel in 1948.  Their days are numbered, though, because their land is soon to revert back to the U.S. government, and everyone is scrambling to apply to stay.  In the meantime, our protagonist, a stereotypical overweight, alcoholic, divorced cop, Meyer Landsman, now reports to his ex-wife Bina, for whom he carries a well-lit torch.  Among the "frozen Chosen" are a group of Orthodox Mafiosi, who may be responsible for the death of a junkie chess player in the same sleazy hotel where Landsman lives.  I had procrastinated about reading this book because of its reputation for a smattering of Yiddish.  However, there was a lot more that I, with my WASP heritage, was in the dark about than just the language.  In fact, what bothered me most was that Chabon is a little smug and arrogant as he tosses around Biblical references and whatnot, so much so that, in the end, I didn't totally follow who did what to whom, especially the U.S. government.  I did get the general gist of it, though, and that was sufficient.  The metaphors are a dime a dozen but all spot-on, although sometimes I had to read them twice.  The dialog is colorful and sometimes so sarcastic that it's hard to know who are friends and who are enemies, and sometime the line is just intentionally blurred, as with Inspector Willie Dick (the names!), a small man whose accoutrements are all 2/3 normal size.  To me, although a lot happens, this book is more about the over-the-top playful and rather rambunctious style than the plot.  It brings to mind the old noir detective stories with their perfunctory telling of events but in this case also with a raucous sense of humor.  There's one particularly funny scene in which Landsman and his partner join his partner's father for a homemade dinner of moose chili, moose quiche, and moose meatballs--just before the old man tries to off himself.
4 How about a little detective story in an alternative present?  I've never read Pulitzer Prize winner Michael Chabon before, but I figured if he won a Pulitzer Prize for Fiction (in 2001 for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay) maybe he's worth a read.  Speaking of awards, The Yiddish Policemen's Union won a Hugo award for best novel (Hugo awards are for science fiction and fantasy.  TYPU fits the sci-fi genre in the sense that it presents an alternative history.)In the world of The Yiddish Policemen's Union, the fate of the Jews took a different twist in the mid-20th century.  In the late 1930s, when the persecution of the Jews was becoming uncomfortably evident to those outside Germany, a number of proposals bounced around for relocating the Jews.  Two weeks after Kristallnacht, FDR's secretary of the interior proposed the use of Alaska as a "haven for Jewish refugees from Germany and other areas in Europe where the Jews are subjected to oppressive restrictions."  In real life, this proposal didn't get far.  In Chabon's world, thousands of European Jews immigrated to Sitka Island, establishing a Yiddish-speaking stronghold of Jewish culture.Against that backdrop, Chabon spins a noir detective story featuring a hard-boiled, independent-minded, rumpled detective of the sort we see in Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe private detective stories and others.  Chabon's detective, Landsman, is called in to investigate the murder of an apparent junkie in a sleazy hotel.  Turns out the victim is the son of  a prominent rabbi/organized crime figure, so Landsman gets drawn into that world.Besides the strong detective story, Chabon explores the world of Orthodox Judaism in Alaska, the land of the "Frozen Chosen."  An entertaining subplot involves the keeper of the boundaries.  The eruv is the enclosed area out of which an Orthodox Jew may not travel on the Sabbath.  The boundary keeper has extensive maps of the eruvin, which are marked out with rope around the community.  For someone unfamiliar with this practice (me), this sounds like it must surely be made up, but it's really observed in many Orthodox Jewish communities.A larger Jewish theme, and a theme more central to the story, is the Jewish hope for the coming of the messiah and the reestablishment of the Temple in Jerusalem.  The Sitka Jews had placed a lot of hope that one of their own would be the messiah, but then, well, he turned up murdered in a sleazy Sitka hotel.  His death doesn't deter them from continuing with their plans, and we learn that the Jews are in cahoots with right-wing elements of the U.S. government, who want to see the Jews returned to Israel in accordance with their evangelical beliefs.With Landsman's quirky personality and personal problems, his uncanny ability to get into problematic situations while uncovering the truth behind his case, and the believable alternative Jewish world, Chabon manages to make the reader laugh out loud and believe that there really is this Jewish enclave in the north.  Driving the urgency of the story is the fact that the 60 year agreement is coming to an end; soon the Jews will be on their own again, seeking a homeland.  I, for one, am grateful that in our history they did find a homeland in the restoration of the state of Israel.  In the meantime, you'll get a kick of Chabon's picture of what might have been.
3 This book was a roller coaster ride for me in terms of my level of enjoyment--there were many 5-star peaks, but also a few 1- and 2-star valleys. For most of the ride, I was hovering at a solid 3.5 stars, with the strong inclination to round up to 4 when the time came to rate it... until the end. The ending knocked it *solidly* back to 3 stars.I don't know what it is about Chabon, but having now read two of his books and having seen both endings leave so much to be desired, I can't help but wonder if he just loses steam after packing so much great and productive efforts into the middle of the book! (His writing though is so wonderful, that I am all the more curious to read yet another of his books soon, and to see how that ending will stack up!) The ending to this book, though, was just an absolute mess--a cockamamie scheme that just seemed overly absurd, bizarre, and hard to follow. I even had to reread several pages here and there to verify that I was following the plot correctly!  It was a disappointment, to say the least.Having now discussed the end, let me go back to the beginning...The book started off a bit confusing, mostly because it was predicated on the idea of a long-established, well-settled, huge Yiddish "state-within-a-state", a settlement within Alaska (similar to the idea of large Native American reservations within other parts of the U.S.). The confusion stemmed mostly from Chabon's liberal use of imagined Yiddish brands, inventions, products, etc., as well as the odd "mashup" of a hard-boiled-but-also-Yiddish detective being the protagonist.Once I was able to get past that initial discomfort, the plot flowed quickly and entertainingly. Chabon seems to be a master of metaphor, and his command of language is just beautiful and engaging. Page after page, I was drawn further in, marveling at the insanely absurd plot that he can present as effortlessly as any ordinary one!I couldn't help but notice though, that there are many references to actual Yiddish phrases, not to mention countless Jewish topics that arise again and again (for example, the concept of an "eruv",  the concept of the Messiah, even subtle nuances like the separation of the sexes in many situations, etc.). I felt fortunate to have learned a few Yiddish phrases and many more Jewish laws over the years, but at the same time I couldn't help but wonder: (1) how much *more* I am actually missing by not having an actual Yiddish background; and, more importantly, (2) how in the world could such a book appeal to anyone without at least that much rudimentary familiarity with the Yiddish language and Jewish law?  Many times I would try to put myself in position of a secular, unfamiliar reader and, seeing it through those eyes, I just would wonder about the ability to get beyond many areas of confusion. So, while I would strongly recommend this book for Yiddish-speaking people (even though I can't count myself among them), I don't think I would recommend this for the "general population" who would miss too much of what's going on.
1 I've been to Sitka and love the community. But this is about a Sitka few know.  I love mysteries and found none in this book. I tried and tried to get through the book and finally gave up. The Yiddish does make it difficult to approach.  A friend who is very literary and whose view I respect recommended the book, but I just didn't get it. This book seems written for a small niche readership.Paul
5 The Yiddish Policemen's UnionChabon is a marvelously creative and lyrical writer whose magic realism takes him into a gritty urban world continents and cultures away from the Latin American magic of writers like Marquez, but equally dazzling. In this novel, he imagines a different WWII aftermath drawing to a close in the present day, one in which the Israeli state has failed, and the Jewish diaspora has landed up in a 60-year temporary reserve located in (no kidding!) Sitka, Alaska. The whole project is about to dissolve, after having long enough to establish Sitka as a kind of off-site 40s New Jersey or Brooklyn of the mind, inhabited by Hasidic and Yiddish culture living a post-European and film-noirish American-ish life, with a little Tlingit culture thrown in on the side. Chabon doesn't get all sci-fi and elaborate about the supposed history underpinning his tale. Instead he merely dazzlingly talks about it as if it has always been true, dropping in a bit of information here or there to let you know that history has diverged, and that all kinds of consequences, including, Orson Welles's film of  Heart of Darkness (don't I wish he WOULD have made that one!) have somehow managed to be born into this alternate reality. The main character, Meyer Landsman, is a policeman seriously in need of redemption from the mess he has made of his personal life. Separated from his wife, he's living in a seedy flophouse when a gangster style execution is brought to his attention--of a man who turns out to have been the community's latest nominee for the role of Messiah because of his irresistibly healing presence, in spite of the fact that he certainly had no beauty that men should adore him, either in his personal conduct or his sense of mission. Against the trend of this disintegrating non-republic of the Jews, and an unfolding disaster in the middle east that is irresistibly like the world taking a different path to come out at the same bad place, caused by the same bland American cabal that's causing today's mess, Landsman feels compelled to follow this murder down to its core. It's a little sad that we find the source of all the upheaval is dispiritingly just what we are experiencing it now--one wishes that Chabon could have devised an alternate universe altogether, one in which we ourselves are not the worst enemies of religion, manipulating passionate believers to gain our political and economic ends. Still, there's so much pleasure in following this imaginary history, studded with delectable wordplay, that I can't fault Chabon for not himself turning out to be the Messiah who can make up a better ending or plot a sunnier way out of the holy land horror story we're caught up in now. Joy far outweighs darkness in this story, and hardly a page turns that doesn't make you want to say `wow!' about Chabon's playful love of language and brilliancy in juggling it.
2 I gave this book two stars instead of only one because I couldn't finish it. I have a feeling that if I had finished it I would have given it zero if available. Those who thought it would only be of interest to Jews or those who know Yiddish are wrong. I am Jewish and probably know enough Yiddish and Hebrew to have enjoyed this book if there were anything to enjoy. After finishing 10% I gave up.I hate to abandon a book after started it but I just couldn't go on. I wish I had read the poor reviews before ordering it. Unfortunately, most of those appear after all the great reviews.The writing was obviously first class, as Chabon has talent but this was the first book of his that I tried to read. I've always said that good writing is just as important as a good story but to have one without the other is a no no for me. The quality of the writing became an end in itself and what little story there was got lost. Sorry about that.
3 One word sums up this book..confusing. There are lots of Yiddish words that I either skipped over, eventually figured out, or sometimes looked up on the internet. The Yiddish words, coupled with the unfamiliar last names, made the book a chore to get through. I even looked at the back of the book to see if there was a glossary, which I think would have been helpful.At the end, when the murder was solved, I thought, "Who?" In the very last sentence of the book, the main character tells another character, "I have a story to tell you." I presume he is getting ready to explain everything to someone. I wish he would explain it to me because I don't have a clue.
5 Loved the story, wish I had found the translation of words sooner. As it was I made up meanings that turned out pretty close. Good mystery and love story all in one
5 If you label novels "ethnic ", this would be one. It introduces readers to a totally unusual place, unfamiliar languages, and to fascinating personalities, mostly Jewish and Native Alaskans. You meet some "Tony Soporano" orthodox Jews and a plot with more twists than a cat.I rated the novel a five because, like some of its characters, it is flawed but well worth keeping around. It's an ideal audiobook due to the various unusual (to most of us) place names, Yiddish names, jokes, and religious references,On a long trip, I gave up on it twice before reluctantly returning cassette #1 to the player. The draggy opening dragged on with its down-in-the-dumps drunken divorced disheveled op and the murder of a drug addicted Jewish chess player in  one of the seedy hotel's rooms. But the smelly wrinkled cop was well drawn and I could see the hotel and the rooms.I'd not read reviews of the novel and didn't know it was set in a non-existing place and time and had an off-the-wall plot. Once I figured this out, and it took awhile, I settled back to enjoy the humor, inuendos,and the totally ingenious plot.Once cop #2, Berko Shemits, came on the scene,the well developed characters really captured my attention. I adore Berko, the half Jewish/half Native Alaskan big bear of a man with an unfatherly father, a sensible wife, and an ever growing bevy of baby boys.The plot thickens when Cop #3 is introduced. An attractive take-no-prisoners woman with unruly curly hair and a sense of style; she just happens to be divorced from Cop #1 and now in charge of his division.Lanederman, or Cop #1 grew on me. He is Berko's cousin, or did I already tell you?  Did I tell you all three grew up in the same small town?I must say, Chabon does marital relationships well. But I admit, he is simile and metaphor happy. I forgive him this fault, because his descriptions are so apt and his sensual scenes are sweet.The three main characters are reluctantly drawn into major Jewish-mafia-like intrigue in one of the most convoluted plots imaginable.Many comprehensive reviews of the plot exist so I will pass on trying to explain the world of Sitka, Alaska, and its happenings.Chabon bring this fictional time and place alive. He just needs an editor to tell him when enough is enough.The audio version, masterfully read,is the best way for a non-Jew to catch the flavor of the work. To be honest, it wouldn't hurt to have the book in your lap as you listen.  I plan to do this just to enjoy the book again and to catch more of the action.So, I just gave a five to an overwritten novel with a confusing plot. Go figure.
5 When an author tries to write an alternate history, a noir detective story, a poignant cultural novel, and a book about redemption all in one, he's really filled up the job jar.  Phillip Roth managed two of these in the vaguely similar "Plot Against America."  Harry Turtledove remains challenged by just the first task, despite being "master of alternate history."This was a formidable undertaking even for Pulitzer-winning Chabon.  When I picked it up, I wondered if he could pull it off.  He did, more or less.  I actually give this book 4.5 stars because it became a tad unwieldy towards the end.  Yet, it was sewed up into a modest ending through the use of a Hitchcock-like economy in having every little detail of the early chapters come back to fit the puzzle together.Maybe this was better than the grand ending that shimmered like the fata morgana but (MERCIFULLY)never appeared.  In the end, UNION became a story of love, personal salvation, and pathos.The noir plot is a burned-out detective trying to solve a murder in a huge metropolis.  The add-ons are that he's Jewish, like the other two million descendants of briefly-Israeli refugees in Sitka, Alaska.  In an exile culture that a sabra or a resident of Brooklyn might recognize, he must try and straighten himself out while he solves the murder of a chess prodigy-cum-messiah.What can you say but, you gotta read this.  It's unlike any other book, ever--and it's GOOD.
2 Having read and loved The Adventures of Kavalier and Klay, I was really anticipating a great read. Unfortunately, I was somewhat disappointed. Mr. Chabon's prose is still beautiful and the story line is very interesting, but his portrayal of Chassidic Jews was very bothersome. The Verbovers (a mixup of Bobovers) are portrayed as a large criminal organization. Their Rebbe is a grossly overweight caricature and his wife a sheltered miserably unhappy woman. While I am sure that there exists a criminal element in any group of people, the portrayal of the entire group of Chassidim as such is not only unfair, but has no bearing in reality. I am an Orthodox Jew with a very close connection to Chassidic circles. Not one specific brand, but to the thought process and value system. I know members of Bobov, Chabad, Hornistiple, Bostoners, and numerous other "sects" within the Chassidic world. They are nothing like what was portrayed, and while I am sure that there are criminals within each of these groups on the whole, Chassidic Jews tend to be very pious people who care much more about the spiritual world than the secular world. That portrayal bothered me throughout the entire book and really colored my ability to appreciate the beauty of Chabon's writing.
2 Writing Style - 3/5Characters - 2Storyline - 1Resonance - 2The Not-Too-Revealing SynopsisA murder that no one wants to talk about takes place in a alternate history-Jewish enclave in Alaska just as relations between it and the larger state and nation reach maximal strain.The ReviewChabon's Alaskan settlement and its' problems are both believable and interesting.  Chabon's plot and characters are not.  We are introduced to every good guy and bad guy cliche with the wild twist that they are not your normal good guys and bad guys - they're Jewish good guys and bad guys. The writing isn't just adorned with Yiddish linguistic idiosyncrasies and Jewish cultural novelties, it's bludgeoned with them. Every problem and every solution runs through Alaska, runs through the this particular Bay and runs through the Jewish community.  It is too neat, too predictable and wholly unsatisfying.  The best part about the book are three minor characters that are certainly not worth the read to get to. They alone provided intrigue.  A dose of moderation could have brought the different, promising elements together in this work.  Instead everything was so heavily painted it bled and left an ugly, muddled picture.  I do not recommend this book.
5 Wander through Sitka as it never was with word master Michael Chabon. Full of kitsch and overflowing with metaphor, this is a tale that weaves mystery with creative history ... and it's also funny!
1 I love Michael Chabon's novels.  I know a lot of Yiddish.  I am a fan of black humor and alternative history.  But after struggling through 75 pages of this book I have decided to give up.  Maybe I'll wait a year or so and try again.  Or maybe I'll just wait for Chabon's next novel.
3 This is an overly ambitious novel by the talented Michael Chabon.  Chabon attempts to deal with questions of identity, particularly Jewish identity, nationalism, heritage, and the relationship between fathers and sons. On top of this ambitious agenda, Chabon has decided to pursue these issues in the form of novel that melds two popular genres, the noir crime novel and alternative history.  Chabon uses a murder mystery plot with a typical Raymond Chandleresque hero; an alienated, somewhat reckless detective who is none the less one of the very few dedicated to truth in a corrupt milieu.  There is the conventional set of violent encounters and beatings of the hero, a fair number of killings, and is often the case with plots like these, the murders under investigation turn out to have something to do with the hero's past.  Chabon elaborates his plot by setting it in a fictional alternate history in which the panhandle of Alaska became a refuge for 100,000s of European Jews on the eve of the Holocaust, and later for Jews fleeing the Middle East after Arab success in the 1948 war.  In this history, WWII ends with the nuclear bombing of Berlin in 1946.  Chabon hints at earlier divergences.  In this history, Einstein was born in Switzerland.  The Jewish state that Chabon constructs around Sitka, Alaska resembles a combination the Jewish quarters of New York City and Eastern European cities like Vilnius prior to the Holocaust.  As this is a murder mystery, Chabon includes a number of Jewish gangsters, drawing inspiration from Babel's great Benya Krik stories, though Chabon goes Babel one better by introducing Hasidic gangsters.This ambitious melange fails at several levels.  As an alternate history novel, there simply isn't enough detail to make it really interesting. As a noir thriller, its fairly pedestrian with a rather clunky plot.  I think partly because Chabon was committed to using these popular genres for his plot construction and background, he really doesn't get a good grasp of his themes of identity and his characters are too conventional to be really compelling.  Some of the writing is quite good but a lot of the book lacks the narrative zest expected from Chabon.
4 The novel supposes that in 1940 the American Congress had passed the Sitka Settlement Act to allow the persecuted Jews of Europe to seek refuge, for an interim period of sixty years, in the newly created autonomous  `federal district' of Sitka on Baranof Island, which my atlas tells me is a narrow sliver, about 100 miles long and 25 miles wide, in the south-eastern tail of Alaska.  But it was a kind of ghetto: to appease the American public, the Act prohibited the refugees from moving off the island.  A trickle of Jews, mainly from Germany and Poland, are supposed to have arrived there soon afterwards, to be joined after the war by a flood of Displaced Persons and other Jews who could not go to Israel, because that state is supposed to have been snuffed out by the Arabs after only three months.  After the sixty years were up, Sitka was to `revert' to become part of Alaska and the Jews of Sitka  were supposed to find somewhere else to go.  By that time Sitka had a population of two million and had acquired a thoroughly Yiddish character, with Yiddish names for shops, districts and public buildings, Yiddish (secular) cops and Yiddish (religious) gangsters - all to the resentment of the original inhabitants of the area, the Tlingit Indian tribe. The book opens as the date of the `Reversion' draws near.Meyer Landsman is a Yiddish police detective who has not been very effective in the past and now has to solve a murder.  That genre is not unfamiliar, nor, especially in American fiction, is the laconic dialogue.  But here the text is sprinkled with Yiddish words, whose  meaning the non-Yiddish speaker can usually, but not always, work out.  Yiddish has many wonderful curses, but sometimes only American four letter words will do.  The humor has a Yiddish flavour, and the author's own English is full of wisecracks and of immensely inventive and  vivid similes.  The setting - especially among the ultra-orthodox `black hats' - is very atmospheric.Landsman does eventually unravel the murder mystery, though in the process he stumbles into and escapes from some tight corners that cry out to be made into a movie.It's not always an easy read, partly because of the extreme complexities of the plot, but also because Chabon's narrative technique, for all its humour and raciness, is sometimes more opaque than I think it needs to be.  Oh, and there's just one brief and insignificant reference to the Policemen's Union of the title.
4 Liked this better than I expected as it seemed an unlikely venue for a sfi plot.  Very detailed and grubby view of Ultra orthodox sects gives it the feel of an alien environment.  Great phrases and word use.  I got interested in the main characters who are filled out not just stock types.
2 I have long been a fan of Michael Chabon's work.  "Kavalier and Klay" is one of my favorite contemporary novels.  I also loved the idea for "Yiddish Policeman's Union", a temporary Jewish homeland in Alaska.  Sadly, after I finished the last page I was very disappointed and wondered if he struggled mightily and rushed the novel out to print.  I think it's a third draft of a novel that he needed another draft or two to make it work.The best thing about the book is the way he fleshes out Sitka with the politics, economics, language and culture.  I was able to believe this place could exist.  The worst thing about the book is his main character, Landsman who I didn't find compelling, believable, or likeable.  Add to that is the problem of an inconsistent voice and occasionally confusing point of view.  One of the keys to detective fiction is voice and point of view.  If those aren't strong, then no matter how well you describe the backdrop to the story, it  loses credibility because reader doesn't commit to the character who acts as a guide to that world.The only character that came across as palpably real was the murdered victim who re-emerges later in an awkward flash back.  In only a few paragraphs, he comes across as a character I could follow through this book and who could bring it to life.Despite my disappointment, I'm glad that Chabon risks failure, stretches beyond his talent because that will only make him a better writer.  He hasn't written his masterpiece.  I'm sure that's yet to come.
4 Chabon is very clever here and the interplay between the characters and their motives skirt brilliance. What endures about the novel is the atmosphere and the feeling that we are facing finalities.
5 Michael Chabon has created another masterpiece with "The Yiddish Policemen's Union," his most recent novel. While his other books were beautifully written, I found some of them difficult to get through. That was not the case with this book, which moves more quickly than Kavalier and Clay, and kept me interested throughout.With this book Chabon creates a world in which Roosevelt's suggestion to move displaced Jews to Alaska after World War II has been put in place. The only problem is Roosevelt included a move-out date for the Jews in order to get the legislation through, and that date is quickly approaching. While the other Jews in Sitka are preparing their paperwork to move abroad, or are applying for visas to stay within the United States, Meyer Landsman is busy trying to beat the clock on a murder that took place in the hotel where he lives.In addition to the murder case, Landsman is haunted by a number of other ghosts, including the suicide death of his father, an unborn child, a possibly murdered pilot sister and the memory of his failed marriage. He spends much of the novel battling a drinking problem, which gets him into some interesting, if not painful, predicaments. His counterpart in the book is his partner and cousin, Berko Shemets, a half-Jew, half-Tlingit bear of a man.Shemets plays the part of the level-headed friend in the book. He is also envied by Landsman for his ever-growing family. Shemets is dealing with his own battles throughout the book, while trying to keep Landsman from being kicked off the police force. He ends up being one of my favorite characters, with Landsman's ex-wife (and boss) being one of the other great characters of the book. The relationships between the characters makes the book an enjoyable, and sometimes uncomfortable, read.The book has plenty of twists and turns, including a weird chess obsession, and kept me guessing until the end. Perhaps if I knew more about Jewish culture I would have figured it out before the end. But lacking that, this was the first mystery book I've read that I wasn't able to figure out before the punchline.
5 What if? tends to be a favorite pastime with writers. Sometimes you end up with so-so writing, other times, very rarely, you get a story that packs a punch and a real whallop along with a few good laughs. This was the result that I got with Michael Chabon's latest novel, The Yiddish Policemen's Union.Policeman Meyer Landsman lives in Sitka, in a run-down misery of a hotel. He was married once, had a promising career once, but now he's self-medicating with booze, and his trusty sidearm. Then the night manager pounds on his door and he goes off to investigate the room of a fellow 'guest' of the hotel who has been found dead.Emanuel Lasker has a tidy hole in the back of his head, track marks on his arm, his tefillin in a side-drawer, and a partial chess game laid out nearby. No real identification, nothing at all to give a sign as to who he really is. It's a case that's interesting, but without any real leads.Besides, Landsman has far bigger problems to worry about. The year is 2008, and the sixty year lease is about to be up in the Federal District of Sitka, when the erstwhile home of Jewish refugees from the Holocaust and the failure of the state of Israel have been scrapping out a living. This seething population of the Chosen are just about to be tossed back into an unfriendly, rather hostile world, and nerves and tempers are getting frayed.But Landsman can't seem to let go of the case, and he and his partner, Berko -- a hulking half-Tlingit, half-Jewish -- head off to explore the past of the dead man. Along the way, the reader is treated to life in Sitka, where racial tensions are high, chess masters play endless games, Ultra-Orthodox gangs are scheming and up to no-good, and everyone is hoping that a miracle will happen and a new Exile doesn't begin.I do have to say that I haven't laughed over a thriller like this in a long long time. Landsman, Berko, Bina, Willie Dick, and even the Verbover Rebbe, along with a host of other characters, have a believable, earthy quality of mercy and menace to them, turning them into believable people, each of whom have a stake in the very uncertain future.Chabon laces his story liberally with Yiddish slang, Jewish politics, religion, modern fears, old hates and gives it all an earthy stench. For me, it raised the ghosts of being in the old New York neighbors of my childhood, where Orthodox Judaism was the way of life, and even today, the smell of cabbage, wool clothing and some words can bring it all back just as vividly.It's a smart novel too, filled with plenty of clues for the reader to piece together, if they pay attention along the way. No, this novel isn't for everyone, and those who are unfamiliar with Yiddish may have a hard time catching the subtler use of words here -- for unsnarling some of that, I'd suggest any of Leo Rostein's glossaries of modern Yiddish. There's also some good, deep emotional involvement for the reader as well, as everyone in this story is carting along some emotional baggage that will help or hinder them in this story.Chabon's writing is smart, witty, and tears along at a breakneck pace. The action scarcely ever stops in this one, as Landsman and his sidekick Berko careen along from place to place, uncovering dreams, plots and some nasty conspiracies. While the ending of the novel was pretty disturbing to me, I wasn't surprised by it either.It's a great summer read, and a pretty decent 'what-if?' story. Yes, it does get a bit graphic in spots, and at times outright zany, but it's certainly different and if you are tired of formula stories of world-weary cops, take this one in.The only thing that I didn't really like was the cover design, with the lurid red and turquoise printing. It's more than a little headache-inducing, and hard to read. Oh well, you can't have everything.Recommended.
3 The story lie is semi interesting, but finding it amongst all the literary devices he uses, does not make it a page turner.  Facts about the main character are very slow in coming.
4 I remember reading Kavalier & Clay, astounded with the brilliance of Chabon, his delicate phrasing and beautifully-wrought characters.  This is still the same writer, with the same set of tools; but this novel came up short.  It doesn't draw you in with the same strength or tenacity as K&C, Wonder Boys or Mysteries of Pittsburgh.  The book opens with a murder, yes, but it is slow to develop.  Perhaps some of this difficulty lies in the fact that the novel is rooted in an alternative present; this contains a large part of the appeal of the book, but the difficulty of the Yiddish, the separate universe the book inhabits and the fact that Sitka, unlike any other city, is completely foreign, obscures some of the common ground that Chabon plays with so well.  The characters are fun, yes, but they fall a bit flat, especially Landsman, who seems more of a stereotype than a writer of Chabon's excellence should even be toying around with.  Berko and Bina are a bit more well-rounded, but even from them we don't have the same investment in these characters that we do with Grady Tripp, or Joe and Sammy, or the two main characters in Pittsburgh.  It's always a bit disappointing when you read a new book by an old favorite author and recognize that this isn't their best work.  It's a good book, but probably shouldn't be in contention for any of the major prizes, at least not judging off the first read.  I'm sure I'll come back to it, hopefully it'll smack me over the head with its greatness.  I'll be waiting.
5 I think that this Hugo award winning book would be classified as an alternate history. It was actually suggested that the Jewish population be settled in Alaska and in this novel the author makes it reality.  Many Jewish people have settled in the federal district of Sitka, Alaska. However, the area is to be reverted to Alaskan control. Homicide detective Meyer Landsman and his partner, Berko Shemets, are searching for a murderer. That murderer ended the life of a man who was believed by many Jewish people to be a savior.  Yet he became a drug addict and recluse.Landsman's life is a mess. He drinks too much, has lost his wife and his career is in the doldrums.  As a result, he has dedicated his life to law enforcement.  His successes are admirable but his addiction to alcohol is tragic.  When Landsman discovers that his former wife, Bina, becomes his boss, he is frustrated and unsettled. How can he report to the woman he still loves and solve the murder that is consuming his interest - a murder she tells him to forget?More murders, much investigation, and violent adventures lead Landsman into a tangle that only a chess game can help him solve.  It's an outstanding read with romance, mystery, adventure and a tangled plot that keeps the reader forging ahead.  Good one!
1 I think my one star= &#34;I hate it&#34; says it all. I, no matter how bad a book is, will read the whole thing....in the middle I stopped reading and deleted it from my kindle.
2 I finished the book because I do not like for a mystery to remain unsolved.  But, overall, I found this book difficult to read.  It seems like Chabon tried a bit too hard to make the main character a gritty, smart-alleck, cigarette-smoking detective.  I know he must have been trying to emulate Bogart or Powell in the old Dashiell Hammett books, but it did not work here.  The information given was often superfluous.  And, the book bordered on being hostile toward the Jewish or Christian faith.I was disappointed as I had formerly enjoyed the Adventures of Kavalier and Clay.  This book may have turned me off of Chabon for a while.
5 Chabon is witty. Chabon takes risks. Chabon writes with passion and humor. One wouldn't expect all readers to get it. Clearly, some don't. While I can sympathize with their frustration for failing to comprehend the sheer brilliance of this book, I find their whiny and frankly clueless reviews are inexcusable.Chabon imagines a Jewish colony in Alaska. That is the framework. Sure, he alters history to do it but the real beauty of this novel is Chabon's wonderful homicide detective who is every bit as hard boiled and appealing as any character Raymond Chandler ever imagined.It's a love story. It's a thriller. It's a mystery. It's a detective novel. It's funny, and dark, and so very clever. The alternate history angle is the least of it.Chess fans will love it. Our detective finds a corpse down the hall in his skid row hotel. That sets him off--a killing took place right under his nose. Solving the murder becomes like solving a chess puzzle.There are junkies and Jewish gangsters. A half Jewish/half Indian sidekick. Then there is his ex-wife, another cop. They still care for each other.I read several hundred books a year and I haven't enjoyed a book this much since ABSURDISTAN. The verbal hijinx that Chabon executes are stunning.Are you intelligent? Do you have a sense of humor? I think that you'll love it.
5 In "The Yiddish Policemen's Union", Michael Chabon attempts to combine a noir mystery story with a compelling alternative history, that the Jews were relocated to Alaska after World War II and after the Zionists were thrown into the sea by the Arabs in 1948.The first few chapters, which set up the noir mystery story are sort of a freylakh Sam Spade story, and I nearly put the book down.  I'm very, very glad I didn't.  And the reason I didn't was the foreshadowing at the end of each of those chapters about the depth and breadth of that alternative history, played out through the eyes of Meyer Landsman, alcoholic detective and proud member of the Yiddish Policemen's Union, along with his cousin, the half-Jewish, half-Tlingit Berko, and his ex-wife, Bina, a detective who carries the most resourceful black bag since Felix the Cat.As the story progresses, Chabon becomes more and more master of the genre that seemed to overwhelm him in the first few chapters.  The book calls out to you to consider what the Jews would have been like, what America would have been like, and what the world would have been like, if this alternative history had really occurred.  It asks questions about the meaning of love, of marriage, of being a parent, a child of parents and a sibling, and of the awesome responsibility of near-miraculous talent.  Mixed in are black-helicopter type conspiracies, amazing coincidences and a lot of humor, which improves greatly from the beginning's "if it's Jewish, it's funny", reminiscent of the early Woody Allen and Mel Brooks but quite dated for today.The ending is, I think intentionally, a bit of a letdown.  It is much like the end of "Fiddler on the Roof", a sort of "well, we'll pack up and hope that the next place will be better," for the Jews, and a very contemporary sense that with its incredible power, the U.S. government can do things the consequences of which can be both unknown and very bad.  Chabon is writing an alternative history, but it is very much a story for our times.A great read, that makes you think.
5 This is a very funny and very enjoyable book.Of course, to get the humor you probably need to know who Emanual Lasker was and what a landsman is. Growing up Jewish in Brooklyn makes this even better. Especially if you had also read Raymond Chandler. The ending however, is a little bit illogical and seems to come out of nowhere.
5 Michael Chabon is a brilliant writer. Every word is carefully crafted and is sheer pleasure to read him. Can't wait for whatever he writes.
1 I had heard all kinds of great things about this book.  I am not jewish but have been fascinated by jews and their traditions for many years and am also a fan of alternate universes.  This book bothered me - firstly, everyone calls each other "yid".  I don't know how jews feel about this but it was disconcerting.  Also, it would have been helpful to have a glossary in the back for the "jewish" words.  Finally, I found this book hard to follow and basically gave up 3/4 of the way through when I really didn't care any more "who did it"
1 I though that I was familiar with the Yiddish vocabulary, but I could not understand any slang. I also couldn't care less. I didn't relate at all with the story and any of the characters. Actually I found everything very annoying. When I drop a book, it is because there is absolutely no way to proceed. I am very benevolent with books, but this one didn't have a chance. Congratulations to those that read it and enjoyed. I'll wait for the Cohen brothers movie.
4 So ... I bought this book for my Kindle while I was on vacation -- it had a discounted price I think ...  I had a hard time getting into the characters at first -- but then had to finish it to see how everyone accomplished what they needed to do ...  It was a great story and the characters were so likeable in such a strange environment.  Really ended up enjoying this book.
3 I loved this novel until the climactic sequence. The similes fly as thick as fireflies on a Kansas summer night, the characters are as different as fingerprints, and the fictional world is as rich as New York City in the snow. The clich&eacute;s are re-engineered. Landsman the detective is a divorced drunk. How many of those have you seen? But these clich&eacute;s are so fresh you don't notice them. I lost interest after Landsman gets on the bush plane and flies up to investigate something that seems completely outside the world of the novel. The real problem is that this remarkably talented writer forgets that a novel, whether mystery or mainstream, has to dig deeply into human nature and reveal something about the human condition. In a mystery, that human truth must be gritty and close to the bone. If we don't arrive at some human truth, the novel melts in your hand like snow.
5 This is the third Chabon book that I have read (afterTHE FINAL SOLUTIONandTHE MYSTERIES OF PITTSBURGH) and it is unquestionably the best -- imaginative, audacious, thought-provoking, and humane. As I gather he did withKAVALIER & CLAY, Chabon takes a genre of popular fiction, in this case the police story, and transforms it into a vehicle capable of carrying significant insights into the human condition, and particularly the complex crosscurrents of Jewish identity. For some reason this fascinates me, and I have read a good deal of post-Holocaust fiction, but I felt that I understood more about Jewish life in America, especially among the orthodox, from reading this book than from any other author since Chaim Potok (e.g.THE CHOSENorMY NAME IS ASHER LEV).Chabon creates an alternative historical reality on the basis of three plausible assumptions. The first is that, in the years before the War, America created a home for a limited number of Jewish refugees in Sitka, on the South-East coast of Alaska; (this plan was actually floated, but never brought to a vote). Second, that the new state of Israel was overrun by its enemies shortly after its founding, causing a massive exodus of people to be accommodated in this small area, giving rise to a large city built up over islands and a narrow strip of land. The third assumption is that these refugees were not accepted as American immigrants, but as  temporary nationals of the new entity, leased for a period of sixty years. So while Jewish Sitka is a self-governing city-state, with Yiddish its official language, and with its own police force, this authority is precarious. For one thing, different sects have taken over different parts of the city, effectively maintaining their own law, even sometimes in opposition to the official law. For another, the sixty-year lease is about to expire, and the action of the book takes place in the last weeks before Reversion, when Jews who have not made other arrangements will be forced out again in yet another Exodus.One such unprepared unfortunate is our protagonist, an alcoholic homicide detective named Meyer Landsman. One of the other residents in the fleabag hotel where he lives is found murdered, with a chess game set out on a board beside him. Even though his superiors tell him to drop the case, Landsman persists in his attempts to discover who the victim really was, and who killed him. This thread sews the plot together and leads to some surprising places. Ultimately, however, it is not the whodunnit element that is important; we discover the answer, but that is a minor detail in the almost apocalyptic drama of fear and destiny that is revealed in the shadow of the last days of the Jewish people in Sitka. But while specifically Jewish in context, I find the book also is full of insight into the fundamentalist mindset generally, and it is very much a reflection of forces in American politics of our own time.Chabon is equally successful on the intimate level. We come to know a lot about Myer Landsman: the suicide of his chess grandmaster father, the death of his sister in a flying accident, and his separation from his wife Bina after the abortion of their unborn child. This last relationship is further complicated when Bina turns up as Meyer's new boss, but the unraveling of the case also has the effect of bringing the past and present together, in ways that are ultimately deeply satisfying, and give the book human warmth as a ballast to its flights of brilliance. If you come to the novel as a Gentile (and perhaps even as a Jew), you will be plunged into a world that seems hermetic, claustrophic, extremely strange. When you finish it, you will understand where the strangeness comes from. More, you will be left with a small group of human beings whom you have come to know as intimately as if they were your own family or neighbors.
4 I first read this book in late 2007. It's a really good read, quite the keeper. Michael Chabon has created a world in which the Arab states destroyed Israel in 1948. After this debacle, the US gives the Jewish people a temporary homeland in and around Sitka, Alaska. As the novel opens it is 60 years later and the area will be losing its Federal District status and be returned to Alaska, meaning the people there will likely become stateless refugees. It is against the backdrop of the coming Reversion that the tale of Meyer Landsman homicide detective and his partner Berko Shemets unfolds.This is a murder mystery with a lot of twists. I'm not usually a big fan of this genre, but this book really kept my interest. It shows the tensions between the various Jewish group and the local Native Americans, the Tlingits. It does help to have some familiarity with Yiddish, a very colorful language indeed. Landsman's hope with this murder case is to redeem himself, complicated by the fact that orders from above have told him to drop the case.It is an intriguing mix of alternate history and mystery and cop fiction. Definitely recommended.
5 Some of the words I had to look up but otherwise great read.I would read this author again even tho I don't believe in doing that.
4 This is an alternate history of the Alaskan territory of Sitka, where post-World War II Jews are resettled in an Israel-less world. The main character, Meyer Landsman, is a homicide deterctive trying to solve mysteries on the eve of the reversion, in which "America" will take back Sitka and the Jews will be scattered once more. Michael Chabon is a fabulous writer: A deft and moving master stylist, who puts his craft to work in fables, genre-like stories of only conventional intellectual depth, but full of love, allegiance, human evil and the other verities of emotional life. Don't come at it with inappropriately high expectations for nuance -- this is, always, a detective/mystery story with the familiar trope of the hard-case, hurting-inside detective still wearily, faintly hoping for redemption. Yet it delivers on the genre extremely well, and delivers something more in the form of imagination, illuminating and making real the alternative-history of Sitka, and in the form of genuine feeling and compassion for the humans who inhabit that land of chilly longing. This novel worked especially well as an audio book, wonderfully narrated by Peter Riegert who creates multiple character voices, all with a New-York Yiddish twinge to their distinct personalities.
4 Murder, intrigue, love, sex, chess, and conspiracy, all served on a platter crafted from pure fantastic imagination.  Chabon is really, really good.  This is a murder mystery.  'Nuff said.
5 Follow this cop as he tracks down a murderer in the frozen but vanishing Jewish "Homeland" of Alaska.  "The Yiddish Policemen's Union" is a delicious and satisfying blintz of a police procedural in the most unlikely of places and cultural contexts.  Michael Chabon can write the pants off a Russian mob-boss.
5 The novel itself is good, but what I really want to praise is Peter Riegert's narration, which is absolutely superb, hands-down the best I've ever heard. Most narrators sound like they're auditioning for a production of Shakespeare, and even when they don't, they usually just don't seem to get the tone right, but Reigert's reading is flawless. I just wish all audiobook readers were half as good.
5 The Sitka I saw never showed me this! An excellent combination of Jewish diaspora history and small town Alaska. Will read more of this author.
4 ***1/2The Yiddish Policemen's Union is set in an alternate universe in which millions of Jews live on the Alaska panhandle, thanks to a World War II resettlement program that almost happened in our world, but didn't. It's the early 2000s and the "temporary" settlement is about to revert to US control, leaving "the frozen chosen" once again without a homeland (a past attempt to found Israel failed). The book's protagonist, a down-on-his-luck detective in classic noir form, however, has other problems, not the least of which is a strange murder case...Chabon's novel is very ambitious, juggling a parallel world, a complicated plot, personal relationships, messiahs, end-time conspiracies, and explorations of what it means to be a Jew. On the world-development front, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is brilliant, its reality feeling lived-in and alive, right down to its many humorous quirks. Chabon makes it easy to imagine the Sitka settlement as something that could have been, complete with a seedy flophouse district, a network of underground tunnels built by World War Two survivors who didn't trust the US, tensions between Jews and native Americans, and its own Yiddish slang.On other fronts, the book is a little less successful. Chabon commitment to writing a hard-boiled crime story is an inspired style choice at the beginning of the book, but feels like more and more of a distraction as it progresses, especially from character development. The convoluted plot also becomes unwieldy, with Chabon racing tediously from scene to scene in the latter part of the novel just to bring all the threads to their semi-satisfying resolution, at the expense of the sense of immersion that made the first half of the book so fun. And the scheme to take over the Holy Land, which involves a conspiracy between a Hassidic sect and the United States government, seems a bit absurd, at least in terms of logistics.Still, the detective and conspiracy stories are only a layer of the novel, whose strong aspects overcome its weaker ones. The premise is imaginative and well-realized, and full of interesting implicit commentary on our own world. Even if Chabon doesn't quite pull all the parts together, there aren't many writers talented enough to have made such an effort in the first place.I'm looking forward to seeing how the film version turns out in the hands of the Coen Brothers.
2 I prefer books where the language does not call attention to itself.  Chabon does use eloquent phrases, but they bog down the story.
2 I had heard many good things about the writer and this book, and based upon this I was looking forward to reading this work. The writer is very skillful in setting up his story as well as its setting. It is understood that a portion of any book is taken up by the writer setting up his plot line as well as introducing his characters. It is unfortunate that it takes over 200 pages for the book to begin moving its plot line with any sustained interest. I was continually asking myself, "Why have I not put this book down?". It is not well done at all. Aside from the three major characters, the writrt does a poor job in character development. The book finally picks up with one or two surprises existing. Numerous characters drop in and out without any real development. The book leaves much to be desired as it plods alog into mediocrty. For a good nights rest, one might wish to consider it. It an be said of this story that the juice received at the end is NOT worth the squeeze.
4 What a refreshing novel.  You have murder, action, alternative history, the intricacies of Jewish culture, and faith, plus geography.  Oh, also, humor, and sadness.  Did I miss anything?  This was my first Michael Chabon novel, certainly not my last. The tale is a colossal accomplishment that is without  a doubt UNIQUE.
3 Let me start off by saying that I usually rate books based on what I think about them AFTER I am done reading them. This one was no different. I found it to be a good book with a satisfying ending.That being said, here is the reason I am giving it 3 out of 5 stars:1) It's a slow read; you'll be 1/3rd of the way through before it'll really capture your attention and 2/3rds of the way through before the mystery itself will become apparent enough to cause you to turn the pages.2) The humor in the book is, for the most part, foreign to me due to my lack of a Jewish background. However, once you research the terminology and the specific words, you do begin to get the jokes, and it is then that you begin to appreciate the author's writing style.Overall it's a fun read and one that I could recommend to most (probably not all) of my friends.
3 Chabon apparently never met a metaphor he didn't like. He piles them one atop another to the point that they obscure rather than clarify the action. Indeed, I had to go to Wikipedia after finishing the book to make sense of the ending. What's more, the showy language never lets us forget that we're reading a book, that Landsman and Bina and the others aren't people but merely characters who are the invention of an inventive but infuriating writer.All of which is especially frustrating because the concept and conceit of the book--an alternative history in which Jews were settled in a part of Alaska rather than settled in Israel--is brilliant, as are all the details. I wanted to be swept away by Chabon's vision, but his language kept getting in the way.
1 I'm not Jewish and I don't know Yiddish at all.  Apparently, unless you have one or both of those qualifications, you may not like this book.  I've gotten far in the book but I'm waiting still to like the story or for something to happen to make me understand all the good reviews.  Seeing Mr. Chabon's tight smile on the book insert at the end seems to be trying to reassure that it will get better but I think it won't.  I am leaving a bad review b/c I think I know at this point that I will never get into the book although I understand the basic story but can't get any enjoyment out of it since I don't understand what they're really saying.
4 I have loved reading Michael Chabon since The Mysteries of Pittsburgh.  This book is no exception, but it is a bit different.  By now you have probably seen a synopsis in the editorial reviews so I won't go into that.I think the old school detective novel format and style feels about right and the inclusion of yiddish slang is just enough to add to make the novel feel real without becoming silly.  The humor is subdued.  It is a very delicate balancing act.  Too much humor, too much detective genre, or too much yiddish culture and this novel would risk becoming silly or style over substance.  Chabon avoids that by carefully sprinkling those elements throughout.  Chabon's mastery of words keeps this novel from appearing to be an imitation of style.  If this novel were written by a less skilled author, I think it may have slipped into imitation.This is not the best Chabon has offered.  Toward the end, I felt the book become a bit more predictable than I wanted in what is at its heart a detective novel.  Still, this work is a level above everything else in the bestseller section of your local bookstore.If you are a first time Chabon reader, I would recommend The Mysteries of Pittsburgh first.  If you want the best of Chabon's work, try Kavalier and Clay first.  If you have read Chabon before and liked him, you will enjoy this book.
3 I like Michael Chabon when he writes literature. I don't like him when he writes genre fiction. I didn't like "The Final Solution", but I liked "Wonder Boys" and " The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay". In this book Chabon tries to write in two genres at once. The "Hard-Boiled Detective" genre and the "Jewish Self-Loathing" genre and doesn't manage to pull off either too well.I won't get into the plot since you can read about it in any of the reviews, but speaking of the reviews I will disagree with the Publishers Review review that said "would have been even better with a little more Yiddish and a little less police". I think it would be just the opposite. In fact it is nearly impossible to read without a Michael Chabon idea of Yiddish glossary. Many of the words I didn't understand and could only figure out with difficulty by the context. We are supposed to understand the characters are speaking Yiddish at all times except when Chabon explains that they are speaking "American", this is usually when they are cussing because I suppose Yiddish doesn't have any good swear words. So if all of the characters are speaking Yiddish at all times (translated into "American" for us) what is the point of inserting actual Yiddish words everywhere to confuse us "American" readers.The Jewish self-loathing is most apparent in the way that everyone calls each other a "yid" in the book. I guess it is supposed to be taken in the same way that African-Americans call each other by the "N" word. Sort of a half ironic compliment/insult in their own community, but a complete insult if anyone else says it. But what is the point of stealing an affectation from another culture, and trying to force it into this one?It seems that Chabon is spreading himself too thin. He has his hand in everything from literature to comic books. He should stick to what he does best and leave the rest to those who can't do literature no matter how hard they try.
4 Okay, you've heard me say it before, so you can all say it with me now, "Michael Chabon is America's greatest contemporary author."You should have that memorized pretty soon.Funny story I have to share with you before I write this review.  I found out that Chabon was visiting my neck of the woods in Chicago soon after this book was released.  Well, there was no way I was going to let this opportunity pass me by.  I made sure to get up there to see him after some finagling.Because of this, I very much wanted to have the book done before I met him, just in case he wanted to invite my wife and me to coffee afterwards and discuss the merits of his work.  That being said, I madly rushed to get through The Yiddish Policemen's Union.  In fact, I read the last third of the book so quickly that I don't think I processed it very well.So when I felt a bit disappointed by it, I knew it was probably my own fault for not giving it the time it deserved.  More on that in a moment.What?  You wanted a review?  Just humor me.Chabon appeared at the Harold Washington in Chicago, and he could NOT have been a more down-to-earth, warm, funny, genuinely nice guy.  So many times, people of Chabon's stature can get a bit ... haughty.  Not him, though.  In fact, once he gave his talk and started signing books, I surprisingly got as nervous as a dog in a hotdog factory.  I had my favorite book of all time, The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, ready for him to sign, and my wife had my copy of The Yiddish Policemen's Union at the helm.  I even went so far as to have a copy of my own book ready to hand to him for his entertainment.  Unfortunately, once I stood before him I turned into a complete idiot, introducing my wife twice and praising him with the vocabulary of a two-year-old.  He could not have been more polite, however, extending his hand without prompting and smiling the entire time.  When I walked away, I lamented my unstable nerves to my wife and realized I forgot to give him a copy of Souls Triumphant, but we both agreed that this man deserved all the praise I'd given him to anyone who would listen.  I feel very good about supporting both the man and his work.But, because I knew I'd rushed through his book, I decided to do something I rarely do, and that's immediately reread the novel.I'm glad I did.I have such a better understanding after digesting it slowly and giving it the time it deserved.  Chabon crafted a book rife with characters that leap off the page, and possibly birthed one of my all-time favorite characters with his self-destructive detective, Meyer Landsman.  Once Landsman's ex-wife and new boss, Bina, enters the action, the book really takes on a life of its own.  The witty, playful, tense, and strained banter between Meyer and Bina is worth the price of the book alone.But, this book is about far more than the reintroduction of husband and wife.  This book also imagines an alternative world where the Jews were allowed to move to Alaska, filling a land they call the Federal District of Sitka, shortly after 1948.  However, their time is coming to an end as the land is about to revert back to the US and they are going to go ... well, wherever they can find a spot.  No one is outside of the district is real concerned about helping them out.  This impending fact, coupled with the death of a man who is much more important than anyone in the police department initially thought, lays the groundwork of a story that is both fascinating and provoking.I'm typically not one for a "mystery" story, and I'm not sure if this exactly qualifies as such, though I keep hearing people, including Chabon, refer to it as a "genre" piece.  However, let me tell you that I enjoyed this book so much better after the second read once I knew the ending and what to look for throughout.  There is a lot going on, and it is very much so deeply ingrained in the Jewish culture, so I was unknowingly lost the first time around.  After a second read it all made so much more sense!Chabon is an expert at bringing dynamic characters to life, and while The Yiddish Policemen's Union requires close attention, it certainly keeps up Chabon's excellent status quo.~Scott William Foley, author of Souls Triumphant
5 My intense enjoyment of Michael Chabon continues with this novel.  It serves up fantasy, fact, irony, and a love of Yiddish culture in equal doses.  I'm grateful that Chabon can craft a blend of a great story with wonderful writing.  I'm even more grateful that he is willing to stick his neck out and let his imagination run way beyond wild.  More of us should do the same and then we'd remember what is important in life.
3 Well-written and interesting, this "what-if" mystery is just a little too idiosyncratic--too cute by 50%--with its "Hotel Zamenhofs" and its pretend Jewish homeland in the wilds of Alaska.And that's my biggest problem: It's such an odd cross between Yiddishkeit and pulp noir, with a post-Zionist political subtext, that I ended up being distracted from the story. Chabon is a great writer and weaves these elements together nicely, but one wonders who, exactly, is the audience for such a book.Still, it's a decent read overall, and I love the cover.
3 This book has received a great deal of praise , and therefore I  wonder if perhaps I missed something. Why? The book is supposed to be tremendously funny. I found the humor , artificial , strained literary. It sounds as if it is supposed to be funny. But it was not funny at least for me.Then the whole premise of the work, creation of an imaginary Jewish Yiddish speaking community in Alaska, the Yid detective seeking out murderers among various Jewish groups, including Hasidism.Perhaps I am too much of a literalist. Or perhaps the Jewish history involved in founding of the state of Israel, and in all that happened to the Jews in the twentieth century, is just too vivid for me. But I don't buy the act of the imagination, the premise of the work, what Henry James called it's 'donnee'.I also resent the value-message implicit in the situation as it is set up i.e. Diaspora life is fine and vibrant without Israel, and in fact the 'Zionist settler types' are heavies in the whole contemporary history of the Jewish people.In another words this is kind of Diaspora- celebrating work which as its second side has the delegitimization of Israel in mind.Perhaps I am misreading. Perhaps I am not focusing enough on the actual story. Perhaps I am being a fool and a fuddy- duddy and not giving Imagination its due. Perhaps I am just forcing the ethical on the aesthetic, and imposing the old 'is it good for the Jews ethic?' on a text where the fun of reading is more really the question.I don't know.A lot of people have read this book and liked it. Maybe they are seeing something I am not.
3 The first thing to recommend Chabon's literary mystery is his dazzling prose.  With incredible skill and humor he manages to take the tough-guy private eye style of Chandler and add a distinctly yiddish accent. There is a real joy of language in this novel. But I also must say that Chabon also sprinkles this novel with so much yiddish and what also at times seemed to be made-up terms specific to his created sociological background -- a Jewish state in Alaska -- that there were often words and phrases that were never clear or took many pages to straighten themselves out.Ironically, it's possibly also because of the richness of the language of this novel that it is also a slightly difficult and plodding read, never acheiving a page-turning status.There is a certain sloppiness of structure -- late in the novel we abruptly change point-of-view characters to one of the villians to explain part of the mystery.  And we jump from private eye murder mystery and veer off to a solution that might be described as a bit of a Jewish DAVINCI CODE.And as clever as the novel's central conceit is -- that a Jewish state was formed in Alaska rather than in Israel -- it never seems as though Chabon entirely fullfills on the promise of his own premise.
5 At this point nearly 400 reviews have been written, and this novel has won the Nebula and Hugo awards.  What can a mild-mannered reader add to this dogpile of praise?Perhaps nothing, but I will say this.  Chabon writes books that remind you why you liked novels to begin with.  He's a master word craftsman and he tells a story with a beginning, middle, and end, which no matter how many Wallaces and Pynchons and other postmodern vanguards I read, remains the best way to tell a story.  It's as simple as that.  The fact that while telling a hard-boiled mystery Chabon can reimagine the last 70 years of history in a brilliant and convincing way just shows why he is honored as he is. In this book he fashions a world and a story that could take place on any planet using any mythology, but Chabon chooses Earth and the mythology of Jewish mysticism.  The novel is all the richer for it, not to mention the wonderful use of a beautiful onomatopeic language, Yiddish.This novel is not for everyone, just as pork is not for everyone, but for those of us who willing to partake, this novel is the bacon.
2 A long tedious book, offensive in the use of Yid on every page. convuluted.A dozen names that are hard to remember, and its called a mystery. Ridiculous.
4 Michael Chabon has never been my favorite author. But this book surpasses his previous efforts, and is the first Chabon book I can recommend without reservation.Better written than his last "The Yiddish Policemen's" is hard to put down. The sentence structure and plot flow equally well. My only complaint is the book is uneven. Parts of it teeter on brilliance while other parts seem like they weren't even proofread.This book vaguely reminded me of the best of Kurt Vonnegut.Cat's Cradle
4 A very good book even though I had difficulty getting into it. . Chabon's conceit is an alternate reality where a group of Jews are resettled in Alaska during WWII. It took me a while to get into the book, because the milieux confused me. It felt like the turn of the 20th century and the atmosphere was dark and primitive. However, the characters are well defined, and reminded me of Chekhov. (which may be why I kept thinking it was the early 20th century) The main character is a policeman, Meyer Landsman,  who finds a dead body in his tenement apartment building. Meanwhile the community that has been established will soon revert back to the US instead of reservation status it has had since the mid 20th century. Mixed in are jewish hopes for a messiah and a return to Zion. Definitely made me think.
5 The main character in this novel is a bit of everything all thrown into one.  You'll love this heartbreaking thriller.
4 This is a book that presents an alternate history and involves a murder mystery.  I enjoyed the book and its humor.  The main characters are interesting, flawed, and complicated people.  The book motivated me to do a bit of research to discover the actual events on which the plot is based.  I did find the consistent and frequent use of Yiddish a bit frustrating; however, I discovered when I reached the end of the ebook that there is a Yiddish glossary.  Even absent the glossary, you can easily follow the plot without understanding the Yiddish terms.
5 This is what fiction should be.  This is literature, not the formula mystery with which we are all too familiar.  A tightly woven narrative without an unnecessary word. The reader is delighted awaking at two o'clock in the morning for the opportunity to have a couple of extra hours to read this &#34;can't put it down&#34; book.
5 Michael Chabon is a writer of such artful complexity, with profoundly interesting characters, and poetic riffs that reached into places within me that are seldom touched by other writers. The research that went into the development of an alternate history is very impressive, The Jewish characters reminded me of the best of Isaac Bashevis Singer, brilliant, darkly funny, at times heart-breaking.  The canvas of this novel is huge, the inner and outer worlds intricate and detailed, and thankfully, there will be many more magnificent novels of this highly gifted writer.
4 An interesting re-imagination of the Post-War II world and an entertaining mystery.  Worth the time invested.
2 As a huge fan of KAVALIER & CLAY who made her entire book club read it and fall in love, I was really disappointed with Mr. Chabon's latest. I found the writing to be unexpectedly dense, at times over-written with an abundance of descriptive language that dragged the story down. I wanted to like the story, as I thought the revisionist premise of a post-WW II Jewish district in Alaska was intriguing. But the main story kept changing direction, and I found myself just not caring by the time it finally showed itself in the end. The main character of Meyer Landsman was compelling, and the mysterious murder victim was interesting, but the rest of the characters were pretty flat. This was the first time in a long time that I really had to force myself to finish a book, because there were many times I wanted to put it down.
5 I've never been acquainted with Michael Chabon's works before. This is my first attempt-this isn't the typical genre I normally read. This book was very enjoyable. A nice good old fashioned plot, characters that grow on you, and philosophical allusions and asides that make you want to savour each chapter.
1 This book was so boring.  I have tried several times to get through it, but finally gave in and took it to the used book store.  I can count on one hand the number of books I simply could not get through and this is at number 1.  I don't know how or why this book received such rave reviews.
1 I NEVER fail to finish a book once started, and I was committed to finishing this one, though after 100 pages it was clear that there would be no improvement.I am a big fan of alternative history, and the premise for this novel has promise.  Instead of settling in Palestine, Europe's Jews are settled in Sitka, Alaska.  The Sitka District is slated by statute to last for sixty years, and the sixty years is up.  Sitka is reverting to Alaskan sovereignty and most of the Jews will have to move on.  Against this backdrop is sad sack Sitka District detective Meyer Landsman and his efforts to solve a murder.If you are Jewish, or even familiar with Yiddish and Jewish culture, it is possible that you might enjoy this novel.  In that instance, I can see it as a three star effort.  Otherwise, you'll be left trying to read and decipher a foreign language.It is possible that were the story line better developed, wading through the indecipherable prose might be worthwhile. Sadly, it is not.  I gave up after 200 pages when I looked in my closet and saw the number of potentially outstanding novels I had not yet read.  Life is too short to waste reading such poor material.
5 Chabon does it again.  He has written a deeply Jewish book about super heroes and magical worlds.  It was an adjustment to read his yiddishified English but soon I could not put it down.  I waded through the dirt, grime and murder until the end, a place of hope, where the bush burns but is not consumed.
4 Let's get this out of the way first: Yiddish Policemen's Union is NOT Kavalier and Clay.  So what?  Move on, people.  Now, YPU is typical Chabon in that it's funny, fast-paced, and full of cultural significance.  In this age of anti-Semitism, it's a testament to the openmindedness of the American people in general that Chabon's works sell so well.  Sure, YPU has a lot of Yiddish, a lot of Jewish culture ... maybe too much for some people, including a lot of Jews.  And sure, the mystery aspects can be convoluted at times, but then most mysteries are.  Doesn't stop me from reading Harlan Coben.  But when it's all said and done, this is a darn good book.  And I still can't think of the term "frozen chosen" without chuckling inwardly.
2 Once you put it down, you can't pick it back up.  Almost a history of Jewish persecution and a downtrodden outlook on life.
4 This book is a little slow starting and getting acquainted with the characters takes a little while but as you get into the story line it holds your interest.  The plot has some unexpected twists and turns and there is more going on than first meets the eye.
5 When did Michael Chabon become one of our finest living writers?  I've been reading his novels for about two decades now, loving each successive work more.  Suddenly I realize that he is one of those rare writers where you go out and buy the book full price on the day it's released.  He's that good.  And The Yiddish Policeman's Union lived up in all ways to my high expectations.The novel grabbed me right from the opening pages.  We meet Meyer Landsman, a somewhat down on his luck homicide detective.  We meet the victim, a John Doe in the cheap hotel Landsman calls home.  We meet Meyer's cousin/partner, his ex-wife/boss, and many, many other supporting characters, each more richly-drawn than the last.I must confess summarizing plots is not my strong suit.  However, unlike many "literary" novels--and it is as literary as they come--this is most definitely a plot-driven novel.  It's a who-done-it, and perhaps more importantly it's a why-done-it.  Because as Meyer and Berko investigate the execution-style murder of this young addict, the world they live in is revealed to us.  And it's possible that this alternate universe is the most interesting thing about the novel.  It's a world where the European Jews fled from Hitler to Alaska--a premise based on a historic trivia fact.  They've populated Sitka and made it their own for the past 60 years, and in just a few weeks they need to get out.  Alaska is "reverting" back to the Americans in much the way that Hong Kong recently reverted to the Chinese.  The oft-repeated refrain of these characters is "Strange times to be a Jew."  True enough.And if nothing else, this sure is one Jewish murder mystery.  It's chock full of Yiddish, a joy for me, but surely not for a majority of the novel's readers.  A lot you can pick up in context, but Chabon's not going out of his way to help readers there.  You'll learn about boundary mavens and Jewish prophesy.  It's all very exotic, but so richly and realistically portrayed.  Chabon brings this world that never was to life, and it's fascinating.  And while the mystery surely kept me turning pages late into the night, it was my pleasure in the characters and the setting and the world created that made me truly, truly love this novel.  Reading simply doesn't get any better than this.
4 Michael Chabon is a brilliant wordsmith. There are few writers today who can compose a sentence as deftly and delightfully. Which is why this book was an absolute pleasure to read 90% through...it is laugh out loud funny in places. Because the first 90% was so good, the last 10%'s shortcomings stood out all the more...it's as if this 'vast right wing conspiracy' ending(which seemed like a commentary on current events) was tacked on, like the tail on a donkey, to tie up the loose ends and tuck away the characters in a neat little package.I caught a brief bit of a conversation with Chabon on NPR, in which he discussed how this book had taken him five years to write, and how it had been extensively re-written, changing its original first person point of view into the third. And the book feels that way as you read it, as if a suit had been taken apart and re-made. It's still a nice suit, but it feels stiched together.
5 I don't know whether Chabon is pleased, upset, or indifferent to comparisons with other writers, but in The Yiddish Policemen's Union he seems to combine some of the magical mystery tour of Gabriel Garcia Marquez with the professionally detailed detective mystery of John Grisham. All with an over-the-top pop-art kind of language that keeps you half-smiling, half-admiring as you get sucked in to a very real story. Yes, the Jews really won in 1948 in Israel, and were not exiled to a reservation in Alaska for 60 years and then who-knows-what. But with the real Israel coming up on 60 still with no permanence in the world, and the President of the United States (now including Alaska) coming to visit tomorrow, one wonders which part is fiction. Read it and weep.
4 I found this book very intriguing.  The premise being that Alaska became a haven for Jews escapingGermany when the rest of the world would not accept them during World War ll.  Since arriving in Alaskathese exiled Jews have lived and prospered in that northern state.  This in spite of the fact that they don't know if they will be allowed to stay permanently.  This part of the book highlights entrenched anti-semitism inthe halls of government.Fast forward to today and the exiled Jews are still hoping to reclaim Jerusalem.How they're going about achieving this monumental goal leads to murder and general mayhem.Crimes that must be investigated by another Jew.The characters are compelling and all too human; they make mistakes, they get shot and theydrink and smoke too much.Interesting that the ultra orthodox Jews are the ones portrayed in a very bad light.They are the equivalent of the Mafia and as violent and greedy in their quest for the promised land.I enjoyed this book in spite of all the Yiddish terms peppered throughout.  They are explained at the end of the book.The question then is; is it permissible to commit violence during a holy quest?
3 Not as good as some of Chabon's other books, but enjoyable. The ending felt a little rushed. All of a sudden there were characters and conspiracies necessary to wrap up the plot. Maybe I missed their introductions or hints of their introductions earlier, but the end was a little convenient.
4 This is an amazing novel.  The reader steps into a world created by the unlikely combination of cultures and alternative histories.  It is completely strange yet eerily familiar.  This is not a casual read.  The reader has to work hard to keep up with the characters and Chabon's inventions (there's a glossary in the back), but it is well worth the effort.
5 Pour yourself three fingers of schlivovitz and start reading!! I'm a huge fan of alternative history fiction.  This ranks at the top of my list.  The difference between this and other alternative history? Writing skill.  This novel reminds me of a fine wine that you want to savor, and I suggest you read slowly to savor every phrase to create the complete Yiddish Film Noir effect in your imagination.An unlikely story, exceptionally told. It is quite humorous, but thought provoking and clever. The story of Sam Spade if he was an out-of-control neurotic working though his issues with his domineering parents. I might suggest you get a Yiddish dictionary if your Yiddish is a bit rusty and there is plenty of inside humor aimed at the Jewish Community.Nevertheless, everyone will enjoy this book.  There is no doubt that this novel will evoke strong emotional reactions from readers given its portrayal of organized religious groups and world politics.  But, I think that's what the author was aiming towards.  Hopefully, this will be considered for literary awards both in the science fiction realm and the mainstream literary world.
3 Chabon's prose is the star in this book.  I just love the way he turns a sentence.  That said, the plot was a bit flaky.  It just didn't seem to stand up to Mr. Chabon's beautiful writing-kind of like putting a mink coat on a hog.......
4 Since there's been so many reviews, I won't recap the plot.  I thought The Yiddish Policemen's Union was a great, quick read.  Both a murder mystery and an alternative history, Chabon's work is a glimpse into the darkly humorous wold of Detective Meyer Landsman.  At times funny, touching, and disturbing, this book should entertain most readers.The only negative I would add is that the text is liberally sprinkled with Yiddish (who'd have thought from the title, right?).  If you didn't grow up around Yiddish-speakers or don't live around those that speak it, certain words may require some investigtaion.  However, Chabon generally provides enough context clues to get the unfamiliar reader through.This one is definitely worth the time and money.
1 Well, probably everyone reading this knows what the book is about. Also, almost everyone seems to love this book. I don't. In fact I found this book to be almost unreadable, and also failure. The book is supposed to happen in alternative world in Alaska, where jewish people were settled when Israel failed. The Sitka city is supposed to have more than million people. Those things can't been seen in the novel. The city feels like a smallish east European town. The setting in Alaska, the nearness of ocean have practically no effect to the story. The alternative world concept seem very poorly thought out - there are tantalizing glimpses to differences, but that is all there are. There not followed up, they have no significant relation to the plot.The language is hard to follow, it has an abundance of Yiddish words. The use of those words is horrible selfserving with no real need or meaning. Those words are not only used for characters speech or for such concepts which have no exact meaning in English language, they are also used with no reason at all. For example "elevator" may be sometimes spelled "elevatoro", it can be understood, but why?The main part of the book and plot also demand a great degree of familiarity with jewish culture and customs. I personally don't have that, and I not much have interest to get one. If you have those qualities, this book might be just and just readable, if you don't those interests, I would recommend: Forget it!
5 To be honest, I put off reading this book because, unlike his nonfiction, I've never really been impressed by Chabon's fiction.  I enjoyed The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, though I wouldn't rank it as one of my favorite books, but I barely made it through Wonder Boys, which I thought was a real disappointment.  I had hopes for this one, however, because I read an excerpt from it in a magazine some time ago.  So, I finally bit the bullet and pulled it off the shelf.  I was absorbed from beginning to end.It's not really a risk anymore to write an alternate history novel--too many respectable authors have done it lately.  In Chabon's world, the United States allowed Jewish immigration in the early years of World War II, but only to the city of Sitka, Alaska.  This had the result of lessening the Holocaust, eliminating the founding of Israel, creating tensions between Jews and Native Americans, and basically altering the political landscape of the world.  Most importantly, it had the result of creating a gigantic Jewish enclave on American soil which is where our story takes place, in the waning days when the US is about to take the city back.Still, Chabon's novel is riskier than most.  He creates a multi-cultural, Jewish world with Jewish cops struggling against Jewish organized crime.  He isn't afraid to use Jewish terminology and have his characters use Jewish slang against each other.  It is an altogether seedy, Jewish world.  It's fascinating.Then, he peoples his world with some great characters.  His lead, Meyer Landsman, an intuitive cop with a world of problems is the slug that drags us through.  He's surrounded by a host of great supporting cast mates: Berko, the half-native, half Jewish partner; Bina, the ex-wife/boss; the Verbover rebbe and his wife, Zimbalist, the boundary maven, and on and on.  There isn't a person who steps on stage who isn't somehow memorable.And these characters move around in a great murder plot: the death of a supposed nobody who turns out to be somebody which leads the way to a plot more important than murder.  It's all handled deftly with plenty of mystery left to the last pages, which play out well, but not in a way that one might expect.  There is a sense that the end comes very rapidly and there are some loose ends that are not really tied up as the novel closes but, somehow, it is satisfying.I found this novel to be a tour de force.  Once I started it, I didn't want to put it down.  I don't get this feeling of excitement from novels much anymore, but Chabon managed it here.  This magnificent world he's created and the people he's populated it with needs to be experienced.
4 A fantastic detective novel about six dozen things. Chabon builds an Alaska shtetl that I can smell, taste and hear. He draws lovely portraits of deeply flawed and deeply human people. Turns out, salvation has less to do with being chosen than you might expect. This place lingers in my mind and my heart.
2 I picked this book up based on the positive reviews.  I have to say that the writing has very limited flow.  As another reviewer has said, enough with the "yid" word!  I read about 350 pages of the 410 pages in the book.  I just coulnd't sit with the story any longer.I gave it two stars because at least the premise of the story was interesting.Perhaps I was tainted by the last book I read, " A Thousand Splendid Suns", which was far and away superior in every way to this novel.
4 "The knot of his green-and-gold rep necktie presses its thumb against his larynx like a scruple pressing against a guilty conscience. His hat is as glossy as a seal."Of someone intimate with the details of Sitka's Russian underworld: "He knows who's keeping the head of Furry Markov in his garage, and which narcotics inspector is on the payroll of Anatoly Moskowits the Wild Beast. Only nobody knows that he knows but Meyer Landsman."Those are just four sentences from two facing pages in the middle of the book. I haven't even finished the darn thing, but I'm too enthused to wait and write a properly comprehensive review.If there's a better living composer of sentences in English than Michael Chabon, I'd like to hear of that writer. Meanwhile, I nominate Chabon as tops in his field.Off the top of my head, I can't think of a better dead writer in English except maybe Vladimir Nabokov. But Nabokov's prose is dry, sanitized of the compassion Chabon offers his characters.If this is the kind of stuff that floats your boat, sit down with this book and get your boat floated.Addendum requiring SPOILER ALERT: I returned to remove a star because of Chabon's unthinking fidelity to liberal dogma. Many, perhaps all, of his novels portray a gay man as victim of society, especially religion. Fine. In this one, he goes further, to make extremist Christians the ultimate idiot-villains.Some readers tire of liberal cliches. No matter how beautiful his prose, I don't know if I'll ever again wish to be propagandized by his plots.
1 One thing I truly hate to do is give up on a book.  In fact it's rare that I do, but unfortunately, I gave up on this one after about 115 pages.  I simply could not get into the story (and this was after trying to read it for 5 days.)  One reviewer mentioned that the author should consider a yiddish dictionary for those, like me, who are yiddish-challenged and I have to agree.  There were so many words that I was unfamiliar with that it made it that much harder to get into the story.  Truly a disappointment since I had really looked forward to reading this.  An interesting premise that just didn't work for me.
5 I just finished listening to The Yiddish Policemen's Union while driving home from spending the Thanksgiving holiday in NC and now I have to read the book; for the language, the characters, the details that I probably missed while attending to traffic and finally because it was absolutely wonderful.I am not Jewish and don't know Yiddish but I know good writing and a well spun story when it crosses my path.  I admit it took awhile to "get into" the story, but that's usually true when I read alternate history or the more imaginative scifi, but my patience was amply rewarded. I've heard it, am now going to read it and hope to see the movie.
4 If you can get pass the first 200 pages, the second half will not disappoint you. To say this novel moves slowly is an understatement. For a while, I keep wondering why the protaganist would want to pursue clues to a murder case that is deemed classified when there are other unsolved cases. Also, since the setting of the novel takes place in the fictional city of Sitka, is it really necessary to go in depth when describing a fictional place? Why can't the readers just use their imagination?The second half moves fast and furious as important clues emerged about the murdered victim, and how the future of Sitka and its people are affected by the murder of one man. I hope Chabon is planning a sequel but next time, he can skip preparing the canvas for 200 pages and get down to the nitty gritty of noir fiction.
5 The book is writen by a Pulitzer Prize winner, and it shows. The characters are marvelous and the plot is unique. Actually the plot plays second fiddle to the pleasure of the story telling, but it is entertaining enough to keep you well engaged til the end.Unless you have heard an interview with the author or read a full review, you will be challenged to figure out the context of the historical twist.
5 A fascinating narrative that edges toward satire and philosophy, likeRabid: A Novelby T.k. Kenyon andTree of Smoke: A Novelby Denis Johnson.Chabon may be one of the writers of this generation whose work lives forever, and that's because his books are about deep characterization and ideas, not merely epiphanic dew dripping from icy prose. (Yes, I borrowed that from Chabon's article about the sad state of literature today.) His novels, like Kavalier and Clay, are not constrained by the mere daily life of ordinary people. Really, once you've read a couple hundred literary novels about the pitiful reality of the lives of quiet desperation, you've read them all.Yiddish Policeman's Union is different. It's an expose into Jewish culture in that it delves into the Diaspora and the enclave mentality of the different Jewish sects, which are varied and contentious. Having lived in New York, near a Hasidic community for a short time in my life, I can see exactly what Chabon is talking about, and he's spot on. The Black Hats who look right through you are disconcerting.The ending, about the world and the end, is also pitch-perfect.
4 I don't know why I always thought Chabon was sort of a "lightweight" novelist, but I decided to try "Yiddish Policeman`s Union" after reading a good review in "The Economist".  I was not disappointed. "Yiddish Policemen`s Union" is a powerful novel. The factors that make it such are: incredibly original and interesting characters, particularly Landsman (the protgonist) and Berko (his partner), but also all the many minor ones that populate the novel; an extraordinarily interesting and original setting in a fictionalized future that yets reads perfectly realistic; fabulous writing, metaphors etc, again, superbly original and surprising; and a really cool plot.If there is a weakness to the novel it does regard plot: I found the first two thirds of the novel exceptional, but the last third in which more "grandiose" events take place with global geo-political implications was a bit tough to swallow. But the first two thirds which revolve around Landsman and his search for the murderer across a number of rivetting situations was enough to hold my interest through the book and make me a Chabon fanFor readers interested in roughly similar novels with settings in Jewish communities I would highly recommmend Nathan Englunders "The Ministry of Special Cases" (a bit "heavier" and more literary but even more powerful) and Jonathan Safran Froer's "Everything is Illuminated" (which starts out a bit slower but ends with a very emotionally moving denouement)
5 I don't want to ruin this book for anyone, so if you don't want to read spoilers I can summarise this review by saying the book is well worth reading, please judge it for yourself.For those still reading, I can tell you that at first the story seems a fairly straight forward Chandleresque detective story, with the novel twist that it is set in a counterfactual world where Israel does not exist and instead the Americans have established a Jewish state in Alaska. The drama of the search for a young man's killer is heightened because we are aware that the Federal government has decided to re-integrate the donated land back into the United States. The hero of the book is a tortured soul whose angst is made worse by his ex-wife becoming his new boss. So far so good, I really enjoy this sort of story and it is very well written.Spoiler: Gradually the reader realises that the story is a little bit more than a gritty detective yarn. The victim of the murder turns out to be a messiah figure, not quite Jesus but a more traditional (Jewish) form of the messianic concept.If the book had continued to the end on its theological trajectory I would have given it 5 stars. However, in the end Mr Chabon reverts to the Chandler style and finishes the book in a fairly traditional fashion, explaining the various earthly mysteries of the story using the mysticism of the middle section of the novel merely to explain the motivation of the murderer and other protagonists.  I feel Chabon felt almost apologetic to have wandered so far from the &#34;real&#34; world, I think he has nothing to apologise for and even though he has chickened out a little at the end the book is still excellent.
5 Michael Chabon has written a masterpiece of a mystery with The Yiddish Policemen's Union.  Imagine Fargo in Alaska, with an imaginary Jewish community.  In his book, Chabon has rewritten history - making the area around Sitka, Alaska a temporary homeland for the Jewish nation after (in the book) the nation of Israel has failed.  In two months, this temporary oasis will revert to its former status as part of the US and all inhabitants will need to apply for permanent residency or be kicked out, facing a new diaspora.In the midst of these unsettling events, Landsman the homicide detective faces unsettling of his own.  He is burned out, living in a flop house where a dead body has just shown up.  His ex-wife has just become his boss. And he's sporting serious, constant questions about what to do with his life, now that he doesn't really have a life.To tell the plot would be to spoil the plot, so let's satisfy ourselves with the word that the pacing is slow at first but draws the reader into an imaginary world.  By the end of the 1st act of the book, you are engrossed and cannot stop.I would be remiss to not mention that there has been criticism of the book for its depiction of Jews in Alaska as criminals and as argumentative.  This is fair, but one must remember this is a story where the lead is a homicide detective and the entire culture is unsettled by possibly being returned to exile.And that's the masterpiece of the book.  What would people do to discover permanence?  What would Landsman do?  And in this mystery wrapped within a mystery novel, Chabon presents a beautiful puzzle.
3 Michael Chabon continues his unique writing style, which once you get more or less used to it, becomes an entertaining story.
3 What if Israel had been offered sanctuary in Alaska in the early stages of the war?  What if, after the establishment of Israel, they lost the sixty years' war?  After 60 years in Sitka, the Jews of Alaska have established themselves, built communities and families, and now face another exodus.  The terms by which the United States welcomed the refugee Jewish population were temporary, and the lease is nearly up.All this provides the background against which Chabon inscribes a mystery involving junkie ex-Chess-phenom murdered in the same flophouse where our socially-dejected yet brilliant detective chases down a murder that stretches across several of the communities in Sitka, reaching deep into the recesses of power.  A few thoughts:- I liked this book, and can see how its depth of story are intriguing, but I really don't understand why it won so many awards.  I thought the mystery is fine, even compelling once you get into it.  But it didn't have the kind of import I'd hope for in a book that won the Hugo, the Nebula, and at least two others.- Chabon's big skill here is world-building.  He reveals an elaborate alternate history of the world based on the idea that the US offered refuge to European Jews in the early part of the war.  According to Wikipedia, there are numerous changes in how things played out because of this change-it's not clear to me how many of those came from the novel and how many of them were part of his pre-writing world building process.  Honestly, I probably would have enjoyed something that covered that larger swing of history better.- Of course, it's in Detective Meyer Landsman's investigation and the characters he encounters where Chabon is strongest, giving us both a sense of who these people are but also for the struggle the Sitka Jews have had to endure and the place they've had to live.  As Chabon intended, apparently, the novel feels  a lot like Chandler, with quick, punchy sentences.  That said, it moves a lot slower than RC usually did; it didn't set the hook, for me, until about page 100.- Landsman's ex-wife and supervisor, Bina, is my favorite character.  We get the impression of a badass hard-nosed female detective in a world where men are in charge.  She also smolders, apparently, and Landsman can't resist.  And she's described in ways that make her sound like a real woman, rather than an idealized sex doll or stick figure.- One community that I found particularly interesting is an organization that manages strings and ropes to maintain large "indoor" spaces in which the ultra-orthodox community can operate on Sabbath.  Essentially, they argue that strings or ropes are "doorways" which allow them to enclose large open spaces as part of their home.  Thus, they can do things like walk their dog on the day of rest, as long as they're in the "house."  The man who manages the whole network perches in a shabby office, surrounded by string.  He reminded me a little of the creepy spider from The Muppets' Christmas Carol.  I don't know why.Overall, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a solid book with a good mystery and an elaborate alternate world through which its characters tread.  It captures the spirit of the classic hard-boiled detective story, but ultimately doesn't explore the world part of the alternate world enough for my taste.  We just can't see enough from Alaska.
5 Alternate fictional histories are usually weak or very cliched. This is the exception. A great read, a great view of history and so well written, with such sharp scenes, strong plotting and believable characters that it is a totally believable alternate possibility. A very satisfying read that may become a classic - or surely read again and again as the kind of story that delivers something different with additional readings.In other words I highly recommend Chabon's latest effort and suggest  that if you enjoy it you may well like to check out his previous work too.
5 I'll admit, the idea of reading a book concerning alternative history (plus the zany dust jacket) drew me to the "Yiddish Policeman's Union." However, by about Chapter Two I knew that I was in for an entirely different experience. Chabon's goal isn't to wow you with the various ways he's juggled and re-arranged historical events to send million of exiled Jews to Alaska. Instead, he offers a look at a man--a shattered, self-destrucive detective with a crackling wit and dark secrets, and the streets he walks; who's standing on the street corners, what smells float from the shops, etc.Beyond his wonderful descriptions, Chabon offers of a cast of unique characters and a mystery that quickly puts the lead character over his head. I recently read an interview in which Chabon reveled that this book was originally 600 pages long, and I can attest that this novel is just the right length. A must-read.
4 Chabon is an excellent writer though and he doesn't need to be genre to be compelling, although with this book he enters a realm of Alternate History which sort of tickles that itch. Instead of Israel, Jews settled in a province of Alaska called Sitka and instead of anti-Semitism boiling off, it raged on. Sitka is set to expire and be given back to the US and all the Jews must go somewhere else. This isn't the plot, but only a backdrop element which serves to lend a sort of apocalyptic tone to the story. What it is at its heart is a detective story, with rabbi mafioso and loose cannon cops. Thanks to a heaping helping of conjured Yiddish-Alaskan patois the book gives off a very unique sheen. I dug it.
3 I love the writing of Michael Chabon, my favorite by far being The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay. I had heard a bit about this book and, with interest piqued about its alternate universe in which part of Alaska has become "Israel," began to read. It was a much slower start than I expected, but I decided to keep going. It took until almost halfway throught the book to really get hooked, but then I was glad I had stayed, as the story became a true, racy detective yarn with fascinating revelations at the end. The downside? Well, the title makes no bones about it, but the book truly is very, VERY Jewish...a gentile almost feels as though she's reading something not meant for her eyes. It was also a bit difficult to grasp the whole Alaska annexation, though it is referenced in snippets here and there. Aside from these esoteric qualities, Chabon creates a unique atmosphere, realistic characters, and a hero not unlike Dash Hammet's jaded and life-weary detectives.  It's worth the read, if you can slog through a slow beginning.
5 We stumbled across this book at the library and my daughter and I were both enchanted by it.  Unfortuantly, when we returned it, I completely forgot the title or the author. I'm so glad it showed up as an "also bought" here on Amazon so I could see it again. This is one to treasure!
5 Love all of Oliver Jeffers' books for kids.  My Grandkids age 6 and 3 love them.  They recognize the illustration and writing style.  A first favorite author for both of them.
5 This is a wonderful book.  I read is constantly to my grandkids.  It is written so well and the pictures are so colorful.  Highly recommend this book.  My grandkids are 5 & 7.
4 How to Catch a StarBy:Oliver JeffersThe boy(the main character)loved stars,the boy wished to catch his very own star so they could be friends.So one day The boy set out to catch a star.He tried to wait until a star got tired and fell down.The boy did many things to catch the star.At the end, he found a star in the water and then cought it.Summary by:DenisI&#12288;&#65367;&#65359;&#65365;&#65356;&#65348;&#12288;&#65362;&#65349;&#65347;&#65359;&#65357;&#65357;&#65349;&#65358;&#65348;&#12288;&#65364;&#65352;&#65353;&#65363;&#12288;&#65346;&#65359;&#65359;&#65355;&#12288;&#65346;&#65349;&#65347;&#65345;&#65365;&#65363;&#65349;&#12288;&#65364;&#65352;&#65349;&#12288;&#65353;&#65356;&#65356;&#65365;&#65363;&#65364;&#65362;&#65345;&#65364;&#65353;&#65359;&#65358;&#65363;&#12288;&#65345;&#65362;&#65349;&#12288;&#65351;&#65362;&#65349;&#65345;&#65364;&#12288;&#65345;&#65358;&#65348;&#12288;&#65353;&#65364;&#12288;&#65353;&#65363;&#12288;&#65366;&#65349;&#65362;&#65369;&#12288;&#65347;&#65362;&#65349;&#65345;&#65364;&#65353;&#65366;&#65349;&#65281;&#65321;&#12288;&#65367;&#65359;&#65365;&#65356;&#65348;&#12288;&#65351;&#65353;&#65366;&#65349;&#12288;&#65364;&#65352;&#65353;&#65363;&#12288;&#65346;&#65359;&#65359;&#65355;&#12288;&#65345;&#12288;&#65300;&#12288;&#65359;&#65365;&#65364;&#12288;&#65359;&#65350;&#12288;&#65301;&#12288;&#65363;&#65364;&#65345;&#65362;&#65363;&#65294;&#12288;
5 bought this book for my grandchildren ages 3 1/2 and 2.  they love it and it is fun to read.  great pictures!
5 A cute story about a boy's various efforts to grab a star out of the sky and his eventual attainment of his goal in an unexpected way.As reviewed on my children's book recommendation site Books for Children ([...]
5 How to Catch a Star is a story of a young boy who tries again and again to catch a star, then sees a star reflected in the water and figures it fell from the sky.  He tries to grab it, but it just slips through his fingers.  On the walk along the beach to his home, he finds a starfish and thinks it's a star from the sky.  The last picture is of the boy sitting with his starfish and reading to it.  Even though the story has been told before (think Pooh), it's always magical, and the illustrations are simple, yet mesmerizing. This is a wonderful bedtime book and would also make a great read-aloud in a classroom, where it could be used in a beginning astronomy unit.
5 Love the illustrations and story about this little boy who wants to catch a star.  One I don't mind reading over and over.
5 I bought this for my 3yr. old grandson, I wanted him to become aware of the stars as he looked up in the sky and also how he could pretend if he caught a star, it would be his friend
3 The colors and illustration in this book are fantastic. The story is pretty slim, however. It's probably a good book for those who want a book to read to small children, but it's not one I'd expect kids to pour over in their own early reading, which is what I was looking for. Though the illustrations were truly lovely, a weak story led me to return this.
5 My three year old loves this story--I love the lilting verse and the beautiful drawings.  Nice addition to our library.
5 Once there was a boy and that boy loved stars very much. In fact, he could think of nothing grander than catching his own star to call his friend in How to Catch a Star (2004) by Oliver Jeffers.Jeffers's whimsical first picture book blends easy to follow text with sharp, clean illustrations to create something remarkable. Everything about this story invites readers to stop for moment and plan their own scheme to catch that elusive star.It's not easy to build suspense into a 32 page picture book, but Jeffers manages it. Will the boy catch the star? Will he find a friend? It's hard to say in the begining--but don't worry, everything works out in the end.The clear, short sections of text combined with large, often full-page, illustrations make How to Catch a Star ideal for reading aloud or for early readers.Possible Pairings: Kitten's First Full Moon by Kevin Henkes
5 my son (age 2.85) loved this book.  we laughed at the pictures of the boy taking his star out for a walk. and reading a story to his star at the end. top marks for this clever book. and also "the way back home" by the same author is one of my son's faves also.
4 This is a nice easy to read book with cool illustrations for young ones. The story is short, sweet, and charming.
5 Kids enjoyed this book.  It's a good read for all ages.  Glad we purchased this book, How to Catch a Star.
5 My 2-4 year olds love this story. We own more than one Oliver Jeffer's book. They are all simple enough for kids to understand, yet creative enough to be imaginative. Highly Recommended.
5 My 3.5 year old son and I thoroughly enjoy this book.  I also read it to my preschool class and it was a big hit. I think any age group can relate to the emotions in the book.  Very sweet
5 Beautifully written with lovely illustrations, this is a book with a great ending and ALL will enjoy reading again and again (and if you'ra parent or grandparent you KNOW how important that is!).  I HIGHLY recommend this book.p.s. I'll bet their older brothers and sisters will like it, too!
5 I loved this novel!  Recommended, and lent, by a friend of my wife's who lamented, "I wish I could have conversations like this,"  Haven Kimmel did not disappoint.  I was wowed, and found myself constantly torn between not wanting to stop reading, but having to stop reading to reflect on what she had just written.One reviewer decried the fact that this novel may have been (based on comments in her acknowledgements) birthed by Kimmel's unrealized desire to write a doctoral dissertation on a related subject.  Why not use a novel as a vehicle to explore the complex and interwoven tapestry of literature, theology, philosophy and art?  In fact, I think it's freaking brilliant to take the stuff of doctors' theses and share it via novel.  Who reads doctors' theses other than doctoral candidates?  Maybe we'd all get better exposed to high-quality thinking if more authors latched on to Kimmel's idea.Not all novels have to be fluff, junk food for the soul, light beach reading (hey, I enjoy my light reading, too).  It's perfectly okay that Kimmel departed from (apparently, since I haven't read anything else from her--yet) her norm with this work.  Perhaps, when I read more of her stuff, I will be as disappointed with what I perceive as a step down as many of the reviewers here seem disappointed with her stepping her work up intellectually.  If you want light, literary pabulum, this book is not for you.  Perhaps if you have a PhD in theology, literature, or philosophy, this book might be far too simplistic.  However, if you're intellectually curious, and prone to stopping in the middle of a book to further explore some tangent, then this book is for you.Some reviewers have labeled the characters and conversations implausible.  Au contraire!  I'd characterize them both as intriguing and extraordinary.  Her dialog is rich and inviting.  Others have criticized this book as an indictment of small town America.  Again, far from it!  In her work, Kimmel depicts well the depth and substance which belies conventional wisdom regarding rural communities.Reading Kimmel's book inspired me to order two additional books from Amazon (three, if you count buying my own copy of this book) and to spend a few hours surfing the net in search of more information about some of the concepts Kimmel introduced me to.  If you measure a book by the impact it has on your thinking, the impression which lingers a week later, The Solace of Leaving Early scores high.
4 It is a tribute to Haven Kimmel's strengths as a writer that this is a good book despite its flaws. Her story draws together a troubled small-town pastor, a depressed young woman, and two traumatized children. In other hands this could have been very grim, but Kimmel has a light touch, a quirky sense of humor, and great love for all her characters. She has a poet's eye for the perfect phrase and the perfect moment to stop. Langston and Townsend are complex and believable, not always likeable, but always intelligent.As to the flaws, readers of &quot;A Girl Named Zippy&quot; will be surprised to find out that the young girl who refused to believe in God has grown up to find, not just religion, but esoteric and erudite theology. We are expected to believe that an entire small-town family and the town's pastor share a deep interest in Kierkegaard, Nietzche, and St. Thomas Aquinas. It's possible, but reads like a projection of the author's interests. While many great novels have dealt with religious doubts and searching, constant references to theologians are best left out.The ending of the book is pleasing and beautifully told (Langston's loving speech to the children going off to school is priceless), but not believable. While we have seen some signs of the pastor's changing feelings toward Langston, we are unprepared for her about face.In spite of these flaws, the book is a beautiful rendition of people awakening from pain to find themselves woven firmly into each others lives.
5 It's rough going; I won't lie.  The philosophical ponderings and the dialogue that would only come out of the of the most scholarly among us can be deterring.  But the heart of the story is full of just that.  Kimmel has crafted a beautiful piece of fiction.  She may have left her small town, but it no doubt has stayed with her, as she crafts even the most minor characters with precision, grace, and humor.  Not all parts of the story get resolved, but the sheer beauty of what happens more than makes up for it.Langston and Amos aren't particularly likeable characters, but their yearning and their hapless way of relating to the world are both funny and heartbreaking.  As they work out their flaws and accept them, they do grow.  Langston, for instance, shows more childish behavior than the girls thrust into her care, yet her interactions with them are incredibly moving and smile-inducing.It's a bit slow in the beginning, and much of the defining moments for the characters are revealed late in the book, but getting there and sticking with it yields a reward that much belies the title.
4 Kimmel is a totally different author in this book than she was in Zippy or it's sequel She Got Up Off the Couch. She shows here that she is a gifted fiction writer and novelist, and the book is wonderfully written.
3 it's hard to fault an author for dialog that is adult, interesting, challenging, sincere, intellectual, and deep.  There's far too little of it in far too many books.  Unfortunately, in this one, there's just too much to be believable.  Too many characters speak too fluently of too many difficult and arcane subjects, not simply as if they are aware of or have read certain writings but as if they have studied them.  Repeatedly.  So much so that they have memorized them.  That said, it's still hard not to enjoy much of this and if it pulls you out of the novel now and then, it's not too painful a dislocation.  The same can be said of the mother-daughter relationships in the book, which cross over a bit into the too shrill or dysfunctional to completely buy.  By far the most damaging flaw is the ending, which without going into detail, has not been properly earned, though it easily could have been and while I seldom think a book should  be longer, the story and characters in this one were strong enough that I would have gladly allowed another 30-40 pages of development so the ending would be better earned.  Despite all these flaws, Kimmel has written a story that is engaging and moving, an examination of grief and personal growth that touches the reader in all sorts of ways, through all sorts of characters.  She has enough faith in herself and her story to allow her characters to be unlikable (and therefore all the more believable) at times and shows a deft ability across a range of character--young, old, male, female.  Prepared to be frustrated and disappointed, but also moved.
5 I was interested in all of the characters in this book, as quirky as they all were.  The author did a great job of exploring each individual's feelings and experiences, enabling the reader to really get to know and understand each of them.  The storyline was put together cleverly as well, carefully unraveling answers to the reader's questions as the book progressed.  I enjoyed the ending, and thought the epilogue was really a bonus (more discoveries!).
1 It is hard to believe that an author who wrote the inspiring, witty and delightful "A Gril Named Zippy" could offer a debut novel so dreadfully dull and convoluted that the title ironically provides a solution to disappointed readers.  The only solace in Haven Kimmel's "The Solace of Leaving Early" is exactly that:  leave early.  This incredibly bad novel is dense and turgid; her protagonists are so grating  and stilted that they'd make native Indiana residents embarrassed to claim residence in the Hoosier state.  Lost amidst ponderous theological, philosophical or existential ruminations is a plot so predictable that many readers will abandon the novel halfway through and not miss a thing."The Solace of Leaving Early" will appeal, however, to a select group of people.  If you enjoy pretentious, arcane and esoteric allusions to literature and theology, Kimmel's writing will thrill you.  It will come as no surprise to discover that the author majored in English and attended seminary; her novel literally advertises her erudition.  For those readers who savor sexually-frustrated female protagonists who sequester themselves in a suffocating attic in the middle of summer as an act of self-isolation or flagellation while pretending to write the great American novel, Langston Braverman will fulfill every fantasy.  Readers who prefer the quietly isolated and oh-so observant-yet-tormented man of God, Reverend Townsend's sophomoric pronouncements and anguished ambivalence over the direction of his life will satisfy your tastes.  Devotees of extraordinary, inexplicable religious phenomena will thrill at the appearance of the Virgin Mary in a tree trunk, discovered by two sisters whose parents perished in a macabre domestic dispute.Haven Kimmel proved in her memoir that she possesses compassion, humor and insight.  Her soaring account of the joys, possibilities and hidden delights of small-town Indiana life reveals an author who surely has an informed heart.  Her debut novel is simply astonishing in its divergence from her talent.  As a memoirist, Kimmel honors language; she is nuanced, honest and understandable.  As a novelist, she is pedantic, pretentious and unintelligible.  The people who populate "Zippy" are genuine; even their flaws make them lovable.  The characters in "Solace" are as endearing as fingernails being scratched down a chalkboard; to a person they are predicatble and strangely disaffecting.  Haven Kimmel should have abandoned "The Solace of Leaving Early" quietly and unobtrusively in her own attic.
5 I am so glad I found this book and Haven Kimmel--what a writer.  The prose is wonderful, the kind of writing where you go back over sentences to feel the beauty and the craft of a perfect phrase--over and over.  I haven't read a book like this in so long, it had no cliches, no tiresome plot devices, just a funny, sad, sweet, well thought out story.  Kimmel brings the characters together in a perfectly believeable way, it always rings true. Spend a few days (you don't want to give this book up too soon) with Langston, Amos, Germane, Alice's the sweet wounded daughters and all the major and minor characters that are written so clearly. Read it at least once!
5 I love this book, but I seem to love all things Haven Kimmel, from ZIPPY to SHE GOT UP OFF THE COUCH to ORVILLE (picture book), and now this. I started SOLACE on a Saturday morning, resigned myself to the fact that I wouldn't get anything done until I finished it, so read all day & savored the final chapters on Sunday morning, appropriately, as the book was a spiritual experience. I know better than to read Haven Kimmel without a pen nearby, so now I have the pleasure of going back, say a week from now, and thinking anew about the sections I check-marked. I adore the characters in this book and the author's insights. I especially love knowing more than the characters know about their feelings for one another. Knowing that Langston thinks her mother loved Taos more, for example, is hard, yet I live with the knowledge. The story resolves itself, but all the loose ends are not tied up, and I like that about Kimmel's stories; they reflect life as we live it, even with its uncertainties.
5 The Solace of Leaving Early is the best thing I've read in quite a while. It's beautiful, brilliantly written. Every character is fascinating.  I wish they were all real people, and that we were friends. Haven Kimmel reveals each of them to us like a multi-petal flower opening in one of those time-lapse photos. We see the bud and the hint of what is to come, and then as each petal unfolds, we get another and another and another explosive detail until we're dazzled and dazed by the colors and scents of the full bloom. Each of Kimmel's characters is tormented. They've been wounded by events that are also revealed---unfolded---to us slowly.  We&#8217;re told the story through Langston and Amos' eyes.  Thirty-year old Langston has come back to her small-town home and family after, without explanation, walking out of her final PhD orals exam.  Amos is a bachelor minister who seems better suited to teaching esoteric, highly intellectual religion courses at an ivy-league university than preaching Sunday services to his farming-community parishioners.  We're treated to their fascinating inner and spoken dialogs about religious history, faith, doubt, passion, despair, and betrayal.  I found these little treatises incredibly thought provoking, and many worthy of further exploration.  As a really good book should do, it had me alternately crying and laughing.  And when I finished the last page, I did what I've done with only a few books in my life, I went back to the beginning and started reading the story all over again.  It's just as delicious and satisfying the second time around.
2 I wholeheartedly agree with the negative reviews of this book. The strange and unrealistic dialogue, the whiny and tiresome temper tantrums of the main character, the completely unsympathetic nature of ALL the characters made for a very tedious read. I read up until 20 pages or so from the end and then just skimmed to finish it. I can't believe someone actually recommended this book to me as a contemporary romance! There's no romance in this book whatsoever! There's just the self-indulgent ramblings on the part of the author about philosophy, religion and literature, some weak plot, and a lot of feeling sorry for oneself. The ramblings add zero to the plot or character development. They're boring. The book was a waste of my time. I'm donating it to the library today for some other schmuck to get suckered in.I have to admit I'm an extremely picky reader. My favorite author currently is Jonathan Franzen. Now THAT author's work is pure genius!
5 Five stars again for Hoosier author, Haven Kimmel.  Love, it's loss, it's search, it's dangers, it's control, it's beauty are all present in this interesting "love story" that doesn't read at all like a love story at first.  Everyone in the book seems to be having difficulty dealing with life and relationships.  Every one of them needs serious counseling.Kimmel takes you through their lives, their memories, and their struggles that made them who they are just in time for the final pages and chapters when...well...read the book.  Love is not always just sweetness, so hang in there with the characters to the book's end--you will be glad.You will eventually love most of the characters you decided to hate in the beginning.  The change in emotion is also a part of the story of love that Haven Kimmel presents in such a different light.  This story is nothing like the two previous Zippy stories, even though this fiction takes place in Indiana.
1 I just passed the halfway mark on this one, and I've decided that I've closed the cover for the final time.  I really don't like giving up on books, but I just can't put myself through this one any longer.  It is so disappointing because there is a really good story hidden amongst the philisophical ramblings, religious references, pretentious characters and unbelievable conversations.  But I simply cannot bear witness to another one of Langston's temper tantrums or Amos' inability to write a sermon (isn't that what ministers do?)  I just cannot relate to any of the characters, and I feel more irritation towards them than anything else.  Several of Kimmel's other books look interesting, so I won't write her off yet.  However, this one's going back to the library today.
4 This is a novel about domestic abuse and it's after effects on an entire community.  What makes this more sensitive, is that the community is a very small town in Indiana and the people that live there have known each other for a lifetime.The impact of the abuse is more personalized because of the familiarity of the townsfolk and the reactions of the surviviors more exposed and accountable.  With domestic abuse comes grief, and grief can beget unresolved grief, which is ripe in this tightly knit clan from Haddington, Indiana.Presenting a touching story of two little girls exposed to the brutal slaying of their mother, Author Kimmel allows the event to rip through the town's church where the guilt and grief card is played handsomely by Pastor Amos Townsend.  The pastor is suddenly in charge of coordinating the future of the two traumatized children by the basically geriatric and infirmed relatives. Confronted with the prospects of adopting the children out, Pastor Townsend searches to work out a solution. Heavily leaning on Anna Braverton, fellow churchgoer and intellectual confidant, Amos struggles to provide guidance and compose sermons for his congregation in one of the most personally challenging periods of his life.At the same time, Langston Braverman (daughter of Anna and Walt)  aborts her PH.D. and all prospects as a university professor by walking out on her orals, packing up her dilapidated car and heading home with her faithful dog, Germane.  She unexpectantly shows up at her childhood home,  moves back into her attic bedroom and settles down to selfish moping.  While she becomes aware of the little girls by studying them through her attic window, she decidedly refuses to hear the details of their mother's death, professing that it should be no one's buisness but their own.  But, just like a small town, neighbor's lives get tangled, and despite all Langston's attempts to stay uninvolved, others work to make her a key player in the future of two tragically orphaned sisters.
4 Sure the book delves a little deeper into religious philosophy than i would like, but the story is engaging and is well worth sticking through the lecture. It's amazing how Kimmel can take a character who on the surface seems so unlikable and maybe you actually root for her by the end.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  A lot of comments have been made below about this book, so I won't go into the overall storyline.In the beginning I found this book tough going - Langston Braverman is so self-absorbed and her conversation is so scathingly academic it took some getting into. Once it starts becoming evident she has a traumatic past of her own I was much more accommodating.  All her philosophical and literiture prose came across very intense. To some degree this also applies to the pastor, Amos Townsend, and Langston's mother AnnaLee Braverman; though I really enjoyed reading AnnaLee's fedupness of Langston's communication style when she obviously thought in this way herself.I loved the development of the story; the gradual intertwining of all the characters; their gradual need of each other; the gradual unfolding of the terrible history each of them carried (some worse than others), which had scarred them in their own individual ways.  Author Kimmel's beautiful use of language, particularly when Langston speaks with the two, traumatised, little girls throughout the book.There are those who feel Langston had not emotionally grown from one end of the book to the other - but I cannot agree.  I felt she changed from a totally selfish, self-absorbed, anal personality who rejected any notion of caring for or helping anyone (including herself) to a person who had come to love and care for those two girls and also for Amos (who were so obviously meant for each other).I complete agree with comments below that the end of the book wasn't done justice.  I felt the relationship dynamics could have been expanded a lot more.  It would have made for a much more emotionally satisfying ending.Overall, I really enjoyed this book - a great storyline which unfolded so well, indepth interesting characterization, a lovely love story and so beautifully written.  I look forward to reading Kimmel's other novels.
3 I love Haven Kimmel's books.  I came across her work not too long ago (I don't know what took me so long) - and I fell in love with her style - both with fiction and non.  "The Solace of Leaving Early"...wasn't one of my favorites, though.  Maybe if I'd read it up her writing chain instead of reading the newer stuff and then looking back - my feeling may have been different.  But - this one was more work for me - although it did have many moments that I treasured.For instance, this:  "It is the nature of the world that we miss the moment our fate changes, but can recall it later with perfect clarity."Or "He couldn't imagine how he earned this little piece of luck.  She was just another possibility in the mind of God, one of many potential universes, and somehow, in a trick, a tug, she arrived."It's something about the way that Kimmel looks at most of her characters that captivates me, I think.  She looks at people with clear eyes, seeing their flaws, but gives most of them enough back story so that the reader at least understands their actions, if not forgives them.  There are few villains in her stories, but there are heroes.  No one is painted in black or white, but in the most beautiful palette of greys.Amos Townsend, the minister I would like to have were I ever to find the slightest bit of a religious streak in me, is a character I've run across before in Kimmel's work.  He is a central character in "Solace", and the questions he asks as he examines his life and his faith, seem universal ones.  Interestingly, the questions the reader first encounters, about the death of one of Amos's parishioners, turn out not to be the ones we're yearning for an answer to by the end of the book."Why? he wanted to ask his congregants.  "Why does this happen to us?  Because we have abandoned an infinite number and variety of pure possibilities, and perhaps they live alongside the choices we did make, immortalized in the cosmic memory."I think the reason this book felt like work, was that it reads very...scholarly?  Many of the main characters, despite their small town lives and the stereotypical roles one might feel compelled to put them in, are incredibly well read, and there were many times that I was at least a foot beneath the surface of this book.  I was missing what the characters were trying to express because I didn't have the literary knowledge to stay afloat.  The story comes back, in the end, but I did feel the frustrated urge to skip ahead more than a few times.But through it all, Kimmel creates beautiful snapshots of everyday life.  People we either are or know.  "...we had done this momentous a subtle thing, we'd gotten married and made a baby together, and we just sank into it, it felt like sinking every day.  The smells of a home and the smells of a baby and a marriage bed, the intimacy, the familiarity, the safety, all of it."And those who maybe we wish we didn't know:  "He had a robber's smile, those last few years."Oh, and there's still Kimmel's gentle humor.  "Maybe she was destined to be someone, to do something, but never got the chance.  And what would her obituary say, should she die in the next week:  "She kept a clean bathroom"? or "Her brownies were quite moist"?And with Amos, "In Introduction to Pastoral Care, Amos had been taught to say, "Thank you for trusting me enough to share your story," as opposed to, "That story reminds me of all the reasons I'm planning to die young."In the end, I would say that "The Solace of Leaving Early" is a portrait, not specifically of one character, but of a kind of life.  Parts of this life we all live, filled with joy, grief, humor and quiet desperation.  With very few exceptions, we're all heroes and villains of a sort, which is to say we're all human."Langston stopped, half-in and half-out the door.  "Half the people you've invited are crazy, Mama.  We must not let that stop us from having a good time."Indeed.
1 The main character, Langston, is very self righteous.She seems to think that there is no one quite asintelligent and special as she herself. She treats everyonein so condescending a manner that it makes me ill.The dialogue is stilted and frankly unpleasant.i don't care for any of the characters, but Ialso dislike seeing how poorly they are treated byLangston and how badly they treat each other.Amos, is nearly as bad as Langston, and try as I might, Iam unable to find a single likable characteristic. I livein a small town myself. Some of the people here are unlikable.I believe that for the most part, there is kindness andgenerosity. The description of Haddington makes me feel asif walking the streets would be like walking through warm tar.Putting these two characters together was nearly more than I could bear.Avoid.
1 I wholeheartedly agree with Bruce's and Customer's reviews. The book is painfully dull with unbelievable dialogue, especially between the protagonist and the girls. The Marian apparitions didn't even have that much to do with the story. It was mostly about the protagonist's unhappiness with small-town life We learn that she had an affair with a cad whilst at graduate school. She walked out of her exams because she couldn't stand to see the cad with his new woman, married and pregnant. It took me forever to finish this book. Do yourself a favor and skip this book. You're not missing much!
5 It's difficult to write a novel about faith and romance that's smart but not smug, moving but not preachy, and entertaining on a purely plot level.  Remarkably, Haven Kimmel has done just that in SOLACE--she's a wordsmith of the first order, a common-sense theologian and a splendid storyteller.  She's also created two characters--Amos and Langston--who stay with you as if they were genuine folks, the preacher from your neighborhood church or an old friend returned home--a bit worse for wear--after years away. Add to this the author's subtle asides, droll throwaway lines, narrative winks and quick wisdom, and you've got a great read, one of the best in years as far as I'm concerned.
5 The highest praise I reserve for a novelist is to say that he/she reminds me of Anne Tyler.  Haven Kimmel falls into that august category with her BRILLIANTLY rendered fist novel "The Solace of Leaving Early" which is at once a love story and an examination of the nature of grief.Quirky and enduring characters populate Kimmel's small Midwestern town.  One cannot fail to be moved by young Immaculata and Epiphany as they face their darkest days.And ahhh the character of Langston! She is one of the most interesting, funny and aggressively irritating characters I've come across in a long long time.  I hated to close the book on her.This is one novel that you won't "leave early".
5 Normally, I like books where I like the central character.  In this novel, I didn't like the central character (Langston) but nonetheless thought this was a beautifully written book.  Of course, the theological thoughts of Langston and Amos, the other central character, were enjoyable to me because I have a degree in theology.  If you're not interested in these kinds of existential questions as addressed by theologians such as Kierkegaard and Whitehead, you may not be interested in the book.  Although fairly frequent, these ponderings were fairly short.The plot involves Langston, an irritating PhD student (English lit) who walked out of her oral exams and moved back home to a small town that she despises. She won't get a job and lords it over everyone intellectually, self-absorbed and keeping everyone at arm's length. Her mother is at her wit's end trying to get Langston to start functioning as part of humanity but (as becomes clear) understands what's behind her behavior. At the same time, the author tells the story of Amos, a minister in the town church (Mennonite?), also intellectual and also an outsider.  Finally, there are two children, sisters who witnessed their mother's murder, who come to live with their grandmother, who lives across the street from Langston.  Eventually, all these characters come together in a healing way.  Over the course of the novel, bits and pieces of the background of the characters emerge, details that had been referred to but not explained (for example, why Langston walked out of her oral exams).Some sentences are so beautifully written and so insightful you want to underline them.  I found myself dog-earring the corners of pages to mark these places. Considering this was the author's first published novel, it is an amazing work. Although I never did like Langston, I did finally understand her.
5 Of course I loved this book. It has many of my favorite things; discourses on theory, strange little kids, the skewering of academia, Marian visitations and one of those Ichabod Crane men I fall in love with both in and out of novels. It's close to perfect, but I have felt that way about all three Haven Kimmel books I've read, so I'm probably biased.I think I'm bewitched by the intelligence of her characters. Everyone in her novels is so quietly brilliant. It's difficult to write fiction about the life of the mind. The theological questions Amos ponders in The Solace of Leaving Early are key to the plot of this book, and only partly because they provide a common ground for one of the most absolutely perfect love stories I have ever read. He's discovering more than how to fall in love. He's figuring out how to survive a life in which such terrible, terrible things can happen to innocent people. As in Marilyn Robinson's Gilead, A man who loves God must find his way out of his own culpability and back into grace with not much more than his own thoughts to guide him. Well, Amos has a little more help than the main character in Gilead, thankfully.Haven Kimmel is accused now and then of "showing off" in her fiction because her characters care about theology, philosophy, literary theory, poetry and literature. Some readers seem to think she's just stuck that in there to make them feel stupid. I wonder why any reader would assume a writer would have an interest in doing that. When I encounter ruminations on ancient classical drama or theories of existence in a Kimmel book, I assume that it's an important part of the character about whom I'm reading. I read slowly, carefully, I try to open up my brain and let it in. If I occasionally get to feel stupid as a byproduct of that, well, so much the better.
4 I am a committed Haven Kimmel fan after reading this very well-written book by an obviously erudite, well-read author.  Once I had read a few chapters, I was hooked on Langston, her family, and Amos' relationship(s).  This is a novel to be savored because each paragraph holds unexpected nuggets.  I found the literary references to be thought-provoking, the details of each person's life to be exquisitely crafted and the humor to be sharp.  I felt as if I knew this small town in Indiana quite intimately by the time Langston met daily with Alice's daughters.  I majored in English at Indiana University, so I also appreciated Langston's observations of the academics who reign in their own narrow world.  I cannot wait to read &quot;A Girl Named Zippy&quot; and anything else written by this very talented author.
5 Placed into my hands by a woman at my neighborhood bookstore who said, 'Read this,' what a wonderful discovery this book was. Langston Braverman (and howz THAT for a great name for your character?) returns home (after a grim end to an affair and in the middle of her PhD orals) not for the usual reasons; she wants to get away from it all. But she find herself right in the middle of it all, the biggest 'it' being the death of her childhood friend and the fact that she's asked to help care for her friends deeply disturbed daughters. With great story lines, believable dialog, and revised Midwestern values, we read, compulsively hooked, as these troubled individuals struggle to find solace and peace. Wow, what a terrific book!
5 I just loved this novel, all the while aware that many who want more action and less academic intrusions, might not. I loved "The Solace of Early Leaving" just because the main characters are midwest oddballs, both more at home at a Divinity School and yet there they are, with so many past griefs, none of which are quickly revealed, but are opened up towards the end of this deliciously strange plot.There is telling as well as showing and I loved that too. Thank you Haven Kimmel  5 stars, no question
3 Jan McDonald (below) says just about everything in her review that I wanted to say -- the unlikely scholarship of the farmers in Haddington IN, the too rapid and too neat denouement, the suffocatingly thick references to religious/philosophical literature, and yes, the beauty of Kimmel's prose which renders all of the aforementioned almost irrelevant.I would add only a few thoughts.  Langston, the central character, is throughout most of the book almost a caricature of the smug, self-centered and insufferably selfish &quot;professional student.&quot;  She was exceedingly well drawn as a character, being both familiar AND infuriating -- but I kept expecting her to undergo some emotional growth during the unfolding of the story.  Unfortunately, she arrives at the terminus without ever boarding that train.Second, Kimmel's portrait of the pastor Amos Townsend is absolutely spot-on; his doubts, his discipline, his soul-searching and his embarrassment at landing in a series of dead-end parishes.  Although the reader could see from the outset how the two lead characters are perfect for each other, Kimmel's slow dance of bringing them together builds a lovely tension.  Too bad the book wasn't about 8 chapters longer so she could have resolved that tension realistically.And last, I am puzzled by the title.  There is no &quot;solace&quot; in Langston's decision to abandon her PhD in mid-exam; it is a decision she neither understands nor one she can live with.  And there is no &quot;leaving early&quot; in the overall arc of the novel -- in the end boy-gets-girl.  There's certainly no comfort for the troubled children, nor for any of the rear-stage cast who all have their own problems.  In short, it seems like a title chosen by a publicist.To sum up, a flawed novel to be sure, but not one without rewards.  Some really stunning writing makes me look forward to her next novel.
3 As a huge fan of A Girl Named Zippy, I was somewhat disappointed in The Solace of Leaving Early. What I loved about Zippy is that it was such an easy read, written in simple language, but yet observant &amp; well written. I found The Solace of Leaving Early to be an entirely different writing style, that at times was tough to read. Kimmel is a very talented writer, and she did create two very quirky characters who the novel centers around; Langston Braverman &amp; Amos, the local pastor.  Both Langston &amp; Amos, unknowingly are facing many of the same struggles, but yet, can't seem to stand each other. Kimmel takes us down a path of realization as these two characters struggle with the circumstances they unwillingly find themselves in. Issues of guilt, finding your calling, and unconditional love are explored. Do not read The Solace of Leaving Early expecting another Zippy as they are two totally different types of writing. Even though I didn't love Solace, it's still clear that Kimmel is a talented writer, and I look forward to more of her works.
2 Some books' writing flows effortlessly into your mind.  This book's writing is intrusive - I find myself thinking more about the writing style and what I don't like about it, than I do about the characters and the plot.  Never a good sign.  The author seems to be reaching (too hard) for the kind of lyrical and haunting prose that a few other writers have acheived.The author's depiction of the relationship between the main character and her mother is overwrought and contrived.If you want a really good book, try &quot;Fall on Your Knees&quot; by Ann-Marie MacDonald!
4 I've said it before, I'll say it again: two things primarily motivate me as a reader. 1) D&eacute;but novels, and 2) Female writers.D&eacute;but novels from female writers are then, a double grand prize.D&eacute;but novels from female writers such as 'The Solace of Leaving Early' are...*sigh*F. Scott Fitzgerald said "You don't write because you want to say something, you write because you have something to say." When a writer has something to say, as in the case of Ms Kimmel, and can say it the way she has here...it's a glorious thing to experience.There is no question that Ms Kimmel had something to say when she set out to write this novel; it was a need. To me, this need was as much a motivating factor (and a fortifying element) as the story she wanted to tell. I say this after having read the most recent of her novels, 'Iodine', which allowed me to see that what she has a need to say, and the arena through which she expresses this need -at least insofar as these two books- include hyper-intelligence and profound-intellectualism-writ-as-an-everyday-experience, as well as philosophy, religion, the paradigm of family...and the loss of an older brother. Even at this stage of her career, her facility at investing her writing with these factors is impressive. (Not that it's not self-absorbed, or self-indulgent. It is, all of it, but the sign of a great writing talent is the ability to grab the reader at the shoulder, pull them along to match your gait, say with confidence, with audacity even, 'I've got a tale I want to tell you,' and have the reader not only be willing to accompany them on the journey, but be eager to. She manages this, in spades.)Another sign of such talent is, essentially, 'what's left out'. Not just in the ability to infer and suggest, but also in effecting a collaborative state: the unspoken agreement to 'dance', for the reader to unconsciously identify in the work something personal, to allow a resonance, so that the experience is something they add to, not merely have. For me, Ms Kimmel's novel accomplished this at critical junctures, adding to my enjoyment in subtle, but profound ways.I laughed. I cried. I was moved to ponder...I was moved, period. Despite the fact that I had no working understanding of the subject matter she might be declaiming on, despite the fact that the references were mostly alien to me (some I'd heard of, but never actually investigated), despite all of this, I found 'The Solace of Leaving Early' to be one of the most rewarding reads I've had in a long, long time.(Oh, and I have to say that the title and what this mindset embodies? Been one of my personal credos for years and years.)Personal rating: 9.0/10
5 First of all, I could just hug Haven Kimmel for not falling into the trap that so many of today's authors fall into, which is in thinking that if 50,000 words are good, then 500,000,000 will be EVEN BETTER. It was a great pleasure to read such a tightly woven story and gave me the impression that Kimmel has really WORKED on her craft as a writer -- she has the discipline to keep her writing spare and lean.The characters were lovely. Okay, I got a bit weary of Amos' constant pedantic mental plodding through books of theological thought that are obscure to anyone who hasn't spent time in a seminary, and there were times when I wished I could yank Langston out of the pages by her wrist, give her a smack in the head and then shove her back into the story, but Kimmel's resolution of the quirks of the two characters was worth these annoyances. At first, I thought Kimmel was just being show-offy of (and boresome about) her own time spent in seminary and graduate school, but as the characters opened up, I perceived there was a reason. Langston's mother was a jewel and the two little girls were haunting.Considering the subject matter (a brutal murder), this was a surprisingly witty book that made me laugh out loud several times at Kimmel's deft turn of a phrase. The ending was superb.I loved it. I recommend it highly. Kimmel is a gifted writer.(P.S. I had those little cream cheese mints at my own wedding and they aren't THAT bad.)
5 This is a love story -- two people in a small town in Indiana intersecting at the cataclysm of another familiy's tragedy. Kimmel plots their paths to this collision course masterfully, developing her characters and subplots, so when we reach the end, we may not be surprised at the outcome, but the way in which it occurs will always be fresh, no matter how many times we read the story. Some readers may find the literary references to an entire spectrum of classical writers and philosophers off-putting, but their context in the story is so marvelous, it should encourage the discerning reader to explore some of these writers for themselves.  This one is a keeper!!
5 While in a drunken depression, Peppy Normal discovers her life-path from the movie Fame. She'll enroll her children in the New York High School of Performing Arts--on their way to become celebrities. Their modest talent didn't matter--she'd incorporated the lessons of the movie deeply into her life. Unfortunately, that also meant inflicting them on her daughter, Liza. The first step toward New York was, perversely, in the opposite direction--to California. There Peppy opens the Normal Dinner Theater (where dinner was never served) and dresses pre-Freshman Liza like a tramp to take her to auditions and cattle-calls.With this background, Liza grows up (to the extent her aging process can be called growing up) confused and waiting for that one magical break. A colony of elves teaches her to use drugs to help the breakthrough and she tries this. While her brother retreats into himself, Liza takes the opposite course, finally ending up in L.A. in an ultimate moment of degradation and humiliation. The one thing she finds that she can make money at has no appeal to her. She wants to be a famous singer--no matter how modest her talent.Author Cintra Wilson teases the reader with author notes, and sends us on a roller-coaster rides of laugh-out-loud humor (certainly the performance of Sound of Music qualifies) and dark depression. The curse of fame and the easy myths that Hollywood perpetuates conspire to keep Liza from enjoying the few good things that do happen to her--there's always hope of that big break just around the corner.Wilson's writing style is conversational, engaging the reader. Her characters are definitely over-the-top, but Liza's horrible high school experience will ring true with many readers, and who hasn't toyed with the notion that they are only a discovery away from being a star. COLORS INSULTING TO NATURE is a fascinating and highly readable novel. I recommend it.
5 Even if I hadn't known Cintra for over ten years and enjoyed her previous work, I would still have loved this book. Liza speaks to that core of many of us who want only to be loved and admired and to feel like we fit in. I was as touched as much as I was amused by Liza's adventures, and the dead-on authenticity of the cultural backdrop contributed equally to the hilarity and the poignancy. For those who have yet to enjoy Cintra's style, imagine Hunter S. Thompson on a date with E. Jean Carroll (okay, don't imagine it) overdosing on truth serum, nitrous oxide and a pint of raw ether. Or maybe not. In any case, buy this book. You won't regret it.
1 Oscar Wilde wrote that literature is unread and journalism is unreadable.  Cintra Wilson, while aspiring toward the former, can't shake the fact that she's only good at the latter; however, defying Wilde's epigram, her journalism, when it's what she intends to write, is really good.  That said, 'Colors Insulting to Nature' is one of the worst books I've ever read.  How it got published is beyond me.  It's the literary equivalent of cat art.  This was a surprise to me because I've always enjoyed reading her columns, especially her post-Oscar ones, and I enjoyed her previous non-fiction book on celebrity culture.  But this book is a travesty.  It's an appalling mess, and I feel more duped for falling for the advance praise and other reader accolades on this  site, than Oprah was by believing James Frey.
5 Colors Insulting to Nature is one of the funniest, most touching books ever to be created.  Once, in the middle of reading this book, I picked it up, looked at the cover like I was staring into the eyes of my one true love, and ecstatically squealed, "I am SO GLAD I AM READING YOU!"  And I'm not one to fall easily in love, especially not with a book.  I cried when it ended, both because of the sensitive, true-to-life ending, and also because I fell so deeply and madly in love with the characters that to see their story end left me feeling like my best friend had just died.  And Wilson's imaginary staging of the Sound Of Music, well, David Sedaris, eat your heart out (and I love that guy).  This is the most hilarious piece of writing I've ever had the pleasure of reading.If you read this book to completion and don't love it, then you can be assured that something has gone horribly wrong with your soul, or at the very least in your taste in literature.  I am an avid reader, and if this is not a fantastic, hilarious, marvelous, life-giving and life-affirming novel, then such a thing must not exist in this world.Read it or regret it!
5 Myth, Icon, Star, Hollywood-America... Cintra Wilson, in her stunning debut novel, Colors Insulting to Nature, takes the reader on a tour through the underground reality of striving to "become a celebrity" in America. In the style of a burlesque Janet Fitch or Wally Lamb, Wilson introduces the protagonist, Liza Normal, as a scantily clad thirteen year-old auditioning her heart out for a T.V. commercial. Liza doesn't get the spot, but captures the reader's heart with her spunky determination. Liza's mother, Peppy Normal, stage-mother extraordinaire, decides to open a theater in a dilapidated firehouse to finance her daughter's and son's (Ned) education at the New York High School for Performing Arts, after being moved by a viewing of "Fame." Liza's dreams are not realized, and the roof falls in, literally and figuratively, on her dreams of pre-pubescent romance and stardom.She is forced to attend the local public high school and things only go downhill from there. Liza, after a traumatic loss of her virginity and her hair, eventually moves in with her best friend, Lorna, whose mother is a midwife/drug dealer.She sports a mohawk, a safety pin through her nose and an untouchable attitude. Inside though, the reader can still see little Liza Normal, underdressed wannabe child star, struggling to surface.Liza travels through each level of the Hollywood underground, coming back occasionally to speak with agoraphobic Ned and perpetually antagonistic Peppy. She develops romances and a drug addiction, and like any Hollywood wannabe or superstar, does her time in rehab. She comes out renewed in her search for stardom and eventually finds that a side venture that she loathes will be her way "in."Cintra Wilson peppers the novel with editorials, making an entertaining novel into an adventure in Hollywood and a hilarious tongue-in-cheek take on the endless quest to be "discovered." She points out in subtle and not-so-subtle ways the tendency of Americans to look for instant gratification and how we love and leave our shooting stars.Liza's recollections and reflections are all based in movies, whether real movies or the "movie of her life," clearly showing Wilson's intent of portraying America's great obsession.
5 I cannot say enough good things about this novel. Cintra Wilson skewers so much of what I loathe about this ridiculous, lame, infuriating society. She also turns a brilliant eye at various countercultures, the misery of high school rulers, sycophants who kiss the butts of celebrities (even if they happen to be murderers), etc. In addition, this novel eschews lame gender stereotypes and isn't afraid to correctly call out certain walking stereotypes that other writers are too 'politically correct' to critique (misogynist rap stars, superficial gay men, the ridiculous drug rehab industry). Imagine--a female protagonist who does drugs, is ambitious yet self-aware, sexual, non-mainstream, and isn't a masochist who ends up in a dumpster or toting five kids around a suburb by the end of the book! The happy ending was a bit of a cop-out, but this book is too perfect for me to complain about a bit of wish-fulfillment. In addition, this book contains one of my favorite quotes of all time, as dreamt by the utterly sympathetic Ned: "The universe has only thirty six cycles, and all of them are corrupt." I check Amazon every week for another Cintra Wilson novel. I only wish I knew someone like her, as I live in the belly of the beast (her characterization of Los Angeles was right on) and it seems everyone except for myself and my partner has no problem with the utter lameness of Hellywood.
5 The snake has at last swallowed its own tail and postmodern fiction has found a defining moment. Literature found postmodernism in 1961 with Thomas Pynchon's novel, V, and is characterized by an indistinction between high and low art, parody and irony, celebration of ambiguity, regurgitation and assimilation of previously original work, a preoccupation with the organization of knowledge (not what you know, but how you know it), and a rebellion against consumer capitalism. As such, Cintra Wilson's novel, Colors Insulting to Nature (HarperCollins 2004), serves as a sort of meta-postmodern fiction.From the moment 10-year-old Liza Normal is awestruck by the movie Ice Castles, she dreams of the glory of stardom. Unfortunately, Liza is not the sort of girl who becomes famous. Vulgar in both looks and personality, Liza is saddles with a maniacally ambitious stage mother and devoid of any marketable talent. Propelled through her mother's bizarre homegrown performing arts boot camp, her stage debut in The Sound of Music is an unqualified disaster that serves only to label Liza a freak at her suburban San Francisco high school. But Liza has one talent of which she is not aware - an indomitable ability to bounce back fighting from any setback or humiliation no matter how devastating by sheer force of will. Through failed love affairs, drug experimentation, New Age religious adventures, and searing rejection, Liza finally discovers that she is a much stronger and better person than the starlet she thought she wanted to be.Colors Insulting to Nature is easily one of the funniest black comedies of the last decade. The entire price of the book in hardcover is alone worth the deconstruction of the 1978 smarm-fest that was Ice Castles (Columbia TriStar Pictures). I challenge anyone to get through Liza's trials at her mother's summer theatre camp without laughing hard enough to wet themselves. The camp's delightfully bizarre production of The Sound of Music is Barbara Robinson's The Best Christmas Pageant Ever (HarperCollins 1972) for grown-ups.Wilson's novel is certainly metafiction. Self-conscious narrative interruptions point out the reader's expectation of particular plot devices. Wilson uses this brilliantly to mock the very same tortured tango that she herself is dancing. Liza story contains subtlely hideous intimations of modern Hollywood's best-known templates - not just Ice Castles, but Carrie (by Stephen King, published by Random House in 1974 and adapted for film in 1976 by Lawrence D. Cohen), Pretty Woman (Touchstone Pictures 1989), and The Wizard of Oz (by L. Frank Baum, self-published in 1900 and adapted for film in 1939 by MGM Studios), among others.Despite Wilson's unapologetic inflations of reality, Liza is an utterly human, sympathetic, and believable character. Her indestructibility masks such a completely credible vulnerability that it's impossible for anyone with a heart not to have it break for her even as we're gasping with laughter at her irreverently contrived escapades.Wilson uses Liza's story to ingeniously illustrate the uniquely postmodern insanity of personalities sewn together like Frankenstein from Hollywood prototypes, all stemming from a neurotic black hole where one's sense of self ought to be. Our media-saturated culture has fed us on these prototypes with an unrealistic vision of what life and love should look like. Wilson's novel posits that the source of our Western existential crisis is the resulting void of self-awareness when we swallow the big screen's lessons uncritically. As such, Liza's life serves as a recapitulation of the entire modern search for meaning - fame, love, sex, drugs, psychotherapy, consumerism, and marketable fad religions like Wicca and born-again Christianity.Colors Insulting to Nature is not for the faint of heart, but is unspeakably worth the ride. If I could give this book more than five stars, I would.
4 A full frontal assault against celebrity worship and its deletorious effect on the American psyche, "Colors Insulting to Nature" is not a perfect novel. There are a few too many authorial asides restating the theme - yes, we get that basing your life decisions on the movie "Fame" is not a path to personal happiness. That said, this is one of the funniest books I have ever read. The protagonists' staging of "Sound Of Music" is the best kind of parody - one done with affection and understanding of the source material - and had me laughing so hard that I nearly aspirated my burrito. Highly recommended.
5 So fun! I loved it! It's all about a character's failed attempt at fame and self-discovery. She is such a funny, poignant and memorable writer.For more reviews, please visit my blog, CozyLittleBookJournal.
1 don't believe me? check out page 96, the bit in bold type at the top of the page. the author (term used loosely) feels obliged to remind us that we, as readers, are "a vast repository of stories," and that she need only "toss out a select handful of hoary chestnuts to suggest certain templates, and you will start filling in the blanks."to which i can only reply: author vastly overamused by her own dubious wit.
4 I knew I had to read "Colors Insulting to Nature" after digesting Cintra Wilson's "A Massive Swelling: Celebrity Reexamined as a Grotesque, Crippling Disease" (one of the top five best titles of all time, IMO). Now, no one is going to accuse Wilson of having written a "deep" book here, but hey, that's not her style, and this is a full-out satire and criticism of our fame-hungry society. Why do you think the main character's name is Liza Normal? Isn't it considered "normal" in America today to be absolutely fame-hungry? What got me, besides the laugh-out-loud moments, was the fact that Liza actually truly grew on me as a character. I got emotionally involved in her plight, and the spate of friends and enemies (including her outrageously selfish mom Peppy) she deals with grew on me too. Wilson is dead-on in her grasp of so many aspects of underground as well as mainstream culture, it's uncanny. What could make this a better book? It could be shorter. Wilson writes wonderfully but there were scenes I felt could have been excised. All in all a great and worthwhile read, if you're not in the mood for "War and Peace."
5 This is one of those books that you get so into you laugh out loud because it is so funny and you don't care who hears you. They make think you're crazy for laughing while reading a book but you know different. This book was great.
5 Carol Shields' last novel, "Unless," is a refreshing intellectual and literary treat. I enjoyed this novel so much I read it twice in quick succession. The novel is a fitting capstone to an illustrious literary career.There are three stories intertwined in this short novel. First, there is the story of Reta Winters, the mother, a woman whose 18-year-old daughter has inexplicably and suddenly dropped out of life to sit mute on a Toronto street corner panhandling with a sign around her neck reading, "GOODNESS." Second, it is the story of Reta Winters, the author, a woman in the process of writing a comic novel called "My Thyme is Up" and also assisting her feminist mentor, Danielle Westerman, translate her childhood memoirs. Finally, it is the story of Reta Winters, the feminist, a woman quietly raging against the marginalization of women in all walks of life, but especially in the world of literary publishing.Much of the novel focuses on the nature of goodness. Reta wonders if her daughter's homelessness is some kind of protest against female powerlessness. Perhaps her daughter has suddenly become aware that she must settle for goodness, since greatness still appears to be a realm reserved for men only.Reta is a 44-year old Canadian writer and translator living in rural Orangetown, Ontario. Reta is a writer in the process of creating a novel...so there is this fascinating infinite digression about a woman writer writing a novel about another woman writer writing a novel. Winters has much to say about the process of writing that is both humorous and insightful, but mostly she rants brilliantly about the marginalization of woman authors.Reta is a charming, social, busy woman with many friends and responsibilities. She is an intellectual, a feminist, and a social activist. She and her common-law husband, Tom, have three daughters. Until her eldest daughter suddenly takes up living as a homeless person on the streets of Toronto, Reta has been living a life of extraordinary familial happiness. As the book opens, Reta's world is shattered by the loss of her daughter to the streets of Toronto. Her heart is broken--she is grieving, and desperate to understand her daughter's behavior. The novel takes place over the course of a year as Reta copes with her loss and ultimately comes to understand the motivation behind her daughter's actions.The novel is chock full of feminist rage and humor. The homeless daughter plot holds the piece together, but it is insignificant against the weight of the whole. In my estimation, the whole hangs together mainly through the irresistible wellspring of interior musings from Reta's mind. What keeps you reading is finding out as much as you can about this very real, and most intriguing protagonist."Unless" is overflowing with life--a work brimming with ambiguity and nuance. This book is so alive, I swear...one has just to pick it up to feel the heartbeat within.
5 Reta keeps trying to count her blessings.  She is a middle-aged woman with a career doing some literary French to English translation and writing a couple of novels of her own.  Reta is married to a doctor, lives a comfortable life, has a handful of really good friends and two teenage daughters living with her.  There are lots of good things in Reta's life.  But there is also one gaping wound in her life, something so painful that sometimes Reta finds it hard to get through her days.  Reta's oldest daughter, Norah, nineteen years old, has dropped out of college in order to sleep nights at a homeless shelter and spend days sitting on a street corner begging for money.Reta and her husband don't know what to do about Norah.  She won't talk to them, won't explain why she has chosen this life.  She absolutely won't come home or go back to school.  Reta worries that if she pushes Norah too much, then the girl might take a more drastic step toward isolation.  So she drives by the corner.  She takes packages of food and clothes that she assumes Norah gives away to others.  She donates money to the homeless shelter.  But mostly she tries to find a reason for Norah's behavior.Reta questions her own mothering skills and feels guilty that perhaps some defect in herself drove her daughter to this choice.  For a short time she blames the boy Norah was dating just before she quit school.  Then Reta becomes fixated on society at large and its focus on maleness, its relegation of women to the shadows, hardly mentioned and even more rarely considered important in the grand scheme of things.  Perhaps Norah noticed this trend and decided to treat herself as unimportant, as society sees her.Despite Reta's broken heart, life must go on, and it does in this book.  But as Reta lives her day-to-day life, taking care of her family, writing her novel, meeting friends for coffee, Norah's living on the streets is a constant backdrop to her life.I really liked Reta's character and the way she dealt with this family tragedy.  I thought she was realistic and sympathetic, and I enjoyed seeing things through her eyes.  Her helplessness when she thought about Norah was moving, and I admired her ability to continue on with her life while trying to cope with what was happening with Norah.
5 Once again Carol Shields has written an eloquent, thought-provoking novel. Quick! Name the five most memorable leaders you can think of. How many of them are women? And that's the point of this amazing book. Thank you Carol Shields for your sensitivity and skillful writing. The world is a poorer place without you. RIP.
3 The Stone Diaries has been my favorite for years. &#34; Unless&#34; contains the same beautiful writing, but the story fails to &#34;grab&#34; the reader until the last chapter.
2 On page 40 of Unless, Carol Shields' heroine notes: &quot;I won't even mention the swift, transitory reward of lemon spray wax.&quot; Then why mention it? This is a book by an author with a contract who has no inspiration. She sits around her desk, looks here and there, and writes. The writing is fine but tedious. The subject is boring. I finally stopped at page 40. There is absolutely no rhyme or reason for this tome. If you liked Carol Shields' other books and want her to be happy, just send her the money directly and don't waste your time as she has.
2 I enjoyed several of her books but not this one. First of all the plausibility--Who would not have their 19 year old daughter forcibly committed in these circumstances? I can't believe they could be this passive.Second--The feminism angle is way over the top. Third, most of the characters are poorly developed. Fourth--It's almost always a bad idea to write a novel about a writer writing a novel.
4 According to Peter Boxall's "1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die," "Unless," by Pulitzer-Prize winning novelist Carol Shields, is a seminal work worthy of being included in the "canon" - at least, according to the first edition of that guide (according to the second edition, published this year, we can now safely die without reading "Unless"). Interestingly, while Carol Shields is (to a limited extent) included in the "canon," one of the major questions she asks in "Unless" is why women are so often excluded. In "Unless," the protagonist, 44-year-old writer, Reta Winters deals with the plight of her 19-year-old daughter, who has given up her life to sit on a street corner, by distracting herself with work on a "light novel." Her friend, Danielle Westerman, a famous author in her own right, believes that Reta is wasting her time writing frivolous novels, but for all of her serious work, Westerman is nevertheless excluded from the "canon," prompting Reta to wonder, "How does she bear it? All the words she's written, all the years buried inside her. What does her shelf of books amount to, what force have these books on the world?" What, she wonders, is the purpose of writing, especially for women, when their work is so easily dismissed? Although Reta believes that women writers are excluded from the greatness accorded the "canon," ultimately she finds a purpose to her writing because of the personal joy it gives her and the voice it gives to women.One of the major themes explored in "Unless" is the issue of how women are allowed "[g]oodness but not greatness," in the words of Danielle Westerman, a feminist pioneer and Holocaust survivor whose memoirs Reta has translated. Westerman believes that Reta's daughter has dropped out of life to sit on a street corner, wearing a "GOODNESS" sign around her neck, because she "has simply succumbed to the traditional refuge of women without power: she has accepted in its stead complete powerlessness, total passivity, a kind of impotent piety." In a series of unsent letters to various men who have excluded women from, among other things, a list of the Great Minds of the Western Intellectual world, a list of problem solvers, and a list of great writers, Reta expresses her outrage with "how casually and completely [women are] shut out of the universe," agreeing with Westerman that Norah has escaped from life after realizing she has no possibility for greatness. Like Westerman and her daughter, Reta has been allowed goodness, but not greatness. Although her first novel, "My Thyme Is Up," sold well, it was not taken seriously as a work of art. According to a review in the "New Yorker," her book "is very much for the moment, though certainly not for the ages." Writing the sequel, Reta again plans a book of comic fiction, featuring the dim-witted Alicia, but her male editor believes her draft is "close to greatness" and "could be one of those signal books of our time . . . with a mere two or three shifts of perspective" - that is, by increasing the role of the male character Roman and exploring the theme of his search for identity. In other words, in order to attain "greatness," Reta must sacrifice Alicia, in her gendered role, and focus instead on an "Everyman" Roman and his "universal" search for identity. In deciding how to finish her book, Reta must also decide what the point of her writing is - is she writing to be taken seriously or is she writing for herself?Ultimately, Reta decides she is writing for herself - for the joy writing gives her and because it gives her a voice. Reta begins work on the sequel to "My Thyme Is Up" as a "diversion" to forget about Norah; through her writing, she says, "I can squeeze my eyes shut, pop through a little door on the wall, and stand outside my child's absence." Whether she is working on a serious book or "light fiction" doesn't matter; it is the act of writing itself that gives her comfort, that redeems her. While out for dinner one night, Reta decides to "add to the literature of washroom walls," scrawling, "My heart is broken." This simple act serves to make Reta feel alive, to give her life: "At once I felt a release of pressure around my ribs. . . . I was allowed to be a receptor and transmitter both, not a dead thing but a live link." Unfortunately, her joy in writing the sequel is interrupted by her editor's comments on the draft. Whereas, before she had heard from him, her book had been her "darling baby" and "greatest distraction," now she dreads working on the book and stops writing. In the end, she rejects her publisher's ideas for Roman, not worrying about converting her book into a serious work of act but rather finishing it with a happy ending, "a convention of comic fiction," and asserts that her joy in writing is more important than how the book is considered by critics or whether it is included in the "canon." But it still begs the question that Reta posed about Danielle Westerman's work - that is, if her book is ignored, what then does it amount to?Ultimately, the value of Reta's writing is that it gives her a voice. In a conversation with her friends, Reta realizes that men don't really talk to women. One of her friends says, "Men aren't interested in women's lives" - they don't care what women think and don't let women "enter the conversation." But even if, in the real world, the inner and outer lives of women aren't as important as men's, in popular fiction, they usually are. Reta acknowledges, "It is Alicia's skin I wear," and she refuses her editor's request to make Roman the center of her book. In "My Thyme Is Up," Alicia's - or Reta's - voice is heard, and that matters, even if her work is dismissed as inconsequential. The importance of Reta's voice is highlighted in a scene where she searches for "the perfect scarf, not the near-perfect and certainly not the impulse purchase we usually settled for" for her daughter Norah. Even though Norah provides minimal input for the scarf - she wants something blue and yellow - Reta conceives in her mind the scarf that will delight her daughter's heart and goes to twenty different boutiques in order to find it. When she does end up finding the perfect scarf, she shows it to one of her female friends, whose eyes tear up: "It's just that it's so beautiful. . . . You invented it, created it out of your imagination." Even if the scarf, like a book of comic fiction, may not amount to much from a world perspective, it is still important. While Reta can't control her daughter's life or her happiness, she can "provide something temporary and necessary: this dream of transformation." In other words, what matters is not the end product - the scarf or the book - but it is the act of not settling, of having imagination, of creating something your own, of giving others happiness that matters. Reta finds her voice not only in Alicia, the woman, but in Alicia the woman writer, who herself is a creator. Although Reta knows, as a writer, it is poor form to also make Alicia a writer, she can't help herself from exploring the area of writing, which "is the richest territory we can imagine. . . . This matters, the remaking of an untenable world through the nib of a pen; it matters so much I can't stop doing it." Her writing does matter, she concludes, because it allows her to enter a conversation normally she is excluded from; it gives her a voice in shaping her own world. If she has to sacrifice that voice to achieve greatness, it is not worth it. Having her own voice recognized and heard is what matters.Although Reta believes that women writers are excluded from the greatness accorded the "canon," ultimately she finds a purpose to her writing because of the personal joy it gives her and the voice it gives to women. As a reader, I admit, I read "Unless" only because it was included in the "canon," as I am trying to become more well-read and add books from Dr. Boxall's guide of 1001 important works to my collection. But, the truth is, I will be lucky to make it through even one-tenth of his list because I know, if I tried reading the whole list, I would quickly tire of trudging through accounts of dirty old white men and their supposed "everyman quest for identity," which neither interests me, gives me joy, or gives me a voice. The power in "Unless" - the thing that gives it a "force on the world" - is that it provides ordinary characters - ordinary people you meet in real life - with a voice. Even if Reta Winters isn't a universal character - i.e., she is not an Everyman but likely appeals only to women - and she is not struggling to find her identity, her struggle to make it through each of her ordinary days is still important. Her story may not be "one for the ages," but it is enough to provide readers with a transformative moment of happiness, and that is good enough for me.
5 I loved the voice of this novel, and felt it really spoke to how a woman thinks.  It made me think of my own voice.
1 I was so bored reading this book.  It started out boring in the first chapter when she listed all of her works and explained her translations.  I'm not one of those type of readers where a book has to immediately grip you in the beginning otherwise you quit.  So I kept on reading hoping it would get better... but it didn't.The book focuses on how Reta deals with her daugher, Norah's, strange decision to live in a shelter and to beg on the streets.  Reta starts to believe the reason why Norah became this way is because of some feminist plight.  So Reta rants about feminism for a good boring portion of this book and starts to write letters to random people about her daughter and feminism.  The story about her daughter Norah was mildy interesting but it always felt like it was the background not the main focus.  I did like how in the end, the mystery of why Norah took to begging on the streets in the name of Goodness was revealed, which tied back into an earlier small part in the book.I felt like I did not get to know any of the characters.  Reta's husband, Tom, and their daughters, Natalie & Christine, have no personalities. Their characters are completely flat.  The only two people we see any kind of personality are Reta, who is neurotic, and Danielle Westerman, who is unlikeable.
5 Carol Shields' Unless is a lovely novel, a reflection, in novel form, on what it means to be a writer, a parent, a woman, many things.  A word of warning:  there is not much of a plot and if that's going to bother you, then perhaps this novel isn't for you.  Unless is narrated by Reta Winters, an author who, while attempting to write her second novel, must deal with the painful actions of her oldest daughter.  Norah, her nineteen-year old daughter has dropped out of college and taken to panhandling in Toronto.  She is in an almost catatonic state, and won't speak to her family.  The mystery of why Norah is behaving like this is almost destroying Reta, yet somehow she goes on with her life.  This novel is her account of what that life is like.  It is intelligently written.  Reta is a smart, quick narrator.  It isn't until the end of the novel that the actual story gets moving.  You finally get the sense that a resolution with Norah, and with Reta's novel, may be ahead.  Shields is saying a lot in this novel--much about being a writer and the creative process, but there is also some feminism in there too.  The novel is fairly brief--a little over 200 pages, but Sheilds manages to fit much in those pages.  Unless is a thought-provoking, thoughtful read.  Enjoy
2 Unless is a book that goes everywhere and arrives nowhere.  It is severely fragmented and it lacks depth and development of character. As a reader, you want to feel for Norah and understand her motives but so little and inconclusive information is given along the way that by the time the burning incident is presented, it is easy to lose interest.  All the characters and events are loosely held together which impedes the free-flow of the story.  The story line had such gut-wrenching and thought-provoking potential-- it was a great  dissappointment too see it so poorly developed.
5 Two big time winners are paired in this audio book - author Carol Shields took home the Pulitzer Prize in 1994 for &quot;The Stone Diaries,&quot; and actor Joan Allen has been thrice nominated for an Academy Award and twice named for a Tony.Allen, a Broadway and film veteran, delivers a consummate reading of this story of one family's tragedy set amidst life on the cusp of the 21st century.  Listeners will be rapt - seduced by Allen's voice and luxuriating in the author's remarkable prose.Enjoying the fruits of success as a writer and translator, Reta Winters has every reason to believe she has it all - a devoted husband, three outstanding daughters, and a covey of good friends.  Her world is tilted when her oldest child leaves college, and deserts family and boyfriend to take up residence on a street corner with a sign reading &quot;Goodness.&quot;Understandably anguished Reta tries to fathom what might have caused her daughter to take such action.  It is in this search that listeners will find a sometimes disturbing, at other times heartening view of life as it is  today.- Gail Cooke
4 This is a "gauzy" novel about a mother's reaction to her daughter's withdrawal from life and decision to panhandle on a street corner. By "gauzy," I mean that the prose is concise and reveals only certain aspects of the story and characters.  There is plenty of white space to be filled by the imagination.  The prose is not overburdened with details.  The book is tinged with feminism and the idea that women are destined for "goodness" but not "greatness." I found this novel to be engaging throughout and imaginative.
2 I bought this book for my mother, who thoroughly enjoyed reading it on her THIRD attempt to read the entire book. My mother passed it back on to me, after she finished, and raved about how wonderful the book was.  She continues to encourage me to read on,  but I just can't. The beginning of the book is just plain boring.  I've only picked it up twice, in an attempt to read two chapters and I just can drudge through it!  Nothing happens.  After reading various other reviews, I'm sure Shield's novel is a wonderful story with a beginning, middle & end, but I just can't help but fall asleep trying to finish the beginning.
5 Carol Shields is a powerful writer, all the more so because she writes in such facile prose that she is accessible on every level - the &quot;story&quot; of a Canadian family coping with focus of despair in an otherwise comfortable world, the &quot;philosophy&quot; of how we arrive at the state of adulthood only when we are able to remember and incorporate our hazy past, the &quot;sociology&quot; of what is happening to feminisim, to friendships, to geneology and inheritance in a family, the &quot;spiritual&quot; haven where finding internal goodness is more than enough of a Journey, the &quot;didactical&quot; means of writing a book.  Now that covers a lot of ground!  Shields builds the tension of this short novel with such honesty that we are at first put off that a good mother could seem to put the trauma of her eldest daughter becoming a street person in such a niche that she can proceed with cooking, tending her hausband and other daughters, having tea with friends, translating  from the French the works of a Canadian femininist, and writing her own &quot;light entertainment &quot; novel while being confronted by editorial asides. It is just such a slice of ordinary life, living day to day because of and inspite of, that makes her final resolution of this marvelous novel so touching.  Shields assigns each short chapter with &quot;little chips of grammar (mostly adverbs or prepositions) that are hard to define&quot; such as &quot;therefore, otherwise, instead, already,&quot; etc.  Most tellingly she uses one of these 'chips' as the title of this novel, and it is only half way through that she tells us why.  &quot; 'Unless' is the worry word of the English language.  It flies like a moth around the ear, you hardly hear it, and yet everything depends on its breathy presence.&quot;  To attempt to review this novel with more words would be inadequate.  This is the work of a Pulitzer Prize winning writer, one of the strongest, and most honest voices writing today.  This is a treasure box of a book.  Highly recommended.
4 .I first heard this book when an extract was read over the radio - a piece in which the author is preparing dinner for the family and waiting for her mother-in-law to come over.The style of writing was so clear and inviting that I bought the book. Though Shields subject matter is quite different, the clarity of the style and the ability to evoke an environment reminded me of another of the greats - John McGahern.The book takes a number of risks in that the main character is an author - Reta Winters - whose minor preoccupations include her current book, her relationship with her publisher and her friends who come together in a weekly writing circle.  This could become hugely self-referential, but  such is the skill employed this does not cloud the picture.  The story is told in the first person - another risk, as it could become really heavy going, but serves to highlight Reta's confusion, concern and emerging awareness.Reta's main preoccupation is with her eldest daughter who has dropped out of college and is homeless in Toronto; and yet this story is a backdrop - the action takes place in Reta's suburban world.One of the things I found most alarming about the book is the fact the Reta's family - husband, two other daughters and mother-in-law are quite distant characters - even though she says they are a close family, it is the descriptions of and conversations with Reta's female friends which outline her thinking.  Her description of her home-life as being loving is not reflected in the movement of the story.Reta's anxiety finds expression in a series of letters she writes (but does not post) to various authors of articles she comes across, decrying their lack of attention to women in their fields.  Her contention through the book is that women are born powerless in society and that this results in all sorts of symptoms - perhaps including her daughters withdrawal from the world.  I am not clear whether this is Shields actual view or whether she attributes this to Reta's trying to find some meaning in her predicament.  Shields' conversation pieces are excellent, there is a description of an interview which Reta has with a male journalist which bristles with suppressed anger; while on the surface being professional and polite. She describes another conversation between Reta and a friend - a less successful author - where Reta describes the joy of gift shopping (I came as close to understanding its appeal as I every likely too!) and produces a scarf which Reta has bought for her daughter.  Reta's friend misunderstands, seizes the scarf as if it were a gift for herself; leaving Reta dumbfounded.  This piece was deliciously described, and, I think, also intended to show that Reta's thoughts about women being excluded because of their gender, is rather simplistic and not the author's view.My only major problem about the book was the ending.  Throughout we had been led through a description of domestic life - disturbed by the withdrawal of the eldest daughter, but otherwise carrying on with the usual mixture of upsets and routine.  We have not been led to expect any answers or major revelations - indeed one of Reta's concerns is that her husband's search for an answer to why their daughter dropped outWill lead him to despair, when and if he finds no one cause.  And then, in the final chapter, everything is explained - not just for the daughter's problem, but the mother-in-law swings in with explanations of her issues and the story is wrapped with causes.  Its not a `happily-ever-after', but it does smack of `that's all right then, if we know the cause, I'm sure we can fix it'. Life's not that neat.This one problem apart, this is a tremendous book, gently paced, executed with great craft, illustrating the depths of concerns that lie within seemingly everyday life.
4 Our main character whose trauma affects her entire family, without their understanding why she retreated into madness, is a moving story of hope,perseverance, and,finally enlightenment and understanding.
3 There can be few works of literature whose title consists solely of a single conjunction. (Kipling's &quot;If&quot; is probably the most famous). The word &quot;unless&quot; here refers to Ms Shields's theory that human life, like the English language is held together by a few linking words (conjunctions, adjectives and prepositions such as &quot;unless&quot;, &quot;although&quot;, &quot;nevertheless&quot;) which are meaningless in themselves but which gain importance by what they join together).The narrator and central character of this novel is Reta Winters, a middle-aged writer living in a small town near Toronto with her husband and two of her three daughters. Although Reta would appear to have a comfortable middle-class life, the family faces a crisis when their eldest daughter, Norah, drops out of university and goes to live on the streets of Toronto as a beggar, holding a sign with the single word "GOODNESS". The reason why only becomes clear at the very end of the book; for most of the time, both the reader and her family are left in the dark. Not only are Reta and her family unable to understand Norah's behaviour, they are also unable to change it. Norah is legally an adult, and not of unsound mind, so she cannot be compelled to return to her family, and their attempts to persuade her to do so or to reason with her are met with silence.Unable to alter the situation, the family have to get on with their lives as best they can, and much of the book is taken up with descriptions of the defence mechanisms they use to cope with Norah's loss. Her two younger sisters Natalie and Christine get on with their everyday school lives, Tom returns to his work and to his all-consuming hobby, the study of fossil trilobites (which means more to him than his day-job as a doctor), and Reta continues with her round of housework, meetings with friends and work on her latest novel.As one would expect, however, Reta continues to be preoccupied with Norah and tries desperately to understand her. The family come up with various theories- problems with her boyfriend, academic difficulties at university, some unknown trauma- but the explanation which comes to obsess Reta is intimately tied to her own feminist views. Reta believes that Norah has dropped out of a male-dominated society which denies women the chance to achieve "greatness". Deprived of this opportunity, Norah is forced to pursue the only alternative, "goodness", which she is seeking through renunciation of the world. Reta elaborates this theory in a series of letters written to various authors and journalists whom she considers to have undervalued the role of women. (In the end, however, she never posts any of these letters).Unlike some reviewers, I did not see "Unless" as "feminist rant", or even as a feminist work at all. Indeed, it seems quite possible that Ms Shields wrote it as a subtle critique of feminism, or to be more accurate of the ideological tunnel vision to which certain types of feminism (and certain other viewpoints) can lead. By "ideological tunnel vision", I mean the tendency to see all misfortunes as being caused by the one single phenomenon against which one's ideology is directed. As a feminist, Reta blames Norah's condition on male dominance of society, but if she had been a Marxist, she would no doubt have blamed capitalist oppression of the working class. A Freudian would have blamed neuroses arising from psychosexual traumas in childhood, a Christian fundamentalist would have blamed the godlessness of modern society and a militant atheist would have blamed the baleful influence of religion. A flat-earther would probably have blamed the persistence of the illogical belief in a round world. Without wanting to give away the ending of the novel, I can say that when the truth about Norah becomes known, it has nothing to do with Reta's feminist theories.Ms Shields can write well, and some parts of the book are very effective, particularly Reta's memories of her own childhood, and the satirical portrait of her pushy, gushing literary editor Arthur Springer. Nevertheless, the book as a whole is rather static, with little development either of plot or of character. Too much of the book is taken up with the minutiae of Reta's everyday life, and her meetings with her various friends, none of whom emerge as interesting characters in their own right. Indeed, apart from Springer and Reta herself, none of the characters are particularly memorable, even Norah, around whom the plot turns. (At the risk of sounding like Springer, who wants to rewrite Reta's latest novel for her, I felt that the book might have been made more interesting if it had been told from Norah's point of view or using a multiple-narrator technique).Even if the book is seen as a novel of ideas, Ms Shields does not develop her themes as fully as she might. Although Reta spends much of her time musing on "goodness", there is no serious exploration of the theme of what it means to live a good, in the sense of virtuous, life. The point is not, for example, made that in some cultures (especially Hindu and Buddhist ones), to renounce worldly goods and concentrate on spiritual matters while living off the charity of others would be regarded as a deeply virtuous act, whereas in the West, although it has its own hermitic traditions, "goodness" is more often equated with service to one's fellow-men. Given that the novel revolves around Norah's apparent decision to seek "goodness" through renunciation, I felt that more could have been made of these two contrasting concepts of virtue.
3 Make no mistake when reading this review, I enjoyed the book(except the letters sprinkled throughout which seem to accomplish nothing for the plot and only act as a review of the story so far).  My problem with the book is that it starts out with very little to cause the author to jump into the feminist ranting.  Some of the feminist ranting is even worthwhile but with very little to get you to that point, it seems excessive.  And the feminist talk definitely goes overboard at a few points.So what did I like about this book?  Well I loved the idea.  A daughter suddenly taking to the street with a sign and a mother with no idea why.  Instead of explaining from the beginning it was an entire book of speculation on the wreckage that the mother's life became in the wake of her daughter's actions.The conclusion (don't worry I won't give it away) simply removes any significance the feminist tract could have had.  So in the end it's all for naught.
2 The story is interesting, the storytelling is easy to follow, and that's about where my praise ends.  Unless is centered on a woman (Rita) who has lost her once-promising daughter to the streets, and how she spirals into despair because of it.  She decides that her daughter "opted out" of life because she realized that, as a woman, much of life was already closed to her:  excellence, respect, opportunities, etc. (all of which is true; anyone who claims we have actually reached equality should check out some statistics on violence, wages, eating disorders and heads of Fortune 500 companies).  But whatever valid points she makes about gender discrepancies (she writes letters to men who have consciously or subconsciously slighted the female half of the world) are eradicated by her refusal to voice her grievances (she never mails them).  How are we supposed to respect her demand for equality when she won't even voice that demand, and instead spends her days glorying in the triviality of polishing her banister and shopping?I was willing to go along with Rita despite her uselessness-- after all, not everyone is cut out for activism.  However, what irrevocably lost me is her outrageous pretension.  She describes her expensive possessions in great detail, she seems to think that a daughter dropping out of college is the worst thing that could happen to anyone (probably because of her own liberal arts degree, she wants Norah to study linguistics), and everyone in the book seems to be upper-class and white (although she and her friends have the decency to be embarrassed about ordering a bottle of "good white wine" at a campy rodeo-themed restaurant).  The clincher, though, is when a man comes to her house to deliver mulch and makes the mistake of telling Rita how he dreams of finding a job that pays enough to be able to marry his girlfriend and start a family.  Rita describes his dreams as "so pathetically little"-- why?  Because he's not learning French, like her?  Because he's not writing a novel, like her?  It's not only condescending, but downright hypocritical:  she claims that her life is centered around her children, but this man is not entitled to center his dreams about his future children?Of course, everything is wrapped up tidily at the end of the novel without Rita having to lift a manicured finger.  Needless to say, I will not be checking out the other works of Carol Shields.
5 Read this and be in awe of Carol Shields brilliant writing. It's a subtle comedy about a happy, prosperous family facing the problem that one of their teen-aged daughters has decided to live on the street with a begging bowl in her hands. That's the set-up and the fun is in discovering what the book is really about.
5 This book is wonderful!  I really think it is a good book to end off a career with...  This book is very feministic, but in a good way.  Everyone looks at the world for "goodness" but who knows exactly what that is?  I think that Carol Shields does better searching then the average person.
4 Unless is less a novel &amp; more a meditation.The plot takes the shape of a woman whose daughter has foregone university, only to sit outside in the cold of Toronto- wearing a sign around her neck with the word 'goodness' scrawled across it.Why her daughter, Norah, has taken this route- no one can say.The narrator, a translator of feminist french novels &amp; memoirs, has written a light hearted romantic novel that has sold quite well, and is in the midst of writing a sequel.  A sequel she is torn up about.  Who is she to write these light little cake frosting books? And how can she make sure her other two daughter's are getting what they need? Has she failed Norah in some irrevocable way?There's definatly enough by way of plot to fill the book, but Shield's chooses instead to use the plot points as a way of jumping off into meditations on what it is to be a woman today.  Where do women stand? What is their place in the literary canon? How far have women really come, when there is still so far to go?The chapters are interspersed with letters to editor's &amp; author's addressing these questions- letters she will never send.I found the novel stirring, thought provoking, funny &amp; altogether lovely.Carol Shield's is a brilliant writer &amp; I always look forward to reading her work.Recommended!
3 I was prepared to like this recent book.  After all, many years ago I had read this author's Pulitzer Prize winning novel, &quot;The Stone Diaries&quot; and enjoyed it immensely. But that was in another time in my life.  I was different then.  And so is &quot;Unless&quot;.Ms. Shields is a skilled writer.  She knows that and perhaps that makes her show off her writing skill a little too much.  The main character is a writer too, and is obsessed with the meanings of words, the nuances of conversation, the unfolding of memories and how this is all tied up with feminism.  She gets so much into the analysis of it all that I soon got tired of thinking of her skill.  I wanted the good story that the plot seemed to promise.The book is set in Toronto, where Reta Williams, a 44-year old writer, lives with her husband and three children on the outskirts of town.  Her oldest daughter is 19 years old and has chosen to leave the comfortable family home and spend all day sitting on the street begging for money with the word &quot;goodness&quot; on a sign around her neck.  At night she sleeps in a state hostel for the homeless and she doesn't speak at all.What I found strange is that the young woman's parents and sisters go to visit her from time to time, sit silently with her, bring her food and warm blankets, but make no aggressive move to change the situation.  Instead, the protagonist feels bad about it and writes about it and worries about it.  And to keep herself getting obsessed about it, she starts to write a light fictional romance.The author uses a lot of words to tell this story.  Much too many words.  I soon grew weary of this and couldn't wait to finish the book.  And even though the author ties it all together in the last few pages and everyone seems to be able to live happily every after, I just wasn't satisfied.I recommend this book only if you're interested in a clever writing skill.  Otherwise, I don't think it's worth your time.
3 Carol Shields writes beautifully using words to convey her feelings about her grieving. However, nothing really happens in the story, you feel like you're just reading her journal entries which amount to nothing. We don't see her change or evolve. I forced myself to finish reading since Carol Shields is an acclaimed writer (I didn't read her previous book Stone Diaries) and because I hoped something would happen, emotionally or plot-wise, but nothing - I was disappointed.
5 I kept reading reviews of this book and plot outlines and it just didn't appeal. The whole daughter-on-street-corner-with-Goodness-sign sounded, well, a little dull. What I didn't realize was how well Shields wrote. How beautiful her individual sentences wer. How raw her anger could be. How intricate her delicate plots-within-plots wereI think what I found most inspiring was this idea of a quiet domestic novel that was also passionate and defiant and angry and committed to trying to put the world to rights. It's the digressions that make the book. The wayward internal monologues about life and marriage and family and what it is to be a woman.I must have missed the news bulletins because it was only after I finished it that I realized that Carol Shields had died. So very sad. And a great loss.
2 Don't read this book UNLESS you have nothing else to read. There, my attempt at being witty. She was a truly gifted writer, but this book is forgettable. Characters are flat and one-dimensional. Don't really care about them, or what happens to them, at all. A good book makes you want to come back. This one didn't do that.  Will try Stone Diaries next, though.
4 I was expecting this to be Shields' best yet, but it doesn't measure up to her other works. Swann, The Republic of Love, and The Stone Diaries are all better books from this prolific author. Although the book was well-written, compared to her other works I found it lacked in its depth of emotion and in its richness of plot. The main character is Reta, a mother of three, who is dealing with the fact that her one daughter is choosing to live on the streets of Toronto rather than join her in suburbia. Reta's life seems to focus on superficial things, as she hasn't had to struggle in her career or relationship, so the daughter in crisis causes her to search deeper for meaning in her life. Unfortunately she doesn't delve deep enough and her strength and resilience never comes out. Throughout the book, Reta is afraid to feel too deeply or to express the anger that is stewing inside of her, and instead becomes instrospective about her situation. While her daughter sits on a street corner with a sign saying &quot;goodness&quot; around her neck, Reta meets her friends for coffee and finds way to keep herself busy to avoid the pain of dealing with her 'lost' daughter. When Reta does express grief to her friends, they comfort her by saying, &quot;You have your writing&quot;. Reta says nothing in response, and instead thinks about the global powerlessness of women and how women are so busy just trying to maintain their image as 'good' that they miss the opportunity to be great. These feminist observations are interesting, but I would have liked to have seen Reta tell her friends that their comments aren't helpful and the pain and loss is crushing her and causing her to spiral into a depression. Reta is painted as just a victim of circumstance and a tower of passivity. She's likeable, but not memorable as a fictional character. In the novel, motherhood itself is portrayed as nothing special and family bonds seem unimportant. Rheta's relationship with her own husband seems superficial and perfunctory, and there's very little in terms of the family coming together to help each other through this crisis. In fact, Rheta's two other daughters are barely mentioned and no one seems especially concerned about the risks the one daughter is taking by living on the street. Most mothers would force their wayward daughter to go to the hospital where she would likely get the psychiatric care she needs and the whole ordeal would be over with; but instead Rheta just allows her daughter to live on the street even though she doesn't belong there and the likelihood that she'll get killed for her shoes is very much real. Rheta has just wandered through her life up to this point, and she continues to wander through it during this hard time, and ultimately she will wander right out of the memory of the reader because she is nothing remarkable but rather weak, passive and undeserving of respect.
4 I honestly loved reading this book, even though I don't really feel anything remarkable about it.  The writing was beautifully done and the characters all seemed real and honest, with their own positives and negatives that pushed them forward.  You can believe that this is a story that just happened somewhere and the author (it is written in first person) is telling the tale of the events in a certain point in her life.  I thought the author writing about an author writing about an author jokes were a little too much and too frequent, but that is a little misleading, since they are scattered around in the book.At times the author takes off on a little bit of a tangent, dropping the story and wandering around a certain event or location and you never quite get back to where you were.  Surprisingly, I found that I enjoyed those times, though I was still wondering what was happening outside of the memory or description of a basement.  Would we see the basement again?  Did this memory have something to do with the plot?  I never really figured all of that out.  Maybe it was meant to be that way, in order to add to the reality of the situation.  If there were no rambling, then you would think it a work of fiction, and this book made me wonder if it was reality many times over.Out of everything, I think what bothered me the most was the total loss to the family of a daughter who was grown enough to be on her own.  This girl was in college, then left to sit on a street corner, giving up everything she had for the sake of goodness.  The parents, the other children, everyone seems beside themselves with this, are occupied with going over to where the daughter is begging in the city, hounding her all the time, though they say they just sit with her and don't really do anything.  Why the obsession?  In some ways it's needed for the conclusion of the story, but mostly the emotional distress isn't really as believable because the daughter was already gone away to school when she started doing this.To be completely honest, don't pick up this book unless you are willing to read a book through without stopping. This mystery-that-isn't-a-mystery is something that will sit in your mind while you are reading the life story of the main character, who is an author.  As she figures out how she is going to continue your work, one thought is subtly implanted in your head: What is going on with the daughter?  To find out, you'll have to start reading.
2 Carol Shields clearly has the skill to write sentences well. Unfortunately, the story line is the book is missing until about five pages from the end. Not worth the read unless you are a middle aged Canadian writer, worried about your teen daughters, caught up in the fact that you are passive and basically unhappy with the way feminism of the 70's and 80s turned out. If that's the case, you will love this book. This book bored me to tears. I only finished it for a book reading group and the fact that I had actually paid money for all of this pontificating and nonsense which took 320 pages to write.
5 I have been waiting for a bit of extra cash since last summer to buy this one, and I finally did.  Personally, a lot of the feminist talk I find repetitive, and I skipped over it.  But it still gets 5 stars from me.  I feel I've walked through this house.  I feel tender heartbreak at the idea of a child doing something like this, that a mother can not control or fix.  I loved the scenes with her new and old editor.  The flavor of this book is one that will stay with me for months, I can tell.  Thank God I bought it, so I can re-read it every so often.  I can't wait to read some of her other works.
1 Take a person who prides herself on having sex with her 'partner' on their first date, having three children with no marriage, treating her mother-in-law like a boarder at meals, and wondering why her children, particularly the oldest, Nora, has no structure to her life.  She's so lost trying to find herself that she had to drop out and live the life of a derelict.  This is what happens when children continue searching in vain for what their parents can not give them. . . possibly what they were not given by their parents.  It results in mush: mushy story about mushy decisions and mushy results.  Oh, they get in the claims for feminism so to satisfy the liberal readers but otherwise, it's just many, many, many words, very little emotion and no rationale whatsoever except that maturity doesn't result from living in the vacuous world provided by theseextreme secularists.
1 I bought this book expecting, not a fast-paced novel, but an introspective look at a woman in pain over her fractured family. This book is not an introspective, it is a hodge-podge of fractured thoughts, conversations, images, and self-acknowledgements.  The book annoyingly begins with the heroine of the story Reta Winters, who is an author [gasp] reciting every book she has published. The soon to be ever-present Danielle Westerman, Reta's friend or object of obsession, depending on how you read into it, makes her debut in these pages, because most of Reta's published work involves translations of  Danielle's work.  Why do we need to know what Reta Winters has written?  The boring, self-absorbed tone of these first few pages should have been a red flag for me, but I had been hooked by the first pages, and wanted to know what had caused Reta's self-described &quot;period of great unhappiness.&quot;  When I learned in later pages that her eldest daughter, Norah had removed herself from normal life, and was living on the streets, I was intrigued and wanted to find out more.What a mistake....The bits and pieces scattered through the novel that actually tell the story of where Norah is and why are simply morsels to keep one reading a tortuously laborious novel.  Reta goes on and on about topics that are fragmented and seem to have no relation to one another.  Imagine your everyday thoughts, random as they can be, written down and passed off for a novel. That is what &quot;Unless&quot; has to offer.  I found the all too frequent references to the great Danielle Westerman [I could never understand why she was such a figure of worship for the main character...] are annoying and distracting.I read hundreds of books each year and don't give up easily on a novel, but I found myself skipping large sections of this novel, looking for the name &quot;Norah&quot; so that I could get back to the story line.I do realize that this novel is supposed to be about what goes on in Reta Winters' mind as she goes through such a painful event as a daughter who has turned her back on life, but I lost patience with Reta's self-absorption.If I spent as much time self-obsessing and Danielle Westerman-obsessing, as this character does, I would never accomplish anything.I would not recommend this novel to anyone, unless you are prepared to waste your money, your time, and end up frustrated by the loss of both.
5 What would you do if your college-age daughter decided to live in a homeless shelter and beg on the street every day? This is a pleasure to read as it's so well-written, and hard to put down. I think it's my favorite Carol Shields' and I love them all.
5 A mother knows nothing about what her child is thinking but she also knows everything.  This book tore at my heart.  The powerlessness of a mother and father in the face of an unexplainable act by their oldest daughter, the solidarity of her sisters as they join their sibling at her corner every Saturday, the respecting of boundries set by Nora while offering her tools and gifts for her journey.  Reta, the mother, knew there is a battle still to be fought for the full recognition of women and she believed Nora was immobilized by that battle.  Reta came to realize that that was actually her personal battle with the world but didn't realize how deeply and totally it was also her daughter's.Shields description of the questions of children is magnificent.&quot;A child is suspended in a locked closet of unknowing, within the body's borders, that dark place.  To name a perplexity is to magnify it.  At the same time-I recognized the calumny for what it is-children's natural observations are often thought to be whimsical, even adorable, and their sayings, their mild queries, much quoted and smiled over, but there is no guarantee of an answer.  Whey do children risk disclosure at all?  It must be out of desperation or unsupportable fear.  It's a wonder they don't throw themselves out of windows in fits of confusion.&quot;
4 My favorite chapters are the unsent letters that Reta, the narrator, composes to authors who acknowledge the influence of other male writers, ignoring female writers. The best is the one she writes to someone whose obituary she has just read. Feminism is certainly a dominant theme in this book, but so are family and grief. The grief, however, is not over a loved one's death. Reta and Tom's oldest daughter, Norah, has essentially dropped out, silently begging for money on a Toronto street corner, with a handwritten sign around her neck, bearing the single word "Goodness." This unfortunate situation consumes the lives of Reta, Tom, and their two younger daughters. I guess you could say that at least death has closure, whereas Norah's circumstances cause ongoing concern as winter approaches. The overriding mystery is what caused Norah to take the drastic step of dropping out of college to panhandle, but there's actually a lot in this book to savor. I loved that Reta's mother-in-law, Lois, has a file of 100 dessert recipes and brings dessert to dinner every night, as soon as Reta signals by closing the red kitchen curtains. Also, it's almost a book within a book, as Reta contemplates various endings for the novel she is writing, a sequel about a fashion writer who is engaged to a trombonist. Her new overbearing editor is a hoot, interrupting all her sentences and suggesting that she use a pseudonym, such as R. R. Summers. (Has J.K. Rowling started a trend?) You can imagine how our feminist protagonist feels about such a gender-neutral name. And, of course, everyone has a theory as to why Norah has checked out. The author drops a hint early on but not large enough for me to put two and two together.
5 Carol Shields knew she was dying of breast cancer when she began this novel, and it's a testament to her valor that she didn't try to do a Tuesdays with Morrie kind of book. There's no hint anywhere in the pages that this is some banal last gasp of a wonderful author.Unless is a difficult and painful book concerning Reta Winters, a well-known author whose oldest daughter, Norah, leaves college and voluntarily takes to the streets with a sign hung around her neck. The sign reads: Goodness. The story begins on a light note as Reta, who is writing a romance, tries to make sense of her daughter's decision in a rather circuitous way. Then, however, the book and its story turn darker and more serious as the true nature of Norah's situation becomes clearer. Shields is able to weave a feminist message into this novel with threads that somehow artfully tie together love, family, writing, and understanding.RIP, Carol Shields, and thanks for this last book.
4 Unless by Carol Shields has been my third novel in a row written from the perspective of a self-analytical, self-critical and perhaps self-obsessed female narrator, the other being by Margaret Drabble and Anne Enright. Maybe Carol Shields drew the short straw, because I felt that Reta, the writer-narrator of Unless, internalised everything, so much so, in fact, that the other characters in the book became no more than projections of themselves within her. Maybe that was part of the point.Ostensibly about a family of ordinary people, Unless portrays Reta Winters, her partner Tom and their three daughters. They live an hour from Toronto in a home that sounds as big as a village. Reta can't decide how many rooms there are, or even what might constitute a room. Tom's a medic and Reta is a published author of moderate success. Not, at least for me, run-of-the-mill ordinary folk.The eldest daughter, Norah, a nineteen year old determined to make her own marks, has recently left home to live with a boyfriend. She has dropped out of college and then she suddenly took to sleeping rough, occasionally in a hostel for the homeless, whilst, during the day sitting on a street corner behind a sign saying, "Goodness". Reta can't rationalise her daughter's apparent rejection of everything she was supposed to be and begins to delve into her own psyche for clues. It affects her work, her family life and her relationships, all of which must, of course, go on.Throughout, the narrative is both clear and crisp. Reta's character is credible, if a little prone to a lack of self-awareness, despite the fact that she seems to have majored in the topic to the extent that her self-preoccupation verges on the obsessive. Her writing progresses, but for me unconvincingly. A light read, something twixt romance and general fiction, is what she is looking for. Quite why the main character needs to be an Albanian trombonist (good at sex, apparently, because of the regular arm-pumping) only Carol Shields knows. There were comic opportunities that were never taken and, equally, possibilities for parallel lives that were never exploited. Personally, I found the scenario of the novel within the novel, as explained by Reta, herself, the writer, offered neither comic relief nor insight. When Reta's new editor demands that the light fiction be transformed into the literary by means of, amongst other things, redrawing the last chapter to introduce surprise and enigma, undertones, unexpected depth, we are led directly into the unexpected discovery of the reason behind the unexplained behaviour of Reta's daughter, the events that prompted her drop-out into apparent depression. It ought to have been a poignant moment, but for me it all became a bit pedestrian.I thoroughly enjoyed the book, by the way. My criticisms are technical at best and petty at worst, but I fell I have to record them. Perhaps it was attempting three psyche-analysing, internally-bound first persons on the trot that got to me. Perhaps I too got lost inside myself as I read. Carol Shields's "I" was a darned sight more balanced and self-sufficient than either Drabble's or Enright's. Perhaps if Reta had made a bit more fuss I would have found her more credible. But that, undoubtedly, was her strength.
5 This is a truly fabulous novel. The plot pulls you in right away and the character development is incredible. Of course, the main character's troubled college-aged daughter -- Norah -- is a puzzle, but that's deliberate. You're supposed to spend the entire novel trying to figure her out, make sense of the family dynamics, and so on. This is one of my all-time favorite Carol Shields novels, and that's really saying something.
5 In Unless, Carol Shields demonstrates her intimate understanding of both human suffering and perseverance.  The novel is the story of Reta Winters, a writer living in the fictional town of Orangetown, Ontario, whose eldest daughter, Norah, after a period of disappearance, turns up panhandling for change on a Toronto street corner. Around Norah's neck is a cardboard sign that simply reads "Goodness". The novel follows Reta's internal torment over her daughter's situation, and her continuing struggle to put on a brave face and keep her family together. As she attempts to understand what drove Norah to this behaviour and what is meant by this single loaded word "Goodness", Reta becomes acutely aware of the almost-invisible small and large injustices still suffered by women in a world that likes to believe that it reached full equality. The novel serves as a real and heart-breaking feminist critique of contemporary society, illuminating the problems that still persist in our world. The narrator may not recognize her own strengths, but they're evident to the reader throughout. As she's faced with a tragedy in an otherwise, at least in her opinion, charmed life, the reader is pulled so closely to the protagonists that every pang of pain is personally felt.
3 Shields beautifully lays out the dilemma of parents whose offspring totally reject the expected paths and drop out.  They embrace a circle of society foreign to their family.  This mother, herself a writer of sorts, manipulates, bargains and grieves what she perceives as the loss of her daughter.  She grieves and obsesses to the point I lost interest and didn't finish the book.
3 It was an interesting story. Seemed a little rambling at times. Happy with the ending, could relate at a personal level.
5 As a writer and a mother, it wasn't but a few words into this novel by Shields that I found myself holding my breath, holding it in compassion and wonder, in acknowledgement of the artistry witnessed, of the beauty of words used with such mastery. Shields writes about a writer, and she writes about a writer who is a mother. In so many ways, one is the other, the other is the same. The character in her acts of creation sends her own goodness into the world, and while her novels seem to take unpredictable paths in the world of publishing and then in the hands of her reading public, so does her daughter veer off her expected path in life to seemingly abandon it all and sit on the street as a homeless soul, sign hung around her neck: "Goodness."What can drive a young woman to such despair? How can a mother survive her own despair in seeing it? Scenes unfold of a woman who ponders her own writing, a kind of novel inside a novel, and her dealings with a new editor who appears to have her best interests at heart, yet has one soon gritting teeth with just barely suppressed annoyance. A scene of lovemaking between husband and wife, a guilty pleasure and comfort when their child is out on the chill of the streets, is one of the most uniquely written I have ever come across in modern fiction. A topic so overwritten and cliched, Shields manages even this one as if it had been the first, and wholly hers to invent. A scene between mother-in-law and abandoned editor using his salesmanship ploys for public relations over the dinner table they find themselves sharing by chance is another jewel. The treasure keeps on surfacing page after page.Shields writes with rare magnificence. Her story is an achingly simple but important one, as the best stories are, and she once again proves herself worthy of the Pulitzer she has won.
4 Laura is a normal girl with a sweet younger brother and a frazzled single mother.  Her life is ordinary until the day her brother is stamped with the image of a horrible man.  Laura turns to Sorry, an older, intriguing boy who she believes to be a witch.  Will he be able to help her?This story is entrancing to read.  I first read it as a 13 year old, and I still find it fascinating.  It is a great read, especially for those interested in witchcraft stories.
4 Margaret Mahy's book is an unusual take on the juvenile magic-user theme. It takes place in New Zealand, in a single-parent home. Laura Chant lives with her divorced mother, and her toddler brother. Nothing is entirely reliable in Laura's world, certainly not her slightly flaky mother, their extremely flaky car, and especially the surrounding landscape, being transformed from forest and farm into a new subdivision.Chant, perfectly named, can sense things that others can't. She can sense that her brother's rapid descent into illness is supernatural, and that it is linked to the boy's unfortunate contact with the also perfectly named Carmody Braque. She also can sense that the mysterious prefect at her school, an older boy named Sorensen Carlisle, is a "witch" and that he may hold the only key to healing her brother.Sorry, as he's called, is one of those magnificent characters, the enigmatic boy who shows all the signs of being a proto-romance hero. But here, he's young, sly, and not above using his advantage over Laura. Mahy writes Laura as a strong character, and watching her handle Sorry is a lot of fun.This novel is full of brooding atmosphere but with a great contemporary setting. Mahy's protagonist carries her weight, but everyone else is equally nuanced and fascinating. The book calls itself a romance, but I've never read an adult romance filled with such menacing ambiguity.
3 Laura Chant is a teen growing up with her divorced mom and younger brother in New Zealand. Laura sees that something is happening to her brother but no one else seems to understand what is going on or what to do about it until Laura meets and gets to know a mysterious boy from school known as Sorry.A powerful book.
5 This is truly a brilliant book.  It was on my reading list for a Uni class, and I wasn't altogether sure that I would like it - but I did.  Loved it in fact.  It had everything a book should have - a great story, very believable and in depth characters, suspense, a touch of romance, and a lot of thought and feeling.  There are very few writers who can talk to a teen (or anyone else for that matter) the way Mahy does.  She talks to everyone on their own level - she is never condescending as writers for young adults can tend to be.  She recognises her audience as people, not 'kids'.  The supernatural theme in this book is fabulous, I found it really engaging and exciting.  Yet, if not for this factor, I felt I could have been the main character in my earlier years - the same thoughts and feelings coming through that I still identify with today.  Mahy is able to do all this, and much more, whilst still keeping it all realistic.  Buy this book - you won't regret it.
5 This is the best young adult book I have ever read.  Laura and Sorry are unforgettable.  Their shared scenes crackle with electricity (remember the munching thunderclouds?) and never has a male witch been so...appealing.Laura Chant is a sensitive, a girl with supernatural  inclinations, with certain glimpses into the future.  One day she looks  into the mirror and sees herself changed.  She is aware that her world is  going to change, but doesn't know what to do about it.  Then her beloved  brother Jacko starts to sicken from what she knows is not a natural cause.  She's recognized the school prefect Sorenson Carlisle as a witch, and  goes to him for help.  He tells her that in order to save Jacko she can be  changed over, that is become a witch, but the transformation is  irrevocable.  She will forever be separate from most others.Mahy is an  incredible writer.  She makes the strange seem like home, and also makes  the familiar worth another look.  Read this book!
5 GENERAL COMMENTS: "The Changeover" strikes the tone of a precocious adolescent with verve. Fourteen-year-old Laura sometimes communicates with an open frankness that gets ignored, sometimes through sarcasm, which she uses as a screen when she must tell the truth but doesn't necessarily want to be understood. Her sensitivity to the nature of others grants her an awareness of her own growing body even as she delves into her gift to protect her brother. This book does a good job of showing the selfishness of teenagers, AND the selfishness of the parents that love them imperfectly, even as they compare to the sinister greed of Carmody Braque, the villain. The resolution(clue: quasi-spoiler appears in the rest of this sentence) aptly makes use of this comparison, by depending upon Laura's understanding of Carmdoy's needs, and her ability to exploit them as he exploits the children's desires.MORE SPECIFIC DETAILS: Her sensitivity to others allows fourteen-year-old Laura to recognize danger, but she remains helpless in deflecting it, as when her parents get divorced. At fourteen, she is faced yet again with her gift of sensing the nature of things, and this time, it's her baby brother who will suffer. Mahy intertwines Laura's current dilemma with her family issues. She lives in a single-parent family in which the mother is no angel (although awfully close) and the absent father is no demon (although most noticeably absent). Laura is aware that her parents have needs that don't always include her best interest, but this doesn't mean that she doesn't seethe with resentment. At times, her mature assessment of the situation only frustrates her desire to react as a child.ABOUT SORENSEN, LAURA'S CO-STAR: The flip side of her family is Sorensen Carlisle's two-parent family in which both parents are women (his mother and grandmother). His guardians, who are both witches, were sorely disappointed in Sorensen when they found a boy instead of the girl who might complete their circle of magic, and deserted him, albeit with a generous allowance, to an adopted family. One day he shows up at their door, with obvious marks of abuse on him, and in spite of his gender, the mark of magic as well. This late in the game, they are forced to repair their mistake as best they can-- only they can't take away his alienation from himself. It is these two teenagers that must fight Carmody, without further estranging themselves from their families in the bargain.
5 When i first saw this book, a took one look at the back cover and left it on the shelf. Later, after being persuaded by my friend, i gave it a chance. I actually read it 3 times in a row, amd I'm not a big fan of reading. This book is wondourful!! The characters are portrayed so you feel as if your right there with them, sharing their pain and joy and yes, romance. The romance isn't just hot and steamy though, it shows love and caring, not just the dreaded 's' word ending in 'ex'. I advise anyone over 11 to read this book, even if you don't particularily like reading. I have tried Margaret Mahy's other young adult books, but this one is by far the best. I gaurantee you won't  be able to put it down.
5 I read this book as a teenager when it originally came out in 1984.  The greatest compliment that I can give The Changeover is that twenty+ years later, I still reread it sometimes--and I still enjoy it.  I can't say that about too many of my childhood books.The Changeover was a rare bird back in mid-eighties--there weren't too many well-written books about magic and the supernatural with teenage girls as the protagonists in those days.  This was a genre that I adored and could never get enough of back then. So this novel was an instant favorite.There are certain books that you read when you are young that shape the kind of person that you become--not necessarily in a large way, but in subtle way.  The Changeover was one of these books for me.  I didn't realize it when I read the book at fourteen, but The Changeover is a metaphor for changing from childhood to adulthood--from becoming a girl to becoming a woman.  And this book really captures that--all the insecurity and the fear, and even the pleasure that you feel as a girl in your own new-found, womanly power.  I guess this book appealed to me so much because it made me feel better about a lot of the things I was going through at fourteen; it gave me a certain confidence in myself: I wasn't just getting older--I was becoming a different being.I have read other comments about this book and I agree with the reviewers that say they want a sequel.  I still think about Laura from time to time--she and I were the same age when the book came out--and I often wonder what became of her and what type of woman she became.
4 I probably read this when it first came out in 1984. The fact that it dances into my mind once a month or so all these years later is pretty telling, I'd say. I'm wondering whether to dig up a copy of this book for my child, who is now about the age when I first encountered it, though I wonder if it will mean as much to a boy as it did to a girl...I do remember the part in this book where the disgusted protagonist notes that her &#34;exotic&#34; shampoo is made in New Zealand. It took me a minute, and probably a double take, to realize that New Zealand was BORING for her, not exotic... and thus I came to a new level of awareness in my own early life about relative perceptions.This is a great, supernatural story that can stay with a girl for decades, if my own experience is any guide. I highly recommend it!
5 ...given the recent upsurge in the supernatural teen genre. This book surpasses all of them. Others have given a good breakdown of the plot, so I won't repeat it here. I will say that this book would, in the right hands, translate into a really great movie, but it shouldn't need a movie to make it more popular than it apparently is. Beautifully written, genuinely creepy and suspenseful, mystical, and deeply moving, it's a book that even adults will enjoy. I've read it several times and go back to it periodically as a perennial favorite. Laura Chant is a fantastic character, as is Sorry, and I'd say that Stephanie Meyer should have studied this book very carefully before she ever tried to put pen to paper. A wonderful treasure -- I can't recommend this too highly. Mahy's other books are great as well, but this one simply shines. The ending, in particular, was deeply satisfying -- I won't spoil it, but Laura overcomes a tremendous temptation in a way that is truly believable and neither sentimental nor flippant. A fantastic read by a master storyteller.
