5 I first read the trilogy back in 1977 and I loved it then.  I wasn't surewhat to think about the Peter Jackson movies because I couldn'timagine anyone actually doing them with real actors.  I thought hedid a great job, but I was happy I'd read the books before I saw themovies.  If you've seen the movies and haven't read the books, youdefinitely need to.  One of the best fantasy novels EVER!
5 Everyone needs to read this for the story, characters, detail, and amazing things that Tolkien did to make this masterpiece a masterpiece. This is much better than the "Fellowship.." with much more action and excitement that makes you wanting more. If you're a fan of the first book then pick this one up right away.
5 When you think fantasy, one man comes to mind and stands above all others:  J.R.R. Tolkien. His genius can not be overstated, and this was his shining moment. What he did with this work is extraordinary in that it forever defined the fantasy genre. Who can mention wizards without having an old man with a long beard and pointy hat come to mind? The same could be said for Dwarves, Elves, and Orcs--when you mention the name, you picture them in your head the way Tolkien defined them. This is how you can say he was revolutionary; his creatures, races, and ideas have been used over and over again since these books first made their appearance.Every genre has it's pioneer, the one who established the boundaries to be used for generations after. In the fantasy genre, this pioneer was J.R.R. Tolkien.As for the books, they are set in middle-earth, a world so elaborate and intriguing that you would never be able to explore it all, though you have a great desire to. The characters are many, and they are all masterfully developed, each having his role in this classic depiction of good versus evil. While some aspects of the reading (poems, extensive detail, etc) are a little heavy for children, this is a timeless story, infinitely intriguing. If this book has a flaw, it is that you will not be able to put it down, and it will quite possibly disrupt every other aspect of your life until you finish it.This book is a must have for anyone's library.  The field of literature will be forever indebted to Tolkien for his enormous contribution to the world of fiction. This is a classic which will endure the strains of time and entertain for generations to come.
5 I highly recommend this edition of the beloved Lord of the Rings saga. Although a bit heavy, this book is still easy to hold and read. The paper is very good quality and just the right thickness. Most importantly, the price is right! I've seen the same book at $20.00 (plus tax) at several book stores. You can't go wrong with this purchase.
3 I've never read the books before, so I can't comment on how well the text is put together as compared to the originals. However it's nice to have all three books in one large text so that you don't have to get all three of them. The one problem I had however lies in the fact that it is so large, the paperback is just too flimsy to hold it together.
5 I love Lord of the Rings - I have several different editions because I like the feel of different sets. I went onto eBay to find copies of the first ever set I read when a teenager. So you could say I am a fan. These books are crisp, clean and beautiful. The illustrations are the best of anything currently in the market. With all that, I would agree with a prior reviewer and say that there could be more color but that is really the artist's choice. Also, for the price I would have loved more pictures.If you are a fan, or friend/spouse/etc. of a fan, I would recommend this set. Be prepared for heavy books (personally I like them) that smell lovely and are a joy to read or browse. If you want something to read around town, obviously get some paperbacks. :-)
5 Greed, betrayal, infighting, and indecision have led the Fellowship ofthe Ring to break up. Gandalf has fallen, and Boromir is dead. The restof the party is split in two, as Frodo sneaks off with Sam, to go toMordor, and Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli pursue the Orcs that haveabducted the other two hobbits.A lot of breaking stuff, fighting and sneaking to be found here.It ends in a cliffhanger.
5 `The Two Towers', the second of the three volume novel, `Lord of the Rings' by philologist J. R. R. Tolkien is one of the most influential popular novels of the 20th century. Other bases of big motion pictures such as `Ben-Hur' and `Gone With the Wind' can't hold a candle to it as it had an influence far beyond its role as the basis for a movie script. For starters, `Lord of the Rings' has had a large and growing readership from its original publication in the mid 1950s to the present, while I suspect practically no one reads Lew Wallace's `Ben-Hur' any more and few people have recently read Margaret Mitchell's `Gone With the Wind'. Another `Lord of the Rings' offspring is the whole `Dungeons and Dragons' role playing games phenomenon. This game originally appeared a few years after the second blooming of `Lord of the Rings' popularity in 1965, when the books were published in paperback by Houghton Mifflin in response to a pirated copy published by Ace. This is when I first became enraptured by the stories of Middle Earth.In many ways, it is almost impossible to speak of any one of the three volumes which do not in the usual sense of the word form a trilogy of three independent novels related by common characters, location, and history. `The Lord of the Rings' is a single novel which was serialized in three volumes published over two and a half years in the mid 1950's. When the three titles are published in a single volume, it is not hard to see that the work is really not much longer than `Gone With the Wind' and it is certainly shorter than some notable novels such as `Atlas Shrugged'. One virtue we did get from the division into three titles by Tolkien is that Peter Jackson had a valid basis on which to split a single story into three long movies totaling close to 10 hours of viewing time.Unlike the movies of the first and third books, almost every major scene of the book `The Two Towers', is captured in the movie. The chapters of Merry and Pippin with Treebeard and the Ents are shortened a bit. Seems as if the Ents are much too slow for 21st century cinema. One thing the movie did get wrong in its promotional artwork is the suggestion that the two towers of the title were Orthanc and Baradur, the fortress of Sauron. Actually, the second tower of the title is Minas Morgul, the city of Gondor, originally named Minas Ithil, but renamed when the Nazgul captured it several years before the start of the events in `Lord of the Rings'. The only piece of action I really miss is the role of Fangorn in the defeat of the besiegers of the Hornburg. And, in one of the very rare Peter Jackson additions to the story, I thought the skirmish between the Rohrrim / Aragorn and Saruman's warg riders was great cinema action, but just too much of a replay of Gandalf at the bridge in Moria, where a principle character is thought to have been killed and lost.I have read `The Lord of the Rings' at least 10 times, and the story of Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli from the banks of the Anduin to the victory at the Hornburg is by far one of my favorite parts of the novel. Treebeard comes in a close second, as he is a piece of the same ancient history of Middle Earth to which only the faintest hints are given in the stories of Fangorn, The Old Forest by the Shire, and Tom Bombadil. Basically, Bombadil and the Ents stand for what is most worth saving from the evil of Sauron. This innocence is something that is tainted even in the sheltered lives of the Hobbits.In contrast, after about the third or fourth reading, I often became anxious to get through the chapters about Frodo, Sam, and Gollum as quickly as possible. One of the greatest of Jackson's accomplishments in the films was to breath life into the characterization of Frodo Baggins, who always seemed to be to be something of a wimp, drawn along by the inexorable hand of fate. Sam, on the other hand, was pursuing the quest entirely out of love and grit. Another great service of the movie was the realization of Gollum. I think that Gollum's implementation may be about as close as we will come for a long time in seeing a computer generated character be nominated for an Academy Award for acting.Even though `The Two Towers' is the middle third of the complete novel, it really has a much more satisfying ending than `The Fellowship of the Ring'. One starts to see how it may be possible to defeat the great evil challanging all the good guys in the story, but of course, the difficulty of Saruman's defeat is just a way of showing that defeating Sauron will be just that much more difficult.The second of the great three part classic!
5 Let's see.  How many times have I read this book?  Enough to cause the edges to fray and the binding to bend in unnatural ways, that's for sure.  And why would someone, anyone, want to read a book over and over again?  It's hard to put into words, but I'll try:This is probably the ultimate fantasy novel in literary history.  It is equally fun, entertaining and learned for the reader.  Since Master Tolkien wrote this book over fifty years ago, it just goes to show us that some stories were meant to last forever.  This is one of those.The story is the continuation of 'The Hobbit' --- the story of Mr. Bilbo Baggins.  Bilbo has adopted his nephew, Frodo, and gives him all his worldly possessions...including The One Ring, The Ruling Ring.  It is this Ring, in the possession of Frodo the Ring Bearer, that causes the ultimate downfall of Middle Earth.  It is evil and was forged by Sauron on Mount Doom in the cracks of fire.  It is the One Ring that rules all the other magical rings of Middle Earth, and if Sauron gets it, darkness will envelop all.  So it must be destroyed, and Frodo is given the task of taking it to Mount Doom (where it was forged) and throwing it into the Fire, thus diminishing all the other Rings of Power, but saving Middle Earth from eternal darkness.The battles are daring and brave as are the characters: Boromir, Aragon, Samwise, Pippin, Merry, Gandalf (Mithrandeer), Treebeard, and many, many others.  Of course, we also can't forget Gollum (also known as Smeagol).  He is the unwitting player in the book that serves a purpose that he cannot and could not comprehend.  Nor could Frodo...till the end.  And how does it end?  You'll have to read it.  And maybe re-read it.  And then maybe re-read it again.  Because this is a hypnotic story with an excellent writing style.Also, if you plan to take your kids to see the new &quot;Lord of The Rings&quot; movie this December, you might want to have them read 'The Hobbit' beforehand so that they can completely comprehend where the story came from.  And they'll love you for it later.  I guarantee it!
5 If you're looking for a long tale filled with adventure, friendship, loyalty, and love which ultimately conquers evil, then this is the most excellent of books for you. Reading it in this Kindle version was a breeze.
5 Tolkien is one of the best fantasy writer's that I know. The books transports you to a place that keeps you on the edge of your seat at all times. I close my eyes and I see the middle earth in all it's glory. The people are very fascinating and the struggle between good and evil keeps you rooting for the good guys. Frodo is a lovable and strong character, who works hard at staying true to what he knows is right but has a hard time understanding why he has been chosen to be the one who has to complete the mission of the ring. I will not say more. Read Tolkien and find out for yourself about the journey.
5 No words can describe how truly extraordinary these three books are. Written with so much care and detail Tolkien has created an alternate universe for all his readers to get lost in. My favourite books of all time. 10/10
5 I have read and reread the trilogy for the last 35 years.  I just purchased it as a gift to my granddaughter who is 11 and an avid reader.  I've read all of JRR Tolkien although few in number all wonderful.  You just can't put these down.  It's a fantastic adventure!!!
4 This was an important book that was lauded as the pinnacle of English fantasy fiction and children's literature due to the high level of scholarship that was associated with the author J.R.R. Tolkien.  This book displays literary skill and uses the English language in a narrative form and in a candid and colloquial format that shows the way people commonly speak in the countryside of England and the also within the higher end of the social hierarchy.The book does a great effort to bisect the cultural heritage of the English populace.  The book does well to encompass the aspects of wealth and poverty and says good things abut both sections of culture and society.  Tolkien was an anthropologist and her studies the cultures, and races of the world to create his own unique race that was wholly different from the established cultures on earth in order to make a point about race and culture that is also indirectly influenced by religion in the battle of good against evil.The door will be an enduring contribution to English letters because is was written by an English Oxford professor and also because of Tolkien's strong connections to the Catholic church and the Masonic organizations within the United Kingdom, which allowed the book to become prominent and proliferate the cultural diffusion of English Ango-Saxon traditions through our world culture.
1 I did not like this book, it seems as though Tolkien ran out of words, so he started describing things that didn't need describing. The whole boook was good till the middle, it started slowing down, till it became boring. I read the first book in the Lord of the Rings series, and I liked it. But it seems as if Tolkien lost all sense of anything interesting. Don't bother to read this book.
5 Now that the fellowship was scattered, Frodo and Sam are alone, off to the land of darkness.  The rest of the fellowship are off to senguard to defeat the traitor Saruman.  To do that, Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli have to save the hobbitnapped hobbits, Pippin and Merry.  Meanwhile Frodo and Sam are being followed by the sneaky Gollum and they join up with him.  Can he be trusted?  Will they destroy the ring and kill the traitor?  Find out by reading the second in this fabulous series which has been read through these long lasting years.I thought this book was a good follow up to the Fellowship of the Ring.  The only part I was annoyed about was that there were 2 parts in the book.  The first part they only talked about Merry and Pippin being captured and you had to read the whole half of the book to find out what happened to Frodo and Sam.  Otherwise this is a good book and it ends again like the first. ( Meaning you have to read the third to find out this painstakingly drop off of an end.)
4 Nothing super in quality, however, it does include four books at a good price . . .would have liked just a little better paper quality.
5 One cannot describe the amazing story that is the Lord of the Rings(LotR) in merely a few paragraphs.  J.R.R. Tolkien has definitely created one of the greatest stories ever told.  After I was informed that The Lord of the Rings was voted Book of the Century I decided that I should give it a chance.  I can now say that I was rewarded quite well.The Lord of the Rings is an epic fantasy masterpiece.  Combining elements of a medieval world including kings, queens, knights on horseback, castles, dungeons, and large scale ground warfare with fantasy elements such as wizards, trolls, elves, sorcery, and enchanted places, the story becomes very believable and extremely intriguing.  Without revealing too much, the story is an epic quest of a small group to save the known world from the dark forces of Sauron.Although the prequel to the Lord of the Rings is the Hobbit which was written more for older children, it is still a must read before the adult epic LotR is undertaken as it familiarizes the reader with the beautiful style and wonderful world of Tolkien.  The Hobbit is a great novel in itself but the reader must realize that LotR is much darker and deals with a great deal more conflict and character development which creates for a grand, entertaining experience.Readers will fall in love with the characters throughout the entire LotR Trilogy as each is so much different from the other making a very diverse group during the journey.Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest stories ever written and should be read by all as it has elements that can be enjoyed by everyone.  I now only wish that the story was not over so quickly even though it lasts for more than 1000 pages.  Be forwarned, however, as all other stories read afterwards will pale in comparison to Tolkien's masterpiece.
5 It is not possible to add anything to the review of the story of the &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; rather then to say that this is a spectacular epic story of the mythological proportions. Tolkien was motivated by a variety of linguistic, antropological and mythtological factors to bring us the Universe of the Middle Earth. As such this achievement is without a precedence in world literature.To the point of this particular edition. It contains original illustrations by Tolkien himself, with the typesettings simular to the original edition. Although the book is quite large (1000+ pages) it opens and holds well and the paper quality is oustanding for the price.
5 wow. how else to describe the greatest book I have ever read (and that's saying something). I love fantasy, and every book I have ever read in the genre, I have been almost unconciously biased against because I read this book first.  It's imperative that you read The Hobbit first because it gives you a lot of background information and makes you feel familiar with Tolkien's world (and it is a world indeed, the amount of work he put into creating it and the history that it has is staggering). He descibes it so vividly that you can almost see the golden trees of lothlorien, and the open fields of Rohan. But this is all a backdrop for the true wonder of the books.  Tolkien writes his characters incredibly realistically, they behave as many of us would were we to embark on a journey (excitement that turns to dismay when we learn it isn't all fun and games). The characters change over the course of the story, and for the better, and we change with them. You cannot describe how great and author Tolkien is with words, you simply must read the book and see for yourself. This is the book which I have based all other books on, and none other have come close.
5 This is an incredible edition.  The covers and foil graphics are top-notch, a worthy addition to any study or library of the Tolkien fan.  The pages are beautifully gilt-edged and shine so much, you can see yourself in them.  There are large, gorgeous fold-out maps.  What can I say?  I love every aspect of this book.
5 Full disclosure: I'm a fan that was brought in by the movies. Normally, I try to read a book before seeing it in movie form, but I was actually convinced not to in this case (more on that in a moment). Eventually, though, I watched the Peter Jackson film adaptations, loved them, and decided I'd like to get the full story. As a first-time LOTR reader, this edition looked like the best choice, as opposed to buying a fully-annotated or illustrated edition or the three parts individually (also, books with pictures from the film version on the cover is a pet peeve of mine, so I always avoid those editions). And the price of the 50th Anniversary edition is a true bargain.Though this isn't the annotated edition, there's no shortage of notes here. A lengthy introduction, footnotes sprinkled throughout the volume, and a series of mostly interesting, at times overwhelming appendices supplement the epic story. The book itself is bound well, using good paper, and is surprisingly manageable for a 1000+ page volume.But the real attraction here, of course, is the story itself. I had to agree with my friend who had stopped reading the book when she reached the section featuring Tom Bombadil. That character did not have the same substance as the others, and the frequent rhymes and poetry in those early chapters did not appeal to me. It drove my friend away from the book, but I continued on. Some of the poetry is pretty interesting, and I found that it was better in smaller doses, and in fact they do occur less frequently as the book goes on, achieving a better balance with the prose.The story is divided first by volume (3, like the films), then by book (each volume has 2 books), then manageably-sized chapters. Of the six books into which Lord of the Rings is divided, my favorites were Books III, IV, and VI. I felt that the emotions of the characters and the scope of the story were best realized in these sections, though there is certainly much to sink one's teeth into throughout the novel's entirety. One of the things I like best about the later Books is the way the characters, particularly the Hobbits, grow, the writing style becoming more emotionally real as the characters' conflicts become increasingly amplified.It's been said that LOTR could be seen as a parable for life in and after World War I, though Tolkien denied it. Still, that seems very much to be the case in the book's final chapters. I don't want to give away any spoilers, so I'll say only that Frodo and Sam provide two very interesting perspectives on this idea.(Also, though this is not a review of the films, I'd like to point out that I frequently could see images from the films in my mind while reading the book - not because it had tainted my experience of the novel, but because they had so accurately portrayed what had been written. This is a rare case of the films actually rewarding a comparison with the source text.)Overall, I can say that this book proved itself to me as a true classic, not just in the fantasy genre, but of classic literature. It works on countless levels, and has been a wonderfully rewarding experience. Someday, I hope to convince my friend to pick up the book where she left off - she doesn't know what she's missing!
5 I guess most of the people reading a review for this book must be LOTR fans; otherwise, why would they have bothered reading the first two? Keeping that in mind, I would say that &quot;Return of the King&quot; might be my favorite of the three. We are introduced to the land of Gondor, the last stronghold against the dark lord Sauron. There is naturally a great battle sequence in this book as the free peoples of the West defend the city of Minas Tirith from the winged Nazgul and Sauron's minions. We are introduced to some new characters, such as Denethor, the aging steward of Gondor, and the King of the Nazgul, who challenges Gandalf to a final dual. I don't want to give too much of the plot away, but I do think it's interesting that the fate of the ring is decided with nearly one hundred pages left in the story. The remaining chapters are devoted to following up on the various characters, and Tolkien does this nicely. He does not leave any loose ends; Aragorn, Gandalf, Frodo, Sam, Merry, Pippin, Legolas, Gimli, Eomer, Faramir, Eowyn, Arwen, Galadriel, Elrond, Bilbo, all of these characters are firmly situated at the end of the story. I also like how Tolkien follows the four hobbits back to the Shire, where they find out that things are not the same. He could have taken them on an amazing adventure and left it at that, but instead he lets them learn from their adventures to the benefit of the Shire. Although the outcome of the story is good, we are left feeling somewhat despondent, since the elves are departing and the &quot;third age&quot; is coming to an end. All in all, this trilogy is simply one of a kind; I don't think I'll ever again enjoy sci-fi or fantasy that doesn't bear the Tolkien label.
5 I read these books 15 years ago. They are a smooth read and the story really pulls you in. My son is now also starting to enjoy them. It's great to share this classic treasure with him.
5 When I was searching for this TAPED version of the LOTR and found this item, I noticed that most of the reviews (2,000+) were for the book, or rather, the several different editions of the book. Various booik formats are even listed below the title of the item on its page. I never understood why this was so, as the item is clearly shown to be the Trilogy Gift set of the LOTR and an audio cassette narrated by Rob Inglis.When I did find someone who reviewed this item itself and not these other things, and when I found someone who commented upon Mr. Inglis' narration, I decided to check it out with the seller to make sure I was getting tapes and Inglis. I did. And the box set was NEW and still in shrink wrap! And the cost was nominal. That's because I am using an old technology. Tape cassettes are OLD! It's all CDs now or whatever other thing they've come up with. So being OLD it was cheap. What a deal!Anyway, I am now happily listening to my cassettes in my car where I play all my books on tape. It sure makes driving more bearable. And Rob Inglis is indeed good. Excellent production values as you would expect from Recorded Books LLC. You ought to hear Mr. Inglis read Galadriel's song, which is written in Quenya!Ai! laurie lantar lassi surinen,Yeni unotime ve rdmar aldaron!Yeni ve linte yuldar avdniermi oromardi lisse-miruvoreva...Wow! He also sings when there are songs by others (Sam, Bilbo et al).So, I am pleased with this item. I recommend it to all of you few out there who still use tape cassettes and who are, of course, Tolkienarians.
5 The ultimate fantasay epic tale of ancient travellers and ancient ways.  A really heart warming journey, filled with excitment, adventure, sadness and joy. One of the most classic stories of the never ending confrontation between good and evil.  I loved the stroytelling historical accounts, and all the songs and poems. It's nice to experience how things might have been, in an age of oral history, magic, and wonder. Although, there is probably just as much wagic and wonder today as there is in these books, we just don't take the time to see it.
5 I kid you not. This is, hands-down, the most encompassing, riveting, imaginative, breath-taking, awe-inspiring, wonderful masterpiece to be written and published in the last hundred years, perhaps longer.The Lord of the Rings is not simply the greatest fantasy novel of all time because of Tolkien's gift with prose, love of poetry, or passion for matters of war and conflict. Here, in these amazing 1000+ pages, we get an entire world. Tolkien was working on creating the lands and history of Middle-earth even as he sat in the trenches of World War I, and it shows. Each race, country, language, all feel real enough to once have existed in our own world, even as fantastic as they may seem. That's why these books are not only priceless, but timeless as well.What can I say about these? I love them, obviously. The story is my favorite ever told, beginning with a simple task undertaken by Frodo Baggins, adopted nephew to the renowned Bilbo Baggins, in The Fellowship of the Ring. From seemingly small beginnings springs an epic in ever sense of the word, as Frodo learns the true nature of The Ring of Power, and the Dark Lord that will stop at nothing to reclaim it. Along the way, he is helped by a fellowship of men, dwarves, elves, fellow hobbits, and even a wizard in his mission to destroy The Ring and end the dominion of the evil Sauron.The story and action continue in The Two Towers, as the fellowship is broken and its members are close to despair. Frodo and his loyal retainer Sam continue to Morder, meeting the creature Gollum, and murderous wretch driven mad by The Ring's power, but their only guide to the fires of Mount. Doom. The other members of the fellowship travel to the besieged land of Rohan, hoping to stop its destruction in a last stand in a mighty fotress.The Return of the King brings the saga to a fantastic close, as Frodo and Sam's journey takes them deep into the lands of Morder, where they are hunted from all sides. Aragorn, lost heir to the throne of Gondor, must defend the city of Minas Tirith against the hordes of Sauron, only to once again enter battle before the Black Gates of Mordor themselves, hopelessly outnumbered, a lost cause to buy enough time for Frodo's quest to succeed.Through the story, readers are treated to some of the most incredible and bizarre creations, humanoid and otherwise, ever to appear upon a page. Likewise, the depictions of the battles waged to save Middle-earth are second to none in modern literature, as is the heart-wrenching ordeal that Frodo goes through during his quest.To top it off, this is one of the best editions of the fantasy trilogy, with leatherette cover, box, maps, and the full appendacies. It is, in fact, the same version that my father read to me nearly fourteen years ago, and it still holds its own against the reissues and movie tie-ins that have come since. If you have never before read J. R. R. Tolkien's literary accomplishment, then this is quite possiby the best way to do it. You won't regret it.
5 I will admit, the movies are what inspired me to read these books.  I read all four in less than a month.  From the moment I reached "The Flight to the Ford" in "The Fellowship of the Ring" I was hooked.  These books are absolutely amazing.  Tolkien didn't simply write some books, he created a world, and a fascinating one at that.  He has created unforgettable characters, landscapes, visual images and he pushes these things along with what could be considered the greatest story ever told.  These are the kind of books I can see myself reading annually.  He has packed these books so incredibly full with detail and information that reading them once, or even ten times, hardly scratches the surface.  These books took Tolkien over fifteen years to write, and when you read the extensive appendices in the back of "The Return of the King" it is easy to see why.  He created Middle-Earth, a place so convincingly really, it seems as if you could visit it some day.  This box set is wonderful.  It is great to have all four books together.The Hobbit- This book is a solid piece of literature.  This was actually originally written as a children's story for his kids, and when he started work on "The Lord of the Rings" he went back and made it a little scarier and more violent.  This book tells the story of Bilbo Baggins and his encounter with Gandalf and some Dwarves seeking a treasure.  In their adventure, they face flies and spiders and Orcs and the dragon Smaug and the evil creature Gollum.  I can read the chapter "Riddles in the Dark" over and over again.  Gollum is an ingenious character.  This novel lays the groundwork for "LOTR" and is amazing.  It is, however, my least favorite in the set.The Fellowship of the Ring- While not my favorite of the four, it isn't my least favorite.  I think it has a slow start, just because so much groundwork is laid.  The story of the ring and Isildur and Gollum/Smeagol and Frodo and Bilbo are all told in the beginning.  Finally, they set off through the "Old Forrest," a scene not included in the movie.  It is very interesting.  Tom Bombadil is a strong and interesting character, even though the story tends to stray from the ring at this point.  By the time the hobbits reach Bree, you will have a very hard time putting this book (or the other two) down.The Two Towers- This is my absolute favorite of the books.  I love the battle at Helm's Deep and the tower of Cirith Ungol and it has my all time favorite literary character, Gollum in it a lot.  He is one of the most well thought out and executed characters I have ever read about.  The story is very strong and the emotion that the reader feels for the characters is very strong.  The scenes at Isengard with the Ents are amazing, as well as the plantir scene.  Wonderful!!The Return of the King- What I enjoy about the movies is that they tell more about Sam and Rosie and Arwen and Aragorn.  Those relationships become important in the end of this book, and they aren't told enough in the books (although detailed in the appendices).  This book is great.  Eowyn is a strong character and Merry and Pippin really stand out in this novel.  The "Scouring of the Shire" is a cool chapter as well.  I also really enjoy the climax.  It is amazing, and it blew me away.  The battles at Minas Tirith are amazing.  This is my second favorite, even though the ending is a little lagging, but like "Fellowship" needed the long rising action, it needed the long falling action.In all, I recommend these to anyone, even if you don't like fantasy.  I've never been a fan of fantasy, but what sets these apart is the fact that Tolkien built a world and once you're in it, you don't want to leave.
5 As the quest against Sauron continues, the Fellowship has split and gone their separate ways.  The first half of the book follows the majority of the Fellowship, first as they search for their captured comrades, then as they fight the forces of Saruman.  The second part chronicles the voyage of Frodo and Sam (and later Gollum), as they attempt to reach the realm of the enemy.As the book progresses, the reader can really begin to see the development of each character.  The long, difficult journey undertaken by Frodo, Sam, and Gollum reveals much about each character: that Frodo is struggling with the burden of the ring, the hastiness of Sam, and the inner conflict and treachery that consumes Gollum.I'm not a big fan of the fantasy genre in general, in large part due to the the massive volumes generated by authors chronicling the minute details of every quest.  It's tedious to read for all but die-hard fans of the genre.  This arises in the Two Towers, but Tolkien's masterful sense of setting and character manage to keep the reader's interest, in spite of the long lulls in the action.This is a wonderful second installment, bridging the gap between the first stage of the quest and the final struggle.  The true magnitude of Frodo's burden becomes evident, as does the power agaist which all good must stand or be destroyed.
5 The Lord of the Rings (and The Hobbit) are my favorite books of all time. I've read them at least every five years since I was fifteen. There are no words to express what these books mean to me except that they inspired me to become a writer myself.Lucifer's Pocket. The performance of Rob Inglis was very good and convincing. He actually did a very decent job singing the songs rather than just reading them, which added a lot to the feeling of the recording. The packaging has a little to be desired being made of a cheap thin cardboard with cutouts for the CDs to be put in. I just don't think it would protect them over time and a lot of taking them out and putting them back in.This set of CDs also includes the reading of some of the appendices included in the book form of The Lord of the Rings. It added a lot to the story that you wouldn't know otherwise.
5 If you haven't read &quot;the Fellowship of the Rings&quot;, but saw the movie,you will still be sufficiently primed for the next chapter in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Interestingly the book is divided into two complete sections: one devoted to Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli and Gandalf, and the second to Frodo and Sam.This &quot;chapter&quot; of the trilogy for me contained much more heart pounding action as the stories wind up to their climaxes in the last book.Being a big fan of the Robert Jordan &quot;Wheel of Time&quot; series, I became very aware of the many similarities between the two, and where Jordan most likely got a lot of his inspiration.Reading this you can see why it's considered one of the great classic pieces of literature, while still being as vibrant and exciting as any modern work on the bookshelf.
2 BE CAREFUL PURCHASING! It is almost impossible to tell - from reading the descriptions and reviews on this product on Amazon's website - whether you are buying the &#34;dramatized&#34; version or the unabridged reading. I meant to purchase the latter and was intensely disappointed (at the beginning of a 30-hour-long road trip no less) to discover that I ordered the wrong one. Tried several times to listen to this and enjoy it, but to no avail. The voices are overdone and distracting, and after the first chapter they seem to do away with the narration entirely in favor of the voice actors' performance. My Tolkien itch was not scratched.
3 First of all, I must say that in my opinion, The Lord of the Rings is the greatest story ever written. But this boxed set had one problem with me. I read the whole thing through, therefore there was 2 books in the case the entire time(a few months). When I finished and was ready to put them all back into the box and display it handsomely on my bookshelf, they didn't fit! I can get any two of them in fine but when I try to squeeze the third one in,  the box is bulging and I can hardly push the book into it's remaining space. If I force it in, it'll ruin the binding. I think it's because of the way the box was made. Theres no slit on the back. When I put the books in, the air gets trapped and squeezes them as I described. If the box itself had been manufactured differently, there would be no problem. But I can't fit my books in my box anymore. I would reccomend getting one of the single volume editions. The Lord of the Rings is supposed to be one big book anyway. If you prefer the 3-book style, then I suggest getting the hardcover variant of this set. This paperback one doesn't work very well.
4 I don't read much fiction, but I really enjoyed my jaunt through most of this trilogy over the past year. The Lord of the Rings has been loved for decades and is now enjoying even more acclaim with the making of the the motion pictures. They are good books, more like literary fiction than the cheap paperback novels that clutter so many shelves. Tolkien's attention to detail in describing the various cultures, peoples, locales, and languages of Middle-Earth is amazing. The multitude of encyclopedias and histories written on this fictional world attest to the genius and creativity of Tolkien and the magnitude of his creative achievement. But the story is interesting, too, with a complex plot, lovable characters, and high adventure. The protagonists are real heroes (especially Frodo and Sam) demonstrating loyalty, courage, integrity, and purity of heart. The line between good and evil is clearly drawn and the magic and violence is not graphic. Parents need not fear allowing their children to pore through these books. Add to that (with this edition) the breath-taking art of Alan Lee, and this set becomes an attractive addition to the family library.
5 I would not dare to comment on this magnificent work of art. I will, however, be able to comment on how well this book in Kindle format works. I use the basic version of Kindle, no back light, simple paper effect. I found that reading this work on my Kindle was every bit as enjoyable as the paper version, but much lighter. If you ever wanted an example of the benefits of using an e-book for reading classic non-illustrated literature, this will convince you. What illustrations there are - elvish script, door into the Mines of Moria for example - are perfectly legible, and can be enlarged for closer examination. Have no hesitation in buying this book in Kindle format.
5 Tolkien's epic tale of adventure in one volume - very convenient. The Kindle version is well indexed and very readable.
4 These books are simply gorgeous. They are top-quality, with glossy paper and come in a very sturdy box. However, they books are a LOT larger and heavier than I expected, which is fine, but would definitely make reading them difficult. It would be a burden to have to carry them around, as each individual book is surprisingly heavy. However, they are great collector's items, meant to last. I bought them because they look nice, and I wanted to own a better copy of this magnificent series other than my old beaten up paperback editions. (I will still use the paperbacks for re-reading, though!)Even so, they are wonderful copies, and I highly recommend them if you are looking for a nice edition to collect or display. I think it would have been better if they made these books more practical, though, as nice as they are.
5 The Lord of the Rings opens to the reader a whole new and vibrant world. There is so much detail that you can see very clearly what is going on. There is also enough action to keep you on the edge of your seat. Also there are great characters that you will never forget. If you want some books that will keep you interested for quite a while read The Lord Of The Rings!
4 I finally read the Lord of the Rings series since the movie came out, and I really enjoyed them... most of the time.  The story is excellent, the characters are perfect, the places and descriptions are difficult to top, but there are many places where it drags and sometimes it lacks the some of the action I expect from fantasy stories.  This is one story where I think the movie was actually better than the book, but I would still recommend anyone who enjoys fantasy to read it.  The best parts about the book overweigh the bad, just give yourself some time to read it.
5 The wit and wisdom of Tolkien's works are as pithy as one of Aesop's Fables. The Lord of the Rings series has a little something for everyone.
5 This is the final episode of "The Lord of the Rings". Intense reading, makes you wonder what the next page holds in store...highly recommend !
5 I keep returning to Mr. Tolkien. Re-reading the trilogy over and over. I dont know why but I cant get enough of this story and everytime I discover something new. Great work!
4 ....under the publisher;s constraints, in the land of Houghton-Mifflin, where the profits lie.Most people think this superb book, which is popularly abbreviated LOTR, pronounced &quot;Loater&quot;, is pretty darn good, a Jungian archetype in its own right.  Some people criticize the slow development, and the various included songs and poetry as being archaic, and the journey through the marshes as being depressing, but they miss part of the point - this is literature influenced and honoring older styles.  The MTV generation should consider learning to slow down and savour things.  I cannot contribute anything particularly original to a review of this book as a literary work.However - on the edition:  One caution:  The boxed red-leather bound collector's edition, (echoing the fictional &quot;Red Book of Westmarch&quot;, the mythical preserved source of the story) has one jarring flaw.  It lacks the much enlarged, detailed map, showing Gondor, Rohan, and western Mordor, normally found in the third volume (The Return of the King, ROTK) in the individual-volume  editions.  That map greatly aids readers in following of the events of ROTK, and it is worth one's while to have a regular hardback or paperback edition handy in order to have access to this map.
5 I have always loved fantasy and have read almost every major work in the genre. I never touched the Lord of the rings trilogy till now and I wasn't aware of all I was missing. many of my old favorites now pale in comparison. This is truly a work full of magic and enchantment. It is as if I have finally touched the heart of fantasy and imagination and doing so leave forever changed. What a touching story.
5 This review is of the Kindle edition only. There are more than enough reviews of the book itself, and I think telling you all that I have read the trilogy at least half a dozen times will be enough to let you know what I think of it. The only thing I will add is that if you loved the book, consider getting &#34;The Silmarillion&#34;. It's not an easy read, but it is incredibly rich with the 'history' of Arda from the beginning to just before the War of the Rings.The kindle version is very good, as far as kindle versions go, and the latest price of $10.00 is pretty much a steal. The index is correct, and I believe the corrections are all up to date. For anyone who is interested, look up 'Lord of the Rings edits' in your search engine of choice to see the many, many years of errors and corrections that JRR and later his son Christopher went through to get to the final edition. The next best version of the Trilogy I know of is the illustrated edition, and that will set you back about $90.00 or so.
5 I have no qualms about giving LOTR five stars, though Tolkien himself noted that what he produced was not to everyone's liking. I do wince when reading some of the earlier reviews that get a bit, ah, exuberant in their  praise, and I suspect Tolkien would have been embarrassed and frustrated by  many of them, as he was by the over-the-top fans who kept showing up at his  door.That said, Tolkien did indeed write one of the great works of  English literature, one that will be studied by experts and cherished by  the masses for centuries to come, long after the popular names that fill  the &quot;Fantasy&quot; shelves fade into forgetfulness. This is not to  denigrate them; many are outstanding writers creating excellent fiction.  But Tolkien pulled off the hat trick of (1) getting there first, (2)  preemptively staking out vast amounts of the territory, and (3) writing one  hell of an epic. Those who have come after have the unenviable task of  building skyscapers next to a mountain. Were I to ever attempt fiction, I  would steer clear of Tolkien's domain--but I'd go back and re-read him (for  the 16th time) to see how it's done right. ..bruce..
5 &quot;The Return of the King&quot; is the final volume of Tolkien's masterpiece, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;.  There is nothing else that has ever come close to comparing to it - although many have tried.  &quot;The Return of the King&quot; is a wonderful conclusion to Tolkien's fantasy.  The finale by itself is well worth reading over and over again.  Unless you have been completely spoiled by modern interpretations of fantasy, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; should be in your permanent library.  Be sure to read the first volume =before= the new movie comes out, as I have heard that they changed many events, and left out others in the interest of brevity.  Every fan of fantasy should read &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; at least once in their lives.  My very highest recommendation for any fantasy book.
5 The Journey continues... 5 starsThis book starts off exactly where, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; (see my review) ends. The Nine Walkers of Boromir, Aragorn, Gandalf, Gimli, Legolas, Pippin, Merry and the Ring-bear Frodo set out from Rivendell. After their leader and guide fell into the abyss in Moria (an ancient palace of the Dwarves in the mountains), Aragorn became their leader.After emerging from the mountains, and passing through the land of Lorien, the Company faced a choice. Should they go to Mordor, where Frodo must go to destroy the Ring, the all-powerful instrument of evil and corruption or travel to Minis Tirith (Tower of the Guard) capital of the Gondor, a nation of Men who are at war with Mordor and its evil ruler Sauron.The Hobbits Sam and Frodo disappear and depart for Mordor. The other two Hobbits (Merry and Pippin) are taken captive by Orcs, despite being defended by Boromir, who is killed in their defence.In the first half of, &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; the tale of what happened to Pippin, Merry, Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn is related. In the second half of, "The Two Towers," the tale of what happened to Frodo and Sam is related. Within the book, I much prefer the first section of it. The reunion of the Hobbits with Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas is one of my favorite moments in the book.In some ways, whenever I undertake to read, "The Lord of the Rings," I dread the second section of, "The Two Towers." Personally, I do no appreciate the pain-staking description of every mountain, rock and flower; I keep waiting for some actual dialogue or action to happen. Tolkien obviously had a vivid, EXTREMELY detailed imagination for he invented every single part of his fictional world of Middle-Earth to be believable. There is a history of behind all the races and some of the races have their very own languages.The problem that Tolkien may have run into in his epic work is that he lost something in attempting to achieve the grand scale he sought to produce. His heavy use of allusions to persons and events that the reader knows nothing of start off as evocative and then begins to get annoying. However, in terms of good epic length fantasy literature, "The Lord of the Rings," started it and it is probably one of the best novels of the 20th century. One last note, remember, Tolkien originally wrote the story for his own enjoyment, he did not envision millions of people in dozens of languages reading his work.
5 If you are a 'LOTR' fan then this is the edition to have. I have had all of the edition's so far & this is the best. It has a leather cover which is dark gray & the pages are stitched not just guled & restored text it is well worth the price Amazon has for it.
5 When Tolkien created Middle Earth, he created a new mythology that people would read long after his death.  The Lord of the Rings is an inspiration for many modern day writers as well as readers.  The culters brought out in the book seem real.  The characters are rich.  The story is classic. No one can go through life without ever experiencing such a wonderful story.The story is about a hobbit, Frodo, who is given the ONE RING that can destroy all of Middle Earth if it is put into the hands of its maker, the Dark Lord Sauron.  Now, this simple innocent fellow, who lives in a part of the land where nothing bad ever happens, must travel out into the dark and evil realm of Middle Earth to throw the ring into the fires where it was created.  The past converges with the present in order to save the future of their world.  The epic war of the ring has begun, and the Halfling must fulfill his quest or all would be lost.If you haven't read the book, there is no time to waste.  The movie will be out soon, and books are always better than their film adaptations.
5 I recently reviewed Recorded Books Incorporated's unabridged rendition of Fellowship of the Ring. I return now to review the second installment of the trilogy, The Two Towers. The Two Towers pics up right where Fellowship left off. Frodo and Sam have left to find a way into Mordor, while Merri and Pippin have gone in search of them. Aragorn, drawn away from his search for Frodo by the urgent call of Boromir's horn, finds the man mortally wounded in a clearing, surrounded by the bodies of many Orcs. With his last breath, Boromir confesses his attempt to take the ring from Frodo and warns that Pippin and Merri have been captured by the Orcs. After a simple ceremony in which the body of Boromir is laid to rest in one of the three Elven-made boats in which they travelled and sent down the river to the falls of Rauros, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimley resolve to hunt down the Orcs and rescue the captive Hobbits.Thus begins the second installment of Lord of the Rings. As before Rob Englis delivers a top notch performance. He continues his trend of actually singing the songs in his good tenor rather than just reciting them as other narrators have done. He portrays each new character very well as far as I'm concerned, which makes for a great listen. From the opening lines to the end, this book should keep you under its spell, even if you've read it many times before.
4 Though I'm not the biggest Tolkien fan, in my opinion this is probably the best of the Lord of the Rings series. Good action, nice character details and a pleasant writing style. Definitely a step in the right direction from Fellowship, which I found cumbersome (way too much background info at beginning of the story). Towers is much more enjoyable, setting the reader up right in the action. A good, solid read. Recommended for anyone interested in Tolkien or in the movies made from his works.
5 Read the series you will enjoy every moment of it. More depth in the book than the movie. I recommend it.
5 I've always been a die hard fan of Tolkien's work, so finding a box set of his most famous works for only $12.99... Well, I couldn't pass up that offer.Box came in shrink wrap to protect the books.
5 This is the Kindle version of the novel.  It uses the page number location as well as the locator number (less useful).  It has the usual table of contents to go to when you've either lost your place or want to skip chapters you're not interested in.The novel itself is very well written and is worth reading again, especially if the last time you read it was in high school, or you've seen the movies and need to review some of the passages you feel the movie(s) missed or glossed over.  Good fantasy.
5 Slip cased and leather bound, this version contains all three of the Lord of the Rings tales. As translated from the runes in the book, this is the Red Book, retelling the tale of Bilbo Baggins and Sam Gamgee. The leather is beautifully embossed and colored in jewel tones. This is a worthwhile addition to your library.
5 I've been a fan of fantasy books for years, mainly because I read and fell in love with &quot;The Hobbit&quot; as a child. Yet I didn't read &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; until a few months ago, in anticipation of the new film. Once again I fell in love with Tolkien's Middle-Earth and story-telling ability. I loved the dramatic twists at the end of &quot;The Fellowship;&quot; indeed, I thought I had never read anything quite like it at the time. But the story of &quot;The Two Towers&quot; blew me away.In the first half, Book III, Aragorn leads Gimli and Legolas in hot pursuit of Saruman's band of orcs, who have nabbed hobbits Merry and Pippin. These five members of the now-broken Fellowship find unexpected allies in the Riders of Rohan, and the Ents, ancient dwellers of the Fanghorn forest. The battle at Helm's Deep with the servants of Saruman was riveting.Book IV, which deals with Frodo and Sam's journey towards Mordor, seemed very slow-moving after the events of Books I-III. Still, there are incredible descriptions of the often-barren, mountainous landscape, the hobbits' dealings with Smeagol, and occasional settings of staggering beauty (the groves and thickets of Ithilien, the Window of the Sunset). The sense of impending doom builds as the hobbits draw closer to Mordor. Yet I realized that there was no other way Tolkien could have built up to the conclusion more deliberately or masterfully as I read, late last night and spellbound, the staggering events in the final two chapters of this book.I never thought it possible that &quot;The Two Towers&quot; could be better than &quot;The Fellowship,&quot; but there you have it. I loved Merry and Pippin's encounter with the Ents, and the tree-creatures' deliberate ways. As a student of geology, I couldn't get enough of the beautiful descriptions of mountains and landscapes. I loved how everything in Middle-Earth is steeped in history and lore - even magical objects like the Palantir, with an ambiguous, almost-forgotten history, take on a deeper dimension. Most of all, I loved the moments of the truest kind of friendship. Friendship grows between Gimli and Legolas, two (initially) unlikely companions. And Frodo and Sam, always drawing closer towards the heartland of the Dark Lord, realize that now, more than ever, they must rely on their companionship and loyalty to each other.I couldn't recommend anything more highly, and would also caution you to have &quot;The Return of the King&quot; close at hand!
5 This book is better than the first one as all the ground work has been laid and I was familiar and attached to all of the characters by this point.  It was really interesting to discover more and learn more of the character Gollum and to meet other creatures and life which wanders Middle Earth.  This book was FULL of surprises that I didn't see coming with a wonderful ending that kind of gave me the creeps.  I'm about the start the third and final book.
5 I read Tolkien's books long ago, and thoroughly enjoyed them. Now, as I begin to explore the world of opera, a startling similarity between Richard Wagner's &quot;The Ring Cycle&quot; and Tolkien's books has me intrigued. Not to take anything away from Tolkien, but I now understand where he got the basis for his books. Just goes to show you that there's very little &quot;new stuff&quot; floating around this planet of ours. Having said that, I heartily recommend anyone buying these wonderful books (or, if they can stand it, watching Wagner's operas). I'd opt for the books.
5 Very convenient to have a digital version to carry around, rather than a paper copy (of which I have many, many).  Easy to pick up and hard to put down.
5 Nice set of books for paper backs. I enjoyed the fact that they were all boxed together and the binding, for a paper back, has held up well after several reads.
5 I just recieved this edition of the Lord of the Rings as a holiday gift, and am delighted with it. Previously, I had only owned mass market paperback books with covers from the movies, and I'm very excited to have this one.This is definately the most beautiful book I own. The gilded pages, the shiny designs of the Three Elven Rings and the Eye of Sauron on the cover, the detailed unfolding maps of middle earth...the physical beauty of this book matches the beauty of the words within.So if you want to own a collector's edition Lord of the Rings, this is a good choice.Just a word of caution, however. The maps are very delicate, and mine ripped a little in the corner when I was unfolding it.
1 Despite Tolkien's (reportedly) having intended his "Lord of the Rings" trilogy to be published as one volume, I think you're going to regret it if you but this one-volume paperback edition.It's unwieldy.  If you're seriously planning on reading this -- rather than just displaying this on your bookcase -- you're not going to be happy.  It's too large to curl up with, too big to hold in your hands comfortably, and you can't open the pages completely without cracking the binding.  Having said that, I'll say that the binding on this is possibly the best I've ever seen on a book:  you'll have to work it back and forth until it's concave to the text, so that the spine is curved; the pages will never fall out.  The problem is that, although I'm an ordinary-sized guy, the thing is so big that my hands get tired holding the thing open.Boy, do I regret giving my 3 Ballantine paperbacks away when I bought this thing.  This is one of the only books I own that is pretty much unreadable for physical reasons.Note:  the edition this review applies to is ISBN-13: 978-0261103252.  It has a red cover with "Lord of the Rings" in gold lettering.  This edition was apparently meant for consumption in the UK but is occasionally available in the U.S. as an import.
5 Of course, I've always loved Lord of the Rings and J.R.R. Tolkien; I really enjoy the in-depth characters and intense plot. But it was even better as a single volume... the books that you love in less expensive and relatively durable binding. My family and I have read through this volume SEVERAL times, and apart from some slight creases in the spine, it's faring quite well.For those of you that have not read LOTR but seen the movies, I'm sorry- I loved the movies, but they pale in comparison to the books... READ THEM. If you've neither seen the movies or read the books, and you actually enjoy books... READ THEM. If you don't really enjoy reading but you'd like to like reading and you have some spare time... READ THEM. Fantastic for almost everyone- my guess, though, is that anyone  10+ would understand them and enjoy them.
5 I can go on and on pertaining to the literary marvels which have been extensively covered by the thousands of converts of LOTR. However I have one particular observation that I previously suspected manifest in the act of reading this book. LOTR was one of the first serious books I read as a twelve year old. I was overwhelmed by the power of the story in the way that it eerily transported you into the action. Over three decades later and having read thousands of books, (fantasy fiction and other genres) I have returned again recently (my fifth time) to middle earth with one of the collectors editions;(The Red faux leather bound one).I have found that my original experience upon reading it was indeed unique and remains so. This last time, I scrutinized the construct of the yarn bit by bit and realized that Tolkien indeed used a hypnotic trick in his  construct of sentences. One can begin to read and shortly fall into a vivid, clear world which unfolds from the imagination into the waking world!  I don't read too many books where I will suddenly jump from the couch and exclaim "Man!!! I can almost see that!!" or something of that nature. I have visited middle earth enough times that I feel as if the members of the "Fellowship" are my comrades and I am actually having a smoke with them at Saurumans stronghold.  Anyway, I have no pity to those who find this book to be boring....
4 A good book, but the worst in the series. Not the best finisher for this wonderful series. I would still recommend it.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien creates an entire universe with his book, almost so immense no amount of books can ever truly cover it.  He pays so much attention to detail that you feel you are walking right along with the travelers.The first book is the slowest of the three, but not any less captivating, it allows you to get acquainted with the characters and builds a connection with them that you feel in the other two.This is not your typical mid-evil-type adventure book.  Tolkien doesn't try to capture you by bashing you over the head with constants battles and gory bloody fight scenes.  In fact for how long the story was, I expected more fight but was not disappointed in how many there were.In just under 1500 pages, the edition I bought, he takes you through one of the most magical stories ever told.The language, characters speak in old English, can get a bit thick at times and you might get lost in some places unless you are very familiar with it, but none the less you would be captivated by his words if it were written in Chinese!When you are finally done with the third book, you want to turn around and read the whole thing again for fear of having missed something.Magical is the only way you can truly describe this book.
5 I have read this series 5 or 6 times. Still love it even though I am in my late 50's
5 I've read these books more times than I can count over the years. Now I have it in a form that I can easily carry with me. Wonderful!
4 I liked the books the first time I read them and  then gave them to my granddaughter,I wanted to read the series again and these are the perfect size to take  with you while you wait at Dr. etc.The type is a good size even for ones that need glasses.And. it was a great price for all four books.
5 I enjoyed reading this set of books.  It was a very enjoyable read.  I enjoyed comparing the books to the movie.
5 I have thoroughly enjoyed Lord of the  Rings since reading the first page. I had read about 17% of the book when I decided it would be a good idea to stop and read The Hobbit. I just have been reading it for a few days and it is just as wonderful as the second book, Lord of the Rings. Have a good time and read both books.
5 I am very much greatly impressed with this book by Mr. John Ronald Reuel Tolkien Phd (1892-1973).  THE LORD OF THE RINGS is a book that I consider to be a masterpiece of the twentieth century.  Through it, the fantasy-adventure genre reached an unpreceden ted level.  "This book is largely concerned with Hobbits" writes Tolkien, in a land of knights, wizards, elves, dwarves, kings and queens.  Professor Tolkien has created an entire world.  Each group has their own language, heritage, and customs which bri n g them to life.  Yet, for all their strangeness, they retain very human qualities and emotions.  It is a story of good vs evil influenced by his friend Mr C. S. Lewis, PhD.  It is the story of young people maturing; of agrarian vs industrial.  It is also a story with strong spiritu al undertones.  This undercurrent of religious images within a spiritual journey interests me greatly.  There are many characters which hold symbolic representations: Sauron/Satan; Galadriel/virgin Mary; Frodo/Messiah; etc.  Further, Professor Tolkien adroitly offers his answers to complex spiritual issues.  First, the Ring may represent wealth and its power over us all.  The most powerful wizards fear its influence, and only the smallest, seemingly most impotent of the fellowship can be trusted with it.  The Ring itself is ammoral.  Yet, the wisest understand the danger it has to corrupt their own power.  Another theme is the transition from the times of the prophets to the age of the disciples.  Yet another is the life of the CHRIST, Jesus lived through the character of Frodo.  Especially, as he ascends Mount Doom in its shadowing of Calvary.  Finally, for me the most impressive theme that Professor Tolkien offers is in the way of good versus evil.  Gollum is a devious and trecherous being with few attr active qualities.  Yet, without him, the quest would have failed.  "Even Gollum may have something yet to do" is the phrase which succinctly summarises his special role.  This fascinating book has strengthened my spiritual commitment by offering an answer for evil.  This answer has inspired in me a more patient outlook as I am reminded of the wheat and the tares described in the book of Matthew 13:24-30.  Another strength of this book is that one may enjoy it without thinkin g of these weightier matters.  Eve n so, for those who choose, Professor Tolkien offers a parable that highlights the differences between people and how those differences can be a strength in a fellowship.  Through this I have learned a bit more about toler ance.  If you are interested in t he fantasy genre, spiritual matters or enjoyed the movie, this book will interest you. Thank you Chantal. PEACE
5 This book was delivered 10 days before it's estimated delivery date. My granddaughter's birthday was 2 days after it arrived....it is a beautiful set of books which she will treasure forever! And the fact that it came from Great Britain made it all the better in her teenage mind!
5 WHAT A WONDERFUL SET OF BOOKS. THEY ARE SO HARD TO PUT DOWN. THE LORD OF THE RINGS TRILOGY IS IN MY MOST TREASURED BOOK COLLECTION. THEY ARE AMONG THE FEW THAT I CAN READ OVER AND OVER.
5 As a Tolkein fan since age 10, I bought this set because my old paperback copies were falling apart.  I was very impressed with the books' paper quality, cover art, and the biographical information they contained.  If you haven't read Tolkein, buy this set.  If you have read Tolkein and your old copies are wearing out, this set is a great buy.
5 The foregoing reviews seem to divide their readers into two groups, those who love it and those who hate it.  It occurs to me that many people start with a handicap, not knowing Tolkien's purpose in writing it.  Tolkien was, above all, a Christian, and he wrote for Christians.  Those who are Biblically illiterate will miss the allusions and evidences of Divine Providence that are of such importance to the narrative.Having said this, I believe that lovers of the saga are to be found in all walks of life and all ages, including twelve-year-olds like my son, who has said, &quot;This is my very favorite book of all books.&quot;  Tolkien himself said that it is not an allegory, but &quot;history, real or feigned.&quot;  Whether it is to be viewed as real or feigned is a judgment of each individual.  This work is, arguably, the greatest work of fiction of the twentieth century.  More has been written about it by the best writers than any other novel of our time.  It is either very deep or very shallow.  Try it.  If you have the necessary background, you might like it.
1 I know a lot of people love this story but i learned that its not for everybody.To much description about everything makes it hard to read because everything is slow and nothing much happens in a lot of time, the dialogs are ok.
5 The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings are the avocado in the guacamole of fantasy.  (I hesitate to label these books &quot;fantasy&quot; since books of that genre are feeble imitations of Tolkien's classics.)  Need a vacation?  Take off to Middle Earth.  Need stress relief?  Take two little hobbits, and call me in the morning.And don't forget to read the appendices.
5 Classic.
5 I've always been a huge fan of the films, but I am finally reading the book. I am roughly 1/8th of the way through, and I am LOVING it. You can really feel the inspirations Tolkien drew from Norse mythology in creating his own. And that is right up my alley! Now I will go pick up where I left off. Happy reading!
5 He is the Shakespeare and Homer of the 20th century.  He takes a genre once associated only with acne-faced teenage boys and elevates it to literary excellence.  His selection as Writer of the Century was well-deserved to say the least.Written mostly during Europe's WWII years, the symbolism of that war lies heavily in his novels (See especially &quot;The Scouring of the Shire&quot; chapter in Vol. 3 &quot;The Return of the King&quot;)His epic story has a background color and richness that rarely exists in today's literary works.  He built his own languages from the syllables on up, his appendices and notes lend depth and history to his works, he is truly the only fantasy write to literally create a world.  Every sentence that spills from the mouths of his characters hints at a world that we are only scratching the surface of.The poetry and lore that his characters express hint at the many volumes that Tolkien could have written if time would have allowed it.  Rarely have I seen a fantasy writer who could put such a large amount of high quality verse and rhyme into their works.Almost every fantasy author of the last 30 years must tip their hat in Tolkien's direction.  I have yet to find a noteable fantasy author who didn't mention Tolkien in their list of inspiring/influencing authors.I can only hope that on the eve of the long awaited Lord of the Rings movies that would-be Tolkien Cinema fans take the time to read the epic fantasy saga that made the movies possible.
5 Man this is the best book ever written in the World.You will hear about this book when are are older and it will still be as popular as it is today.That is because no other book can compare to this book.No other book  can come close to this one.I want to first say I love all the characters.He  made some awesome heros and he made some cool villians.His 3 book trilogy  is perfectly spaced into books and excellently written.I want to say  everyone out there needs to read this book.You will never find a better  book than this.
5 &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is far and away my favorite book, and my appreciation for it only deepens with each reading.  It is perhaps the only book where the setting is more important than plot or character - a setting so real that people cannot help connecting it with our own world. But LOTR  is not an allegory; it is simply a story.  Whatever 'ism' some feel that it  advocates is merely a reflection of an 'ism' the reader took to  Middle-Earth with them.Ramble on....
5 This one volume edition of LOTR is great. The books are a wonderful read, and never get old. If you haven't read them before, or have only seen the movies, definitely give these books a try.
5 I love this stuff. Tolkien is a great writer. LOTR rocks! Like the films, they get better with each one. The story is wonderful, and the writing style is first rate. You,ll love it.
5 This is a classic literature series and any fantasy fan would love this these books. This is a really nice looking set and I was really happy to pick these up.
4 Spent as much time describing the environment as telling the story.  This caused the story to move slowly.  Still very entertaining.
5 What can I say, it's Tolkien. Get it,  read it. See the movies, go see the Hobbit. More words. Damn.
5 Tolkien's epic novels are still awesome.  Wonderful story, though better if you've read the Silmarilian and so have some of the background story.
5 The Lord of the Rings is simply one of the most magnificent examples of story-telling in the English language. This is not a review of the literature, but a review of the Houghton Mifflin hardcover boxed edition. Having read The Lord of the Rings five times previously, and having lost my dog-eared paperbacks, I decided to splurge on an expensive edition for my sixth tour of Middle Earth. The weight of these tomes and the high quality illustrations made for a very nice renewal of acquaintance. My only complaint is the paper. It is too glossy, and reflects the incident light too much. Otherwise, this is a terrific effort.
5 This new box set by Houghton Mifflin is a beautiful addition to any Tolkien lovers bookshelf. The illustrations on the box and on the book covers themselves, are done by Alan Lee. One of the best Middle-earth  artists, renown for his work on the hardcover editions of &quot;The Lord of  the Rings&quot; and &quot;The Hobbit&quot;.In the box you get the  cornerstones of Middle-earth, &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and &quot;The Lord of  the Rings&quot;.In &quot;The Hobbit&quot; you'll go along with Bilbo  Baggins, twelve dwarves, and Gandalf the wizard on their quest to recover  the dwarves gold and home from the dragon Smaug. A lighthearted and fun  journey that sets the stage for what is to come....Which leads us to  &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;, the greatest fantasy epic of all time.  Taking place years later than &quot;The Hobbit&quot;, this is the story of  Frodo Baggins, Samwise, Merry and Pippin and their quest to save  Middle-earth from the evil Sauron by destroying the One Ring. Bilbo is seen  again and Gandalf is back too, helping the hobbits on their journey. You'll  meet a memorable group of characters, who come to life, with the touch of  Tolkien.In both books you'll get maps to help you on your way, and in  &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; there are extensive appendixes with a  tale of years, calendars, family trees, notes about language and other good  stuff.Overall this one set of books you'll probably end up replacing  over the years as you wear them out from reading. You'll smile everytime  you open the covers, delving back into Middle-earth, to see old friends and  make new ones, in the greatest stories ever told....
5 These are the best books, I've read them pretty many times over the years.  You can almost imagine you are in middle earth while you are reading, that you are visiting the elves yourself.  These books don't just tell a story (although they are very entertaining) they also have a moral, you don't just put them down and forget them, they have a lot of grand ideas.
5 A great book. As good the second time I read it as the first and will most likely read it many more times.Charlotte
5 Just got yesterday and unwrapped to find the most beautiful coloration on this printing. Have the original first set with the drab and navy coloring. My husband was truly shocked at how gorgeous this box set was and very happy to receive ahead of time. This quality and price are unbeatable and it is unmistakenly beautiful and well made.
5 What can you say about a classic read? Wonderful, enthralling. I've read it easily 25 times over the years and still find new things every time. Tolkien is the master!
2 Just started reading this edition outloud to my daughter.  It is missing a part of the story between pages 125-126.  The pages are numbered correctly, but there is part missing.  For the price you might try a better edition. Love the story, I have read it many times.
5 The lord of the rings is a fantastic book it brings you right there where you  can feel like you experience it with them
5 This is the best book in the WHOLE ENTIRE WORLD!!! (i say this with emphesis!) I wish i was there, this is soo adventurous! Its so exciting with all of the detail. If there is ever a book that you would order online i would recomend that it would be this book! Please take the time to read these phonemoial masterpieces!
5 I read this book as a teenager and loved it.  I am looking forward to rereading it.  This book is much better than the movie.
5 "The Lord of the Rings" is the sequel to J.R.R. Tolkien's fantasy classic,The Hobbit. The Return of the King is third, and final book (preceeded byThe Fellowship of the Ring: Being the First Part of The Lord of the RingsandThe Two Towers: Being the Second Part of The Lord of the Rings), but it is actually one epic tale.More adult oriented concepts are included than in The Hobbit, and there are refferences to the pre-history Tolkien was developing and published in various "Middle Earth" books, making this a more challenging read.This is an epic tale, with many story lines running concurrently. This has it all, Monsters, Wizards, Battles, Treason, Love, Self Sacrifice and much more!Highly recommended!
5 He's been eating these books up ever since he got them for Christmas and is now looking foward to watching the films after finishing the set.
5 The third book of the trilogy is amazing, full of emotion.  All of the hobbitts become famous as heroes of the realm by accomplishing daunting tasks to help defeat the dark lord and gain freedom for Middle Earth.  Saruman is reduced to a truly pitiful creature that is still full of spite.  Aragorn is revealed as the rightful king and takes his place at the head of the realm.There are also a lot of real world lessons delivered in this book.  Evil must be stood up to and fought against even with everything to loose.  Freedom is the ultimate reward and valor deserves much respect.  Some people will never repent or admit their mistakes but will always blame others for their downfall (Saruman).  And many more I'm sure.
4 It is a good book. I like all go them. They are fun and interesting. I have it on my kindle so I can read it anywhere
4 I'm not writing a review about the story, but about the physical quality of this edition.  If you're like me, the number of editions available makes it hard to choose one.  I decided I wanted a hardback since I imagine this is a book I'd eventually give to my kids when they grow up.  Therefore I wanted something that would last, and a 1000+ page paperback will probably fall apart like an old phone book after a couple years of use.  I don't want to shell-out a lot of money for an enlightened manuscript either, so cost was an issue in my decision.I found several hardcover editions (still available) to choose from.  I went to a couple of bookstores to compare them.  I chose this one because it was the best 'deal'.  I.e.- some of the other editions are higher quality, but they cost considerably more.  This book seems to have good binding, the paper (while not archive quality) is bright and not too light-weight, and the printing is clean.  Personally, I don't care for the dust jacket.  While I _LOVE_ the movie, I think the use of tie-in cover art is cheesy.  Thankfully, the cover beneath the dust jacket is attractive (although quite plain compared to the more expensive editions).Here are some of the others (by ISBN) and my comments:0395595118 the 1991 centenary editionProbably the best single-volume edition available with up-to-date revisions/corrections.  Also has new artwork.  Costs twice as much as this one though- ouch!0395193958 leatherette collector's editionLooks great, and other reviewers have said it is a really durable book.  It also includes a large fold-out map attached to the back cover- pretty nifty.  However, it's based on the 1974 edition so the later revisions/corrections are not included.  Costs about the same as the centenary edition.0395489326 boxed set of 3 hardback volumesPublished in 1988, it is more up-to-date than the 1974 editions, but still not quite current.  If you want a hardback set, rather than a single volume, this is a very attractive set.  The books have a nice size- smaller than the collector's edition but easily bigger than a paperback.  Each volume also includes a fold-out map.  It also costs about the same as the two editions mentioned above.  There are more recent hardback sets available, but they have the tacky movie tie-in cover art.0618129014 same as this one but released in June 2001As far as I could tell, it just has different cover art on the dust jacket.That's it :)  If you are interested in any of these other editions, you can find all of these on Amazon (put the ISBN in the search field).
5 A fabulously crafted story of good against evil, heros, villains and epic battles.  I only wish I could read it for the first time again.  I've read a lot of fantasy and this is the saga that got me started.  I still consider it the best I've ever read.
5 Its a classic book all in one. What is not to love about this? Only thing missing is the hobbit from it but still a great deal.
5 This combination of books - The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy is the pinnacle of fantasy literature in the 20th century. Tolkien was unarguably a mastermind, able to envision and describe in such detail an entire world which he named Middle Earth.While it takes forever to read, it is beyond &quot;well worth reading&quot; - it is absolutely fantastic - a tale of lore from long ago. If you ever see these books somewhere, I'd advise you to make every effort to read them.I look forward to the movie; though the director will be hard pressed to attain the magic in the books.
5 This collection, starting with the Hobbit, is the blueprint of modern day fantasy. Thanks to my older brother whom I developed my love and appreciation for science fiction/fantacy, I started reading this masterpiece while still in grade school. I must have read the Hobbit ten times before starting TLOTR, and finished that trilogy within a week--not bad for a pre-teen. The Hobbit was just the crack in the door to an adventure filled world that will last me a lifetime. I can not imagine having to wait to read each part of TLOTR as each edition was released. The only problem after reading it, is the challenge of enjoying anything closely related to the subject. Nothing can even come close to the detail, imagination and creativity not to mention the all too real characters that inhabit the realm Middle-Earth. For those of us who have read this classic(and not for the last time) you know how special this work is. For those who have not, join the rest of us who have and experience the joy, sorrow and triumph of a world that will exist once you turn that first page.
5 I am assuming anyone considering purchasing this particular boxed set will already be familiar with the LOTR as Story. Therefore this review shall not touch on that aspect, although I will say briefly that I believe LOTR to be the chief fantasy epic of the modern era - of the past 200 years at least.This particular boxed is special to me, for it is the medium in which I first received, at the tender age of 9, this special fantasy story. The gold wrapping on the box has all but turned to ashen gray, and even the books are beginning to fall apart. The cover of The Return of the King has been lost for two years now, and many pages in The Fellowship are turning a sour yellow and beginning to crumble.But as I fan through the books, they still smell of Middle Earth, and I am reminded my first journey there. I go back to a time when I was young, and Tolkien molded my imagination as only a true master of such a craft can do.There are, no doubt, many copies of this series which serve a more practical purpose. However, this copy held up since 1965, and brought me into a world of magic.
4 What can't be said about Lord of the Rings?  Most, if not all, Fantasy authors strive their entire lives to produce a work that will equal, much less excel, the legacy of Tolkien's epic.  The novel, published over 50 years ago, has been voted by Australia as the National Favorite Book of all time - and the mythology of Lord of the Rings, with Elves,  Dwarves, and Hobbits, has even entered into the American mainstream with Peter Jackson's Tri-Star blockbusters.  Tolkien's masterwork still captivates the hearts and minds of readers today just as it did when it was first published in the mid-1950s.  And so, if you're reading this review for more information about whether or not you'll like Lord of the Rings, as a novel, then I can offer no more than this: the 50th Anniversary edition of the novel is just as splendid, if not more so, as any edition.Since you are reading a review for the 50th Anniversary Edition of Lord of the Rings, I'm sure you are more interested in this specific edition of Tolkien's classic novel instead of critical review of the novel.  In that case, I'm sure that you're quite interested in what you see: a single volume edition of the Lord of the Rings, clothed in a black leather, gold trimmed pages, and complete with a slipcase to keep the actual book free from shelfware.  And these are only the external qualities!  Inside, you'll find heavy-duty crisp white pages which give extra emphasis to the printed text; you'll also find Tolkien's original pictures for the Book of Mazarbul (from the chapter The Bridge of Khazad-Dum), inserted just Tolkien originally desired; you'll also find two large scale fold out maps which give you the feeling that you, too, are embarking upon this journey to Mordor!  All in all, these additions make an already excellent story into something even more special.  In fact, just by purely owning it, I can't help but feel that I have an "inside" ticket to the world Hobbits, Elves, and Dwarves!The only downside to this edition is the fact that it is rather heavy, and if you like to sit and hold your books while reading, you'll find that you'll need to do a deal of weightlifting before attempting to do so with this book.  It is not extremely heavy, mind you, like the Oxford English Dictionary, but it's no regular hardback book either.Is this edition worth $100, as listed?  No.  $100 is a lot of money to drop for anything, especially for a book.  However, I'm sure other Lord of the Rings enthusiasts would disagree with me!  Nonetheless, this edition is truly valuable in terms of everything it provides, both as a story and as a single volume.  If you can find a pristine copy of this novel at a discount - such as here at amazon.com -  by all means, be sure to pick it up: it'll be the most worthwhile purchase you have ever made.
4 Unfortunately, you must be careful with these reviews.  I gave this only four stars because I have never actually listened to it.  I'm writing now to make sure that no one mistakes all of these reviews as pertaining to the featured product.  I have heard that the Mind's Eye version is worth hearing, yet the first review I saw on this page was from Scott Truesdell villifying a totally different edition.  Note the blue notices at the bottom of each review to keep you on the right track.  Please do not assume that the Mind's Eye version is bad because Truesdell's review heading declares the disgracefulness of a different item.
5 THE classic of Fantasy (all literature?), and definitely worth reading multiple times.  Why?  Well, a couple of reasons.  One: Believe it or not, the story is quite unique.  Many have tried duplicating it (e.g. Shannara),  but none have managed to capture Tolkien's vision so well.  Two:  Middle-Earth.  As complex and as visionary as any world you (or any author)  ever imagined.  More importantly, it feels real, which is a definition of a  good literature.  Three: The characters.  All of them.  All of the  characters are complex, all have their failings and their positive traits,  none are stereotypical and none do what you would expect them to.I  could go on and on, but I won't.  If you haven't read it, read it.  If you  have read it, read it again.  And I recommend this one-volume edition  highly.
4 I had to read The Fellowship of the Ring for my sophomore English class, and once I finished it, I was so hyped up on LOTR that I decided to read The Two Towers just for fun.  It's a pretty good book--a nice continuation of the Fellowship's story.  If you survived the endless pages and detail of the first book, you can survive this one too.  It's long, but it's good.  And don't forget to see the movie--it provides a nice visual image to all the action.
5 I've owned this book for a long time (about 15 years) and have recently taken it out to reread. Even after having been read a number of times it still looks as good as new. Not that a little wear and tear wouldn't be good for this book. It's just one of those kind of books that actually gains character as it ages. As you can probably see, I am quite emotionally attached to this book, both the story of the Lord of the Rings and well as the actual physical book I own.  I believe this is the book Tolkien wanted to publish, and I can almost see Frodo hand-writing his story into it.I would maybe prefer it if the leather was a bit more brown, and that the golden scrolls on the cover were a bit deeper and wider, but on the whole I love it and definitely recommend it to all fans of Tolkien and the Lord of the Rings. I am also certain that the cover is made of genuine, high quality leather.
5 Words can't do this book (books) justice. I have been reading Tolkien's books from high school to my late 40's and have yet to get bored with his work. Reading Tolkien to me is like a walk in the woods or meeting an old friend. This book is a classic and you would only make your life richer by reading it. Enjoy.Sincerely,Chris
5 Good book!  Much read!  So elves!  No Shibe???In all seriousness, this is a great version of the novel Lord of the Rings (for the record - Tolkien considered it one novel published in three volumes).  The binding holds up well, despite the weight of the book.  It's a pretty solid paperback.Included are some interesting forwards and essays by Tolkien scholars, as well as the indexes, appendices, and maps that Tolkien originally published with the third volume, Return of the King.I actually read it after seeing the films and I still enjoyed it very much.  Nothing was really ruined for me, and there are several differences between the films and the book.  Also, Tolkien has amazing prose.  I couldn't put it down!
5 1) Take a year and read The Ring Trilogy to your eight-year-old as a bedtime story. 2) Wait five years and then buy them their own boxed set when they're thirteen.Here's why. At eight, most kids are too young to read and fully comprehend the book themselves, but they will enjoy the story, learn a tremendous amount of language, and appreciate the time spent with them.Later they'll have fond, sentimental memories of the book and will reread your gift to them on their own. This is good because the story has it all: love, beauty, nature, hard work, perseverance, courage, good over evil, adventure, every important lesson you'd ever hope to teach them--all told better than you ever could.This book is absolutely guaranteed to offset the negative influence of bad neighbor kids, poor teachers, The Jerry Springer Show, and your own parental shortcomings. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead
5 Where does one begin?  To judge near perfection, all the while striving to place words in such a manner to draw the yet unchanged masses into our shared love affair, such a task is beyond my means, but my love for this  glorious tale drives me to make an effort despite the fact.It is with  great regret that I admit waiting until my twenty-fifth year to have read  this literary masterpiece, and having claimed to be enamored with  fantasy-fiction.  Heresy, that's what it was, to have avoided this grand  tale in favor of lesser offerings when only my memories of that foul and  near blasphemous animated film version drove me away.  I am driven to  shame.I will refrain from illuminating the history of the story, and its  author, as the information is available so readily in the "Editorial  Reviews" portion of this page.  Instead, I fear my review will remain in  the realm of the subjective, as opposed to an unbiased intellectual appeal;  sorry the story simply touches to deep for such a callous approach.  However, I would like to suggest that if you decide to purchase this  magnificent tale, I highly recommend the "Houghton Mifflin Co." edition,  released in June 1999, an edition which claims to be the most accurate copy  to date.  More importantly, it is said Tolkien intended the three works:  "The Fellowship of the Ring", "The Two Towers", and "The Return of the  King" to be considered one work, not a trilogy as we have come to know  them.  Having the three divisions in one binding reinforces the continuity  of the tale as a whole, and I felt it greatly increased my veraciousness to  devour each skillfully placed word.I am loath to reveal even the most  innocent and seemingly innocuous detail about the tale, for fear, my words  could steal any of the joy you find while reading Tolkien's words.  Yet,  you should understand that the tale follows in the days after "The Hobbit",  and that the meager forces of light must fight the insurmountable shadow of  evil.  An age is coming to an end and with it the wonder and majesty of  Middle-Earth.  If you have yet to read "The Hobbit", do so first for it  sows the seeds, which the "Lord of the Rings" skillfully harvests.  Tolkien's opus is, and will always remain a seminal work of our age, a  title none can afford deny themselves.The author's gentle, but sweeping  touch resounds with a love for his creation.  The fullness of the  characters, and of the lands in which they live and die are so three  dimensional, so very tangible and full of vitality that it is nearly  impossible to refrain from growing emotionally involved.  Even the villains  are well developed.  Through dialogue and narration we become aware of  their motivations, giving renewed depth to the story and its events.Even now, this masterwork is being translated to the silver screen (a  trilogy by "New Line Cinema"); read it now before you see the films, do not  deny yourselves the true wonder of Tolkien's mastery.
5 As a kid I was fascinated by science fiction and loved, as well, the mythic worlds of earlier times. Among my favorites were the northern mythologies of the Norse and related Scandinavian peoples. I also had a soft spot in my heart for old fashioned Celtic mythology. And so, when I stumbled onto Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS in my teens (a long time ago indeed!), I was practically floored, since it melded all these elements together into a new kind of tale: high fantasy with an epic cast to it. In truth Tolkien's great work grew out of a very deep cultural vein and had many serious antecedents that came before and set the stage for it, both in modern and pre-modern times (the Greek epic cycles, the medieval chansons de geste, the Amadis of Gaul texts, to name a few). And yet, for me then, his tale was entirely new. I think I read the RING trilogy first, before THE HOBBIT, but am no longer entirely certain. However, in whatever sequence I first found these books, they were utterly delightful and spoiled most science fiction and fantasy for me afterwards because they were so hard to match in terms of breadth of vision, depth of feeling and vividness of the world painted by their author's vigorous and yet very precious prose. Not entirely innovative but largely derivative of the older mythologies, they yet innovated in the way they combined these (Celtic and Norse and Christian and Manichean) into a single and coherent whole. These books tell an epic tale of a quest to destroy a mighty talisman of power, a quest which combines the world-ending themes of the Norse Ragnarok and end-of-days religious fundamentalism with the uplifting feel of revitalization that grows from a cleansing battle between the forces of good and evil. The world we live in, of course, isn't anything like this but it's a tribute to the vision and power of Tolkien as a writer that our own world seems pale by comparison with the one he invented for us, invented out of the whole cloth of ancient myths and traditions.Note: I recieved this boxed set as a gift, however if I were to purchase a set I would definitely purchase the leatherette collectors edition.  Trust me, it will be well worth the investment.
4 First, the 50th Anniversary Edition is the best edition of the LOTR I have ever owned.  The cover is beautiful and feels nice, although a close inspection suggests it might not be genuine leather.  The gold and copper lettering adds a classy touch, as does the gilding of the pages.  The pages are nicely type-set and easy on the eyes (OK, after typesettingmy own bookI tend to notice typesetting, font choices, etc. first before anything else), and I was able to get the maps out without tearing them with one minor exception (see below).My three complaints are:1)  The binding feels weak in some ways.  Other reviewers have noticed this too.  I would prefer a binding with a more substantial spine that is clear that it will last.2)  The binding on close inspection appears to be printed as if to appear to be leather.  It looks to me like an imitation leather.  This makes me question whether the publisher is being generally up-front about the rest of the book.  I cannot find information on the type of paper used (if it is acid-free etc).  Consequently I can't tell if the book is built to last.3) The folded maps in the covers present a difficult design problem and one the publisher wasn't able to fully overcome.  While I was able to undo the glue without too much difficulty (see below for how), on unfolding the back cover map, it ripped ever-so-slightly due to tension from the rest of the book and the binding.  This small tear (hardly noticeable) is not glue-related.As for how to undo the glue without ripping the maps:  here's what I did:  Hold the map firmly down and gently lift the edge so that there is a slight tension on the glue (it doesn't take much).  Maintain this tension for a few seconds and the glue will release.  Don't try to force the glue to release.  Just apply a little tension and wait.All in all a very nice edition.  I just wish it was more honestly marketed and/or more ruggedly designed.  I subtracted a star for those engineering and marketing issues.
5 What else can you say about this work.  It is the greatest tale ever told.
5 My son loves these books! He wanted the entire series in hardcover and likes the look and quality of this set! And all in time for Christmas!
5 My sister gave me &quot;The Hobbit&quot; over 20 years ago and I fell in love with the writings of Mr. Tolkien.  &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; and &quot;The Hobbit&quot; carry you away to another world and keep you there.  Wonderful books, great fiction, excellent writing!
5 It's been awhile since I reread this fantasy classic, it's hard for other authors to compete with Tolkien's rich, detailed fantasy world.Frodo Lives!
5 Along with the Hobbit I read this Tolkien series at least once per year.  I purchased it to have a permanent copy on my kindle.
5 I've just finished reading the Lord Of The Rings for the second time. My first reading of it was about three years ago. Amazingly, (and I think this says something of the quality of the story itself) I would say I enjoyed it even more this second time around. It is so sweeping and wide that it still thrills, never losing any of its unpredictablity even if one is already familiar with the ending. Tolkien's Middle Earth is so immense, such an entire &quot;sub-creation&quot; (as the author himself referred to it)... complete with its own creatures, history, languages, and breathtaking landscapes... I believe it is without parallel in fantasy literature of any era. This book is myth, rather than allegory. By that I mean that there is not really meant to be any strict one-to-one correspondence to specifically theological, political, or psychological aspects of our own &quot;real&quot; world. No-one in Middle-Earth is named Mr. Worldly-Wiseman or Mr. Evangelist or Mr. Charity. No, here we meet people and things like Tom Bombadil, Gollum or Treebeard... hobbits, elves, dwarves, ents, orcs and yes, even Men. And yet, as with great allegorical works all of these characters gravitate to one of two poles or extremes that can be seen as &quot;good&quot; or &quot;evil&quot;. The Lord of The Rings is truly about a grandiose struggle between the FORCES of good and evil. In Chapter 2 of Book 2 we read that &quot;Good and ill have not changed... nor are they one thing among Elves and Dwarves and another among Men.&quot; An interesting thing about the book is how Tolkien's brand of &quot;dualism&quot; very subtly points to the reality that ultimate Good or Evil is something yet greater (or beyond) any of the characters that try to perpetrate either of them. This is most clear in a statement by Gandalf in Book 3 during &quot;The Last Debate&quot; where he says &quot;Other evils there are that may come; for Sauron is himself but a servant or emissary. Yet it is not our part to master all the tides of the world, but to do what is in us for the succour of those years wherein we are set, uprooting the evil in the fields that we know, so that those who live after may have clean earth to till. What weather they shall have is not ours to rule.&quot; If Sauron (who throughout the book appears as the evil to be reckoned with) is &quot;but a servant or emissary&quot;... then we must consider the question... an emissary of what? Or whom? And similarly, if all of the &quot;good&quot; that the Fellowship of The Ring strives to achieve will yet not &quot;master all of the tides of the world&quot;... then where is this locus of ULTIMATE good? Gandalf makes it clear that their own &quot;goodness&quot; is limited to the years wherein they are set. At the end of The Lord of The Rings, the future yet belongs to the good AND the evil that lie beyond the powers of any of the characters that have played a part in the present conflict. Maybe we are supposed to wonder... who IS the Lord of the rings? Almost 50 years ago C.S. Lewis, a friend of Tolkien's, said of The Lord of The Rings: &quot;Such a book has of course its predestined readers, even now more numerous and more critical than is always realised. To them a reviewer need say little, except that here are beauties which pierce like swords or burn like cold iron; here is a book that will break your heart.&quot; And I too, could go on forever about it, but my best suggestion is for you to quit reading this, and just read the book. Or re-read it! The best review would be terribly inadequate. Tolkien's Middle-Earth is as impossible to imagine before you go there as it is to forget about once you've been.
5 Dante's Divine Comedy gives it a run for book of the Millenium in my opinion.  But nothing else comes close.  It has all the excitment one could wish for set in an amazing world and tied up in some intriguing and complex themes.
5 This concluding volume includes dramatic war scenes between larger-than-life characters that read like a latter-day Illiad.  The climax of the story solves in a dramatic and satisfying matter the riddle of how Frodo can dispense of the ring despite its irresistible power over anyone who bears it.  Much of the morality tale consists of the need to abstain from revenge and evil means in dealing with evil, lest one be corrupted by it.  It's an ancient theme of many myths, and one that, for example, George Lucas uses to great effect in his Star Wars movies.The final third of the book is post-climactic though not necessarily anti-climactic.  There is a great odyssey homeward and the casting out of ruffians and evil pretenders.  And there is a sadness to the book's ending given the long-term effects of war and the ring on the heroes.This is a great epic tale.  Inglis' reading is very effective and adds to the richness of the work.
5 This is undoubtably one of the greatest stories ever told. Tolkien was a master. His world is so complex and his characters are incredibly real. Harry Potter is childish compared to this epic tale. It is, however, a long detailed book. Certain readers may fall asleep during the battle scenes. Others will revel in them. I suggest looking at the story as a whole rather than in three parts. That way you will get a more complete picture of the story. It is not necessary to read The Hobbit to understand The Lord of the Rings, but it certainly doesn't hurt. The Hobbit is a little less weighty than the other books, but it is still a delightful read. If you feel you can't read through the whole thing, get the audio books. They're wonderful.
5 GollumIntroductionWhen I read a book I usually have a favorite character. I like Gollum from The lord of the rings and The Hobbit. I feel good about Gollum. He is dangerous.Trait:1Gollum is determined. He will not stop trying to get a ring. If he does not get the ring, he will kill you. He will not stop trying to find the ring.Trait:2Gollum is mean! He tries to kill someone. He will kill you if you get him mad. he will kill anyone.Trait:3Last he is obsessed with a ring. If you show him the ring, your dead meat. He will not stop trying to get the ring. Don&#8217;t take the ring from him.ConclusionThat is what I think Gollum is in the inside.  He is a horrible character.  You should read to see what Gollum is like for yourself.
4 this book goes into more detail than any of the movies. more of the character plots and twists are told. very good read
5 I am sorry that this beautiful story has had to come to an end! However, I am also happy to have shared in such an incredible adventure. This final book wraps up the entire story, bringing out the best in each of the characters -- even the not-so-loved ones -- and making you feel as if you are saying good-bye to old friends on the final closing of the back cover. Merry, Pippin, and Sam show their true valor as warriors; Frodo comes out heroic, passing the test of the Ring; Aragorn becomes a kind and wise King of men; and Eowyn becomes a hero in her own right, slaying the Witch King when no man can. The character development is what I love most about the Lord of the Rings trilogy. All the time, they are constantly growing, learning, changing, but what never changes is their love for each other and their purity of heart to do what is right.My only complaint is that Tolkien can be quite wordy, as is characteristic for authors of his time, so sometimes the story seems to drag. However, if you take your time and truly savor his words, his imagery, the timelessness of the triumph of good over evil, it is well worth the read.
5 Only one thing need be said about THE LORD OR THE RINGS: what Homer's  ILIAD and ODYSSEY were to the ancient world, LOTR is to our age -- the  greatest epic of our time, a work that defies rational criticism and  appeals to all people in a purely spiritual level. Those who resist...well,  they would've probably called Homer's work &quot;unrealistic garbage&quot;  back in the eight century B.C., so why let the small-minded bother us now?  Utul&iacute;e'n Aur!  Aiya Eldalie ar Atanatari, utl&iacute;e'n aur!
5 The single greatest novel of the 20th Century and probably ever, including the heroic works of Homer, Shakespeare and Dante. Having read other so called greats of literature, not just those noted above, I can safely say that the Lord of the Rings is far superior to Macbeth, War and Peace, Wuthering Heights, Dante's Infernoe, the Illiad or any of the other greats. I have read it over a dozen times and each time it awakens a new joy so multifaceted is its glory. Enjoy it as an excellent adventure story, delight in it as an epic legend, appreciate it for great poetry and beauty, it is the one that has oft been imitated and never surpassed despite the plethora of fantasy novels since. Indeed, were it not for Tolkien, the modern field of fantasy would be sorely weakened. Be warned though, once you fall for this epic novel, you will be dawn into the incredible world of JRR Tolkien. As many have noted, though it be over a 1000 pages long, it is far too short. It is one to keep, to cherish and reread as often as one can.
4 Maybe it's just me, but the Lord of the Rings was a long, difficult read.  I'm glad I read it, but it has no value in terms of rereading it.  Too much background and plot, not enough action.  The whole Good-Evil battle and the loss of magic and elves, etc. seems to me to weigh the work down. The Hobbit, on the other hand, is the classic adventure fantasy novel, and is still fresh this day.  I enjoy the action without having to worry about the fate of Middle Earth.
5 The Lord of the Rings is a masterpiece of fiction.  This 50th Anniversary Edition is the best edition of Tolkien's classic I've ever seen.  If you've never read the epic fantasy trilogy, I suggest borrowing it from a friend or the library.  Then, if you fall in love with the story, know that this is the edition to buy and reread for yourself, your children, grandchildren or anyone else who has a love for great literature.
4 This version on Ipad and kindle had a much clearer map (for some reason). More words, words required for comment?
5 I just completed reading the Kindle version of Lord of the Rings and it was fantastic.  I read the books years ago and wanted to read them again so I bought them for my Kindle.  Not having to carry around the books was great and one of the reasons I really enjoy my Kindle.  I really enjoyed the Kindle version as all three books come at one time.  As I recall, it was cheaper to buy the set and not each individual title.  Having them come as a set enabled me to move from book to book and not worry about having to carry the books.There are times I still want the book, especially when reading about the Civil War, but having a Kindle is great for those times when you want to read a great book, but don't want to lug one around. If you don't own a Kindle, I would highly recommend you get one.
5 Great having the series all together, such a wonderful production, with fantastic acting and tremendous special effects. Everyone should have this.
5 This will always remain my favorite story ever. Even though it gets very verbose at times - it is the best story ever written in any of the fantasy genre.
5 I can't claim to have seen or experienced every major artistic work we have in our world, but after having stared at Van Goghs and Picassos, gazed at Michaelangelo's "David" and read practically everything I could get my hands on I can honestly say that at this point in my life I feel J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy to be the single most creative thing to come out of a human being's mind, ever. It is more than a masterpiece. If you read one novel in your entire life, let it be this one. It has everything: Legends and monsters, kings and princesses, friendship, love, hate, gentle humor, huge battles, small heartbreaks, captures, escapes, life, death, heroes, heroines, a truly great villian and one ring to tie them all together.As I see it, there are three kinds of great books: First, the kind that enables you to visualize the people and places you are reading about, secondly, the kind that are so vivid you feel like you are watching a movie, and thirdly, the rarest and most special kind, where you are THERE, watching things happen to people you know and care about. "Lord of the Rings" is such a book.Due to the huge popularity of Peter Jackson's films, most of you already know the plot, so I won't bother with that. If you haven't read the book, well of course it is better than the movies (books almost always are) but more importantly it is essential, and absolute must. Buy it, take it home, lock yourself in a closet and prepare to be blown away.GRADE: A+
4 This was the first time I read through the books, and since I wasn't for sure if I'd love them or not (...I haven't even seen the movies!), I decided to buy this cheap set. That's exactly what it is, though, so don't set your standards too high. It's true, the paper feels cheap and the book doesn't look as if it'd hold a long time, but isn't that to be expected at such a cheap price?Some problems that I encountered:1. The text size was a wee bit small. I have perfectly normal eyes, and as I lie awake in bed trying to read them at night, my eyes would often have problems focusing on the text. I believe if it was a tad bit bigger, I would've had a much more enjoyable read from them.2. The ink tends to smear somewhat, so be careful. I didn't notice it until I was rubbing the page and determining the quality of the paper. It's nothing major, of course, so you can still read what's written, but it does leave smear markings on some of your pages.3. The maps were a little hard to read. I know that I can't expect high quality work with this cheap buy, but it did take a bit away from the experience.By the way, I loved the books. Tolkien is a genius. I'm glad that I got this, because now that I know I love them, I'm much more willing to spend some money and buy some great editions. That way I can hand these off to somebody else to fall in love with them too. :D
4 My children and grandchildren have enjoyed the Lord of the Rings Trilogy -- so now when they come to bisit, they can look into the books as well !
5 This serious is a wonderful classic that will be around for many years to come. I am retired but I started reading these books in Europe in a small country town in Germany in the black forest.  As I read the books I felt like I was part of the story.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien is undoubtedly a master at tales, and my favorite author. This book was easy to read, lacked mistakes and certainly worth the price,
5 This volume is a good way to use up waiting time, you can jump right in where you left off, and you don't lose track of the story.
4 I didn't like Fellowship of the Ring the first time I read it, but plowed on to the end and gave up on the other two "books" (it's really just one long book). I think I now know why. I had just read and loved The Hobbit, and was expecting another book along the same lines. In short, I feel that LOTR is about the world first, characters second, and plot last. This took me some getting used to, and I could not grasp everything the first time through.It's pure fantasy in the sense of looking around at all the wonder. (often times of things that are not magic eg, trees and grass and hills in the shire.) Indeed, the later books focuses on humans. (In the recent movies they injected Elves in places where there were none before in the story, I expect to increase general interest in the atmosphere)The result is that I did not enjoy LOTR until I took a very leisurely attitude towards it, rather than an adventurous one, notwithstanding that there are adventurous moments. Every time I read it I find some facet of the world that I did not notice before, or that I forgot. That is now when I most enjoy the book. For others to enjoy this book I think you must enjoy the moment, and not be in a hurry for the plot to advance.
5 I read these books every year. I consider them my lucky books. I went a few years without reading them and they were horrible.
5 I don't see how anyone could not like this book.  That guy who said it just went on and on, well, that's part of the great thing about it.  It has so much history, just like a story that actually happened.  You can feel the depth.  And for all you other people who want another book because you've already read Tolkien, try &quot;The Deed of Paksenarrion&quot; by Elizabeth Moon.  Search it under this service, and you'll see all the titles of the trilogy.  I loved that book, and I think that it's as good as &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;.
5 When I read the first two books and the hobbit I was immensely impressed with the greatness of these novels. But I must say, The Return of the King blew them out of the water, into the air, and flopped them up on shore. The pure literary beauty of this book is stunning. There were several parts in this book where I was covered in chill bumps and and at other times I was close to tears. At Mount Doom when the ring was destroyed and Frodo says to Sam, "I'm glad I'm here with you at the end of all things, Sam." It was an emotional roller coaster. Plus the book has a whole chapter that is left out in the movie. So if you think that you know Middle Earth by just seeing the movies you are wrong!!!
5 All six LOTR books in one collection? This was fantastic on my long client visits using the Text to Speech feature on my Kindle (that is if you like robots reading LOTR to you)
5 Phew! Trying to read all three of the LOTR novels in one volume is tough. But it is more than worth the effort. This is still one of the the best stories ever written in the 20th century if not of all time. It is full of action, myth, poetry and language. The epic tone of much of the novel, like The Silmarillion, adds gravitas and excitement to this tale. Everyone who can read should read this book at least once in their life before dying. Heck! Everyone should read this more than once in their life as the themes of hope, love, and friendship will mean different things to people at different times in their life. This is my second time reading LOTR, the last time being in high school, and I have gleaned so much more out this reading than I did the last time. Having said all that, there is one criticism that I must give of this novel. There is a serious lack of character development throughout the novel. Excluding the four hobbits, no one ever really seems to change much from what they were at the beginning of the novel. Even Aragorn, one of the central characters of the novel, stays roughly the same from the beginning to the end. Gandalf doesn't change very much and, aside from switching from enemies to friends, Legolas and Gimli don't change either. Still, this is one of the greatest novels of all time and should be read by everyone.
5 One author to father them all.
4 Usually, just the lame covers of fantasy novels keep my from even picking them up.  However, since this is "the" classic of the fantasy genre (sorry, Harry Potter fans), I figured I'd better read it before I could criticize it.  It turned out to be an excellent trilogy, well-written with some timeless messages.I wouldn't go so far as [...] to compare it to the Bible (anotehr good piece of fiction?), and I wouldn't call it the greatest novel ever written - I don't think it compares with Moby Dick or a few other classics.  However, I think that all of my fellow critics of the whole fantasy genre should try reading this.  I know very few people who actively dislike Tolkein, but I know many who have never picked up anything he's written.  An excellent pick if you're going to read any fantasy.  I get the feeling it's all downhill from here.
5 This is a great Kindle book.  It gives you the whole Lord of the Rings trilogy in one volume on your Kindle.  Now I know that since we are talking about an e-book that shouldn't matter but it does to me and I am very happy with it.We are talking about a classic Tolkien book here, probably his most well known, and the presentation in this one volume edition is excellent, very worth while and keeping it in the cloud allows me to access it from my Kindle, my computer or my smart phone and have it automatically remember where I was in the book when I last set it down.If you are a fan of fantasy literature you cannot go wrong with Tolkien and especially this book.
5 So much has been written on Tolkien's grand saga (particularly since Peter Jackson has brought it to the forefront pop culture) that I fear I have little to add. Yet I must mention some of the greatest joys I found in Tolkien's masterpiece. First, though The Lord of the Rings is a wonderfully original creation and a fully formed world, I am repeatedly struck and entertained by how Tolkien weaves in themes from other works. Those familiar with the Edda and Wagner's Ring cycle will be pleasantly surprised how Tolkien takes old material and reweaves it into something appealing and new. Also, Tolkien reworks a lot of George MacDonald's ideas (the greatness of courage, the self-destructiveness of evil, and the wisdom of innocence) into a new, more complex setting. The theme that I love most from The Lord of the Rings is that truth overcomes knowledge. Truth keeps knowledge guessing and uninformed. This is seen in the misplays of both Saruman and Sauron. Most importantly, this is a tale that [stinks] the reader in and will not let them go...even after it ends.
5 I watched the movie based on this book long before reading the book. And the book is also my first experience of any Tolkien works. I just finished today and I have to agree with another reviewer who said that this book is the gold standard for fantasy. It's absolutely amazing.The movie was great but could not capture much of the book of course. This is the first movie that I would not be too annoyed with because the bar was just set way too high by the book. And to be sure this is a not a book for everyone. Not only because it's fantasy, but also because it's written by an accomplished philologist and linguist and that shows in the book. There's some poetry and created languages, and lots of detail, along with an older more literary writing style. But the content of the story is riveting. Although a fantasy, it's not unrealistic. The heroes have wounds at the end or are changed by the breadth of their experiences, there were losses and partings and sadness, and life continues.I couldn't help but have a great respect for Tolkien who has created here not just a few characters with a story, but indeed worlds of creatures and races with their own detailed history. It really is as if you are brought in close for an excerpt of an actual history (recorded as a wonderful tale) and then released again, as the close-up dims and the big picture and the continuing events of the world are left for another tale.
5 I'm a HUGE bookworm. Let me start off with that so you know. I purchase books in about hundred dollar quantities regularly. I'm working on my own library for my future home, I guess...I have been putting off the purchase of a Hobbit/LOTR box set for so long because the prices have always been so outrageous since the movies began so long ago. I've waited a long time. A VERY long time. Then this particular box set appeared and I couldn't resist. Who can turn away that price?Yes, it's paperback. But honestly when you're reading such long stories (and you're like me, reading non-stop, all the time, in between every part of daily life) then reading such long stories on heavy hardcover can be quite tedious. These are book you will read over and over. Trust me, paperback is the way to go with this set.The covers are nice, the box set is of good quality materials, and the text isn't printed lopsided (what an incredible paint hat can be!). This is a good quality product, friends. I highly recommend it.
5 the Two Towers continues the exciting story of the fellowship of the ring.  It offers more excitement and suspense as well as several surprises.  Tolkien consistently stretches the reaches of imagination, and he always provides logic and reason so that his story makes sense and follows a consistent stream of creativity.As I read the rings trilogy, I found that it was helpful to have seen to the movies to help picture the events, characters, and surroundings. Of course, the movies made much more sense after reading the books, but I found reading the books more enjoyable than the movies. I am really glad that I decided to read them at a friend's suggestion.Tolkien is an excellent writer. This book along with the others is intelligently written. It is not just kid's stuff. It is stimulating reading.He tells a great story filled with complex characters and plots. The story follows a logical and understandable path that sparks the readers full imagination and range of emotions.This book offers some of the severest character conflicts in the books as the characters must make sharp decisions about their actions and alliances.  It introduces new characters and species that offer fresh starts throughout the story.  This book of the story in no way serves as a filler or drags on and on.  It is filled with action and suspense.  There is no let up in the action at all.And don't think that since you have seen the movie, you don't need to read the book. If you liked the movie at all, you will indeed enjoy the book, especially if your one criticism of the movie is that it didn't make sense. The book will fill in the gaps and will cause you to appreciate the movie much more.
5 If you're this far in the Trilogy it's unlikely you're going to give up if the third book gets a poor review. Fortunately, The Return of the King is as good as or better than its companion books.The book opens (unlike the also excellent Peter Jackson movie) with Pippin and Gandalf riding to Minas Tirith, Aragorn &amp; Co. In Rohan pondering their next move, and Sam trying to rescue Frodo from the orcs of Cirith Ungol - granted, you don't pick up this final thread until over halfway through the main text (a synchronized version of events appears in Appendix B). If your only interest is in seeing the Ring destroyed, skip directly to Chapter 3 of Book VI. If you can stand some "irrelevant information and/or dialogue," go ahead and read Book V and see if Gondor can be saved from Sauron's minions.Don't stop reading at the end of the main text, though. The Appendices contain a wealth of information including the history, calendars, and languages of Middle-Earth. While not required reading, they really add to one's appreciation of Tolkien's masterpiece.
5 I read this set 30 years ago and I still think it is tops even now that I too am a published fiction writer. Curtiss de Vedrine author - THE SECOND COMING OF AGE
5 How nice to have these three amazing books in one volume!  I can read them over and over and never get tired of them!
5 I've read these books many times and every time I re-read them they amaze me even more. Even though he was greatly influenced by English/Celtic/Norse lore, in my opinion the Hobbit/L.O.T.R books are the greatest works of creative fiction ever written.
5 As all things end, so does Tolkien's revered Ring trilogy. In this concluding volume, the surviving Company, minus Sam and Frodo, reunite to make a last stand against the inhuman darkness which has ushered forth from Mordor to swallow the world. Gandalf, resurrected now as the White Wizard, rallies the combined armies of Rohan and Gondor, Aragorn reveals his true nature and is proclaimed the returned king, and beneath the searching eye of the Evil One, a pair of lowly hobbits, exhausted and nearly out of hope, continue on toward a fateful rendezvous in the infernal core of Mt. Doom. Heroism, loyalty, courage, and determined resistance to the powers of oppression are all themes triumphantly proclaimed in this novel, and there are scenes inside The Return of the King which stand so memorable they endure in the brain throughout a reader's lifetime. Many writers would be unable to end such a monumental series on a note of triumph, but somehow J.R.R. Tolkien achieves the nearly impossible and herein delivers his best work of all.
5 Loved the movie so I thought I would go backwards and read the book. Turned out really good to read
5 I'm a huge fan of LOTR and have various copies...I had to have this as a keepsake item more than anything.  It's beautifully bound and looks fabulous on my bookshelf; also nice to have all three books in one place for reading (though it's heavy, of course).  A perfect gift for any big LOTR fan.
5 The last book in a brilliant trilogy. A series full of adventure, drama, and ultimate triumph. Tolkien truly was an amazing writer. The redemption story, that parallels the return of the True King of this life, is both inspiring and beautiful. I would easily recommend this book for anyone!
5 As any fantasy-loving reader would, I absolutely love this book. J.R.R. Tolkien's writing style is engaging, and fun to read. Definitely a must read!
5 He is enjoying the read, only 11 years old and has finished Harry Potter and moving on any suggestions on what he should tackle next?
3 I don't know why this gets all the hype?  The characters are close to making me sick.  Let me say, the story is very good, top notch.  Although very boring at some points.  But the characters are unforgivable.  Sam is the only interesting character.  Frodo is very stupid and boring.  He goes on a quest when he's told to, eat's when he's hungry doesn't really have life like authors have succesfully done.  I don't find the sese in reading this book.  Watch the movie instead.
2 People have a love affair with Tolkien. People I admire and respect, not just bozos either, people who know good books and good writing and who say Tolkien works are the be-all and end-all of fantasy.  Open your eyes.That might have been true when his works were first published.  Tolkien deserves all the credit for putting fantasy on the map, for legitimizing the epic quest subgenre.  But today, his books fall short when compared to contemporary works in the field.I think the reason for all the love is that people read The Lord of the Rings when they were young, and therefore look back at Tolkien with longing and nostalgia of better days.  I read The Fellowship of the Ring when I was twenty-three, and The Two Towers when I was twenty-five, after having received a BA in English and beginning an MFA in Creative Writing.  I can't, in good concious, say that any of his works match up with the powerful stories of George R. R. Marting and Terry Goodkind.Let's look at this book specifically.  The one thing I liked were the Ents.  Aside from that, the structure of the book is all whacked.  The first half is spent entirely with Aragorn and his crew.  Frodo doesn't even make it on stage until close to the last third of the book.  Is this considered good, when your main character is not even present for the majority of the book?  The effect of Tolkiens structure is disorienting.  Once getting to a certain point in time with one group of characters, he moves to the next group and recounts what happened to them through the same period of time.  Why not intersperse their chapters and weave the events together?Once we finally do get to Frodo, the same problem persists as did in Fellowship: Frodo can't really do anything.  He takes one significant action, and that's to spare Gollum and bring the little runt with him and Sam.  Sam does more than Frodo, saving him from a huge spider-demon.  That was a great scene, by the way, but scenes like that are few and far between in this and the previous book.To sum up, after reading Fellowship, I swore off all Tolkien's books, but the movie got me excited again.  I thought, well, maybe I was wrong, let's give it another shot.  I did, and struggle mightily to finish this book.  The only thing that will get me to read the final book is if the second movie rocks.  Now, I know many of you will consider this review blasphemy, so go ahead and bash me.  But before you do, pick up the book again, and read it with open eyes.
5 I first read "The Hobbit" in the 1970s--loved it--and finally got around to reading "The Lord of the Rings"--and just finished the series yesterday.  BRILLIANT.  It took me a little adjusting to get into, though, because the pacing is so much slower in "The Hobbit"--so much more drawn-out, so much more detail--but once I got into it I was hooked, and read all three books straight through.  Tolkien creates a magical alternate reality--yet one that applies metaphorically to our modern world.  He addresses themes such as good versus evil, the destruction of our planet, personal choice on our life's path, sacrificing comfort for growth, treating life as a journey, the dangers of selfish leaders, the temptations of addiction (The Ring of Power!).I sometimes, felt, though, that he was metaphorically speaking about modern human races--black, white, Asian, etc.--when he spoke of the different "races" of Middle Earth, and that made me uncomfortable, because I didn't feel the message was that enlightened...  But he may not have meant it at all.  I don't know if others sensed this.But overall, this series, and particularly "The Return of the King," like "The Hobbit," is a grand reminder that the little guy can rise above and change the world.  And don't we need to hear this message now more than ever?
5 This is the perfect second book for any series possible. It had many adventures and action if you know what I mean. It is better than the first but I still recommend reading the fellowship of the ring. When you would get bored with just reading hard to comprehend history something would happen and you would read for a while more. Great book. Forget the price and length and get the greatest fantasy epic of our time AND the time to come.
5 If you have seen the the three movies, The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and Return of the King, and haven't read the books then you have missed a lot.It is said that the book is always better than the movie and in this case that is true. Find all about characters such as Thorin, Tom Bombadil, Smaug and Sharkey. And even how Bilbo attained the Ring from Gollum and how it all came into being.Learn of the characters on a whole new level, getting right into their personality. Find out what role Prince Imrahil had in the Battle of Pelanor Fields and What happened after the destruction of the One Ring.If you want to know the Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit on an all new level, than I definitely suggest you read these books.
4 This book is very good like the 1st novel, the action and story are top rate, how ever after a while there were so many names of characters to remember. I would often to turn back the pages and even consult an online glossary to keep me in the loop as to who they were. Definitely worth the time.
5 The title says it all, pretty much.  It takes a long time to read unless you become obsessed and absorbed by it (which happened for me in intervals).  It took me nearly four years to complete both The Hobbit and the trilogy, but it was worth every bit of effort.  I can't even list it as my favorite book because all others feign in comparison to it.  It is not even possible to compare.  Read this book and you will never be sorry that you did.  (By the way, I consider them to all be one book, as they are all part of one story.)
5 This is a BBC radio production that goes back about 20 years and is now presented on 13 CDs. It is a very good production of LOTR, and reminded me of what a good radio production is -- good actors, combined with dialog, sound effects, and accompanying music that let you follow the story and visualize it in your mind. Although it is 13 hours long, it mostly goes by quickly. The books are of course very long and detailed, and the BBC adaptation is quite compact and faithful to the book -- very little of the action is left out. One nice feature of the recording is the use of a narrator who both moves the action along and also provides many of Tolkein's fantastic word pictures of the world of LOTR.The acting is very good in the series -- I particularly liked Ian Holm as Frodo and Robert Stephens as Aragon. The sounds effects are mostly very good -- lots of hoofbeats for the black riders, swords clanging, water running, etc. Most of the time, it is very clear who is speaking, though occasionally voices get lost in the melee. There are some songs and poems included in the set -- some people may find these tiresome, in that they do sometimes slow down the action.Each CD is about an hour long, and the set is nicely packed as 3-4 CDs into folders that fit into a book. Each folder provides background on Tolkein and the LOTR and includes a short summary of the plot for the each disk within the folder. The disks all have 5 or 6 bands, so it is possible to pick up the story again if you take the disk out of your CD player (e.g., your teenagers want to listen to something else).This is a set worth having, particularly at the price ... is selling it at (think of it on a per-disk basis). It tells the story in a very enjoyable way and will (hopefully) send you either back to the books or to the books if you haven't read them. A definite buy.
5 There was the Lord of the Rings.  One of the greatest story tellers of all time, J.R.R. Tolkien takes you for a wild ride through Middle Earth.  The Lord of the Rings trilogy is truly a work of art.  Not only does Tolkien write and incredible story, he does so inventing incredible characters, species, languages and lands.  Tolkien is mesmerizing!The story begins and is told about Frodo Baggins, a hobbit of sorts.  Well no the story actually begins back in the book called The Hobbit and the story is about Frodo's uncle Bilbo.  You see Bilbo went on and adventure, one that took him to far off lands and to great treasures and excitement.  Bilbo, as said before, returned with many great treasures, the greatest of those was unknown to most, but it was most preciousss of all.  The most preciousss was a ring.This trilogy is about that One Ring...but this is not any ring, for many rings have been made, and many were magical rings with mysterious powers.  This ring however is special.  For this ring was forged by the intense furnace of hatred and evil.  And used for death, destruction and domination of all kind."One ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in darkness bind them"The One however laid unknown to all for many years. Bilbo the keeper and possesor of the ring has become restless for the road and for adventure, so he leaves his treasures and his preciousss for his nephew Frodo.  But unfortunatley for Frodo the evil that created the ring, yes the master of that ring, has awoken and now craves it as a flower craves the sun in the dead of winter.And so the quest begins to destroy the One Ring.  As he travels bad fortune follows the young hobbit, for in order to destroy the One Ring, Frodo must first transport it safely into the very depths of Morodor, the domain of the Dark Master, avoiding the evil that is controlled by Him.  Yet as he joins a group dedicated to the safe transport of the One Ring, he finds that the One Ring draws evil to it.  He must not only fight the evil creatures of Middle earth but also the evil inside his each of his companions.  So begins the trilogy THE LORD OF THE RINGS, buy it, read it live it.
3 This is the audio CD set by HighBridge..and this seems to be a version for children but is so bland I can't imagine it holding any interest for anyone. I am a bit confused by the several reviews which are not about the audio version, let alone the ones that are not about THIS audio version.This is an American-produced ABRIDGED edition which comes across like a child's version or Saturday morning cartoon stripped of a lot of the poetic and dramatic elements which made the  books themselves so rich.  It is easier for younger people and for people who have never read it and the edits make the work more focused on plotline than on all the depth of the original.  The speakers vary from American to Irish and some halfhearted attempts at English accents thus far (I am on the second CD of the nine-CD set as I write this.) I walked out of the room when I heard Elves speak in squeaky cutesie voices. Frodo's voice is adult; Merry's, Pippin's and Sam's are not. Aragorn's is dull, with no emotion.  I just can't wrap my brain around characters with bland American accents -- this American fell in love with the books' Englishness.  And there isn't enough dramatic energy from the speakers! No tension building, no depth of emotion. I may skip ahead to the more intense parts of the book to see if this mproves at all, but I'm not holding my breath.  Yes, I am a book purist (though I confess I loved Peter Jackson's movies in spite of this because they had much more poetry and drama than this recording can ever muster).  J.R. R. Tolkien despised watering down fairy tales for children and I am surprised that the Tolkien Estate apparently approved this adaptation.
5 How do you describe a book like The Lord of the Rings?  There has been nothing like it in the fiction realm to match its magnitude and depth.  Tolkien created not just a story, but an entire world complete with a  history.  His genius is in that he makes it so complete to the littlest  detail that it seems almost hard to disbelieve.I have read this book  numerous times over and still find my head spinning with the incredible  story and structure.  There is so much to say about this book.  The only  thing I can say is read &quot;The Hobbit&quot; then read this book.  Then  read it again, and again, and again...you will, you know.
5 As the last volume of the trilogy, the reader gets an end to the story, and in fact "The Return of the King" has several places where one could end, but for those who want to continue on past the end of Sauron, past the end of the War, etc., the story continues to the end of the Third Age.  "The Return of the King" was originally published on October 20th of 1955.  "The Lord of the Rings" was the last recipient of the International Fantasy Award for Fiction in 1957, it was also nominated for the Hugo for all-time series in 1966, and was nominated from 2002 through 2008 for the Prometheus Hall of Fame award, before winning it in 2009.  As with the previous two volumes, this one contains two books.Book V is titled "The War of the Ring" and it returns to the story of all those outside of the Ring Bearers.  It starts with Gandalf and Pippin arriving at Minas Tirith to deliver the news to Denethor and takes us to the start of the battle in front of the Black Gate of Mordor.  This book tells the story of a large number of characters.  Only the ring-bearers are absent as characters, though they are certainly in the thoughts of those who fight the war.Book VI is titled "The End of the Third Age", though it has also been called "The Return of the King" and similar to Book IV it is starts out focused on Frodo and Sam, with the specter of Gollum tagging along.  Starting with Sam's daring rescue of Frodo, it continues with the two trying to make their way to Mount Doom.  However, the changes less than a third of the way through the book, when their quest comes to an end, and the rest of the book involves all the characters again.  Unlike many modern books and movies, the action doesn't end with the climax, and Tolkien takes his time telling the story of the aftermath of the war.As with the previous books in the series when compared with the movie I personally prefer the book, though I have enjoyed the all the movies as well.  However long the movies are, they are but condensed versions of the books, and if left unread, you will miss out on many significant characters and events, as well as be unaware of the changes made by those creating the movies from what was written originally.  The movies were a valiant effort to bring this epic to the screen, and they honor Tolkien's overall story, but to fully appreciate what Tolkien created, you need to read the books.
5 This jewel will open the box of your imagination. Sometimes we are so entertained with the mundane that our imagination darkens in disuse. Tolken awakes the child like quality of our imagination with a dreamlike world with heroes, wizards, battles, and quests of epic consequence. The great Aragorn, the feeble hobbits and the rest of fellowship interwoven in a quest that defines the ultimate fate of the world. Hermoso!As for the book binding quality, it is not as it should be for this book. I had to glue it together twice.
5 What good is Lord of the Rings without the maps?  Well, great, if you pretty much have it memorized!  Having the Lord of the Rings available to me electronically is something I have desired for many years now.  The hardcover editions of the book have always felt a little too much like college textbooks to be to my liking, and I have always hated paperbacks.  Now the quest for the electronic version of the one book to rule them all is finally over, and we can all rest easy.  Even if this version is missing some maps.I have been reading ebooks since the days Palm first came out, but have always been disappointed that the classic LoTR has not been available.  Seeing it again really makes me smile, and even though there are some problems with this electronic version, one can't fault it as one of the great works of all time.  Not only are some of the maps missing, but there are a few typographical errors as well, but for a book so large this is to be expected, and I expect that if they are corrected in later editions, the electronic versions I purchase now will be updated for redownload later.Even if not, I am more than satisfied with the way it is now.Highly recommended.
5 First, a note on the quality of the set itself. This is just a simple boxed set, paperback cover, no illustrations or anything, just the quintessential set for someone who wants to read the books. This set also includes The Hobbit, the prequel that actually started the whole thing. Return of the King, volume III, DOES contain the appendixes, by the way.As for the book material itself, it's very difficult to describe the wonder and awe of the fantasy series by J.R.R. Tolkien. Tolkien weaves a fantastic tale of fantasy, adventure, and suspense that strikes a chord in anyone. The "Tookish" side that makes anyone want to travel, to journey, to have adventures and see or commit brave acts of valor.The basic plot is Frodo Baggins, simple hobbit (if you don't know what hobbits are, you either need to forget reading these books or start reading immediately! :) ) from the peaceful land of The Shire inherits a simple Ring from his uncle, Bilbo Baggins. Through the counsel of Gandalf the Grey, traveling wizard and friend of the hobbit-kind, Frodo comes to know that this is more than just a Ring. It is The One Ring. The Ruling Ring forged by the Dark Lord Sauron ages ago. Taken in battle, the Ring passed through different owners, almost all of whom have given in to its evil influence. Hobbits, however, though small in stature have extraordinary resilience to such evils. Frodo takes the Ring, and bears it away from The Shire, along with his four hobbit friends Sam, Merry and Pippin. He joins parties with Strider the Ranger, who assists in a conflict with the Nazgl, the dark phantom servants of the Dark Lord, whose sole purpose is to recover the Ring for Sauron, that He may again rule all lands in darkness.The company reaches the protected stronghold of Elves, Rivendell. There is take counsel, where The Fellowship of the Ring is formed. Great conflict lies ahead in the land of Middle-Earth, and you'll just have to buy this set to find out what happens!Now a major motion picture trilogy from New Line Cinema, these books and the movie give wings for the imagination to soar into worlds far away, to dreams of heroes, conflict, beauty, grandeur, fantasy.
5 This is a awesome book. i loved this book alot. i thought that it was done very well. lord of the rings is definitly a classic series. the return of the king brings it to a great conclusion and a great end. fantastic book. if you have not read this book then i recommend you do
5 these are the greatest works of fiction EVER written. tolkiens world is utterly believable, huge in scale, but so very personal in the thoughts and actions of his characters. The Hobbit is a good prequel, the first of his works published. It is more of a childrens tale but still very good. LOTR is really one novel, tolkiens best work, in my opinion. each character knows they will probably not survive the journey in all reality, but if they just sat and waited for the world to end it would be so much worse. the dialogue is rich, the characters believable as humans, hobbits, elves, or orcs. The very focal point of evil is in the smallest thing you can think of, a ring, it is not evil personified, but a thing that brings out a persons worst fault, for Boromir, lust for glory, and in frodo, fear that it will be taken away and used for evil is used by the ring so that he is at the last unable to destroy the ring. this is a classic work of fiction and should be read by everyone.
4 A really good book that is the adventures of Frodo and his friends.It follows on from the Adventures of Bullbo .
5 Tolkien was a professor of some sort, and it shows.  When I was a lad, we had to read some dreary British novel, in high school, Silas Marner, or something like that.  They stretched reading it out to a very boring entire school term.  It was torture, and I like to read.  I slogged through this book joyfully in high school, on my own time.  Why don't they have books like this in high school?  There is of course far more detail than there is in the movie.  This is a book assembled by a craftsman, a Kahuna- an expert- in Hawaiian terms.  One can enjoy the book at a few pages per day.  He has great, archetypal characters.  This book set the standard.  The only complaint I might make, and that is small, is that it is long- many people don't want to read something quite this long- however that is not a problem for me, I like it just as it is.  This is a classic.
5 Although they bear little resemblance to each other, Robertson Davies' DEPTFORD TRILOGY and Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS are far and away my favorite fictional trilogies.  The high number of &quot;10&quot; ratings from these reader reviews shows how much others have enjoyed reading Tolkien.
5 For all parents who have taken your children to the newly released &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;, I challenge you to pick up &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; and read it aloud to your children. This will work best with kids 10 and older. Read a page or two every night at bedtime. I've read through &quot;The Hobbit&quot; twice to our kids, and have read through &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy once to them. Our boys are all teenagers. We read every night for 20-30 minutes. We've also unplugged our TV and replace this time with reading in our home. Tolkein is an excellent storyteller, with vivid descriptions a cinematographer can only begin to play with. Your child's imagination is so much greater than that of any movie maker. Give them the gift of your time and Tolkein's genius writing: Read Tolkein Aloud to your Kids!For two books filled with other creative ideas for parents such as this one, take a look at &quot;The Family Cloister&quot; and &quot;The Christian Family Toolbox&quot;, both written by David Robinson.
5 Whatever problems might have been with this book before, they seem to have been solved - the pages are sewn in, the leather is gorgeous and feels wonderful, and it is a solid, beautiful, wonderful book.The Lord of the Rings is also, of course, a five star story, but I am five starring this review solely on the physical characteristics of this leather edition.Mmmmmmmm.... s'wonderful!Sit in your highback reading chair in front of the fire with a glass of Cognac reading this one. Very Alistair Cook.It's pricey, but well worth it.
5 Authors often have difficulty with the middle volumes of trilogies: the beginning may be too concerned with bringing the reader up to speed, the end may be unsatisfying because the story is not complete, or the whole volume may be simply a setup for the final installment.Not so with "The Two Towers," the second book in  J.R.R. Tolkien's masterful "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. This book contains some of the most powerful (Gandalf's confrontation with Saruman, Frodo's meeting with Famamir), most humorous (the reunion of the travellers in Isengard), most vividly descriptive (the landscape of Ithilien), and most deeply moving (Gollum finding Frodo and Sam asleep, the story of the Entwives, the choices of Samwise) writing in the entire trilogy. Tolkien also introduces the reader to two completely new and richly detailed societies: the Ents and the Rohirrim. The storyline has been neatly divided in two, and one of these sections further divides in two. Tolkien handles his diverging plots skillfully and with great suspense.I firmly believe that "The Lord of the Rings" is the greatest work of literature ever written, and a case can be made for "The Two Towers" being the best book of the trilogy.
5 The book is the one I would choose  to be marooned with.The imagery from the film complements the images in my head. It is just such a shame that Jackson didn't read the book before embarking on the film!
5 It is always a pleasure to read this book.  I found new and delightful things with this edition. Not sure if I don't remember much or if the edition I read before was so changed but an exquisite book that should be read by everyone that enjoys fantasy.
5 It is not necessary to understand exactly what Tolkien did to read The Lord of the Rings. A reader does not need to know that Tolkien used his knowledge of the history of the English language to create a language and alphabet of his own to enjoy this epic. You don't even need to realize that many of the themes and mythology of The Lord of the Rings is directly related to the lore of ancient England, legends going back before the written word. You don't need to realize the massive complexity of Middle Earth's mythology--how passing references to the past amount to a much bigger picture to be told another time, much as a small reference to Oddyseus brings up the Odyssey and the Iliad, which in themselves contain the seeds of even larger past myths. No, only a tasting of the effects of Tolkien's efforts are required to read his epic masterpiece.To enjoy Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, all you need to do is look at the characters, the completeness of his universe--with history, mythology, conflict. This is no simple fantasy novel, this is a rich, dynamic world, filled with real characters and fascinating, diverse locals.Tolkien was not just a master creator of worlds and professor, he was also a storyteller to whom few compare. The Lord of the Rings starts out in the simple fairy-tale style of the Hobbit. Even when Gandalf tells Frodo of the dangers Middle Earth is facing, we don't truely get a feel for it. Tolkien's talent comes out when we realize we are gradually becoming aware of Sauron's threat just as the characters are. The Black Riders at first seem just a mysterious, though deadly, hindrance, and their true demonic nature only is revealed with time. For Tolkien to accurately convey the growing sense of dread as he does, THAT is the mark of a writer who will be remembered for many generations.Enough of that; The Lord of the Rings is a classic, one of the great books of the English-speaking world. If you haven't read it, well I feel for you, man. I'd buy you a copy myself if it wasn't avaible in every library in the country.
5 I suppose there are two kinds of people who read these reviews: those ten or fifteen people who have never read Lord of the Rings, and want to know whether they should or not, and people who have visited this land many  times and, feeling nostalgia, want to hear other reports of it.  All I can  say to the first group is, if you like to stay at home, safe behind VCR and  keyboard, never read a book twice, and want managable cliches to do the  work of imagining for you when you do read a story, give this one a wide  berth.  If, on the other hand, you feel that this world is not quite your  home, beware of Middle Earth, it may enchant you.  It may not be heaven,  but for those who can feel its incantation, it may awaken a longing that  nothing on earth can quite satisfy.Maybe that sounds overblown to you.  Let me just tell you, then, it's a great story, and for some, it will be  hard to find a better.  Tolkien has taken the raw material of the human  psyche and fashioned a world with it, and then put a story in that world  that will fill your imagination with unforgetable images.  I don't think I  even noticed, the first several times through, the genius he displays for  character and motivation or for linguistic invention, the story swept me  off my feet so completely.  After years of reading it, even the things I  don't much care for -- some of the poetry, Sam's overly servile attitude, a  bit of a slow beginning in Fellowship of the Ring, some rather clumsy  map-making -- have worked into the whole and become a part of its charm.  Best not pick this book up for the first time without a very long block of  free time ahead of you, in case it strikes you in the same way.
5 The Lord of the Rings Epic (it cannot properly be called a trilogy as the entire story is considerably more than three volumes) is an acknowledged literary masterpiece and a very good read for any fan of heroic fantasy.  However, it does require a more dedicated and intelligent reader to  properly keep chracters and sub-plots in order than most fantasy,  especially the bubblegum &quot;D&amp;D&quot; novels that have gained many  readers in the past several years (myself included).  To those who seek to  find rascism or other social maladys in the pages of the series, I remind  you that you need look no farther than in the mirror. Heroic fantasy is  written for escapism and entertainment, not as a social commentary or work  of design. I reserve judgement on those readers who have criticized it as  &quot;poorly made&quot; and/or &quot;too long&quot; until they have  published their own epic fantasy.  In brief, this is an excellent series  for serious fantasy readers. If you don't typically get involved with the  characters and story, this series is probably not for you.
5 Nice to have three books in one volume.  Makes a great gift to the Lord of the Rings aficionado of any age.
5 I can't imagine how anyone could start on the first page and do anything else until they finished reading the last word.When I finished I only had one criticism--it was too short!
5 I first read Lord of the Rings just over 20 years ago. It took me close to a week of obsessive reading - I barely stopped to eat and slept only when I could stay awake no longer. As I turned the last page, I was overwhelmed with a feeling of envy that only a booklover would understand - envy of the people who had not yet read this work, and who could look forward to reading it for the first time. Since then, I have re-read it several times and if ever I am marooned on the stereotyped desert island, this is the book I would want most of all. I have long hesitated to review this opus - how could I possibly do it justice?The storyline is too well known by now to need any repetition. What impressed me were two major features. One, the sheer scale of the epic. Tolkien did not just write a story, he literally created a universe and populated it with peoples of various kinds, each with their own history, culture, language, customs and tradition. Yet the epic is internally and externally consistent, like a huge carpet or tapestry, covered with multiple themes and motifs, yet all fitting seamlessly into the overall pattern. I was, and continue to be in awe at his mastery of the complexity and detail of his universe. Second, the sheer beauty of his writing. Rarely today does one come across writing that is both prose and poetry combined (and I don't mean just the songs in the book). Whether it be dialog or description, history or geography, Tolkien's writing is filled with melody and harmony - not a single word is out of place. Now add in the storyline, a masterpiece of depth, width and color, a blend of commonplace daily life shaken by terror and fear, sparkling with emotion and building always with hope to the climax. We will probably never see the like of this again. Do also read the Silmarillion and the Hobbit; the former in particular will add to your appreciation of the Lord of the Rings.The Leatherette Edition, with high quality binding and an excellent fold-out map multiplies the pleasure of reading. A wonderful gift to give or receive, and to keep in a place of pride on your bookshelf.
5 This hardback edition of Tolkien's trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring, The Twin Towers, and The Return of the King) is a MUST for the bookshelf of any J.R.R. Tolkien fan!  I watched the first movie before reading the book, and I must say the movie is a disappointment.  While it is fascinating to see Tolkien's characters depicted on the big screen with dazzling special effects, the movie still pales in comparison to the vivid word pictures and painstaking attention to detail the author presents in this classic work.With all the publicity surrounding the Fellowship of the Ring movie, most persons are familiar with the basic plot:  the hobbit, Frodo Baggins, is given the daunting task of destroying the great Ring that offers ultimate power and conquest for its bearer.  This tale describes the adventures Frodo and his company experience as they make their way towards Mount Doom, the only place where the ring can be destroyed within the fires of the dark summit.I recommend this hardcover version highly over the paperback edition, for it likely will be read more than once in one's lifetime.  The extra money paid for the hardcover edition is well worth the additional investment.  If you enjoy Tolkien, buy this book, read it, then read it again!  It will serve as an excellent point of reference for the current and the future movies based upon it.
5 I originally read The Hobbit and The Lord Of the Rings in an old paperback edition.  I immediately fell in love with Tolkien's Middle Earth, its characters and the incredible plot he created.I am now on my third  reading of the cycle. I came back to it after leaving it on the bookshelf  for many years (I like to forget many of the details so the book has a  certain freshness when reread).  To my amazment the book still has much  more freshness than I expected.  This time through I am seeing so much of  Tolkien's genius in the genre of fantasy: he created a whole world with  geography and history and complexity, and he makes it really  &quot;work&quot;.  Much other fantasy is weak in this area: the created  worlds just don't work all that well.  Tolkien's regions and cultures have  a depth that puts them a quantam leap above those of standard  fantasy.Also, many of Tolkien's characters are round and deep.  I  actually thought them rather cardboard on my first reading, but this time  through I begin to see that though Tolkien uses certain stereotypical  character types, he fleshes them with an interesting life all their own.  On my first read I thought the hobbits were the most intriguing of  Tolkiens' characters.  I find them even more intriguing this time through.  I also found MUCH more depth in the elves and dwarves, who seemed VERY  stereotypical on the first read.  I think I was so engrossed by the plot on  my first time through I did not pay much attention to the  characters.This book is one everyone should read at least twice.  It is  a modern classic.  Those who shun fantasy because of it being  &quot;unrealistic&quot; need to read this book so they can learn about a  different kind of realism.The specific things I enjoy about this  hardcover edition are the maps and the artwork.  It includes Tolkien's  original maps, which are better than the ones in my old paperback edition.And as for the illustrations: Alan Lee's works are masterful.  He pays  great heed to Tolkien's details so that his pictures don't contradict the  text; though I found a few minor discrepancies (which could be errors in my  own imagination).  His detailed and beautiful watercolors gave more  substance and shape to my own images of Middle Earth and its inhabitants.  My only criticism is that I find Tolkien's world to be more solid than Alan  Lee's.  Mr. Lee's version of Middle Earth is more etherial and less earthy  than Tolkien's.Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is his magnum opus and it is  a great book for ALL TIME.  This edition with the original maps and the  masterful artwork of Alan Lee will be a treasure I hope to pass on to a  future generation.
5 How can one describe one of the most significant literary experiences of one's life?  For the last nearly 20 years, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; has been an almost constant companion.  On the average, I read  the series about twice yearly.This book is like none other.  I was going  to say that this book is like none other written in English during the 20th  century -- but that does not go nearly far enough.  Rather, this book is  one of the most important works of fiction since man first began to write.  The work is singularly complete.Comedy?  -- It's there.Tragedy? --  It's there.Adventure? -- It's there.True Love? -- It's  there.Heroic Quest? -- It's there.Mystery? -- It's there.Good vs.  Evil? -- It's there.Essentially, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is  more than fantasy literature (although it is that -- and the standard by  which all other fantasy literature of the 20th century is measured).  Rather, it is &quot;Fairy Story&quot; in the classic and most complete  sense of that term.  (See Tolkien's non-fiction essay &quot;Tree and  Leaf&quot; and you'll see what I mean -- the theological ramifications are  remarkable).Please read this book.  It will change your life.  More than  any other work (save the Bible), it has changed mine.Use the book as a  guide away from the modern and post-modern philosophies which have so  devastated our world -- and return to a time and place where truth and good  were constant.  Sit back, light a pipe, and read the story aloud to those  you love.You will never be the same again.
5 This is a four-volume boxed set with Tolkien's "The Hobbit" and the three volumes of "The Lord Of The Rings" ("The Fellowship Of The Ring, The Two Towers, " and "The Return Of The King". The set picture here is the one I have and it is my favorite, not too pricey and the text is nice and easy to read.
5 First, a disclaimer. This review is for a boxed set of The Hobbit and LotR, which I could not find on Amazon, so I just did the top result. I will not be bashing the print errors in the edition available on Amazon on whose product page this review will appear. Secondly, at this point, this review is for The Hobbit only. I will add the LotR book reviews when I have completed them (the books). So here goes:This, as the review title suggests, is the prologue, if you will, to the Lord of the Rings, which in my opinion is one of, if not, greatest series of books ever written. The protagonist is Bilbo Baggins, a humble hobbit who is tricked somewhat into co-leading a troop of dwarves in search for a long lost treasure. I won't give away the story, but it is very intriguing and thought-provoking. It will definitely inspire you to go out and to something great, even if that is not your personality at all. If you force yourself to read past the first chapter or two, you won't be able to put it down. Now, for a book that is the prologue to LotR, The Hobbit doesn't focus on The Ring at all. It makes an appearance, but is not at center stage, as in LotR. Two of the main characters appear in LotR, and one is a main character. Others are mentioned briefly. I find it interesting that Tolkien really borrows fromBeowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)in the story line and races of Middle-earth. This book will really appeal to those who like The Chronicles of Narnia, but are itching for something more intense. I would say the intensity of this book roughly matches that of The Silver Chair in The Chronicles of Narnia, which is the most intense book in the series. And The Hobbit is much more tame than LotR! Great action scenes, as well as some thought-provoking dialog and actions. And of course the famous "Riddle Game" by which Bilbo come to posses the Ring. The characters are very identifiable, and in some cases, extremely funny. Tolkien does a great job of making an easy to understand world, with races and languages and whatnot. Overall, a highly recommended book and a must-read if you want to understand The Lord of the Rings more thoroughly.--Update--Fellowship of the Ring:The first in the LotR series, this book is really just an introduction to the other two. But you must realize that Tolkien's original vision for LotR was that it should be one book entitled The Lord of the Rings, with six smaller books contained in it. The publisher, however, intensely disliked the idea, because it would make for a longer time in the editing process. So he proposed, after reading the book, that they publish it as three novels containing two books each. The publisher also came up with title for each novel: The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The War of the Ring. Tolkien disliked the idea entirely, but accepted it on one condition: that they change the title of the third novel to The Return of the King, but he felt that War of the Ring gave away too much of the book. Anyway, the first book (of the six) or the first half of Fellowship, isn't exactly a page turner. You kind of need to discipline yourself to read it, but it really picks up speed at the start of the second book (the second half of Fellowship). You will meet a few of the characters that appeared in The Hobbit, but mostly new characters. You also need to realize that if you've seen the LotR movies (which are phenomenal) you don't have all the information that is in the books. If all the stuff in the books was in the movies, they would amount to about 40-60 hours worth of film, no joke. The books are really in-depth and descriptive, and the movies achieve some of that through just being able to see stuff and not have to have it described to you, and New Line Cinema did a great job conveying the landscapes and looks of the characters as I'm sure Tolkien was envisioning as he wrote the books. But still, you can't watch the movies and get the fullest picture of LotR. I also recommend an atlas of Middle-earth, as well as the Guide to Middle-earth, to fully understand everything you will be reading. Anyway, I'm kind of rambling. Overall this is a fine work, and highly recommended. Great story, characters, and places that are easily identifiable.
5 i'm just about done reading this book for only the second time in my life and i still love it. what a rich world tolkein created. the only problem i would have with this story is that the bad guys, the orcs, the nazgul, the black riders, and so on, are pretty much two dimensional. it may not have gone well with the flow of this story, but it would have been nice to see more richness in their characterization. that's a small pebble of gripe in the ocean of creativity though. a wonderful tale...and i hope the film will be as good if not better.
5 This series, as a whole, is excellent.  In all aspects, it is a masterpeice, a flawless work of art.  Indeed, it is flawless, but, in the view of others, definetely not perfect, and I shall explain why:There are many who will get quickly bored by Tolkien's writing style, as it is explicit in detail and, for people who have already read lots of other fantasy, will not introduce them to anything new.But keep in mind, it is every fantasy writer's duty to read this whole series (Including the Hobbit!), as Tolkien is the guy who created and established the fantasy genre into the world, although a lot of the content in his works is based upon historical myths, such as the very existence of dragons in his books.So some people won't like it, but that is not reason enough to give it any less than five stars, and so I repeat my final profound proclamation regarding this series:  Now here's a great series. . .Deathsmith
5 This is a 13 part dramatization of Tolkien's work, not a "reading", but full BBC acting work caught for the magic of your mind.  It comes in a gorgeous sleeve box, with an inner sleeve that protects and hold four sleeved dividers.  Each sleeves fold out to contain 3-4 CD ROMS.  They are covered with maps of Middle Earth.  It lists the actors, and the narrator Gerald Murphy is absolutely perfect.  Ian Holm (playing Frodo here!), the late great Robert Stephens and a cast of couple dozen well chosen readers of the roles.  The Price is a STEAL...I cannot believe it doesn't cost three times this price.This is NOT a reading of the books but an abridge full radio dramatization.  So please understand the difference before assuming these are just the books read.  This is full acting, with sound effects, music, etc.A true experience for any Tolkien fan.  A perfect gift for your Tolkien buff.
5 I personally am not a fan of the Tolkien books (I've never even read them).  However, I purchased this for a gift and the person they were bought for is really enjoying them.
5 This is a wonderful collection no library should be without.  Like my original covers better but these are fine even so.
5 How does one review the greatest story of all time? What is the point? I am sure there are millions of people on the internet, in the street, probably anywhere in the world, who can tell you why this story touched their lives. For me, it was a reminder - we are what we make ourselves to be. Our flaws do not define us, our actions do. We are only as great as our friends remember us to be. Pursue truth, honor, and justice, and you will be vindicated. My favorite character lately is Boromir, the tragic hero, who teaches us not to impress our parents, but to pursue our own dreams. Read this book. It will change you.
5 This is possibly the most attractive and well put together book I own.  The slipcase, cover art, maps, presentation of the classic tale are all wonderful, I could not find one thing I did not like.  The paper quality is superb with a wonderful gold outlining, the text is easy to read, the pages are easy to turn, the book marker which is built in is also a very nice touch.  Wonderful tale, well presented and wonderful collectors sets, easily the best version of this story available.
5 Obviously, the upcoming release of the new Lord of the Rings movies is prompting a lot of interest in this series, but this is not the typical trashy hollywood hype.  J.R.R. Tolkien's fantasy ranks among the best works of literature ever produced.  Although it might seem like fantasy, Tolkien's work is actually deeply remnisciant of miedieval literature.  Tolkien himself spent his whole life as a respected scholar studying works such as &quot;Beowulf&quot; and &quot;Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.&quot;  These were among the very first novels every concieved and they read like a explication of the early human intellectual mind.  Although we, as a society, have progressed far beyond this early stage, the echos of the emotions that moved these people still reside strongly in us.  Tolkien's genius was to isolate these emotions and exagurate them by adjusting what is primarilly an archetypical tale for a modern audience.  The Lord of the Rings is a creative masterpiece, many of the elements of the story are brilliantly concieved by Tolkien to maintain a seamless narrative structure.  But the component of the work that gives it it's greatest power is that delicate fragment, so meticulously preserved by Tolkien, that harkens back to the eve of humankind's intellectual development.  In a sense, The Lord of the Rings, is itself, a vast scholarly paper that seeks to recreate the wonder that must have been felt by early civilizations as they sat around the hearth and recounted the tales of &quot;Beowulf&quot; and so many others.  Tolkien's fantasy is indisputably the work of genius, but, contrary to most fantasy, it also contains a strong sense of compassion and understanding for the human condition.  This is not a tale to be missed.
5 A couple of years ago, in a large chain bookstore, I saw a sign listing the best-selling books for Christmas that year.  The first eight were contemporary works that will be forgotten in a few years, if they are not forgotten already.  The ninth was The Hobbit -- a book over 60 years old!What I was witnessing was the judgment of History: Missing from the list were books by those 20th-century authors that people are forced to study as "great literature": Steinbeck, Faulkner, Hemingway, and so forth.  If it were not for literature classes in school, very few would read them any more.  But Tolkien still sells after 60 and more years.  History is judging Tolkien the greatest of 20th-century English-language authors.And if The Hobbit qualifies as literature, The Lord of the Rings possesses surpassing greatness, as much above The Hobbit as a glorious sunrise surpasses a pretty candle.The question is, "Why?"  What makes this work such great literature?  Some like the characters, but many find the characters rather shallow.  Others like the plot, but the plot itself is rather simple -- a variation on the standard fantasy storyline, "Kill the evil wizard."  Still others point to the immense fantasy world that Tolkien created, but this same world is the setting for Tolkien's Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales, and few rave about them as great books.  Finally, some give Tolkien credit for inventing what might be called the adult fantasy genre -- but Tolkien himself depended heavily on Germanic mythology and folk tales, and other authors published 20th-century adult fantasy before he did.What sets The Lord of the Rings above other fantasy is the beauty of the words.  In a world where authors [write] books on word processors by bringing in generic paragraphs and changing a few details to fit the work at hand, this trilogy stands as a work where each word was carefully selected and crafted over a period of many years.  The result was Art, in the truest sense of the word.  The breathtaking beauty of Lothlorien, the awesome frightfulness of the Pillars of the Kings, the violent, clamorous action of the attack on the gate of Minas Tirith -- these are images painted in words by a true genius.  Other fantasy writers may create characters or plots the equal of Tolkien's, but they do not describe them with the beauty that he writes.So overwhelming is the beauty of the words that people miss some points that would be painfully obvious in the writing of lesser authors.  Some claim that there is no character development in the story; they must miss the change that happens to Gimli the Dwarf in Lothlorien when he falls in love with Galadriel.  That is not to be wondered at, however, as the very beauty of Lothlorien so overwhelms the reader that one just might miss what is happening to Gimli at the time.Others claim that The Lord of the Rings is simply a story and has no deeper or fuller meaning than that, and Tolkien himself said repeatedly that the work was not an allegory.  Allegory it is not, but "deeper meaning" fills The Lord of the Rings.  For example, Tolkien wrote in the Song of the Eagle (in chapter 5 of the second part of The Return of the King): the people should "sing and rejoice" because "the Black Gate is broken, and your King has passed through, and he is victorious," and "your King shall come again...."  Upon seeing this, the reader thinks that the King being referred to in that song is Tolkien's character Aragorn; but that only shows how the incredible beauty of the words transports the reader so completely into Tolkien's universe that references to our own are simply missed.  The Song of the Eagle is Christian imagery -- an Easter proclamation -- and The Lord of the Rings is laced throughout with such Christian typology and symbolism.  But such is the quality of the writing that the reader usually misses it completely, and if it is noticed, it is never insulting or preachy.  Tolkien's work is thus able to have an intense "deeper meaning" without boring the reader with it.It is the beauty of the writing that elevates The Lord of the Rings above other fantasy works, and nearly all other writing, of the last century.  Hundreds of years from now people will judge this trilogy as the greatest English-language fiction work of the 20th century.  If you can endure reading fantasy at all, do not miss this one.  You will never see another that is close to its equal.
5 I've been re-reading this book since my childhood. Excellent adventure, characters of weakness and honor, a wonderfully developed world. It's a classic for good reason, and should appeal to most people.
5 I have all three films on the extended DVD edition, loved them, so I HAD to read the books!INTRODUCTION: The Lord of the Rings was released in the 1950's, and it took everyone by surprise. With many loveable characters, a great story, a great new fantasy world with many place to explore, and the rich, moving storytelling were nothing people have ever seen before. Now with the books, video games, fan clubs, and three great movies, LOTR is easily one of the best stories of all time.BASIC PLOT:BOOK V: Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Merry, and Pippin, go to the capital city of Gondor, Minas Tirith. There they meet the Steward of the city, Denathor, who is Boromir and Faramir's father. They must fight a huge army of Orcs and protect the city.BOOK VI: The climax and resolution of the book. Sam goes to rescue Frodo, and they march toward Mount Doom to destroy the Ring. I won't tell you what happens at the end, but it's a great ending.OPINION: Over 450 pages, but beyond pg. 311 are just optional appendixes that give great info to the plot. This is one great and exciting book, and I noticed in the movie they forget to tell about the battle in the Shire at the end. A must read! There are many more books besides The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings about Middle-earth. I suggest you to read `em all!
5 Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest literary contributions to mankind. I have yet to see a book, or set of books, written as well with the amount of depth that Tolkien has put into this work.I'm first going to go through address each aspect of The Lord of the Rings, critiquing each of them as I go.The story is can both be described as very complex, or very simple. On this alone, I would give the book five stars. The entire story is summed up in one sentence: How Frodo Baggins rid Middle-earth of the Ring of Power. Then again, there is far more depth to it than that. There are literally hundreds of subplots, both implied and obvious. There are subplots involving main characters like Aragorn and Gandalf, and others including stories that go only mentioned briefly, like that of the balrog, or Treebeard, dwarves, and elves. Stories are alluded to and told that only hint at the depth of the world, Middle-earth, that Tolkien has created. The plot proceeds following a few storylines, the ultimate goal being to destroy the Ring of Power in Mount Doom. Along the way we meet a myriad of other characters, from half-main characters, like Eomer, to ones that are only touched on, like a few orcs. The story here is just so big, that it can't even be contained in the pages that J.R.R. Tolkien has used to write it.The interesting fact is that despite the complexity of the story, Tolkien presents it in such a way that all of the different aspects of the story flow together fluidly. So much so that it seems like the story is relatively simple. And that only continues to prove that Tolkien really knows how to write a good story.That brings me to my second point. The characters. Because there are so many stories involved in this one big story, and so many characters involved, you'd think that there wouldn't be much time for characterization, but it's just the opposite. Tolkien takes the time to develop each and every character involved, and the hinted stories and subplots only go to enhance this. With all of the back stories, we get to know more about the characters, and what they do later on in the book causes them to stay true to who they are, based on what they've already done. Suffice to say, Tolkien is a master of characterization.Moving onto Tolkien's writing style. It is absolutely flawless. His descriptions are masterful, and he doesn't fall into any of the usual faults that many authors fall into. Tolkien doesn't stop the action to use descriptions; he uses the action to channel the descriptions. His writing flows extremely well, and he moves the story steadily along while keeping consistent pacing, which is a very important aspect of any story. I really like how Tolkien allows the story to enhance his writing style. The grand landscapes, the epic battles. He captures the very essence of Middle-earth.That's not to say he only writes on a grand scale. His writing is nearly perfect down to the simple scenes that involve interaction between characters. I especially like the relationship between Sam and Frodo. Tolkien goes from long passages of beautiful descriptions, to quick sentences of action. He is just as adept at writing lengthy scenes where little action occurs as he is at bringing dramatic battle scenes to life.That brings me to how Tolkien handles dialogue. There are many passages where Tolkien uses long passages in dialogue to convey information while using only simple dialogue tags to portray the action. Some may say that the long passages are boring and detract from the story, but I say it only goes to enhance the story and create even better character development. Each character has his or her own voice, and each talk differently. This added with the action taking place in the short sentences between dialogue allows the scene to flow easily with the action never stopping while we still get to know whatever information needs to be conveyed.Tolkien writes with a certain depth that I haven't seen in many other authors. Very few people can capture the essence of a story like he could. Tolkien had a gift, and he utilized it well. He wrote from his heart, and when authors write from their true feelings, it comes out more real than someone who, say, writes simply for money. The book as a whole is simply an almost flawless example of how books should be written. Not only does Lord of the Rings have just a good story and characters, Tolkien created numerous biblical parallels. This makes a work of fiction really come alive and feel much more relevant.Lord of the Rings is the type of book that can be read numerous times. Whoever has not read Lord of the Rings should begin right now. It's worth the time put into it. I see no way for this to disappoint, if you are someone who knows a good story when you see one.There's a reason this is a classic and has gained worldwide fame and approval.
5 Somehow, I got through childhood and adolescence without having read this book. Now, at the age of 28, I've finished reading it for the first time. I consider myself a serious reader, and the first conclusion I draw from now having read the book is that my experience as a reader of literature has been far enriched for it. The book is a masterpiece on so many levels; as a fantasy story with an insanely detailed inner world, as a story of a quest that ends up being a journey of self-examination for its characters, as a story of the fight between good and evil. And on a personal level, waiting so long to have read the book allows me better to see how far-reaching Tolkien's influence is on the likes of George Lucas, Steven Spielberg and others who have made fantasy and sci-fi something of their mien. Read this book by all means, but if you are not yet acquainted with Tolkien, make sure to read The Hobbit beforehand, as events in that book set up the storyline for Lord of the Rings.
5 I love this book and have read my way through many editions. I purchased this for kindle and it is one of my favorites! I would highly  recommend this volume to any fan of Tolkien.
5 I bought this as a gift and it was perfect! The book comes as pictured and looks beautiful! Highly recommended!
5 I reread LOTR about every year.  Our family has worn out a couple of paperback sets.  It's great to have it on Kindle now.  The internal links are helpful, too.  My only complaint about this version is that it did not have all the maps.
5 Adore this fantasy. For fantasy fans and others, need to look into this as this is what all other fantasies strive to be. Well-written with wonderful characters and equally wonderful storylines. Please buy - you won't be sorry!
4 It's nice that this was sold as a box set, as it was cheaper than buying the books individually.  They're also good quality.  As for the books themselves, I think the author spends too much time trying to make his version of the world what you imagine while reading, and it makes them very dry and dull books, when the plot itself is rather interesting.
4 A! Elbereth Gilthoniel!So we stood on the quay with Sam and Merry and Pippen and watched Frodo and Bilbo sail away with Gandalf, Elrond and Galadriel, at the end of The Return of the King. For my son's second time and my thirteenth or fourteenth. And when I reached the last sentence and the trilogy we'd been using for bedtime stories for most of his seventh year was over, he said he wanted to start all over again with The Hobbit. Much as I love Tolkien's melodic prose, particularly his descriptions of the landscape in the turn of the seasons, reading him aloud takes some work. But there's a definite payoff. I think I finally got the names down to where I could pronounce them as J. R. R. intended. And it's undeniable that my son got a far-away dreamy look listening to these adventures that he didn't even with Narnia and Treasure Island. Then there is the reward of his admission, the other day, several years later, that despite enjoying the movies, which he had watched over and over again, he'd decided that he really preferred the books.
5 This book truly fulfilled my expectations. After hearing here and there that J.R.R Tolkien is amazing, I decided to try the 1400 and more pages that compose this trilogy, but don't get scare by the huge page volume, because when you pass the 100th page you are so immersed in the story that reading another hundred seems like something you have to do right away. Easy to read novel, but time consuming.While reading TLOTR you get immersed in whole new world, which is completely believable and fully described, from the strange and interesting (in physic and personality) characters, to the geography. The latter comes with maps!, which are indispensable to follow and enjoy the story to its fullest. While reading you are able to see in these maps the development of the quest (you should know that there is one), how much has passed, how much is coming, try to guess what direction will they take...across the mountains?, through this river or crossing that forest....The maps, the characters, and the journey make the book.Don't make the mistake of underestimating this book, I've read it right after Dostoievsky' Karamazov Brothers and Kafka's Metamorphosis, and I cannot say that they outstand TLOTR in quality. Even more, it's truly refreshing to read something completely different from all that we usually do.Another thing I want to add...you know how most people while growing up start loosing interest in things like video games or TV cartoons?, really, this may also apply to this book. I'm 25, and I recognize the possibility that I could've enjoyed more this novel when I was 16....and also that maybe I wouldn't have enjoyed it that much if I were 50.  Its known that while years pass we loose our ability to feel surprised and amazed by new things...so read TLOTR while you still have your imagination running and have fun.
5 If you love this epic story and love the smell and feel of leather bound books this is perfect for your personal library
5 The Amazon listing describes this as a paperback. It is not. The cover is softish and leatherlike with the texture of suede with the title and graphics stamped deeply. No flimsy paperback this. I do not know how well the cover will wear over the long haul. I will probably make a clear dust jacket for it to keep it from getting scratched up.This edition's main attraction for me is the creamy high quality paper and sewn binding with a significant curve to it like old fashioned books. The paper and spine quality remind of the Everyman's editions. The page corners are rounded.This edition is not as bulky as the other all-in-ones and is of a size that I can take it with me on vacations. The page formatting along with the color of the paper give it a similar feel and look as my old sixties hardcovers which are becoming too valuable to schlep around anymore. This one will take over the job nicely.If you love collectible high quality books, this one will be at home next to your other classics.
5 If thier is any bood that should be required reading for high-schools it is these books.  There are no better examples of storytelling and very few that can equall it.  Tolken filled a void that had been missing in western culture since the acient greeks (or at least the Nordic tribes) stopped writing.  He has created a modern myth.  In doing this he started a style of writing that focuses on the basics of storytelling.  This writing syle is based of how imaginative the storytelling is, more than the ideas that the writing conveys.Tolken manages to bring the story together in a way that is somthing in between Homer's epics and the classic fairy tales.  The plotlines of these books are both generic and incredibly origonal.  It has all of the elements that make stories like Star Wars so entertaining to everyone, while at the same time leaving the knowing that the book was about more than adventure, it was about finding some piece of bravery within themselves.The fact that the story is mostly told through the eyes of the hobbits is important.  The hobbits give the reader a veiw of a world that is bigger than it would if they were human.  This is supposed to make the reader relate to when they have felt small, and as if all of the events in the world are just too big for them to control.  The actions of most of the humans is told in a very aloof fashion, as if it happens above the tasks that Bilbo or Frodo are trying to acomplish.Whatever people get out of the Lord of the Rings, Tolken has created what is probably the perfect story.  All fatasy is in  some way tring to reacreate the feel and imagination that this story created.
5 Of course the LOTR trilogy is a great read, but I bought this particularly because Legolas is on the cover.  I am not particularly an Orlando Bloom fan, but he makes one hot elf!  LOL.
5 A war between good and evil, armies of light and dark, a story of elves, dwarves, hobbits, man, and creatures of the dark. As great evil spreads accross the land it is up to a fellowship of nine to inspire hope. Songs  are sung about heroes, fate, and destiny. Truly the most epic of all  stories in the last 1000 years! A great read that will ignite your  imagination.
5 'The Return of the King' marks the conclusion of the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy.  Actually, the story really begins in J.R.R. Tolkien's 'The Hobbit,' but that book is not necessarily needed in order to understand 'The Lord of the Rings.'  The story began in 'The Fellowship of the Ring,' in which the wizard Gandalf learns of the return of Sauron, a being of great evil, and discovers that Bilbo Baggins possesses the one thing that will make Sauron's return complete:  the 'one' ring.The 'one' ring was discovered by Bilbo in 'The Hobbit.'  He relieved its original owner, Gollum (a cave dwelling creature with multiple personalities), while on an adventure with Gandalf and a platoon of dwarves out to destroy a dragon, recover the dwarven king's treasure, and the dwarves' home.  The ring will make it's wearer invisible, and in the right hands, will give it's bearer incredible power.  However, the ring is evil and seeks to bend the will of those who wear it to conquest.In 'The Fellowship of the Ring,' Gandalf decided that Bilbo was no longer fit to wear the ring and sent him off to see the elves.  Frodo, Bilbo's nephew, was Gandalf's hand picked successor to carry the ring, and was sent off with a few friends on an adventure to ultimately destroy the ring in the one place it can actually be destroyed:  the home of Sauron and actual forging place of the ring known as Mount Doom.Bilbo, accompanied by Samwise, Merry, and Pippin (three other hobbits), and eventually Gimli (a grumbling axe carrying dwarf), Legolas (the bow weilding elf), the Ranger Strider (also known as Aragon), and other along the way set off to carry the ring to Mount Doom.  Along the way, they encounter Ring Wraiths and other perils.The story continued in 'The Two Towers,' in which the Fellowship was split.  Aragon, Legolas, and Gimli set off to help fight the coming war while Merry and Pippin are carried off to other battlefields.  Fearing for his friend's safety, Frodo set off on his own with the ring, and was followed by Sam and the creature Gollum.The story finally concludes in 'The Return of the King.'  The Orcish armies of Sauron have massed to attack Gondor.  Strider must rally the armies of Middle Earth to fight against Sauron's dark forces.  He must also make a decision as to whether he should reveal his true identity as the true King of Gondor.  In the meantime, Frodo and Sam seek to complete the final stage of their journey to Mount Doom to destroy the Ring.Anyone who has read a great deal of fantasy literature will see Tolkien's influence.  The power of the ring is mimiced in other fantasy novels, such as R.A. Salvatore's 'The Crystal Shard,' the races of elves, dwarves, and orcs are oft repeated my dozens upon dozens of fantasy authors, and the other magical items and treasures are now commonplace in fantasy literature.  His description of the ring wraiths is the model by which all other undead creatures are compared against.  Tolkien's work was obviously influenced by ancient mythology from the Norse to the Romans and perhaps by such novels as Bram Stoker's 'Dracula' with his portrayal of the undead.Tolkien accomplished his goal of writing a long sustained narrative.  Depending on which version of the trilogy the reader gets, he is likely facing 1,000 pages of fine print text.  At times, the reader will likely think Tolkien was either being paid by the word, or that he just wanted to write as long a story as possible.  While the rich detail Tolkien provides is artful, it can be a bit tedious.For instance, the opening chapters of 'The Return of the King' detail the march of the armies to Gondor in minute detail.  This goes on for dozens of pages.  Bye the end of it, the reader feels like they have marched to Gondor across mountains and miles of fields.  Perhaps that was Tolkien's goal, but it does make the book discouraging to read at times.  A similar effect happens as Tolkien details Frodo and Sam's weariness as the approach Mount Doom.  Also, nobody in the trilogy appears to be able to say 'goodbye' in under the space of three to five pages.The novel does have a satisfactory conclusion to the trilogy that is entirely appropriate.  The final chapters only relate to the larger story in a remote fashion, but they are a fun read.  Sam, in my opinion the true hero of the final volume of the trilogy, steals the spotlight from Frodo, the protagonist of much of the trilogy.  His actions, will, and resolve allow Frodo to see his quest to an end (whether that be good or bad, you'll have to read the novel to find out).  Yet, Sam is one of the least celebrated characters in the trilogy compared to Frodo, Aragon, Legolas, Gimli, and Gandalf.I enjoyed reading the trilogy.  Anyone who has seen Peter Jackson's recent movie treatments of the trilogy will probably enjoy these books as well. If you haven't seen the movies yet, I recommend reading each novel first before viewing the movie.  This was the plan I used, and it made the movies immensely enjoyable.  It is a rare incident when the movie turns out to be better than the book, but Jackson's movies so far have been better than Tolkien's novel, at least in my opinion.  General fans of fantasy literature will enjoy this trilogy, if for nothing more than they will recognize Tolkien's influence in the works they are already familiar with.
5 When JRR Tolkien wrote this, he wrote it as all one book. The publisher then split up the six full sections into three books, with two sections in each book. This Kindle version is as he wrote it; it's all one volume. While I haven't gotten to the end yet, it has a clickable TOC and you can go to Appendixes if you want to,(My favorite character has always been Gandalf.) If you haven't read it, and have only seen the movies made of it in the early 2000s, then I suggest you read it to find what had to be left out due to movie time constraints. You'll never find a finer book of fiction than this.
5 After over 30 years of owning random copies of these books that came into my hands from wherever, doling them out to friends and then eventually replacing them with newer random copies, it's nice to finally have a matching set, and a very smart looking one that that. Nice and simple black covers, with just a bit of austere artwork. No shrunken down paintings or heavily processed still photos presented as proof  that the books are "Now A Major Motion Picture!!!" The cover art on these books are basically clipped adaptations of cover artwork  originally designed by Tolkien himself for the 1st edition (though I think I heard that they weren't actually used until a slightly later edition.) Also, it looks to me like all of Tolkien's original maps and illustrations have been restored. I *think* Tolkien was the artist; they seem to bear a little monogram/symbol which is a combination of a J, two Rs, and a T.I don't feel the need to say anything about the books themselves. They have long since proved themselves to have passed the test of time. I did recently hear some young twerp claiming that these stories are "cliche fantasy." I wanted to explain to him that the only reason things like that can be considered cliches today is that so many writers have cribbed and copied from Tolkien's books over and over and over ever since they were first published. But I didn't want to be "that guy".Whether you've never owned the books before or you're depressed by the sad state of your dog-eared copies that you've had for over an aeon, I definitely recommend picking up this 75th anniversary edition.
3 There's nothing wrong in principle with writing a long book about a magical world that doesn't exist. Fantasy writers like JRR show us alternative worlds that, at their best, can make us see our own world afresh.  That is what art is supposed to do, and that's why we love it.Unfortunately, since I've been old enough to drive I've found it hard to get a lot of value out of Middle Earth. When I was ten I thought the elves were way cool. It was nice to know that there were genuinely good folks around. Now I want to know what makes them so good. Apparently, they just are. What if you, dear reader, happened to be born an orc? What would you have to do to be accepted in polite society? How would you get on at dinner parties? Could you and I be friends? I don't think so. Orcs aren't like real-estate agents or Frenchmen, essentially well-meaning people whose deeds may be worse than their hearts. Orcs are bad twenty-four seven. It's what they do. Needless to say, there'll be no Marshall Plan for Mordor after the War of the Ring. Mordor was never the land of Bach and Beethoven, a cradle of learning and civilization that just happened to be tragically seduced by megalomaniac twerp. Nope, Mordor is bad through-and-through. There's no point in nurturing democracy or a post-War economic miracle. It'd be a waste of time. Me, I find a world of Goethe-reading concentration-camp guards vastly more terrifying - and way more interesting - than a world threatened by nasty orcs and ring-wraiths.What about our heroes? Frodo and Sam are hobbits. They are homely by instinct and like food and drink, but they prove hardy and brave on adventures. Gimli is a dwarf. He is gruff but lovable, and likes caves and stonework. Legolas is an elf. He is beautiful and good, and likes trees. Aragorn is the heir of Isildur. He is grim and noble, but kindly. And so on. That's all you need to know about these guys, and that's all you're going to find out. The narrative seems to come down to will-they-or-won't-they. If they don't, that's bad news for Middle Earth. But it's not clear what's at stake for the rest of us.What about the writing? Don't get me wrong, no one likes a good epic or heroic narrative more than me, and if that means archaizing language, so be it. But it's hard not to giggle when the characters start to get their word order mixed up or use words like `fell' and `fain' and `ere'. Maybe if the diction were consistent it would sound less silly, but the register often changes without warning from Quite Sensible (when plebeian races like hobbits are talking) to Frightfully Lofty (usually when important and powerful folks are talking with each other). Somewhere in the vast appendices at the end Tolkien claims he's faithfully representing the changes in register and formality that occur in Middle Earth languages. I guess that's OK,  but it still sounds silly. All the more so when the narrator himself unaccountably parrots the ham-fisted diction of his characters. (`And she answered as one that likes not what is said.')I hesitate to diss the great man for two reasons. First, Tolkien-bashing is a favourite sport of black-skivvy-wearing literary hipsters. It's a way of showing you belong with other arty nobbers, and it's annoying. Second, there's no denying the man's achievement. To create a world as vast and coherent as Middle Earth virtually ex nihilo is a spectacular feat of the imagination. The sense of wonder that Middle Earth, with its magicky atmosphere and breathtaking landscapes, inspired in me as a kid has never quite left me. These days I find it all rather dull and long-winded, but if you find yourself as captivated as I used to be, then good luck to you. Happy reading.
5 What's there to say that hasn't already been said? The book (actually, books) are massive, intricate, spellbinding, and jaw-droppingly gorgeous. Not only did Tolkien create his own world, with its own species, languages, and geography; he also started a new genre.If not in the same league as Dostoevsky and Kafka, as Milton and Dante, he is a literary master in his own regard, and more impacting in a sense that more people enjoy and read his works. A marvellous book.
5 I mean, if you are into the movies, you should really read the books. It adds to it. Yes there are differences so it may be a little bit confusing, but it's worth it to read this so you can see the true master of Tolkien.
5 Brilliant.  Awe-inspiring.  Masterfully written.J.R.R. Tolkien creates another world--indeed, another culture and language--in what many consider the greatest novel of the 20th Century, "The Lord of the Rings."  A sweeping, all-encompassing tale of a make-believe world, LOTR is the product of an imagination that may never be equalled again.THE RETURN OF THE KING, being the third and final installment of this novel, takes the reader on a magical journey as the Third Age of Middle-earth comes to its dramatic conclusion, as the Fellowship of the Ring confronts for the final time the Dark Lord and his evil minions.  The battle is waged on the Pelennor Fields outside of Minas Tirith in Gondor--a battle that is costly, harrowing, intense. . .exhilarating.  Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam continue their journey into the heart of Darkness itself--the inhospitable, deadly land of Mordor--to continue Frodo's quest to destroy the One Ring in the blazing inferno of Mt. Doom.  And as Tolkien pulls all of the wonderful components of his epic story together, one man steps forward to claim the throne of Gondor. . .to bring healing to the war-ravaged lands of Middle-earth.THE RETURN OF THE KING is the pinnacle of storytelling, but in my opinion is the weakest of the trilogy, as Tolkien creates a powerful climax then lingers for almost one hundred pages wrapping up his story.  This is augmented by the actions of Frodo, Samwise, Merry, and Pippin upon their return to the Shire; the sudden "machismo" of these Hobbits as they confront the corruption of their homeland is inconsistent with the inherent vulnerability of the characters as depicted through the books.Despite my slight misgivings, THE RETURN OF THE KING is a marvelous book--an exceptional read.  Having read this epic several times, it's always a bit sad to come to the end, to say goodbye to such wonderful characters.  Highly recommended.--D. Mikels
5 The classic and age old story of good vs. evil told in a way that captures the imagination from the first book to the last. Books to gather enjoyment and wisdom from as the tale unfolds:  "The world is indeed full of peril, and in it there are many dark places; but still there is much that is fair, and though in all lands love is now mingled with grief, it grows perhaps the greater..." - Haldir, Elf of Lothlorien ("The Fellowship of the Ring")
5 At last, an authorized and legal electronic version of The Lord of the Rings.  A review of the book itself, at this point, is totally superfluous.  What could be said that hasn't already been said.  If you have read this book, as many times as most of us have, you will know what I mean.  If you haven't, this is your chance.  TAKE IT!  NOW!I would not agree that I would buy it "For any price". After all, I already own several paper copies.  But never-the-less, I am glad to have it electronically.  And the reduced price for the entire set is better than buying them individually, especially since it overcomes, to a very small degree, the lack of folder capability in the Kinde.
5 I received my first set of LOTR in 1965. I have probably read them 30 times and have enjoyed them each time.
5 Nice idea to present the trilogy in one volume for a good price.  Edited well, and good layout.  And, of course, it is one of the great books you will ever read.  The world Tolkien creates is amazingly complete.  The characters are who they are, almost all of whom are dramatically different at the end of the story than they were at the beginning.  We have brave men, and a few brave women, (men meaning males of all species), who sacrifice everything to stop the ultimate evil.  While Tolkien said it was not about World War II, you can take it that way and add a layer to the story, intended or not.  If you haven't read it, you need to.  If you haven't read it lately, you need to do it again.  I re-read it every other year, and find it grows on me with the reading. ;-)
4 This full-cast abridgement of THE LORD OF THE RINGS is The Mind's Eye version produced for National Public Radio in 1979, several years before the much-superior BBC version with Ian Holm.  The eleven-hour-plus dramatization deserves recognition as a sincere, pioneering attempt to bring J. R. R. Tolkien's epic fantasy to imaginative life for a young American audience in a way that the animated films of the period could not.  The production was very well-received at the time and appreciated as a folk-culture event.Radio drama has been a rarity in the United States since the early 1950's whereas it has always thrived in the United Kingdom.  (There had been an early British radio broadcast of LotR of which Tolkien, who disliked dramatic forms in general, disapproved.)  While the subsequent 1981 BBC masterwork is a lavish, technically dazzling production sporting internationally acclaimed actors, the humble Mind's Eye version, utilizing a small cast of local-theatre players, is a low-budget, no-frills affair. Most of the voices are wrong and pronunciation awkward, but everyone makes an enthusiastic effort, which is the main reason that the marathon show remains so endearing despite its uneven quality.The scriptwriter had his task cut out for him, considering that it no doubt was a labor of love which had to be done quickly for little or no money.  According to the conventions of the radio drama format, the adaptation emphasizes dialogue over description, and while the merest sketch of the novel, the script is generally an effective condensation, highlighted by the inclusion of the beloved Tom Bombadil episode.Bernard Mayes plays a splendid Gandalf and his fine, robust performance anchors the show.Gale Chugg (a notable cartoon voice) gives a spirited and straightforward account of the narration and doubles as a delightfully creepy Gollum.Other voices do not fare so well, but weaknesses among the supporting cast would mean little if the protagonists were not so drastically miscast.  Samwise (Lou Bliss) is energetic and cheeky but sounds like a contemporary Noo Yawk street kid; while Frodo (James Arrington) starts out with an appropriate clear-speaking earnestness, only to become a monotonous, whining drone when crushed by the terrible burden of the evil One Ring.  This means that THE RETURN OF THE KING, which places an inordinate burden of its own on these actors, is rendered a painfully draggy conclusion to the epic narrative.The overall result would not seem so mediocre if so much better had not since come from Ian Holm, Martin Shaw, Rob Inglis and of course the Peter Jackson films.  For all its gross imperfection, The Mind's Eye ambitous LORD OF THE RINGS maintains a nostalgic charm for listeners who can be forgiving of the primitive circumstances of the little production. As such it is well worth a listen to all but the most cringing of "purists".Although Tolkien fans will want both, this version might be more appropriate for family listening than the more challenging BBC recording and would serve as an excellent way to introduce children to Tolkien's magic world.
5 This was a gift for my nephews who love reading as I do. They were thrilled to get the set.
5 It is the perfect edition for this classic. The leather is great, the font is not too big or too small. If you are a fan it's a must have. Just be sure to buy the Hardcover, it makes a world of difference. I got it as a birthday gift, and I loved it, just to smell it and know I have an anniversary edition is awesome. One more thing, and a very important one, the price of this book on a bookstore is at least 3 times more than the amazon price, so you are getting a bargain.
5 No other fantasy author creates the same depth of a world as J.R.R. Tolkien has done.  His labor of love took his entire lifetime to blossom into the Lord of the Rings, and the depth and beauty that each word of this  timeless classic possess is simply breathtaking.  I've read it five times  through, and am currently savoring a sixth reading and I find myself  appreciating it more and more each time I read it.I especially enjoy  opening the book to particular section and re-reading a few lines of  Tolkien's beautiful and calm prose; or to reflect on the careful linguistic  contruction that Tolkien put in to create his multitude of  languages.This is simply a wonderful book, and once you've read it, it  is a joy to go back to the Silmarillion and learn of the ancient tales that  are only hinted at in this book.
5 I am reading these books in anticipation that my grandsons will want to read them when they are older.  I look forward to the day when I can see their sense of excitement out of the reading.  I bought an old set just to read the stories for myself.  When they are old enough I hope I will be around to purchase a good set for them.
5 The Hobbit and Lord of the rings have been in print for (40, 63) years and have seen a production run of more than 100 million copies.  Perhaps only the bible and the phonebook are more popular than these books.  Tolkien, a professor mythology at Cambridge, created a world with its own maps and mythology and history and characters, and after about 20 years of creating this mythology he began to write his books.  His books are filled with marvelous new creatures (Balrogs, Ring-Wraiths, Ents, Orcs, etc.) and Tolkein's level of "vivid imagination per page" is usurpassed.  The plot lines concern good, evil, courage, deductive reasoning, and the necessity and ability of even the smallest person to influence the course of historyThe 4 volumes (including the childrens book, "The Hobbit"), inspired in 1974 the most popular fantasy-role playing game of all time, "Dungeons and Dragons", and just about every successful role playing game there ever was, including the wildly successful computer games "EverQuest" and "Ultima Online".  This set of stories has inspired nearly 100 other books that analyze or augment Tolkien's work.  So this one book set has created two separate industries over the years.  Only the Bible can claim to have created more industries than that.The three books concern the plight of Frodo, nephew of Bilbo, who comes into possession of the Ring of Power, a magical ring that will corrupt the wearer if used too much.  Frodo resolves to destroy the ring by casting it into a volcano called mount doom, and so begins a quest of 500 miles on foot into the evil realm of Mordor, to face the evil wizard Sauron, who is lord of Mordor and keeper of Mount Doom, and who is arising from the dead, and wants control of the ring in order take over Middle Earth.  As my 3 year olds would say, "This one is Scary.  Very, very Scary !"
5 There is no better novel for anyone of any age. Instead of &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; give this one a  try!
5 The best trilogy ever written. I read it every few years and never tire of it and with the audio it is even better!!!
5 This classic boxed set of the Lord of the Rings is great.  The illustrations are breathtaking and bring Tolkien's world to life.  If you love Tolkien... and the Lord of the Rings, this is a must have for your library.  The construction is great, the maps add a lot of detail.  I am very pleased with this edition.
5 Absolutely love this book whether it is in 1 volume or 3. An absolutely great book that I try to reread every few years.
5 I've read Lord of the Rings many times, and enjoy the movies greatly. This 13 disk BBC dramatization is extremely well done, and though it's not "complete" it comes quite close. The vast majority of acting is really quite good, and the sounds and music are great. Well worth getting. I've since gotten the BBC Hobbit from the 1960's, and while that's not nearly as well done, it's a lot of fun as well.Perfect for nighttime iPod listening over the course of many nights!
5 I thoroughly enjoy the entire series. I've reread these books every year since I've been 15 years of age. A must read! A Must!
5 Of the many fantasy novels I have read in my time, I still cannot deny the fact that there is no book more wonderful than the Lord of the Rings.  It is a timeless classic that I find myself reading again and again.What really sets this book apart from others in the fantasy genre are subtle yet crucial to making this book a classic.  First, because of Tolkien's educational background at Oxford, and talent with old, forgotten languages, he created names and languages that really strike a chord in the reader.  The elven languages were a stroke of genious, that linguists still continue to ponder over today.  Names for people and locations also resonate in our minds in a unique way as if they were really had existed.  Those who are familiar with Old or Middle English will particularly understand this point.More ingenious though is the deep meaning behind the books.  The Ring of Power, being a symbol of absolute power, corrupts the minds of all it touches.  The wise and strong are particularly vulnerable to its dark touch, even if they intend to use it for good (as Boromir had hoped to do).  Like many other aspects of the trilogy, Tolkien clearly intended to reveal many aspects of our lives through this book, and he did so masterfully.As for this particular hardback edition, I enjoy it immensely.  It truly feels like a tome from a forgotten time, and fits the mood of the story well.  For the true Tolkien fan, I would definitely recommend purchasing this edition.  May you enjoy many long hours reading it.  :)
5 The definitive fantasy novel of the 20th century upon which all else will be compared.  One of the most imaginative works in the english language of the 20th century.  This book gets better and better with every reading.  Everytime you read it you peal back another layer of the onion and come  back to familiar friends once more.  I have read this book more than any  other.  I can't imagine wanting to read a book more than this one.
5 Marvellous, marvellous, marvellous! What more can I say! If you are tired of science fiction, you will definitely enjoy this gripping, magical and exiting trilogy. I can guarrantee, that you have never read anything similar. I was reading it at the noisiest place I'd ever been, but I didn't hear a sound, for I was so wrapped in it. My advice: before reading the book, see some photos of the main characters from the movies (e. g. on [...] and after finishing the reading, watch the movies then. In this way, you won't know the contents, but it becomes more interesting for you and, having read the trilogy, it'll be easier to understand the movies.
4 Rated four because it is a bit bulky to read on the bus back and forth to work.  Bought this hardcover for the value; it will survive ten years on the shelf unitl I want to read it again.
4 I would say the first part of this book set, The Hobbit, is 5 *'s, there  was a delightful mix of danger, fighting, imprisonment, capture, really  werird creatures, weapons, and magic. The end had Thorin acting like a jerk  and refusing to share the treasure, but in the end it is ok.The Lord of  the Rings was also good. It dragged down the overall score by starting off  slow, but it got a LOT better. Hey, the first time somebody good dies, do  not panic like I did, because if you get frustrated and stop reading then  you will never read what makes up for it in the second part of the book. As  a trilogy, this book is awesome, and ends up with a real bang (literally,  volcanos blowing up count as bangs) and the end was, well, NOT what I  expected from the book, but should have expected from Toilken. I say this  book is good for everyone over 10, even if you love to read and are really  good at it, because you will  think that since the beginning is slow that  the whole thing will be slow. You have to force yourself to get past the  first hundred pages or so of The Fellowship of the Ring.P.S. I love the  hobbits, especially Pippin and Merry!!!! (Gandalf is really cool too!!!)
5 Lord of the Rings is by far one of the best series out there.  I have read it five times, and want to read it more.  It is a must-read for anybody.
5 Certainly a key to the success of The Lord of the Rings is that it came along at the precise point in history that it did, but there's another factor, I think, that helps account for its continued popularity today.  I don't know of any other book that can be enjoyed so thoroughly on so many different levels, based on so many different understandings of the story it tells.Is the ending of the story a happy one (Sauron defeated, Aragorn claiming his rightful kingship) or sad (the passing of the elves and magic from the world, Frodo injured beyond Earthly healing)?  Did Frodo fail at the moment of truth, and does that make him any less a hero?  Is Sam, with his simpleminded country subbornness, a hero for his stubborn pursuit of the quest, or a fool for his stubborn refusal to acknowledge any good in Gollum, to feel any pity, which spoiled any chance of Gollum's redemption?  Are the most significant powers of Gandalf and the Nazgul their magic abilities or the emotions (hope vs. fear) they instill?  What sort of power does the Ring symbolize?How you answer these questions depends on who you are and where you are in life.  The wonderful thing about these books is that as we grow, so do they.  They can be enjoyed purely and unquestioningly on the surface tale they tell, a modern myth of action and heroism, but they have depths equalled only by the deepest tree roots.  Saying that you should read these books is like telling a man in the desert to drink water.  My suggestion is rather that you re-read these books regularly to see how your perception of them changes, and what those changes may say about yourself.
5 Four Hobbits. One Grey Wizard, Two Men, an Elf and a Dwarf. Mix in a Red Eye and the One Ring and you have Classic Adventure.
5 I have read this book 4 times, and expect to read it perhaps 20 or more times before I die.Such a book as deep and priceless as this simply cannot be written and marketed in todays shallow consumerist world. This book is a priceless treasure. When I finish the Return of the King, I can feel it in my bones for several weeks afterwards. The sadness and nobility of this work of art lingers like a sword-wound from a wraith, though immensly pleasurable.
5 I am reviewing only the book, as I have not read the Kindle version.  This is my favorite book of all time and when I got the Kindle Fire HD, I wanted this on it.  I have not read it on the Kindle, so I cannot rate the Kindle version.  I'm hoping there aren't any problems with it.  There's not much I can say about the book itself that hasn't been said by many, many people.  It is probably the most popular book of the Twentieth Century.  It's a must read.  I hope the Kindle version is a good one.
5 Generally I am not a big fantasy fan, but I can't believe I waited all these years to read the complete Lord of the Rings. I finished The Hobbit immediately prior and it definitely is a must-read before starting LOTR. The Hobbit serves as a prologue and eases you into the world of Middle Earth, leaving you wanting more.It seemed as if almost everyone I knew said they had read The Lord of the Rings. Finally reading it myself, however, I began to wonder how many people had ever actually read the entire work. Tolkien's world of Middle Earth is so rich with such complex history and meaning that it takes a good bit of time and thinking to absorb it all. I finally came to wonder if many "readers" had actually taken shortcuts by skimming the text, or had simply watched the films and said they had read it. I did not watch the films until I completed the entirety of The Lord of the Rings, and I enjoyed the extended version of each film when I was done. They are terrific adaptations, but the material here is so deep and rich that no film, no matter how well done, can possibly do it full justice.The Lord of the Rings was always treated by Tolkien as being one book and not a trilogy. Having everything in one volume to me was the best way to go. Do not be put off by the size of the volume. A good writer (and Tolkien is one of the very best) will draw you into the story and will keep you engaged throughout. I began by reading 10-20 pages a night, gradually letting Tolkien build his world around me piece by piece until I was entirely consumed with the world of Frodo, Sam, Gandalf, Aragorn, and the evil Sauron, who secretly created "one ring to rule them all" to control all of the other rings of power in Middle Earth. The One Ring contains such absolute power that it corrupts and changes all those who come in contact with it, and must be destroyed for the good of all in Middle Earth.One of my big problems with fantasy writing in the past has been that of omnipotence. Since fantasy usually involves a new world with new rules and the catch-all of magic, an author literally can do anything in the story and get away with it. This absolute creative power, the author's own One Ring if you will, never corrupts Tolkien. Everything in LOTR makes sense and everything in the story "works" because Tolkien himself never succumbs to the power of this figurative "ring" by cheating the way some other authors seem to do. What's more, he ties everything in to a vast historical background so we as readers can see the logical changes and flow of history throughout the ages and the vast saga that is the world of Middle Earth.Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is an amazing work of the imagination and a triumph of the human mind. In writing it Tolkien did not cheat as an author, and neither should you as a reader. If you only skimmed Lord of the Rings in the past or have only watched the films, you owe it to yourself to make the time to go back and read it cover-to-cover. Take your time, read slowly, and fully realize the lush, vibrant, and unequaled world of J.R.R. Tolkien. Very highly recommended.
5 I've read it many times and it never fails to delight. Truly the source and inspiration for so much fantasy literature. The original.
5 This work is far more than a fantasy novel, it is the creation of a virtual world, very much like ours, yet peopled with strange races and heroic quests.Tolkien's universe is very real; this is beacuase he has gone to tremendous lengths to write its history, complete with its creation myths, lost civilizations, and folklore.I read this work many times when I was young, and the lessons it taught me about honor, friendship, right and wrong, courage, and life itself have stayed with me throughout my life.The story itself forms a bridge between Tolkien's children's story, the Hobbit, and his works of mythology (The Silmarillion).  The story is about a heroic quest in which an unlikely hero, Frodo Baggins, a hobbit, is called upon to challenge the very Dark Lord himself, Sauron, in completing a quest to destroy a magical gold ring that would give Sauron domination of the world.  Frodo is assisted by a cast of characters including the great wizard Gandalf, who undergoes a death an resurrection in the course of the quest; an outcast king named Aragorn who regains his kingdom; his faitful servant Sam; and other hobbits, elves, dwarves, and men who stand against the Dark Lord in challenges that take place both on a personal level and on the field of battle.It is a world of remarkable beauty, told by a master storyteller who also happened to be an Oxford professor of languages.  This is no amateur tale, but a profound work of myth and literature.
5 Middle Earth is on the verge of falling, and Sauron's vast armies are about to swarm mankind's last defenses. Only two things can save us: a lost king returns to his throne, and a little hobbit makes it to Mount Doom.Yes, there's a lot of tension in "The Return of the King," the brilliant, rich conclusion to J.R.R. Tolkien's epic fantasy saga. And rather than cheaping out with a "and they all lived happily ever after," Tolkien gives his saga's finale a bittersweet edge, along with plenty of wild battles and good vs. evi..Gandalf has ridden to the city of Gondor with Pippin (partly to keep him out of trouble), where the forces of Mordor are attacking. There is upheaval in the city itself, as the steward of Gondor is going nuts. Merry pledges his service to King Theoden of Rohan, not knowing what is ahead for the king and his relatives. And Aragorn is seeking out allies to fight Sauron on a military scale, even if they can't defeat him unless the Ring is destroyed. His search will take him to tribes of forest-dwellers, to Gondor -- and even to summon an army of the dead.In Mordor, the unconscious Frodo has been captured by Sauron's orcs, and taken to the fortress of Cirith Ungol. Sam is desperate to free his friend, but knows that he can't take on an army, and that Frodo would want him to finish the quest. Sam manages to free Frodo from captivity, but they must still brave more dangers before they can come to Mount Doom, the only place where the Ring can be destroyed. As they travel Sam sees Frodo slipping further and further into the Ring's grasp. Will Frodo be able to destroy the Ring?Usually, the climax of an epic adventure is a disappointment. "Return of the King" succeeds in almost every way, wrapping up each individual storyline, one by one. The ending has a feeling of finality; this is one story that could never have a sequel; Tolkien shows that in a war like this, there is no true "happy ending." Even if the good guys win, there will still be scarring, and death, and haunting memories of what once happened. And even if a person survives, he will never be the same.This is the grimmest of the three books in this trilogy. Frodo and Sam are stuck in the vividly horrific Mordor, while the city of Minas Tirith is on the verge of completely crumbling. Tolkien does a phenomenal job of exploring the madness, despair, rage and sorrow that accompany a war, and the way it can affect even the idyllic Shire. And he doesn't forget the slow period of healing that follows -- for people, for civilizations, and even for nature.Though a section of the book near the end descends into near-biblical prose, which changes post-Gondor, Tolkien does not waver in his ability to evoke emotion. One of the most touching scenes in the book is when Sam finds Frodo naked, unconscious and being beaten by an orc. Others include Merry's farewell to Theoden, Eowyn's slaying of the Witch-King, and of course the bittersweet final scene.Speaking of Frodo, this trilogy's hero is almost unrecognizable in parts of this book. The bright, naive young hobbit of the first book has been worn down to a pale shadow of himself. As he grows increasingly attached to the Ring, we even see him doing what seems unimaginable: threatening Sam with a dagger. Sam has come a long way from the shy young hobbit who couldn't say a word around the High Elves -- now he's attacking orcs and carrying Frodo to Mount Doom.And the supporting characters are not neglected either, with the younger hobbits being exposed to the horrors of war, Aragorn breaking fully into his role as the future king of Gondor, and passionate war-maiden Eowyn affecting the war as nobody else could. Some much-loved characters are lost, and others will be permanently changed.The story doesn't really end on the last page; for more background, especially on Aragorn and Arwen, readers should also read the appendices at the end of the book. Another good addition is "The End of the Third Age," in which the unpublished epilogue of this book can be found. Though this is probably not canonical, it nicely concludes the story and is a heartwarming look at what happens in the years following "Return of the King."It's difficult, once the story has finished, to accept that one has to say goodbye to Middle-Earth and its enchanting inhabitants. But as Gandalf says, "I will not say: do not weep; for not all tears are an evil."
5 I read this in 1968 in grad school, not as charmed as most people are, but to have it in great shape for my husband who likes to read a paperback in bed is very much welcome. No more broken spines and loose pages floating around!
4 Obviously, the Middle book of the Middle Earth Saga. Like most middle books, it carries the story along, including introducing some fabulous new races and characters, but without the great pleasure of the introductions [and reintroductions] of The Fellowship, or the strong emotional content of the Return of the King. It's a good strong middle book, absolutely necessary to the story. Would not miss it!
5 This is what the Peter Jackson movies should have been.I've heard a lot of excuses about how creative licensing had to be taken to make the Lord Of The Rings comprehensible to a modern audience, yet this BBC Dramatization proves that it could have been done a lot better (the BBC should have done LOTR as a television miniseries, in the tradition of I, Claudius and the Narnia Chronicles).This glorious dramatization is almost entirely faithful to the spirit and text of the original manuscript, with the exception of the absence of Tom Bombadil.  The voices are all perfectly cast (except possibly Glorfindel, who comes off sounding really overblown), particularly in the principle roles.  The sound effects are great, and most noticeably, the songs and music (which are painfully lacking from that glossy motion picture mess) are almost all wonderfully arranged.At thirteen hours, this is best given a weekend to itself, or better yet, a long cross county drive (I first heard it driving back and forth between Califorina and Arizona, and hearing Gandalf face off against the Balrog as the desert rolls by at nightfall was particulalry emotional).If you want to get as close to the books as you can get without reading them yourself, this is it.  Emotionally powerful, deeply hearfelt, and for my money, the greatest single dramatic interpretation of Tolkien's words to date.
5 This is my all-time favorite book (along with &#34;The Adventurers&#34;) and since 1976, I revisit it every couple of years. It's a complete world, albeit a fantasy one, that sucks you in, takes you on an impossible quest and makes you believe. Tolkien made his characters real and alive to anyone with an imagination. If you've never gone here, don't wait any longer. Pick this up and begin the journey...you'll be glad you did.
2 One thing to know before you buy this audio version of the Lord of the Rings is that it is not a book on tape; it is an audio performance adapted from the book.  The story is told about 90% in dialogue, 5% in sound  effects, and 5% in narration.  Of course, in order to adapt a  description-heavy set of books into a dialogue-heavy audio production, a  lot of Tolkien's own words have been necessarily changed to make the  dialogue more descriptive of the scene.  In other words, this is Tolkien's  story, not his storytelling.  Unfortunately, most of what I love about  Tolkien is his writing.  The story is not so captivating for me as the way  it is told.This production is not a substitute for the book.  I am not  enjoying it as much as I would have enjoyed a more strict reading, or even  a dramatization with a lot of narration (which is what I expected).  I  would only recommend this to die hard Tolkien fans--people who could  appreciate this as an adaptation or interpretation.  And of course, to  people who love fantasy radio shows.
5 Tolkien's fantasy "Lord of the Rings" is a must read in its genre.  While comparisons with Peter Jackson's three movies are inevitable, both capture the moods and vista of the Middle Earth.  The only criticism I have is that the Kindle version was extremely difficult to examine maps and charts of family lines.
5 We have read these in the past and have seen the movies. We wanted the set to revisit it from time to time.
5 There is some truth in many complaints of The Lord of the Rings - it contains diversionary episodes that fail to forward the plot, it fails to fully develop some characters, it even falls short of the demands of style-mongers.  Nevertheless, other critics make one wonder if they have actually read it - those complaining that he espouses some Conan-the-Barbarian ideal or " Wagnerian pomposity".Tolkien goes out of his way to give us an example of this type of ideal and show us what he thinks of it - he portrays this very ideal in Boromir, the foolheaded character that blows his horn as he sets out on a secret mission because tradition commanded it and it made him feel all heroic inside.  While brave and a great swordsman, he also falls easily into the temptation of the Ring and is dead before a third of the story is out.  No - Tolkien's ideals are clearly otherwise: it is the small and weak and hierarchically ignored that are the true heroes of this novel.  It is the Hobbits and the women that destroy the evil in the land.  If critics are blind to a point even this central, then how are we to value their opinions?In sum, while Tolkien's prose is admittedly not that of Jane Austen, Tolkien's remarkable gift for imagination is unequalled by any other writer modern or ancient - it is rivaled only by whole peoples.  Read it.
4 Perhaps the most accessible of all the Tolkein books, THE TWO TOWERS is the quickest read in THE LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy.It is a tale told at a brisk pace, and it is primarily an adventurous narrative with less of the historical 'timeouts' that occasionally plague Tolkein works.  Boromir is gone, leaving Merry and Pippin in the hands of the marauding Orc army.  They escape, and, with the help of Treebeard, they manage to find their way back to the center thread of the story ... rejoining Gandalf (back from the dead in stellar form), Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli in their quest to save all Middle-Earth from the treachery of Sauron.  In THE TWO TOWERS, we also see the strong emergence of Aragorn as the 'king figure,' as his heroism and derringdo at Helm's Deep captivates the reader for the better part of two chapters.A must-read for fans of fantasy and science fiction, THE TWO TOWERS shows what a gifted writer can achieve when he lets his imagination loose to wander the hillsides for awhile.  Absolutely breathtaking.
5 It was delightful to have the complete tale of the ring included in one volume. As always I cried when I read the end of the book. Fans of Bilbo Baggins will love Frodo and company, who not only have an adventure but fight for the safety and continuation of Middle Earth. If you love the elves in this book be sure to continue on with &#34;The Silmarillion&#34; which goes into great detail with where they came from and how middle earth was created.
5 What to write about clasic adventure book about our famous little fellowship. It is pitty that in this book is not a map. I had to download the map to my PC to look on it.
5 The second part of The Lord of the Rings trilogy, The Two Towers, takes up where The Fellowship of the Ring left off. When the trust that was so necessary to the fellowship comes undone so does the fellowship itself. The quest splits off and the first half of the book is instead focused on the fellowship that was left behind and their hunt for those members that were taken by the orcs. Even though you don't pick up with Frodo and the ring until half way through the book it was still very exciting to hear about the adventures of Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, not to mention the remaining hobbits.Many things changed in this novel and it was great to see how many of the characters are growing and maturing, changing and finding new inner strength and wit and hope. And, even though they are no longer on the main quest Legolas and Gimli still find plenty of excuses to knock some orc heads about as they journey into Rohan and discover the treachery of Sauroman. I also loved the Ents and the magic and history they brought to the story. It was also wonderful to read about the geography of the world so you could always follow along with where everyone was easily using one of the maps included in the book.The detailed layers in the story telling in this volume helped the first half come to life as all sorts of new countries and politics, beings and histories, magic and more were brought to light. I loved the poems and the languages and the names that all flowed together to just make the story come that much more to life.The second half of the book was much more quieter. Not as many characters and not quite as much going on. Frodo and Sam continue on alone until they discover Gollum, or Smeagol if you like, has been following them and decide it is better to follow than be followed and rope him (literally) into being their guide. This part of the story ended up being much more personal and seemed to go even faster as you followed the hobbits in their quest to Mordor and see over and over again just how dangerous, perilous and foolhardy the whole thing appears to be. Not to mention every time it seems like they have reached a milestone you realize they have so very much farther still yet to go. There's a whole third book yet!Fans of the movie should really read the books as well. You can immerse yourself more in the world and really take in all of the details, the songs, the legends and the world itself on a far more intricate level that only a book can achieve.
5 This is a great value!  Three books in one is way more organized for me!  I've just begun reading it and got halfway through the first book in one day!  It is a fairly easy read, but sometimes Cliffsnotes wouldn't hurt.
4 Like old friends, all the characters, with some new ones, create the highly charged suspense, as good triumphs over evil. The benifit outways the cost as Tolkien gets a great balance between these paradoxes. His descriptive language surpass all superlatives.Tolkien, I dare say is a literary master.Perilous, and against some impossible odds, qualities like love,loyalty and friendships battle with betrayal, for the ultimate power of the evil in the ring. Incredibly, a mere Hobbit was to return it. The suspense of the trials and tests along the journey, with wizards (bad and good), kings and magic, is hauntingly beautiful and terrifying.Leaves you on the edge of your seat and the movie is picture perfect!Elizabeth Laine author of, "A butterfly landed an eagle".
1 the orcs in this book are clearly racist. They are "swarthy" orcs or they have "slant eyes." Hmmmmm...sounds like negroes and chinamen to me. Tolkien was a linguist he based the orc language on the ZULU language, that proves he was racist. Also he was a nazi during second world war.......all of the elfs are Aryan.....lord of the rings is nazi. It is a racist book.
5 The Hobbit is a wonderful book.  I am so glad Tolkien decided to continue the story with The Lord of The Rings.  When you start reading sit in a comfortable chair.  Why?  You will not want to leave your seat once you start reading this wonderful set of books.  Tolkien does a great job at slowly feeding you information about how events will turn out.  It's amazing how he focuses on small details that make a great difference in understanding the book.  At end of each book you start to think that Hobbits, Elves and Dwarfs really exist.  Your boss looks more like Gollum than ever before.  You also wonder where did I bury that gold I took from those trolls.  You think your grandfater is now Gandalf and strangely enough you enjoy wearing your wedding ring because no one can see you when you were it.  Okay, read the book now...enjoy!
4 This story never disappoints and the books are so descriptive. The condition of the slightly used books was bad, I would never buy used again.
4 I love "The Hobbit" and "LOTR" series of books they are really fantastic works of fantasy-literature. I do own both "The Hobbit" and "LOTR" books and they are one of my many top favourite bookseries ever to be penned. I am glad I got a different edition of the  books that stay together, have good drawings of Middle-Earth, and have the sentences worded correctly.I looked at  versions of these books seperately in the store and thought WOW! what a generic version trying to pass on us avid readers and "LOTR" fans. I would suggest buying the Houghin Mifflin  versions of "The Hobbit" and all three volumes of "The Lord Of The Rings". To the reviewer's who cover came off of "The Hobbit" I am glad you were able to return this boxset and able to get better versions of the books.
5 Tolkien's imagination astounds me. I was thoroughly pulled into the mythical world he creates, and appreciated how he masterfully wove his personal faith throughout, especially in Frodo's quest. A must read for all ages.
4 In the last book of The Lord of the Rings, Frodo finally finishes his quest. There are some GREAT battle scenes in here and some really interesting characters. It's funny because I started to read this several years ago, got bored, and stopped. Then I started again sometime later and asked myself why I didn't keep going earlier. Anyway, the only reason why I flick off one star is because I felt the ending was a little disappointing. Actually, there are TWO endings in this book. The end of the Ring of Power and the end of the book. I have no problem with the end of the book--it's great, and leaves you begging more more, but in a good sense. The second ending, though, I felt was a little too abrupt, and worst of all, unbelievable. You'll see what I mean when you get there. Also, THERE IS NO PHYSICAL BATTLE WITH SAURON. Not that Tolkien ever implied a face-to-face battle with him, though, but I feel it would have made the book more interesting. To me, Sauron comes across as DUMB and WEAK. Let's get real--here's a guy who lets the ring get stolen from him at point-blank-range and now he makes ANOTHER mistake by not surrounding Mount Doom with enemies and UNDERESTIMATING Frodo and company. But apart from that, this book is really good--an excellent ending to an excellent series. But I wonder how it's going to stand up when Robert Jordan's series comes to an end.
5 Really great dramatization. The cast and production did a wonderful work bringing this story to life. They managed to bring life to the story and it felt just like you were in the story, with all the sounds. Made me not want to fall asleep.
5 I love the books - they down loaded very well and I enjoy reading them. It is great to have them on my kindle.
5 This was a very good version on tape, i couldn't stop listening to it, i finshed it all in one day.
5 The sheer literary pleasure of this masterpiece is something I'll miss for a long time. I don't think I can add much to one of the most reviewed book of all times but I will always keep in mind what Ursula K. LeGuin wrote about it in her "Rhythmic Patterning in The Lord of the Rings" article, that "It's a wonderful book to read aloud or (consensus by the children) listen to." and that "... it wants the living voice to speak it, to find its full beauty and power, its subtle music, its rhythmic vitality."After the end of this literary journey, I have a strong feeling, an inner sound that tells me I have yet to face many events that will be tied to LOTR in some way. This may well be the echoes of my past reading, and sometimes reading aloud; but even if that feeling is illusory, and the sound is void, I have to thank to Tolkien for having created such a repercussive narration. If "art is a lie that makes us realize truth" as Picasso said, then LOTR opens the gate to many beautiful truths.
5 After 900+ reviews, what more could I possibly say about "Lord of the Rings" that hasn't already been said? So, instead, I will try and direct my review to the skeptics out there that don't think fantasy books are worth their time of day. I was one of those people and I am eating my words.I work in a bookstore and it seemed everyone had read LOTR but me. Finally, I gave in and read it, admittedly after seeing the first movie. I can say that I have never been more drawn in or got more enjoyment from anything I have ever read. Tolkien has created an entire world, complete with landscapes, maps, languages and races all from his imagination. But the morality and heart of this book is the true gift. The characters are so believable and trust me, you will find yourself cheering for the fellowship every step of the way. As far as the "bad guys" go, you will be afraid.No matter what I say, I can never do this book justice. I will be reading it again and again. If you haven't read it yet, I envy you, because you are in for a treat. If you have, no point in saying more, because I am sure you know what I mean.
5 What can I say? After over 65 years, the Lord of the Rings trilogy is still the ultimate fantasy epic. I won't go on and on gushing in praise. I will just note one of the brilliant literary devices that Tolkien uses that sets this book apart from so much other fantasy work. Tolkien weaves a complex narrative with many characters and plot twists, but also manages to set up brilliant parallels between them. For example we see two leaders (Theoden and Denethor) who face strikingly similar challenges, but Tolkien shows them responding differently. The former leads his men against evil, while the latter is cold and despairs. This use of paralleling gives the book so many layers and adds lasting value. Indeed, it's no wonder people can read this book many times over and not get bored. While the Peter Jackson movies are great, it doesn't - and can't - capture all of the nuance in the book. If you haven't read it yet, you're in for a treat.
5 This reading of the entire Lord of the Rings is hard not to rate highly because of the quality of the performance. Mr. Inglis seems to have a whole world of different voices. I can't imagine how he managed to come up with so many or how he managed to remember what voice he picked for each character. He performs so well that this is really more a dramatization of the whole book rather than just someone reading it; even his voicing of the narration is perfect.I've not listened to the whole yet, being about half-way through the Fellowship of the Ring. I assume that the quality of the performance will be just as good for the parts I've not listened to yet. However, I do have several quibbles (which are not enough to lessen my rating, but which I found surprising against the overall quality).The first quibble has nothing to do with Mr. Inglis himself: Sometimes I can hear, faintly, another voice in the background. It sounds like this voice is also reading something. To the creators of this recording: get better sound-proofing. Mr. Inglis's voice and performance are so wonderful that it is a pity to have this distraction.The second quibble has to do with Mr. Inglis: I happen to be listening to this recording while following along in my printed books of the trilogy, therefore it becomes obvious when Mr. Inglis departs from the text. I really don't mind the sometimes excessive use of contractions that are not in Tolkien's original (even though "don't use the ring" really does not have the same emphasis as "do *not* use the ring") and it's not so bad when he substitutes one word for another of the same meaning (possibly he may be reading from a different edition).However, occasionally, Mr. Inglis makes boo-boos that change the meaning of the sentence being read. At least two come to mind (and these from the first half of the Fellowship): Near the end of the Tom Bombadil episode (when Frodo and Co. are taking leave of Goldberry) a "morning" is changed to a "misty morning". The word "misty" is not in the text and confuses the meaning of the passage as the sentences that follow imply that the morning is a clear one. The other most noticible change is that Sam's statement "How do *we* know that you are the real Strider..." gets read as "How do *you* know that you are the real Strider...", which makes no sense. These are the two errors of reading that first come to mind, but there were more. Enough, let's say, to surprise me in a performance that is almost pitch-perfect.However, like I said previously, these quibbles don't reduce my rating and the set is well worth any amount of money.
5 I've wanted this book for years.  Finally I decided to give it to myself for Christmas.  I've been completely satisfied and delighted.  A must buy!
5 Add illustrations by Alan Lee, co-illustrator of Faeries with Brian Froud. Truly stunning artwork. With this first edition including Lee's artwork, one should buy the volume for the collectibility value alone. Unforgetable  artwork to accompany an unforgetable story of the most unlikely heroes!
4 Never read it as a teen liked it alot for a while but droned a bit in the middle. Off to see the movie soon.
5 Fantastic series, all the wonderful things people say about it are true. Tolkien writes prose like a poet and it's wonderful. The box set is a nice way to have it, too.
5 Even if the movies are very well done I can't imagine they will capture the moral dimensions and the epic scope of the Lord of the Rings, indeed, of Middle-Earth. Superb thrillers on par (or even beyond) Indiana Jones and Star Wars they might be, but they will still pale in comparison with the written word.Moreover, once you see a movie it is stuck in your mind. You can never really go back and read the books with an open mind, to form your own opinions about what Gandalf should look like, or how ruggedly sylvan Rivendell appeared, or Minas Tirith shining in the morning sun. And that's a shame, because it takes away a wonderful opportunity for you to exercise your imagination. Read the books first and then you will have something to compare the movies against in your own mind, and appreciate both all the more.Another reason to go for the books involves the moral coherence of the books, something likely to be lacking in the film. Now, this moral coherence is not perfect, being the work of a morally imperfect author like any other human work. But modern sci-fi and fantasy is astonishingly lacking when it comes to presenting novels with a coherent moral framework. To the morally sensitive person much of the genre is simply obnoxious - even the most highly praised works, by other criteria, are like a manuscript filled with typographical errors from this perspective. So check out the work of a master, not just of words but also of worldviews.
5 Wow, having this leather bound copy of the greatest story ever told is just simply amazing. Of course, in order to understand The Lord Of The Rings, you have to read The Hobbit, which is good in its own right, but The Hobbit is just the prelude to one of the greatest triology ever written.What comes second? Stephen King's The Dark Tower series, although they something in common, but I am talking about this volume, and its great from beginning to end.
5 For many readers fortunate enough to have read the Lord of the Rings books before the recent string of well-done movies, J.R.R. Tolkein's timeless masterworks are what defined fantasy, dreams, possibility. The books will always be one of the cornerstones of my literary foundation.I saw the first of the movies when it came out in 2001 and I can find only one criticism with it. The casting was good, the acting crisp, the cinematography inspired. But it was not as good as the book, and it could never be as good as the book. This, of course, speaks more to Mr. Tolkein's gifts than it does to any shortcomings of the motion picture, but it couldn't be more relevant.I'll step up on the soapbox for a moment and say that while good films like the Lord of the Rings succeed and showing viewers the limits of the directors' and screenwriters' substantial imaginations, they by definition fail at helping to stretch the limits of the viewer's. And that's what Mr. Tolkein's books did so well for me and generations of other readers.This is not a problem invented by the Lord of the Rings, and it probably would exist in substantially the same form if neither the books nor the movies had been produced. But the phenomenon -- which appears to be producing a generation that thinks in clich&eacute;s and spurns originality -- seems especially acute in this case simply because the Lord of the Rings is such an important work.Mr. Tolkein's unforgettable Middle Earth can only exist in the mind: the complexities of the histories, traditions, panoramas and inhabitants go far beyond anything possible anywhere else. Yet instead of being abstract, it is full of the type of allegory that is relevant to our lives in a highly personal way.What all this means is that you should read these books. Or re-read them. Or re-re-read them. Or introduce them to someone else. And if you manage to do so before you or the reader has seen the films, then you will have succeeded in opening up a new world that could not exist without the books, and you will have done so before the Big Screen can dictate how it's all supposed to look, feel, sound and behave.
5 I would argue that no book, novel, novella or Sunday cartoon has ever been written by man or beast that does not derive directly from J.R.R Tolkien&#8217;s &#8220;The Hobbit.&#8221; Except my own works, of course, like &#8220;The Spoils of Babylon&#8221; which is entirely original, distinctive, soul-crushing, tent-raising and writ in good &#8216;ole American English to boot. My works aside, I challenge the readers of this website to find a single novel of any literary value that does not contain Tolkien&#8217;s literary revelations such as opening with a relatable character, embarking on a journey, monsters (symbolic?), mountains, meals, love of inanimate objects, conflict, more characters, flashbacks and, most importantly, barrels.&#8220;The Catcher in Rye?&#8221; A direct rip-off. &#8220;1984?&#8221; A copy, made carbon. Try reading &#8220;Jane Eyre&#8221; after a stint in Middle Earth. You&#8217;ll feel like you never left. &#8220;The Grapes of Wrath.&#8221; &#8220;Sweet Valley High.&#8221; &#8220;Oedipus Rex.&#8221; &#8220;Winnie the Pooh.&#8221; &#8220;Deliverance.&#8221; The list stretches longer than that chubby Hobbit road to The Lonely Mountain. Where in hellfire has all mankind&#8217;s creativity gone?However, when I learned that Tolkien had devised an entirely unique alphabet for his Elvish hermaphrodite creations, I felt compelled to create my lexicon for an unbelievable, yet entirely believable alien race. What sprung forth in a moment of scotch-induced brilliance was a series of glyphs and scribbles that would later be used in the blockbuster film, Stargate. It is a combination of wingdings and consonants that remains one of the most maddeningly indecipherable codes to date.So here&#8217;s a hearty pour of Bagpipes O&#8217;Toole for the dearly departed and his Hobbit, the veritable blueprint of dramatic archetype, the foundation for narrative masterpiecery, not including any of my own great works which could never be pigeonholed by a linear plot or even anything remotely replicatable, due to their deep catharsis and sheer, disgusting ingenuity.With undbound appreciation and wonder,Eric Jonrosh, author, director, team leader of &#8220;The Spoils of Babylon,&#8221; airing on IFC, January the 9th, 2014
5 I wanted to write a review on the entire LOTR series rather then for each book individually, so here goes. I think this series has been one of the most enjoyable reads of my life. Whether you are a fan of fantasy books or not you can easily find this book to be an enjoyable read.Over the course of these books the storyline increases quickly and progresses into story that really draws the reader in and makes you care about these fantasy characters...this is simply a great work of fiction!I loved this series, the books are exciting and are very quick reads. Pick up the first one, i'll bet you can't put them down after that!  Over the course of my life I have read these books several times....if you watched the movies and enjoyed them, trust me when i say that the books are MUCH better then the movie and i thought the movies were great!Purchase this set of books because you will have to finsih one book and begin reading the next right away!  Oh and the leather and slick pages make this book feel like a work of art...which i truely believe it to be!
4 NOTE: This review contains major spoilers. So if you haven't read the book (or haven't seen the movie) yet, then don't read what I've written below.---------------------------------------------I've just finished "The Return of the King" (and the entire LOTR trilogy) just two days ago. It was an outstanding conclusion to the epic fantasy. Although there were some things that bothered me a bit, I still found myself satisfied with the third installment.First let me say what I DID like about this book.Tolkien has created so much fantastic details with characters and settings. From Minas Tirith to Barad-dur, from dwarves to orcs, he's basically the Emperor of Fantasy. Indeed, modern fantasy writers such as Terry Brooks, Robin Hobb, and the late Robert Jordan (RIP) have been inspired by LOTR. Works like "The Wheel of Time" and the "Sword of Shannara" series contain clear evidence of the Tolkienesque influence. I still prefer "Wheel of Time" over LOTR, but I do admire LOTR for its fantastic detail, and Tolkien's writing style.Frodo sure has changed. In "Fellowship" he's just an average guy in Hobbiton who just happens to have a famous (or should I say "infamous") uncle named Bilbo. When he continues his quest in "Towers" and "Return", he completely changes in personality. The Ring becomes a heavy burden, and it tries to consumes him when he comes closer to Mount Doom. What makes the story deeper is that Frodo tries hard to keep the Ring away from his closest friend Samwise Gamgee. He doesn't want Sam to be consumed by this thing as well, and that's pure friendship right there if you ask me.The Battle of Gondor is probably the most exciting thing that happens in the entire trilogy. So much happens in the chapters "The Siege of Gondor," "The Ride of the Rohirrim," and "The Battle of the Pelennor Fields". You have Gandalf, Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas, Merry, Pippin, the Riders of Rohan, the soldiers of Gondor, the orcs of Mordor, the Southrons and Easterlings with their gigantic Ouliphants, and the Army of the Dead all in one battle. It doesn't get any better than that.The chapter with Eowyn and Faramir called "The Steward and the King" is especially touching. Both have gone through so much that they deserve each other. And it's a shame that this is mentioned in just one minute in the (Extended) film. Five more minutes could've helped.All right, now here's what I DIDN'T like about this book.That's it?! Only Theodin and Denethor (as major characters) die in the entire war? The death of a good and noble king is such a f**kin' cliche in the world of fantasy. Couldn't Tolkien kill of several more characters to make us more emotional about this trilogy?I also had a problem with the Southrons and the Easterlings. Was Tolkien racist? Because obviously the Easterlings and Southrons are reminiscent to Middle Easterns, Asian Indians, and Chinese; and they're enemies of Gondor. These people have experienced a huge loss in the Battle of Gondor as much as the orcs from Mordor. I can't help but get pissed off. All of the races in the North (Eriador, Rhovanian, Rohan, Gondor) are basically all White, while the races in the East and South (Mordor, South Gondor) are all Eastern. I can see the racial diversity when it comes to elves and dwarves and men, but why leave out the Asians? But of course, it was only the 50's, and fantasy nowadays have far more racially diverse characters. So another point is taken away from LOTR.And finally, The Scouring of the Shire. I think I agree with Peter Jackson that this is a bit to anti-climactic in both the book and the film (and thank God that they never filmed it). Okay, so the Shire is being destroyed by Saruman and his wild men, and yes, this is a pretty exciting chapter, but is it necessary? Yes and no. Yes for the fact that our four Hobbits have matured and are now ready to face their enemies. No for the fact that we've just read through a major battle in Gondor and near the Black Gate of Mordor, and we've just experienced the climax to the entire trilogy. It gets quite tiring when the second to last chapter is being read.With all ups and downs, The Lord of the Rings is still indeed a classic that must be read. And even though I'm not a big fan of Tolkien's/Jackson's work, I gotta give credit to the men for making me wanting to be a novelist.Grade: B
5 Why'd this guy have to leave us?  Who shot JRR?  I hope he's enjoying the creativity of the only One more imaginative than himself--the Creator of the Universe.  As for us, still strapped to this mortal bowling bowl and rolling down the lane of history (hopefully, staying out of the gutter),  Tolkien's absence is our loss. I'm sulkin' without Tolkien...wishing he'd  written more, wishing he'd never written LOTR in the first place.  Why?  Because it's spoiled me--I can scarcely enjoy the barrage of inferior  fantasy. The musty, damp, and gritty reality of Middle Earth reveals  uncanny moments of beauty, then strips back the uneasy facade to show us  seductive and frightening evil. Only an author familiar with the spiritual  reality of such a cosmic battle could use a fictional tool to etch it into  our culture with such vividness.  And only a man like Tolkien, a man in  relationship with the True King in heaven, could show the costly, but  victorious battle against the Darkness.
5 Like most, I read this trilogy when I was 13 or 14.  It floored me.  I actaully wept when it was done because I already knew ther would be no more adventures for Frodo and Samwise.  I read a lot of fantasy aftwards, but eventually I gave up because every one seemed to copy LOTR in some way or another (some were overt copies like the Sword Of Shannara series, while some were slight variations like the Thomas Convenant series by Donaldson).I am re-reading this edition because it claims to be slightly more complete than previous ones.  This means that some of the 'corrections' contained in the editions from the 60's and 70's have been put back the way the author intended.  So far it has lived up to its hype and I am enjoying every minute of it.If you have never read this series and you consider yourself a fan of fantasy or sci-fi (all the famous 'Space Opera' stories are loosely based on the same story arc), then you MUST read it.  If you've only read it once or twice, read it again and remember what it was to enjoy an 'epic fantasy' for the first time.
5 I love the Lord of the Rings series, both movies and books.  I got this set of audio book disks for driving across the country with.  It was a good buy in my opinion.Inglis does a masterful job of reading the books.  Before I bought the collection, I wondered how good it could possibly be with only one person doing EVERY VOICE.  He does a great job with it all though.  His voice while "reading" is smooth and easy to listen too.  When he is voicing a character, there is enough difference between each one that you know exactly who is speaking, but there is no over acting in it.  I must say:  His voice for Gollum is the best ever.There are many disks, and if you are listening while driving as I did, you will have to pull over to change CDs from time to time, but not too often.  The story is separated on the disks into break points that are frequent enough to assist you if you somehow lose your place.  Simply back peddle through the "parts" until you get to where you know you've already heard something, then stop and continue the story there, it won't be too long before you are right at the part you last left off at.The packaging and cover art is very nice.  I loaded the books onto my IPOD and leave the CDs on my book shelf for safe keeping.The story itself is well known and more popular than ever, so there is no need for me to comment there.  You probably already know if you like it or not.  If not, this set could be a great first trip through the story.
4 I brought the set for my daughter's 10th Birthday as her request who is a good reader.  The print of The Lord Of The Rings is too small for her, sometime she losts where she is reading.
5 I bought this as a gift for a friend of mine after reading several of the other recommendations.  He is a LOTR fan and absolutely loved it.  However, it didn't end there.  His wife, who is not a great LOTR fan, also thought it was the best gift he had ever gotten.The binding and presentation are superb.  I may buy one for myself if no one else does.
5 The Return of the King is the final book of the trilogy.  The Return of the King is the most suspenseful of the trilogy for a couple of reasons.  The first, it is the climax.  The second is the order of events.  The Two Towers ends with Frodo captured and Sam trying to rescue him.  But the story line is not continued until the battle at Minas Tirith is resolved.  And the battle at Minas Tirith is exciting as well.  When Tolkien finally returns to Sam and Frodo, he leaves of with the Captains of the West making battle before Mordor.  Just the order of events makes this one of the most exiting books I have read.The story begins with Pippin and Gandalf arriving in Minas Tirith.  Denethor is a proud ruler who has fallen into folly.  Pippin enters Gondor's service and Merry enters Rohan's service.  Merry rides to battle with Dernhelm.  After the battle, the captains ride to Mordor to draw attention from Frodo and Sam.  Frodo and Sam make their way to Oroduin, where Gollum becomes an unlikely hero.  After the wedding of Aragorn and Arwen, the hobbits return to the Shire, where a terrible shock awaits them.  The movie does a nice job, but it was not long enough to include everything.If you're looking at this book, you have probably read the first two, and are ready to get this one.  If you have liked Tolkien's other work, I encourage you to purchase the Silmarillion, which shows the beginning of middle earth through the tragedy of the Nolder.
5 Children in middle school and junior high school find these books fascinating and intriguing. I have listened to many oral book reports on Tolkien's works and can attest to their popularity. Excellent and well-written, at a level of vocabulary and developmental understanding, for youthful readers who continue to discover the &quot;magic and beguiling attraction&quot; in this set of fantasy books.Evelyn Horan - teacher/authorJeannie, A Texas Frontier Girl - Books One-Three
5 Honestly, after finishing Lord of the Rings, I can't help but feel sad because it's over!!!This story is incredible, the characters are profound, and very real, the Middle Earth comes to life in such a way that it becomes impossible to think that it doesn't exist, and there are so many different tales left untold that would be worth telling.There really isn't enough I can say about this books, and especially about the Return of the King. We find each character following his own destiny, and facing his deepest fears, we see inner struggle, a huge war where each piece is as important as the rest and where they all move wisely and bravely into what awaits them, we discover courage in whom we least expect, and above all we find ourselves celebrating with them  victory and love.  It is simply incredible.The only complaint I have is that it is too short!
5 This is an awesome series. I have read it several times over the last 15 years and it never gets old. If you want a great story then these are the books for you.
5 A beautiful beautiful beautiful book.  This review is not only about this edition per se although I do have it, just Lord of the Rings in general.  It is a shame in a way that it was one of the first fantasy novels that I read, nothing else has ever been able to compare.  The movies were great but the book will touch you in ways nothing else can.  If you have not read it, you are missing out.
5 From this point on, for better or worse, it will probably be impossible to read The Lord of The Rings without the very successful film trilogy (currently still a duo until next December) looming in the background. Probably the best thing about the films is that they will likely entice the reading of the book. The book is very different in some spots, verbatim in others. For example, after seeing the films, it's hard to think of Frodo as being 50 years old when he leaves the Shire (Elijah Wood, Frodo Baggins in the films, barely looks out of his teens), but in the book he is well aged by the time Gandalf sends him on his way. This is only one of many many examples.It's interesting to read the one-volume edition. It's how Tolkien intended it to be presented, as one large novel (Tolkien's publisher divided the story into three parts against his wishes). With the one-volume edition you feel like you're reading something hefty, an old tome from mythology, something with real weight and umph. It's a massive 1008 pages (not including the appendices and index), but it's a fast fast neckbreaking page turning read. It isn't difficult reading (i.e., not much unfamiliar vocabulary apart from terms coined by Tolkien and the passages in Elvish or Mordor), but it is detailed, far more detailed than a film could ever hope to be. It is a book that will reward many repeated readings.Some of the basic themes of the book seem to be hope, despair, singularity, and plurality. There are many places in this book where things seem beyond hope for the heroes. In some places this leads them to despair, which does them no good. Finding hope in despair seems to be one of the book's main themes: we don't know what will happen, so why despair before the fact? All you can do is keep going. In a way the book is an analogy for our lives which are filled with hope and despair, but we keep going on even against impossible odds.Concerning singularity and plurality, on one side there is the fellowship of the ring which is made up of a diverse cast of beings: hobbits, a dwarf, humans, and an elf. They set out to meet their task together while trying their best to put behind their differences. On the other side you have Sauron and the One Ring or singularity. Sauron is trying to bind the world to his single will which is embodied in the ring of power. It ruins those who try to possess it (Humans are particularly susceptible to it). It is pure self-obsession and self-importance. This singularity is put forth as evil, while the plurality of the fellowship is presented as good. It's an interesting dichotomy.Fans of the films will be shocked to see the differences in the story line, especially in "The Two Towers." In terms of suspense, the book is far superior to the film (I'm sure the filmmakers would completely agree). I literally could not wait to begin reading "The Return of The King" and I could not put the book down until I reached page 1008. The book sometimes kept me reading obsessively until 3 or 4 in the morning (such as when I was reading the chapters with Shelob in "The Two Towers" - amazing).This book deserves its place amongst the greatest works of the 20th century. It is a story that can re-invent itself in terms of the time it is read in or the perspective it is read from. It is this ambiguity and multi-facetness that makes the book timeless. Doubtless people will be reading this for hundreds of years while they face the hope and despair of their own lives and times.It will be fascinating to see how "The Return of The King" turns out. Unfortunately, I had a hard time not thinking about this while I read the book. I tried. Nonetheless, the book will likely prosper beyond the films. Technology will develop and this book will be presented again in film or some other medium, of that you can be sure. At the heart of it all, regardless of the hype, will be the book by J.R.R. Tolkien.
5 This BBC production is simply fabulous. Ian Holm as Frodo is wonderful, as is the rest of the cast. Perfect sound effects, music. I was a bit worried about how they would condense the three books, but I think it's largely successful. This is a real treat for Tolkein fans. Highly recommended.
5 Like most kindle books, this is a great value for the content. My one lament is that the electronic format makes it difficult or impossible to refer to maps and footnotes as regularly as I would like.
3 I didn't finish the whole story, couldn't move on when I got to the second part of Two Towers about Sam, Frodo and Gollum.  It goes without saying that Tolkien has done a great work creating Middle Earth, a world of fantasy, but huge number of characters in the book seem to be one of pitfalls for the book (in my opinion), the characters in the book do not have very interesting or deeper personalities, in my eyes, they are very straightforward.  And, the books are unnecessarily long (it could be due to my impatient nature), and too much details over minor stuff. Sometimes, I just wonder is the trilogy that popular before the movies were made?
5 The best fiction of all time is captured in the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings Boxed Set! It must (in my opinion) be read by everyone, for people who haven't read this do not know what they're missing!The Hobbit is about a middle-aged hobbit named Bilbo Baggins. He has met the strange young wizard named Gandalf. He happens to bring a band of dwarves with him. Gandalf proposes to Bilbo to go on the mission as a 'burglar', as they are going back to repossess the dwarve's secret hoarde of jewels and riches. The complications that arise in this book are many: including a few trolls, some spiders, elves, goblins, wolves, hostile elves, and not to mention the guardian of the treasure -- the evil dragon Smaug! Better yet, Bilbo finds a certain 'ring' that will be of great importance in his next work! This great adventure will make you feel you are part of Bilbo's company as they go off on a perilious quest. What started out to be a tale for children turned out to be one of the most popular adventures of all time! Light-hearted and humourous, this book is very entertaining!The Lord of the Rings is arguably the best book of fiction every written, and volume one was named the Book of the Century. It all starts off when Bilbo has his 111th birthday. He announces that he is leaving, and he packs off to the elven haven of Rivendell. He leaves his home(Bag End), and all of his possessions(including the ring) to Frodo, his cousin. Gandalf, overseeing all the preparations, begins to suspect something peculiar about the ring. After long researches through the histories, Gandalf returns to Bag End and tests the ring. It turns out to be the One Ring, forged by the evil tyrant Sauron within the pits of the volcano Oroduin, or Mt. Doom. This Ring is much like its master -- it has an evil power all on its own. Gandalf instructs Frodo to go to Bree and he will meet him there after he visits his wizard ally, Saruman the White. Unfortunately, Saruman was caught and turned by Sauron when Saruman was looking into one of the Palantir (seeing stones). Sauron was looking on the other side of another and bent him to his will. Gandalf was captured but escaped becauseof Gwaihir the eagle who rescued him. Meanwhile, back to Frodo and the other three hobbits who aided him, they reached Bree, and were aided by the Ranger named Strider. Eventually, even with the servants of Sauron tailing them, they managed to reach Rivendell.At Rivendell they decided that the Ring needed to be destroyed. It had to be taken to Mt. Doom within Sauron's stronghold of Mordor and cast there so it can be unmade. The rest of the books deal with the tragedy of the lands and Frodo's sacrifice to destroy the Ring, and the sacrifice of others amidst the evil Sauron's treacheries.The Lord of the Rings is not to be missed: the story is also a feat as the land that Tolkien created is out of this world.The Hobbit should also be read, for the adventure and merriness of the book is thoroughly entertaining! Get it NOW!
5 Tolkien is the master! Tolkien is a god!!! Tolkien created a world that not even the greatest of storytellers of our genre can ever equal. Without a doubt The Lord of the Rings is the greatest story ever told...
1 Unless you've read the books and seen the movies, this is basically a narrated soundtrack that won't tell the story for you.
5 If your not convinced yet...This work has been reviewed over and over, so basically everything I have to say has been said before! But *refer to title*!Life without the Lord of the Rings, well... I don't know what it would be like to have never read this book, or even worse, to have read it and failed to be touched by it's meaning, the language, the wonderful characters, all the 1001 places and the history and culture of Middle Earth.If you aren't yet convinced, read this book!! The movies are absolutely, positively no substitute!And the leather bound edition is so beautiful! The ultimate gift for a Rings fan.This is more than a fantasy tale, more than a rollicking good story (though it is definitely both those things). This is a literary work, though not in the conventional sense, which explores themes of heroism, bravery, endurance and most of all friendship. Not to mention good and evil.This is the mother of all epic fantasy - read it, you won't be disappointed.
5 Long, long ago, when I was young and obstinate (as opposed to being old and obstinate), my peers were telling me that I just HAD to read Tolkien. Now, when anybody tells me that I HAVE to do something, you can be absolutely certain that I won't! More fool me. It's taken me over thirty years to decide that I was free to read Tolkien of my own volition. Ah, the joys of being pigheaded!For thirty years, I have missed the joys of Bilbo and Frodo Baggins (the Hobbits), Gollum (the lizard like horror that lives in a dark, underground pool), Sauron (the dark lord), Gandalf (the irascible wizard), and a whole host of other delightful characters.So here's a message to all you other stubborn mule-heads of the world... &quot;I INSIST that you go nowhere near these books. I absolutely GUARANTEE that you will hate them&quot;... okay - got the message?
5 If you haven't read &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy and are even remotely interested, please do. I won't waste time extolling the trilogy's virtues as a piece of fantasy.  Suffice it to say that Tolkien crafted an incredibly believable fantasy world. Each time I read the series I become (almost) convinced that Middle Earth does indeed exist. The story, land, and characters feed the imagination and envelope the mind.With a work that's so highly regarded, it's always a bit dangerous to offer a negative criticism. I do have a (dare I say) problem with &quot;The Two Towers&quot;. I'll call it a problem of pacing. The novel is divided into two books. The first book details the adventures of all the members of the fellowship except Frodo and Sam.  The second book concerns only Sam and Frodo. The narratives in both books cover roughly the same time frame. While the first book is fairly fast paced, the second book (with a few notable exceptions) moves along slowly. In the second book, Tolkien recounts how Sam and Frodo make their way into Mordor. To be honest, not much happens. Much of the text is devoted to them walking from place to place, camping along the way. The story is never boring, and I would never suggest removing a word of it. However, I can't help but wonder if it might have worked better if the two books had been intermingled. Not only would the reader get a better sense of the chronology but it would have broken up Sam and Frodo's travels with the adventures of the rest.This is really just a very small complaint I have. It should never stop someone from reading the the trilogy. Keep in mind that, at his worst, Tolkien wrote better books than 95% of fantasy writers before or after him.
5 This, right here, is the basis of modern fantasy. Tolkien took a bit (okay, a lot) of Norse mythology, and added his ardent hatred of fascism, war, and industrialization, and shaped it into one of the greatest books of all time. I say "one" because, while the Lord of the Rings is technically split into three parts, the truth is it was intended to be a single-volume epic spanning, not including appendices, just over 1,000 pages. I assume most people know of the plot and characters, but for those who don't, protagonist Frodo Baggins (a Hobbit, which is a race of short people with furry feet) comes across a ring given to him by his uncle Bilbo (star of The Hobbit, Tolkien's second most famous project). The Ring turns out to have been previously possessed by Sauron, an ancient evil figure. Frodo, with help of fellow Hobbits Merry, Pippin, and Samwise; Gandalf the Wizard; Borimir and Aragorn, both men of royal blood; Legolas the elf; and Gimli the dwarf, set off to destroy the Ring.The thing that really makes this such an enduring series is the vast world Tolkien has woven. You know all those maps found at the end of each book? Those weren't just sketched idly. Rather, they're just a small part of Middle-Earth, a fictional world of massive scope. Tolkien even created individual languages for Orcs, Elves, Dwarves, Ents (the famous tree-beings) and humans of different races. He also has created history, mythology, and customs for these characters, and manages to weave them into the stories - the lengthy songs found in Fellowship of the Ring, while off-putting to some, actually add plenty of depth.Secondly, the numerous themes Tolkien works into this book are enough for some writers' entire lives. I'm especially intrigued by the concept of duality here. Most characters have parallels here - the most obvious being the nine Fellowship members (the book's heroes) vs. the nine Nazgul (Sauron's servants). There are countless other examples, but I find that the most interesting of them is one found in an individual character: Gollum (yeah, the "My preeeecious..." guy). Thanks to years of owning the ring, he has been driven insane, and now exists in two minds: the benevolent (to a degree) Smeagol, and the murderous Gollum.And then there are all the classic characters: Sam, Gandalf, the evil wizard Sauruman, Gollum, nature lord Tom Bombadil (who wasn't in the movie, unfortunately), kingly heir Aragorn, steward Denethor, princess Eowyn (the unofficial tenth Fellowship member), Borimir (the most intriguing character in the bunch), and so on. I actually like the versions of Borimir, King Theoden, and Denethor more here than in the books.My only complaint, and it's a minor one, is that there's a bit of a lull in Return of the King, a couple transitional chapters that don't really offer much. But that's just one or two chapters out of around sixty, so there you go. A must-read for anyone.
5 Its LOTR...how can one go wrong? The seller described the item perfectly and it works with Literary Lessons from Lord of the Rings, purchased specifically for a course we are doing here at home.
5 Ever since I've read these books I've compared everything to them-and yet nothing has come close. They are pretty long-but what does that matter? You have to be willing to accept different veiws of things and let yourself be  a part of the story itself. No matter what anyone says these books are,and  will always remain the greatest work of fantasy ever.
5 In anticipation of the movie, I picked up the Lord of the Rings trilogy last summer because I had never actually finished reading it as a kid. What a difference 20 years makes! I found the writing crisp, intelligent, witty, and engaging - all the qualities of a great book, in my opinion. The only drawback in my mind was Tolkien's over-doing it a bit with the life in the Shire in the first book. That's what I couldn't get past as a kid and it nearly stopped me cold again this time. But then again, who am I to criticize a work that's truly become a cultural icon?
4 I'm only giving it four stars because of it's massive length lol.Any ways always a treauser to read and to share in your mind and heart.
4 I can't imagine someone getting the first two audiobooks and NOT wanting this last book, too.  The reader is up to his usual high quality.  It ships with 16 CDs -- but only 12 CDs are associated with this third book.  The last 4 CDs are JRRT notes, summaries, background material, etc that only the most diehard fan would appreciate.
5 But of course, what movie is ever better than the book, not many.All in all, you can see how much was left out of the movie, otherwise there would have had to be another two or three movies.
5 This volume is fantastic.  I've read this book a dozen times at least, but this version has it all.  Highly recommended.
5 I was really disappointed when i had finished the Lord of the Rings. I had gotten so involved in the books that i was sorry that the adventure ended there. I could read it again, but it won't be the same. I am a 12-year-old.  I have read the Harry Potter books. They were excellent, but the real  masterpiece is the Lord of the Rings. None of my words could ever describe  the greatness of this book. My only regret of reading this book is that  since I finished it, I've never been able to read a book without thinking  that it isn't as good as the Lord of the Rings.
5 Classic story, and - at last! - we have a fancy edition available without having to spend a hundred bucks!
5 This is how I picture Tolkien wanting his books to be read.  Grammatical errors are in some places existent, however, they are few and far between and in no way take away from the readers experience.
4 Please note:This is NOT a review of the literary work, _The Lord of the Rings_.This IS a review of the 50th Anniversary edition of that literary work.Having owned various editions of Tolkien's trilogy, I find this one very nice, but I have two caveats about it, plus some praise.1) It does NOT have foldout maps or any colored maps or illustrations. Do no be misled. For that, you must pay for the deluxe slipcase edition. Perhaps worth it for roughly twice the price. The maps are tiny. Nicely reproduced, but tiny. If this is a big deal for you, buy the deluxe edition. If not, buy this one. But definitely buy one or the other.2) Print quality is excellent, but page thickness is just good. This one volume edition ends up being less than half the size of three volume hardbacks. This is both an advantage and a disadvantage. Be aware.Praise: The new index is vastly improved; it's fun just to thumb through. And the appendices are fuller; for enthusiasts of Elvish languages the 50th edition is a delightful upgrade. You know you want it. It's this one or the deluxe 50th edition slipcover edition. I think there is no good reason to buy anything older. These clearly supplant all previous editions.You know you want it....
5 This is THE edition to get for lovers of Tolkien.  You get the complete trilogy in one volume and what a volume too!  It's leather bound with great gold letterings on the cover plus nice illustrations within.  The fonts are of a good, easily-readable size and the binding is first class, ensuring that this tome will stay in great shape and is likely to be passed down from parent to child many times over.  Recommended.
5 Pure Tolkien brilliance. An excellent, superb, fantastic, magnificent, wonderful, amazing story. Yes. Every one of those adjectives. An awesome sequel to the Fellowship, truly worth reading. LOVED IT!
5 The Two Towers is the second part to the Lord of the Rings and contains book three and four. Without reading Fellowship of the Ring, the part of the novel which takes place before The Two Towers, this book would not make any sense at all. However, for those who have read the first part, The Two Towers extends the story for another 400 pages or so of pure pleasure.The story begins where Fellowship of the Ring left off- orcs attacking the fellowship which has been scattered, and Frodo and his servant Sam leaving by boat on their own path to Mount Doom. As one might come to realize, The Two Towers is just as good if not better than Fellowship of the Ring. This book contains a lot of fighting, even right from the first several pages. Much like Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers leaves the reader in a very serious cliff hanger. When I read the end, I couldn't wait any longer than it took to obtain the third book; as soon as I finished the last page, I got into my car, drove to the nearest book store and picked up the third part to the series.Anyone who is a fan of the first book would be committing a crime if they didn't read the second. The Two Towers is a great book. Not at any point does this part become boring and is magnicifently composed just as Fellowship of the Ring and Return of the King are.
4 There have been few collections that have been held in such high international regard than the works presented in this box set. Even before the LotR movies, Tolkien was synonymous with THE original classic fantasy works and now they're absolutely huge. With this set, you'll get to see what the fuss is all about.The Hobbit is a prequel to the LotR. It is considered a children's tale and indeed Tolkien wrote it for his children. However, it's still very enjoyable for the adult and forms a great, easy introduction the the Middle-Earth universe. It tells the tale of how Bilbo Baggins, Gandalf the wizard and a bunch of dwarves set out to &quot;rescue&quot; a treasure-trove of gold from Smaug the dragon. The journey takes, to my recollection, something in the space of a year. In the course they experience all the classic elements found in a fantasy world - giant monsters, weird and wonderful characters, fantastical battles, spirited and magical helpers and loathsome dungeons. And all this told in the most easygoing prose imaginable.For more serious fans of the Middle-Earth universe, the linkups to LotR give the tale an extra twist of flavour. It is here that the Ring is first encountered, and it is here that we first feel the breath of the enemy...If you've seen the movies and want to read the books, The Hobbit is a great place to start.The Lord of the Rings follows. It is not a trilogy but a series in six books, with appendices. It is a monumental work detailing the struggle of the Fellowship of the Ring against the dark forces of Sauron and the quest to destroy the Ring of Power. This is clear to those who've either seen the movies (95% of people I think) or heard of them (99.9999%). This is what the content of the books is. Except obviously there's much more detail and it's much more epic in the sheer number of obstacles that are placed in the path of Frodo and friends.The thing that would probably be useful is the differences between the books and the movies. The books are very rich in extraneous material. It is said that one of Tolkien's main purposes of writing the series was to create a world with his own invented languages and populate it - the stories are just a background to the languages! The book contains a lot of mythology. There are a lot of poems relating to times gone by and current events (which I personally didn't find very readable). Overall, there are many profound and emotional parts in the book that aren't given much credence in the movie - a great feeling of melancholy and nostalgia over a world in deterioration. This is only touched on in the films with the atmoshere of the elves.The book contains a lot of journeying and this will also be a new feature. Rather than just getting to places like in the film, the characters spend a lot of time in the day-to-day marches. It is here that you begin to learn and appreciate the natural landscape of Middle-Earth, from the plains of Rohan to the little ecosystem of the Shire.The appendices will only be read by LotR fanatics. There are backstories of the kingdoms and lineages of noble families and notes on the languages. One thing that is recommended to browse through is the timeline, especially what happened to the fellowship after the events of the book.Overall, this is still the great book about timeless issues pertaining to good, evil, courage and hope. But it also has the extra emotional and descriptive elements. There is something that is missing, although I'm not sure what, that stops it from being 5 stars in my opinion.A great piece of literary history. Contains a whole universe that's as deep and rich as our one.
5 I did not realize what a wonderful job that Ingles had done in this reading until I began listening to other audio books. Ingles manages to give each character a distinct voice and as you proceed, you recognize immediately who it is that is speaking.After many years, Tolkien's work stands alone as the only sci-fi/fantasy story that puts the subtlety of language and culture equal to, if not above, the drama. Ingles interesting voices and care with the language of Tolkien make this a most worthy represenation of the timeless classic.
4 I find this the most impressive of the Lord of the Rings trilogy, no mean feat for the middle book-- as the companions are separated, the world grows darker and darker. Tolkein deftly builds a brooding atmosphere that is only deepened by the contrast afforded in the flashes of humor.
2 (I am not a native speaker, please overlook my style)I am not going to review the novel, the root and basis of modern fantasy, a novel I simply love, even if I am not entirely blind to some of its flaws.This edition was quite a disappointment to me: I bought it to have a nice collectible edition of this classic and was sadly disappointed: the box and the over bookcover are lovely, the pictures are exquisite but the binding is very  poor in quality; poor as it is, it is still better than the paper used and the printing which are untolerable for an edition as expensive as this.If you are looking for an edition for your library, chose elsewhere.
5 This is the version that JRR Tolkien wanted to publish.  Although the corrections were colmpleted by his family,they did so according to his notes on earlier print versions.  So not only do you get the most authoratative version of the novel, but you get a beautiful work of art with the high quality paper print, binding and guilding.You deserve this version of the Novel,  Ignore the high price.
5 It was brand new as stated and received very quickly.  The book is a classic for Fiction novels.  Kids of all ages will enjoy this book.
5 Wonderfully written, taken at face value of a great quest and it's exciting ending. I mixed it with the movies to keep the faces fresh.
4 Let's face it, "The Return of the King" is easily the worst of the trilogy (as far as the books go), but that doesn't stop it from being an beaitifully written and exciting conclusion. It's probably the hardest and all the chapters are really huge, so its only for dedicated readers. I loved this book, except for Chapter Eight of Book Six, "The Scouring of the Shire." But then, very few people do like that particular bit.
5 While I love the LoTR, and have read it many times, this &quot;leatherette collector's edition&quot;, while a good printing, is really misnamed.  It has been in more or less continuous production for over 20 years.  Therefore, while of very good quality, it is hardly &quot;collectible.&quot;  I would rather it were referred to as the &quot;fan's edition&quot; for that is what it (and The Hobbit companion volume) really is.
5 How do you review a masterpiece? I first read this when the 50th anniversary edition came out. I can only say that I enjoyed it as much now as then. After reading hundreds of fantasy books none can compare!
5 All three books in one volume. A very good value.A great classic story for all ages of readers. Done.
5 The Two Towers is the second book in The Lord Of The Rings Trilogy.It begins with the death and burial of Boromir and then to the journey of Aragorn , Legolas and Gimli to rescue Pippin and Merry from the Orc captors.When we read about Pippin and Merry's captivity , we for the first time in LOTR , witness the repugnant  , cruel and totally without anything redeeming way of being of the Orcs.We also meet the Ents , shepherds of the trees and the tall and fair blonde horse riders - the Rohirrim.Thus we meet Treebeard and once more for a while two of our heroes Pippin and Merry get to spend some time in one of the few havens of Middle Earth ,temporarily safe from the enveloping darkness of the Dark Lord , the Enemy , Sauron and his forces . In this book Gandalf reappears having been miraculously resurrected as Gandalf the White . More powerful than before he breaks the spell of Saruman's emissary Grima Wormtongue over the King of Rohan , Theoden . The epic Battle of Helms Deep takes place while the Ents totally destroy Saruman's evil realm of Isengard before Gandalf himself destroys Saruman's power .In The Two Towers new characters such as Boromir's brother Faramir , the warrior of Rohan Eomer and his beautiful sister Eowyn appear . Such themes as the Palantir are introduced and the Hobbits meet up with the degenerate Gollum who for a while acts as their guide before predictably betraying them to the giant spiderlike demon Shelob.more than before through Merry and Pippin , Frodo and Sam we witness the amazing quality of the Hobbits . The novel takes the saga to a dramatic climax in Mordor and the stage is set for the final conflict between Mordor and The West.Aside from the action and events we need to take time to appreciate the beauty and scope of Middle Earth.LOTR has an important message in that it rejects moral relativism and exhorts us to always choose good over evil , so important when we are faced with the challenges of terrorism and those who would destroy freedom ...
5 Loved the book.  It was better than I had hoped & I am so glad that I took the time to read it.
5 LOTR is one of the best books i have ever read. I will definitely recommend it to anyone. I will read to again and again
5 I am one of those rare beasts, a fortysomething who has never read 'The Lord of the Rings'.  I am slowly plugging away at the book -- in the bath, in bed etc -- but frankly, as a father of two demanding children, I'd find it hard to justify spending much more time curled up with a massive book like this.Hence the joy of audiobooks for me -- when I'm out on the road between offices, I just slip another CD into my car's CD player and I'm transported to another realm.  It's just so much more exciting and enthralling than listening to the news.  Never before have I so looked forward to the next car journey as at the moment ... and I'm only on CD #4 of 13!This is a wonderful adaptation of a book I haven't read.  As another reviewer pointed out, this 1981 recording is somewhat better than the BBC's 1969 recording of THE HOBBIT, if only for the sound effects. (Synthesised sounds were only in their infancy then, and some key narrative details were obscured by the distorted voices of the birds and wolves.)Ian Holm, who plays Bilbo in the new movie, stars as an excellent Frodo here.  Listen out also for the versatile Bill Nighy as Sam.I have promised myself that I will eventually finish the book.  But for the time being, this audio CD is an excellent way of getting familiar with the Tolkien landscape in time for the movie.  And you don't need to visit many Web sites to realise that Amazon's deal here is extraordinarily good value compared to the BBC package on offer in the UK.
5 This is an all time favourite with me, It's an amazing book. Most people seem to find Tolkien's narrative too lengthy and boring, but I just loved them. What use is a journey if you can't enjoy the landscape on the way? And what a landscape!!!! This book is just incredible, the plot is good and the characters are truly memorable. I love it.
5 This review applies to ISBN 0618517650The Lord of the Rings: 50th Anniversary, One Vol. Edition.  I won't really comment on the novel itself, except to remember for a moment the intense hostility of academic English departments to this "trashy novel for children," "this [...] of good and evil."  By now, the academy has come around, and they realize (as I did way before them) that "The Lord of the Rings" is going to stay in print for a much longer time than Joyce's "Ulysses" or Pound's "Cantos."  Whether they like it or not.  :-)  And, of course, like it they should!I really want to review this edition of Tolkien's book, which serves him very well indeed.  Finally bound in genuine leather, this book is a treat to hold and to own.  And it's something to hand down to your children, which I'm afraid you can't do with digital books.  As a former software engineer, let me just comment that paper is BY FAR the longest-lasting archival material, and that I have yet to see any digital format that does not eventually die out.  If you put this book, this PAPER book, in your library, and don't mistreat it, it should last for centuries.Which is where I think book publishing is going: digital media for ephemera, with paper publishers forced into glorious editions of the classics.But, as Crick memorably commented, "How It Will All Turn Out Remains to be Seen."  HIWATORTBS!!  :-)In the meantime, enjoy this book.
5 This edition of LOTR is fantastic. Lot's of beautiful illustrations, and the appendices really help to provide a fuller picture of the story. Highly recommend.
4 This is a review of the Soundelux edition of the 1979 NPR broadcasts of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; (LOTR).Hobbits are funny little fat people with hair on their feet.  They don't have much magic about them, and they aren't nearly as formidable as Dwarves.  They do, however, possess extraordinary grit and endurance.  These qualities stand Frodo Baggins in good stead as he sets off to dispose of a magic ring left to him by his Uncle Bilbo.  Disposing of such a trinket may seem a small matter, but the very fate of Middle Earth depends upon the outcome of Frodo's errand.Along the way, Frodo acquires a motley crew of helpers:  Legolas, a woodland Elf who is a dead shot with a bow; Gimli, a brawny Dwarf whose axe can cleave Goblins with the best of them; Pippin, Merry, and Samwise, fellow Hobbits who are great friends and admirers of Frodo; Aragorn, son of Arathorn, a mysterious woodsman; Boromir of Gondor, the very incarnation of the knight errant; and Gandalf the Grey, a wizard who knows better than any other member of the company the importance of their mission.The company travels through strange lands, confronts awful perils, makes exotic friends, and all the while battles the evil influence of Sauron, the Dark Lord.  Eventually they become separated and undertake individual quests.  They perform mighty deeds, endure privation, suffer grievous wounds, and some of them even die, but finally the survivors reunite at a battle before the very gates of the Evil Empire.  The battle is not an Armageddon, with a fore-ordained winner.  It is a Ragnarok whose outcome cannot be known.  Writers have often imitated, but never equaled, Tolkien's adult fairy tale.Although I'm not 100% sure, I believe the  Soundelux production differs from the BBC production of LOTR.  The production values and acting quality suffer by comparison with the BBC production of &quot;The Hobbit.&quot;  To say that production values are only adequate is no condemnation.  A great story can survive even a poor telling, and this production of LOTR is NOT a poor telling of the story.  One strong recommendation for the Soundelux edition:  the producers edited out almost all the songs and poems which add such tedium to the print version of LOTR.
5 I read the Tolkien Trilogy every year ever since I was in 6th grade. The Return of the King is an outstanding book, and it concludes Tolkien's Trilogy, The Lord Of The Rings, and it does it well. It concludes the adventures of a ranger fromthe north who's true identity is the heir of kings, and a hobbit's courage and trials. But the only way to understand this wonderful book is you need to read the first two books, which I'm sure everyone would. Although this is a great novel, you need patients to read it. And Tolkien has an outstanding use of words, for he uses old English text. This book is great for teens, but I warn parents that the book might have your kids reading all day long, that has happened to me before. Also, it's a great book for adults, i think. It shows the meaning of freindship, love, and obsession in some sense. And it also shows the meaning of ucatastrophe, which is a sudden turn of events from bad to good, the oppisite from the word catastophe. Tolkien came up with the word ucatastrophe, to explaine the end of the book. He also uses it as in the story of Christ. This is a great novel and I incourage anyone and everyone to read this great book.
3 I believe this book is the best seller book of all England (behind The Bible). But I bet half of the people that bought the book did not finish it. It's hard reading all the way, because Tolkien was really eager to develop a credible and whole new world to be like a mithology, so he spent pages and pages describing the ground around the characters.Also, justo one question: WHY THOSE RIDICULOUS SONGS???!!Also, it's alittle bit too hard to like characters that eat so much and sleep so much (hobbits)
5 I was 13 when I first read the books, now with 30 staring me in the face, I read them again. It's like rediscovering an old friend and finding more sides than you remember. The box set is the complete story missing only one thing - &quot;The Silmarillion.&quot; However the exception was published posthumously, but it's still a good read.The collection here looks good on the shelf next to the DVD of the movie (and subsequent ones) and also, while you're tearing through the pages reading, you can place it back in the box to prevent damage.Will there ever be an epic as big and mystical? Who knows, but this one belongs in our hearts and collection. If you want to rediscover, or have only seen the movies, here is the complete story.
5 If you haven't yet got the books, and you can get the whole trilogy for this price - what are you waiting for?  It will be long, and tortuous, and complicated but - that's Tolkien!  He might not always be easy reading, but he is certainly worth it! One thing - it must be a pretty hefty volume!
1 This 1 star review is not for the book, but solely the Kindle version of it. I am not criticizing the story or Tolkien's writing style.  Tolkien's works do not translate well for the Kindle.  Because Middle Earth is one of the most complex and thoroughly developed fictional universes ever, the story is accompanied by many pages of appendices.  Almost every page contains at least one word that is an active link to a page in an appendix. If you accidentally bump one of those words, good luck finding your place again, because the Kindle then reads it as you're nearly finished with the book.  I got so exasperated trying to plod through it because I kept getting thrown to the end and had no idea where I left off.  I'd read a page or two, hit one of the links, then spend half an hour trying to find where I was.If you are a longtime fan and you already know the story well and you're just revisiting the books, the Kindle version might work for you.  If you are new to Tolkien, please heed this advice and get the hard copy.
5 I have always enjoyed this series ever since I read it about eight times in college forty years ago. It is nice to have digital access to it so that I can read it either on my Kindle, my Kindle for PC, or my Android Phone.
5 I purchased this set for a grandson who is an avid reader of many genre's.  He was thrilled and had one book read by the end of the holiday visit.
5 Because of Tolkien's reputation as a master story-teller, I began reading this book with absurdly high expectations.  The slow beginning confirmed my suspicions that such high expectations could not possibly be realistic, and I prepared myself to be gloriously disappointed.  Quite honestly, by the end of the first chapter I shared the opinion of the protagonist, the hobbit: I was rather unenthusiastic, and doubtful that the "adventure" which lay ahead could truly be as exciting as it promised to be.But Tolkien rarely disappoints.  Within pages, along with our hobbit hero, Bilbo Baggins, I found myself launched into the famous fantasy world that is the product of Tolkien's imagination, a world of never-ending adventure, mystery and magic.  As I joined the hobbit on his remarkable quest to defeat the dragon Smaug and reconquer the dwarves long-lost treasure, I met a wonderful array of friends and foes - wizards, dwarves, elves, trolls, goblins, and a myriad of other fantastic creatures - and my imagination and interest never waned.By the end of the hobbit's adventure, like Bilbo, I was thoroughly satisfied.  At the conclusion, the wizard Gandalf remarks to the hobbit: "My dear Bilbo!  Something is the matter with you!  You are not the hobbit that you were."  Yet it was not only the hobbit that had changed as a result of this adventure.  As a reader, I had to confess that I too had changed.  My initial lack of enthusiasm had entirely vanished.  I had participated in the hobbit's adventures, and like him, returned the better for it.  Tolkien's imaginative world is a world so vivid, that you cannot fail to return to the real world a changed person.  His descriptive abilities cannot fail to imprint his imaginary world in your memory.  This story is not deep, but it is delightful and unforgettable.  And like the hobbit, you will return to life the better having read it.What's more, you can go "there and back again" again, and again, because the joy of this fantastic adventure won't quickly wear off.  For all ages, this book is eminently readable and re-readable, and belongs on every bookshelf.  Don't miss it, because you will miss one of the most enchanting escapes that literature has to offer.
4 My dad swears he read these books to me as a child. Although I have no recollection of this, the stories have always been there in my consciousnes, without explanation. Obviously, they made their mark. Now with the Super-Sized Lord of the Rings Fever at full tilt, I decided to read them all by myself.I have to say that the Fellowship of the Ring starts very slowly. Almost painfully so. If you saw the movie, then the 10 minutes or so of scenes from the Shire in the film correspond to about 150 pages of the book. When things do pick up, it becomes very interesting. You won't come across this level of vividness in many current novels. You may get to feeling like you know middle earth more intimately than you know your own neighborhood. It's a bit of a commitment, but it pays off.The Two Towers is more action packed and scary than the Fellowship, and is probably the best of the bunch. It is full of intrigue and wild characters who really pull you in deeply. You will feel more emotions reading this one than the other two combined. It's basically the climax of the series.The Return of the King is surprisingly short and unceremonious considering all the buildup in the Two Towers. It's actually sort of a letdown, as it climaxes to soon and peeters out at the end.I don't want to ruin any plot points for anyone who doesn't know the plot already, but I will say that the movies most likely won't be able to cover as much ground with as much depth as the books do. What else is new? It's just that you're talking about some really involved books when three 3 1/2 hour movies feel incomplete by comparison.I definitely recommend the Lord of the Rings to anyone who loves a good story.
5 Lord of the Rings was an amazing book. You need to have quite a bit of free time to read it, though. It is just below actually taking the Ring of to Mordor on the commitment scale. It is truly an amazing book. Tolkien did an excellent job!
5 The writings of Professor Tolkien are absolutely Timeless.  These books are the gauge by-which all Fantasy books are measured.  The Hobbit and The Trilogy have been the Inspiration for decades of works by other authors, yet I have not ever seen these works surpassed by anyone.  Terry Brooks is the only author I have read who even compares to J.R.R. Tolkien and his epic style.  I became fascinated with The Hobbit and Trilogy when I was in the seventh grade. I borrowed them from a friend and snuck them home. I was completely enthralled with the world Tolkien created.  I was not allowed to read anything that was even remotely related to Wizards, Witches, Astrology, D&amp;D, etc., so these books were like nothing I had ever seen, before.  I was captivated and felt the call to become a Writer.  Previously, the poetry and such that we were studying in school BORED me to tears.  I found my schooling to be mind-numbingly BORING and Tolkien became my Inspiration to Learn, create Poetry, Write stories, Study, become an Anthropologist, delve into Masonic Lore and so much more....  Throughout High-School, I had pictures of Prof. Tolkien on my wall and I desired to be like him.  Not-only was he the Greatest Fantasy Writer the world has known, but he was &quot;Professor of Anglo-Saxon, at Oxford University, from 1925 to 1945....and professor of English Language and Literature....and a Fellow of Merton College from '45 to his retirement in '59.&quot;  Check out his translations of (book title:)&quot;Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Pearl, and Sir Orfeo&quot; (J.R.R. Tolkien)  Also, Prof. Tolkien wrote wonderful stories like &quot;Smith of Wooten Major (&amp;) Farmer Giles of Ham&quot; for children. Pop those titles into the search box! I can honestly say that reading Tolkien changed my life...for the Better! Tolkien created the highest standards of writing for generations of authors....I am quite sure he would be deeply disappointed with the majority of books published today, with numerous spelling errors and pathetic grammar.  I believe Tolkien is a god-send to English teachers. Perhaps, he can still inspire young people to elevate their Writing and English skills, from beyond. I would fight to keep his works on the shelves. I was not allowed to do my Senior Thesis about this author, despite the fact that he is such an amazing author and advocate of Literature.  I lost interest in doing my thesis and threw something together at the last minute.  Perhaps teachers should Recognize the potential for inspiring youth, via the works of J.R.R. Tolkien.
4 In my review of his reading of the Fellowship of the Ring, I gave poor old Rob Inglis a bit of a drubbing (rated three stars).  And, in my review of the second set, I am going to give him a bit of a break.My general comments about Inglis stand.  He is a bit one paced.  Because of the nature of his voice he is limited as to the range of voices he can adopt.  And he as a tendency to read in an arch, almost pretentious manner which does the book and many of the characters something of a disservice.  I think that because of his own age, Inglis has a tendency to make his characters sound older than they should.  The best example of this is Aragorn and it was my wife who made this point first.  I have always seen him as a young, vigorous man - early thirties.  This is how Peter Jackson also saw him if his casting is any judge.  But Inglis' rendering suggests a middle-aged man - in his mid fifties.However, my recommendation, then, as now, is to buy this version as it is the only extant unabridged version of Lord of the Rings that is available.Having said that, he seems appreciably better in his rendering of the characters in this volume of the trilogy - perhaps he grew into the reading as he went along - this often happens.  There are certain characters which he has "nailed" - among them Tree Beard and most importantly of all, Gollum.  Inglis' rendering of Gollum is near letter-perfect.For all my quibbles, I was completely addicted to this reading.  I drive about 30 minutes to and from work each day - and have a 2 hour drive to and from our farm on weekends.  If I ever found myself in the car at the end of a set of CDs, with a long drive ahead of me, I almost went stir crazy.  I should also say that my brother, also a LoTR aficionado does not have the same problem with Inglis - he even likes listening to the songs! - which I still find un-listenable.
5 The poetry, the beautiful story, the characters, the legends, all come together in this spectacular trilogy.  As relevant today as when it was first written.
5 At long last I read the final volume all the way through on my third stab at the trilogy.  I've just always run out of gas after the first 1000 or so pages so it made sense to just start with this one and give it the attention it deserves (especially after seeing the film).  I was suprised at how much I enjoyed the journey of the hobbits back to the Shire to kick some hindquarters as toughened warriors.  Also, this was the first time for me that a book (or movie) took the time to delve into the feelings of the protagonists as their heroic climax passes and they fade back into to normal life.  I found it useful in my own life.
5 This is a fine version of the trilogy.  High quality hardcover, fifty quality illustrations.  Buying a paperback set that will last you a few years would cost [money], and lack the illustrations.  I highly recommend this volume, which you will have for decades to come.
5 I hate fantasy. At least I did until I picked up &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot; It is a stirring adventure that brings you in emotionally, and ties you into the characters in such a way that what they suffer, you suffer. When these novels were recommended to me, I laughed. But after reading them, I vehemently advise you to buy them and begin reading them immediately. One of the best things I've ever read, even if you traditionally hate elves and dragons, you will love this set. And if you're a fantasy buff and haven't read this yet, you're not a true buff. Happy reading!
5 I do not have the edition it says I'm reviewing, what I have is a big floppy paperback with a picture of a silhouetted Nazgul from the movie on the cover, but there are so many editions I can't find mine, or else they don't sell it anymore. I just started reading it again. I had forgotten how good it is right from the start, and I figured it was about time I give it my 5 stars on Amazon, because it definitely deserves it. My dad used to read me these books when all I could understand was "there's a big scary spider!" and "they're going to throw a ring in a volcano!". Other little details stuck with me too, so now when I read the books it's like reading a dream I forgot a long time ago.
5 One volume of three of the greatest fantasy novels EVER written on my kindle - and for this low price - heck yea, it gets five stars. I don't need to go into how awesome these books are, but I love the convenience of having all of them in my kindle. Great buy.
5 JRR Tolkien was a wonderful story teller in every way. Just add The Hobbit and you will be happily reading for a while but be prepared to get attached to these characters. I cry when I finish these EVERY time. I re read them every year and the books are SO SO much more then the movie(yes the movies are good ....but the books are better:)My kids have to read the books before they are allowed to watch the films so they can get a real feel for the adventure, the people in the story that comes with digesting each chapter at night. Like a fine wine to be drank slowly:)
4 This is, as other reviewers have said, the only unabridged BOT version of this classic book. Rob Inglis does a great job reading.But: If you plan on downloading CDs onto your MP3 player, keep reading.The book is broken into 48 CDs (all 3 books (16 CDs per book)). And each CD is broken up into 3 min tracks (about 275 tracks per disc).And no freaking consistent organization.Each CD has a completely (ugh!!!) different way of titling the tracks.So, my Ipod now has 800+ 3 minute LOTR tracks . . . in no particular order!!!There's no way I can listen to the book in chronological order. Instead my Ipod shuffles randomly between tracks, changing every 3 minutes.It's a disaster.But I love this book. So, I'm listening anyway.It's the equivalent of cutting the book into 800 pieces, throwing them in the air, and then reading them:  William S. Burroughs, please meet J.R.R. Tolkien.
5 &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is usually found in a single volume, or in three volumes: 1) &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot;, 2) &quot;The Two Towers&quot;, and 3) &quot;The Return of the King&quot;. My recommended reading age is 13+ years old, and I recommend reading &quot;The Hobbit&quot; first.When I was 15 years old in high school, I had to read &quot;The Hobbit&quot; for an English class. After reading that book, the teacher then let us borrow &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;. Before I had started &quot;The Return of the King&quot;, I had bought my own set of books. After I had read both books, I actually liked &quot;The Hobbit&quot; better than &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; at first - because the &quot;The Hobbit&quot; was brighter: a fun, grand adventure with more humor, whereas &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; was darker: a serious, grim life and death struggle for world survival. But by the time I was about 16, the historical significance of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; began to appeal more to me. This is especially true if you read Appendices A and B of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;, and also read the &quot;The Silmarillion&quot;. You begin to understand the rich history of Tolkien's Middle-Earth/ Beleriand creation. How the &quot;The Silmarillion&quot; brings out the significant events of the First and Second Ages, while the events in &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; are the culmination of the Third Age...each Age lasting thousands of years and ending with an immensely significant event.It was 25 years before I read &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; again, but Bilbo, Frodo, Sam, Gandalf, Aragorn, Galadriel, Legolas, Gimli, and many more had become household names! I had matured over those years, and my tastes changed. I was no longer a big fantasy/science-fiction reader: instead I was reading military history. I didn't expect to still love &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; the way I did as a teenager. I was happily wrong! This is still an exciting book, but I discovered what I really love...it is allegory-type stories. J. R. R. Tolkien himself has said that &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is not allegory, because he hated allegory where he felt the author is dictating to the reader what is in their story...and that any other interpretation is incorrect. Tolkien wanted a reader to apply their own experiences and tastes to influence what they were reading. OK, but in real history one can still get allegory if their own experiences and tastes allow it. How many can learn about World War II and not apply the basic allegorical interpretation that good triumphs over evil? I've heard of, and can understand, several allegorical interpretations of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;. Frodo is like Jesus Christ: bearing the greatest of burdens for world salvation while being tempted to stray from his purpose, and the weight of the ring is similar to Christ's cross . The One Ring is like the atomic bomb: the ultimate weapon that corrupts whoever uses it, despite even good intentions, into a power-hungry creature of evil. There's an ecological message with the Ents trying to protect trees; and also the natural beauty of various places throughout Middle-Earth, while evil beings try to destroy it all (including the use of mechanical and polluting progress). I also get out of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; a sense of a military mission: that Frodo &amp; Sam are behind enemy lines on a mission that could end a war, and that Frodo realizes that getting back home or even staying alive doesn't matter - just completion of the mission...that's also sacrifice, perseverance, &amp; camaraderie so prevalent in the military history I've read. There's prejudice with years of animosity between elves and dwarves, and how small, kind gestures can begin to erase all those blighted years...also, how people or races can put aside differences to solve a common problem. There's the recognition of the small, common people (citizen soldiers) that perform the greatest, toughest, and most necessary duty in any war. There's world peace in peril and that something needs to be done before it's too late. There's avoiding the easier way out, and facing one's problems and seeing them through to a conclusion despite severe hardships.I feel that Tolkien saw a little bit of himself in many of the good races of his world. The hobbits are like Tolkien because they love food, company, and talking about family. The ents are like Tolkien because of their unbounded love of trees. Gandalf the wizard is like Tolkien because of his exceptional intelligence and purpose of guiding others along the right path. Some men are like Tolkien because of their inner strength and gallantry, while other men show weakness by succumbing to evil...very realistic. But I believe he saw the beauty and enchantment of the elves in his wife, and why he loved both most dearly: that's why on their gravestone Luthien appears after his wife's name, and Beren appears after his name. The dwarves don't seem to resemble Tolkien, but they are present in much folklore, which is linked to his personal love of medieval languages.&quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is a masterpiece in my opinion, and it's size (over 1000 pages in any printed format) is pretty daunting, but give it a shot! It'll be time well spent. And get ready for adventure, terror, excitement, love, treachery, devotion, monumental historic events, unforgettable battles, military strategy, exotic languages &amp; culture, etc. See what you get out of the book! I think most people will enjoy it and/or be moved by it. And who knows, maybe it'll become your favorite book too!
5 my husband really enjoyed receiving this for his birthday.  The book isn't leather, but the print is beautiful.  The illustrations are beautiful, and it does indeed have a red ribbon book mark.
5 One ring to rule them all, One ring to find themOne ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind themThis is epic as it has never been done before. That one man created a world in such stunning detail, a world full of beauty and ugliness, courage and cowardice, joy and despair, good and evil is awe-inspiring. And not just a world, but a complete history - replete with folklore and legend, poetry and song, heroes and villains. `The Lord of the Rings' is the product of a formidable imagination, a book that spawned a whole genre of writing, none of which matches this, the Bible of fantasy literature.Tolkien was clearly in love with Middle-Earth and its mythology. Every character, from Gollum to Galadriel is lovingly rendered in compelling detail. Every twist of the road  to Mordor is convincingly constructed, as though the author had ridden across Middle-Earth in his mind. What Tolkien has managed to do, like the handful of other great epic writers, is take a very personal story and set it against the backdrop of great events with which it is inextricably bound (don't laugh, but in this respect the book is reminiscent of `War and Peace'). The average reader will associate themselves much more with Frodo or Sam than Gandalf or Aragorn, but that is not to say we aren't as interested in their fates - we just get to see them through the eyes of the less elevated, which makes them seem more human.The three parts to `The Lord of the Rings' are each quite different from each other. `The Fellowship of the Ring' begins with Bilbo's birthday party and sees the company formed in haste as they realise that Bilbo's ring is indeed the One Ring, and that Sauron's servants, the Nazgul, are hot on its trail. `The Two Towers' sees the narrative take three different routes, as the fellowship is broken up, while `The Return of the King' deals with the final great events in the War of the Rings, and is the most epic of the three.  The sadness at the passing of the third age of Middle-Earth is quite poignant, and the fact that Tolkien was writing at the time of the second World War should not be overlooked.'The Lord of the Rings' is a very long book, but all the better to lose yourself in. As you may have gathered, I think it is brilliant - there aren't enough superlatives to describe it. Can't wait for the film....
4 Mr. Tolkien had an amazing imagination, and combined with the gift of writing clearly and concisely, he created a classic.  Lord of The Rings is like a tale spun right from a dream, for the books are so illustrative and incredible.  The characters are charming (except in the case of Sauron and his minions, who are quite the malevolent antagonists) and the plot, revolving around the Good vs. Evil idea, is wonderful.  The surprises are delightful, and most unexpected.  The only main flaw,in my opinion, is that the book starts off a bit too slow, and continues on like that for too long.  However, after  time, it begins to pick up pace and readers may become captivated.  It is truly worthy of its own movie series.  As well, I believe that the movies are magnificent, but that is for another review.
5 Yes, the third book of the trilogy was my favorite.  Again, a shame that I waited so long to read them.  I have gotten more into fantasy over the last few years, so I was bound to read them eventually.  I think, I was afraid of not liking them.  My Daddy loves them and raves about them any chance he gets. What if I did not enjoy his most beloved stories?  But, no worries, I loved them.  They have changed my perception of every book I read in the genre.  I can pick out the Tolkien in Harry Potter and Eragon and, well, pretty much every bit of fantasy out there. The reason Return of the King is my favorite, however, is Jesus.  No, really.  This story is about a King returning to his people and his kingdom, freeing them from fear and hopelessness.  It is a story about God's plan for us.  And I love that.  Actually, I even heard Beth Moore reference a scene from this book in a Bible Study, recently.  And, you know if Beth said it, it's got to be the gospel truth.  *wink*
5 I have loved Tolkien from  the time I was 12 years of age and now I am 30. The hobbit was my first introduction to the world of middle earth, both in book and the 1970s cartoon (it's goofy but as a kid I loved it) I love the messages of heart behind all of these books, of bravery in the midst of really extreme darkness. Timeless themes which is why I believe it's captivated generations of readers. Great books, great series, this reader highly recommends.
5 The second part of the LOTR trilogy is even more amazing then the first. Plus, if you've watched the movies, there are many things in the extended editions that will make way more sense if you've read the books. Third time reading, no regrets!
4 The receiver was really happy to get this item and it came in great condition as stated. Anyone who loves these series won't be disappointed.
3 A VERY IMPORTANT NOTE: I have the greatest respect for J R.R. Tolkien. He is a legend to all authors - Adult, YA, Middle Grade or otherwise. He stepped out of the box and filled blank pages with true imagination. The imagination and devoted research, and sheer, obsessive attention to detail put into this book, he has made Middle-Earth a world as complex and enormous as our own.Just saying.So, this might be the toughest review I have written up-to-date. So, I'd better start at the very beginning, when I first read the first part in the Lord of the Rings.I started this series in the hope to be influenced like so many other readers. To be taken away on the fantastical world of Middle-Earth. I honestly wanted to love it. What happened after the first 4 chapters? I fell asleep. Never had I been so board that I've actually fallen asleep. Then I skipped the last 200 or-so pages.THE END.That was my first try at LOTR: The Fellowship of the Ring. I didn't rate it nor review it. I berried it deep from my memory and I never spoke about it ever again. But, later in my life, my life will once again intertwine with LOTR...My sister, for a thoughtful gift, gave me the whole trilogy, thinking that I've never read it and that I'm "missing out."I wasn't going to read it, but some of my friends encouraged me by saying stuff like, "it will be better" or "you might like it this time" or "if you get board; think about Orlando and Viggo." (The last subjection actually helped a lot.)So now, here I am, after reading it once again, trying to say my feelings in the nicest way possible.* First off, I need to get this of my chest. Frodo; fall into Mount Doom you stupid Marie-Sue. There. I said it. And it felt GOOD.* Sam; you still rock.* It was so heavy and slow that it hurt me.* Don't take this the wrong way, I love description. It is a beautiful thing in writing, to see threw the authors eyes and see, smell, hear, touch his/her world. But to go down as to describe every leaf, stick and pebble as to give me headaches?* The characters (except Sam) didn't feel real. They didn't jump off the page. Yes, we learn about their past but none of them have an individual voice. They all sounded like the same person.Despite all these defaults, I loved the world of Middle-Earth. It's colour, it's history, is very entertaining and beautifully crafted.
5 This is without a doubt the best book I've read ever, and really, it is outstanding. It has a style and a world that has been thought of to great length - giving it backgroud and atmosphere. Also you can tell that it took  Tolkien years to write this massive book in the way it changes style after  one third of the first book. It's about good versus evil in pure form, and  it has a nice heroic air. Some might find it too long - some even boring,  but I myself think it's a marvelous time in a world I wouldn't mind being  in.
5 I have the cassette version of this BBC masterpiece featuring Ian Holm as Frodo.  I've listened to it and uncountable number of times while working, driving, and doing stuff on my computer...and I have to say that this is the best piece of radio drama I've ever listened too.  Weighing in at 12 hours it covers nearly all the detail of the trilogy with great detail.  The acting, effects, and music are excellent, and everytime I listen to it I feel that I'm transported to Middle-earth.  With the first movie now out, I suspect that this work may now be ignored in favor of a more visual (and also excellent) presentation.  Don't make the mistake!!  If you are a Tolkien lover you MUST own this set.
5 Forget Harry Potter; forget the cheesey alien books.  Tolkien is the grandfather of all fantasy and can not be matched.Yes, these books can be a little dark and scary.  But the lessons clearly taught are valuable.  Each person is important and valuable.  Team work gets things done.  Absolute power corrupts absolutely.  And even the smallest of the smallest people can make a difference in the world.For younger readers, start off with C.S. Lewis.  But junior highers and older can handel this.  I even reccommend it for adults. Make it your summer reading.
5 This was a gift for a friend. Very pleased with the presentation, quality, and speed of shipping. I do recommend it!
5 I've read The Lord of the Rings many times, and I always get something new from it in the re-reading. It can be read metaphorically...or not.  It can be viewed as mere tale...or not. The beauty of lovely literature is that the reader gives the story the meaning that lingers most, and The Lord of the Rings most assuredly is literature easily approached. Read it casually, read it slowly and meaningfully, or read it for mere-fun:  make the tale your own.
2 On the one hand, I appreciate the amount of effort (roughly Tolkien's  whole life) that was spent on creating Middle-Earth. Yet I have to say,  regrettably, that I think Lord of the Rings is grossly, grossly,  overrated.The dialogue is execrable. The poetry and songs are (largely)  grating. The descriptions are (largely) uninspired. Most of all, the  characters are as tangible as a Ringwraith without a cloak.It can't be  that it seems cliched to me (it is the first - and last - fantasy novel  that I have read). It can't be that I am too cynical (I thought The Hobbit  was excellent). It's just that this fat lump of a book is plain poorly  written. Sorry, Tolkien fanatics.
5 Rob Inglis has not only a beautiful, rich voice--a delightful British accent--but is also able to bring individuality to each of the characters in the story.  This audio book set is the one I would choose above all the others, because it's unabridged, perfectly read, and absolutely riveting.  The narrator makes Tolkien's exquisite words even more beautiful when heard aloud, so that they go straight to the heart as well as delighting the ear.  Do yourself a favor--this is the audio book set to get, with the perfect narrator in Rob Inglis.
4 __________________Oddly enough, Amazon thought I'd not reviewed this.I read these books at least five times in order when I was in my teens and reading fiction. Not only did these books create the fantasy fiction genre and popularize the sword and sorcery genre (Gor, Conan, etc), they're just wonderful to read. The dungeons and dragons people would never have got started without Tolkien, and from time to time I still haul 'em out and reread the various underground journeys in these books.The Hobbit is more of a standalone story than the others of course, but the four are a perfect fit. Those interested in the further background may enjoy the Silmarillion, which Tolkien wrote in order to provide a consistent mythos for these four books.By all means, read these books before you see the movies. I'm going to see the movies, but 90 percent of the details (at least) will have to be dumped to fit each book into a two hour format. The special effects are bound to be spectacular, but the question becomes, which scenes will be included strictly because of their visual impact, regardless of their lack of importance to the story? Which scenes will be compounded with others?
2 I guess I'm one of the few people in the world who is not a Lord of the Rings fan.  I may have approached this book wrongly but BBC is well known for their outstandning theatre of the mind presentations.  I did find the production to be top notch but the story was just so weird and at times so stagnant that I gave up on the whole thing by the seventh CD.  In my opinion there were far too many places and characters with weird names.  The action was slow paced and it took forever for something exciting to occur.  I found myself saying &quot;just get on with it!&quot;  I don't even feel the need to finish listening to the story though I might go back one day and give it another try.  If this is suppose to be the granddaddy of fantasy stories it sure did not live up to the hipe.  Give me Star Wars any day then this dribble; at least there is action and the story is full of characters one can relate to.  Hobits, Elves and alike are not for me.  Bottom line, get a paper back version from the library and check the story out before forking out the cash for this box set.  Its a great set and the actors do a fine job but the story is a snooze fest at best.
3 I found the Lord of the Rings to be a chore to read. The prose is good and of course the universe is unbelievably rich, but the structure is clumsy. There are many instances where the book bogs down with long-winded songs and lengthy descriptions of travel through fairly dull terrain--like the Barrow Downs and Frodo and Sam meandering their way into Mordor. I know those things go toward universe-creation, but they're still boring.Peter Jackson's film adaptation is the definitive pathway into Middle Earth for me. It has all of the substance and none of the fat. But that being said, if you haven't read the books or seen the movies, try to slog your way through the books before seeing the movies. You'll appreciate the movies a lot more than you would otherwise.
5 Almost all the purchase I make I look for collecter's item. When I was searching for The Lord of The Rings, I wanted the best available. And thanx a lot Amazon to fulfil my dream in a fantastic package.This 50th Anniversary edition is a true marvel, in excellent condition and a piece to flaunt. I was in doubt to whether buy three books seperately or go for one volume edition. But as Tolkien had originally thought of a one volume book I cudn't astray the feeling.I recommend every tolkien fan to save a little for this prize possession.
5 Well, what can I say about the Lord of the Rings that has not already been said?  I first read these tales when I was a teenager and have re-read them several times since then and it never gets old.  As an aspiring author myself, I unabashedly marvel at J.R.R. Tolkien's imaginative genius.  Tolkien was not satisfied with merely writting a good story, he created an entire intricate mythology through which, like a master storyteller of yore, he tells an ageless moral story, while taking the reader on one of the most wondrous adventures ever written.
5 The book that is the corner stone of all Fantasy, mythological fiction ever written. One of those books you can read several times and still enjoy. Not necessarily an easy read, can be pretty deep. Not for the casual reader, you'll get out of it what you put into it.
5 No one really needs a review of LotR - everyone knows it's fantastic.  This particular version comes in very nicely presented box.  Perfect for a gift.  It looks great on my daughter's book shelf.  Now if she'd only read it!
5 im sorry but there is nothing i can say about this that hasent been said in the 100000 reviews for this book on amazon! BEST BOOK EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!I LOVE YOU TOLKIEN !!!
4 Rather than reviewing Lord of the Rings, which has been done many times by many people with a finer grasp of describing the wonder of the best book of the twentieth century than I, I shall remain content to say that this boxed set is neatly presented with Alan Lee's fine artwork on the outside. Many readers will find copies of Tolkien get rapidly dog-eared from frequent use so to have a box set that can be kept in a prominent place on the shelf is nice. It is also well-priced for its new design.
5 I had heard of LOTR quite a few times over the last ten years or so, but never really thought about reading it, until The Two Towers came out. After seeing the two movies, I was mildly interested, so I read The Hobbit. After having read The Hobbit and then all three (well... six, actually) LOTR books, I was left at a loss for words.The world that is painted in the pages of the books is fascinating - truly, the movies do not do them justice (nor will any, ever, in all likelihood). There are hundreds of pages omitted from the book in the course of the movie, and quite a few plotlines are heavily modified (not always for the better). As great as Peter Jackson's efforts are, comparing the book to the film is like comparing living a life to watching a film. As an example, consider the road from Hobbiton to Bree - largely uneventful in the film, while it comprises a good half of the book, including an encounter with Tom Bombadil (entirely missing from the film) and a brush with Barrow wights, which is where the Hobbits obtain most of their swords (one of which Merry uses to ... well... I'd rather not ruin the _real_ story).It is often said that Tolkien describes things in extreme detail, and I don't disagree with that - he often goes on for a page or two describing history, lands, objects, etc... However, this only goes to show the rigor of Tolkien's efforts - one does not read LOTR so much as experience Middle Earth. Parts of it (history, geography) often appear within the story in various places, only increasing one's curiosity in what exactly happened before the War of the Ring. As for the fact that the songs and snatches are extraneous in the story - that's just silly. They're as big a part of LOTR as pretty much everything else.The third book contains a hefty set of appendices full of history, meanings of words, information on the origins of languages of Middle Earth and its people. In short, the amount of work and effort that has been spent on LOTR is obviously staggering. There are maps that one can follow as the story develops, and illustrations also go to a great extent in providing windows into Middle Earth through the eyes of Alan Lee.Having read the books has left me with a desire to go through appendices, perhaps re-read the book, and more importantly, read The Silmarillion, which describes the Middle Earth before the War of The Ring - history parts of which are described in LOTR in various places.In short, I can't recommend this book enough. I only wish I had read The Lord of the Rings when I was a kid - though perhaps having read it later in life has made me appreciate Tolkien's work all the more.
5 I have read the books individually in the past, but the movie, "The Hobbit" inspired me to reread that book and these as well. So good to have it as a single volume Kindle book. I love this story so much!
5 What can I say. This is the wonderful, loved, classic series in full in the palm of your hand (kindle version) to take and enjoy any time, any where!This kindle version works well on my tablet and phone and I am happy to have these great stories with me whenever I may want them.As for the stories themselves... They are timeless classics! They have been loved for generations. Even though the movies are a bit different, I am happy to see that they are getting younger generations interested in these classic tales, which I hope will spark imagination and love of literature in general to the video game age.
5 Two other books were published the same year as The Lord of the Rings; The Broken Sword by Poul Anderson and Gormenghast by Mervyn Peake. Both are excellent, and they are still read today. I can highyl recommend them. They are even in the same fantasy genre as Lord of the Rings, and both Anderson and Tolkien drew on the same nordic mythology. Why is then Lord of the Rings so outstandingly popular? Especially Gormenghast rivals LOTR in complexity and brilliance. Maybe the answer lies in the fact that Tolkien poured all of his soul in his books. These are not mere books; they *are* Tolkien. I have heard that Tolkien wrote to escape a dreary life - therefore he created the ultimate escape fantasy. I remember how hypnotised I was as a child reading them. Tolkien weaves such a rich tapestry that as in no other fantasy book have I ever felt that the author is describing a real world. The only book I can think about that comes close is Frank Herbert's Dune, but it is also obviously inspired by LOTR.So, the combination of a will to create a fantasy world to escape to with the imagination and education to do it and a remarkable writing ability has created a literary masterpiece. I think that he created the modern fantasy genre with these books, and all role-playing games up until the mid-eighties were directly modelled on Middle-Earth.However, I must add that I have some caveats: The moral of the books is rather primitve - static rural countryside/good, dynamic industrial society/bad. There is a total dualism; you are either with the good guys or with the bad guys (and gosh, are the bad guys BAD!). There has also been a lot of commercial exploitation of Tolkien; his family has published material that was never supposed to be published, and I fear that it is more driven by money than respect for his legacy.
4 TRULY A CLASSIC FICTIONAL BOOK. IT ALLOWS READERS TO REFLECT ON WHAT IT TAKES TO BE HUMAN AND LIVE IN COMUNITY
5 One of my favorite entries of the LOTR series. The battles are EPIC and pull the reader to be awe inspired.
5 &quot;The Return of the King&quot; completes &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy that began with &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; and &quot;The Two Towers.&quot; J.R.R. Tolkien took Arthurian legends and Norse mythology and recreated the realm of high fantasy in the 1950s that continues to be popular today.That Tolkien was able to forge a bond with &quot;Fellowship&quot; then split up the characters was a masterful stroke. In &quot;Return&quot; we follow Pippin and Gandalf to Minas Tirith, where Pippin becomes part of the tower guard for Denethor, the Steward of Gondor and father of Boromir and Faramir. Merry, left behind in Rohan, bonds with King Theoden, and later secretly rides to battle with the mysterious Dernhelm. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli take with paths of the dead to recruit an army that must fulfill its destiny to become free of a curse. We also get the sub-stories of Eowyn and Faramir. And Frodo and Sam don't even appear until the second half of the book!What I liked about &quot;Return&quot; is that Tolkien continued to raise the stakes and throw obstacles in the way of his characters. Merry and Eowyn pay a price during their encounter with the ringwraithes. Frodo gets stabbed, stung and bitten. Yet, each character gets to be a hero in a believable way. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are already larger than life heroes, so the hobbits are really the source of humanity in the story, the observers who rise above their stature and perform great acts of bravery. That Tolkien could show growth in so many characters, and even in Aragorn as he gradually accepts his destiny as the king of his people, was remarkable.The book is filled with excellent detail about the lands and history of the peoples, and I found myself glad that there were handy maps in the back for reference.After the climax, there are another fifty or so pages as the characters make their way homeward and Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin must retake the Shire from the thugs who have assumed control. This would be unheard of in a book today, since the main action has been completed, but Tolkien is going completing the journey by having the characters return as champions. In the &quot;Scouring of the Shire&quot; chapter, we see how much the hobbits have truly grown, as they must wage a campaign without their other friends to help them. Finally, &quot;The Grey Havens&quot; draws our story to a close.The appendices are also worthy of perusal, as they are filled with historical details of the world of legend, when Isildur battled Sauron, etc. as well as what happended to the principle characters after Frodo returned to the Shire. By reading these pieces, one glimpses the amazing scope that a writer can undertake to create a world filled with fascinating stories, rich history, multi-dimensional characters, and sweeping landscapes.This series is highly recommended.
5 I would have to say that The Lord of the Rings trilogy is the best story (besides the Bible) that's ever been written.  It creates a new world, with breathtaking characters, scenes, and relationships.  I just loved reading this, and look forward to my kids reading it someday.TheThe Lord of the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring / The Two Towers / The Return of the King Extended Editions) [Blu-ray] are the best movies ever made... period!  IF you love the books, the movies actually do them justice.I also thoroughly enjoyedThe Hobbit, however it was nowhere near as good as LOTR.  Looking forward to the Hobbit movies, too.
5 I must have read this book between 15 and 18 times since I first got through it when I was twelve.  That's about once a year give or take.  I am not a massive Tolkien geek and though I have also read and reread The Hobbit, the Perilous Realm tales and Mr Bliss (all excellent) I have never been able to stomach the Simirilion or the other middle earth books.  It seems to me that Tolkien's genius lies in being able to spin gold from straw and I have not felt the need to examine the straw too closely.  The give or take in those numbers would coincide with the release of the recent film version of the epic which I hated.  I watched the first half of the Fellowship of the Ring DVD a few months ago and had to turn it off.  The film is both camp and silly where the novel is not.  It is a testament to Tolkien's humanism that he is able to avoid that trap when so many of his followers waltz right into it.  I have just started my 2010 reading and am still transported by the language and the believability of the story.  I thoroughly reccomend this book to anyone who has only seen the films or to someone buying for a twelve year old boy who may not yet have embarked on a life long love affair with language.
5 actually I bought he wrong item...it was suppose to be al the cds and  I goofed big time what can  say
5 I have read the 3 books many times since I first bought them in the mid-60s. I never tire of them and now that the Peter Jackson movies have been out for a while, I cannot imagine the LOTR characters without seeing the faces now so well known in the videos. Go Gandalf go!
5 As the sequel of The Fellowship of the Ring and part two of The Lord of the Rings, this is definetley a page-turner.  The strength of Isengard while Saruaman is ruling it has become so great that the great Men of Gondor dont think they have much hope without help. In this amazing book the friendship of the Fellowship and the loyalty that Sam has for Frodo is definetley tested. Gollum is playing a big part in this book also, being Frodo and Sam's guide through the Nameless Land.These hobbits have overcome so much that that as Sam puts it, "they should write a song about our adventures". This is a wonderful, awe-striking book. READ IT!!!
2 Note -- Tolkien's work is rated 5 stars. The physical book is rated two stars.When you pay $100 list for a collector's edition book, you expect it to be perfect in all respects. I am on my 3rd copy of this edition and am still dissatisfied.The first book had paper that was poorly folded. There were many pages that were misfolded. I returned that and got another copy. This one had a whole signature [one group of pages] with a tear at the top edge.I returned that and got a third copy. This one seems OK, but the pages are not centered in the hard cover. Its rather dissatisfying, but I think I will keep it.The publisher should take their printer/binder to task. Three strikes in three pitches is unacceptable for what is a very expensive edition to begin with.BTW all three copies had glue that overflowed onto the inside cover pages. When you try to separate the pages, they tear where the glue had been.I think that the publisher dishonors Tolkien's marvelous work and insults their readers by publishing an expensive edition with such poor quality control.
5 Wife loves this series and very happen with the boxed set as it was a very good deal. Thank you
5 I will not cover the book's content; plenty of reviews are available on the content.  I will focus on the beauty of the edition illustrated by Alan Lee.Plainly: If you have the money, buy it. If you are wondering if you want to buy a boxed set or the illustrated edition, buy the illustrated edition.  The pages are heavy and will last generations.  I have read this edition once through and have found the binding and pages to be in excellent condition.  The book is large and opening the book incorrectly may cause some damage.  What do I mean by opening the book incorrectly?  A man who restores ancient books for Spain's National Library in Madrid taught me to always open hardbound books at the middle first and turn to the desired page (as opposed to opening directly to the first page.  This helps maintain a healthy binding for generations to come.The illustrations are beautiful and do not detract from the pictures and story that are created by the writing.The book and the story get five stars.
5 Tokien's timeless fantasy of adventure in 'Middle Earth' featuring Hobbits, Wizards, Elfs, Goblins, Orcs and Dark Riders is here presented in long-lasting bindings.  A full set of maps from the complete 'Lord of the Rings' epic is presented in this volume.  The book begins where 'The Hobbit' left off as Bilbo Baggins throws his farewell birthday party and struggles to leave a malign and little understood 'ring of power' to his nephew, Frodo.  The remainder of the volume follows Frodo and his various companions on what are usually hair-raising adventures that require all the courage, stamina and luck each of the participants can muster.  Will their mission succeed?  Even were it to succeed, would the outcome of events be changed?While this book is a fantasy, its basic bones are very believable as regards to atmosphere, psychology, suspense and even moments of terror.  There are epic events of flight from danger, flight into danger and of massive and brutal skirmishes and battles with the 'soul of the world' hanging in the balance.  'Zillions' of fans read and reread these books so it is very welcome that sturdy versions are on the market.  You, too, will enjoy the story and the use of this edition.
3 There is so much to be said against The Lord Of The Rings that it shouldn't be worth the effort. A book that, judged by conventional standards, contains so many appalling lapses of taste and so much coarse vulgarity really ought, by now, to have faded from sight.From many points of view, it has dated badly, and its aesthetics and politics are now so odd that you might be forgiven for thinking, as Peter Jackson's new trilogy of movies rapidly approaches, that its appeal, after all, is one of a delicious period piece.But all judgements have always been confounded by this extraordinary book. It ought to be too long, and too pointlessly abstruse, to command wide popularity; it is not a book for children, and yet not a book for adults either; its style is too elevated for popular literature, but too coarse for &quot;high&quot; literature. There is no reason on earth for anyone to like it, and there are plenty of readers who still think that the judgement of JRR Tolkien's first publisher - who was surprised when it started to look as if the book might make as much as 1,000 - was much sounder than the people who, in the past 50 years, have bought more than 100 million copies of the book.However, by now, The Lord Of The Rings is unarguably a part of English literature. Contrary to popular belief, 100 million readers can perfectly well be wrong; but the continuing life of the book cannot just be ignored. It is just there, massively.But, in many ways, it is just awful. It is amazingly humourless, and Tolkien knows it - over and over again, he writes &quot; 'Come, master Pippin!' Gandalf laughed&quot; - a very bad sign, all those laughing wizards. You don't have to be politically correct to be mildly alarmed by some aspects of it. Apart from Eowyn, the women in it are not madly significant, or allowed to do anything much. There is Galadriel, who stays at home being Wise; there are Goldberry or Rose, who stay at home being Patient Helpmeets; there are Lobelia Sackville Baggins and Shelob, who stay at home being completely ghastly.It is an appallingly nave fantasy of good and evil races; mostly, the good people are tall and blond and speak Nordic or Celtic languages, and the bad ones are dark and hairy and talk a sort of Persian - those guttural dwarves are allowed a sort of virtue, but it is rather grudging in tone. Sam Gamgee is a loyal retainer of the most frightful variety, still &quot;Mr Frodo-ing&quot; away and knowing his place 1,000 pages in; basically, he is Dickens's Sam Weller, and Tolkien couldn't even be bothered to change his name.Tolkien probably knew as much about language as anyone, but it would be fair to say that his interest stopped at grammatical inflection. The Lord of the Rings, by ordinary standards, is just badly written. Great swathes of it are in a sort of Ben-Hur biblical: &quot;And all the host laughed and wept, and in the midst of their merriment and tears the clear voice of the minstrel rose like silver and gold, and all men were hushed. And he sang to them... until their hearts, wounded with sweet words, overflowed, and their joy was like swords...&quot;There are endless mock subtleties of the &quot;It seemed to Sam that he saw...&quot; variety. And there is, too, that infallible sign of a really bad writer, the overuse of the word &quot;suddenly&quot;. Everything in The Lord of the Rings happens suddenly, dozens of times a chapter. And yet it is one of those very rare books that confounds all objections, all standards, and which in the end may make its own standards. Nobody, I think, has ever produced anything with the imaginative density and intricacy of the book. The reviewer's clich&eacute; is, for once, apt here; he really created a world.The power and resonance of the book come in part from an ethical debate that is much more adult than one remembers - it is haunted by the cruelty of its age, and is not, in fact, just about the alternative of Good and Evil, the elves and the orcs, but largely about the possibility of becoming evil through the best intentions. It is really about slow corruption, and is at its finest in the portraits of Saruman and Denethor, characters who it is not difficult to parallel in 20th-century history.But its claim on real greatness comes from the sense of huge, half-glimpsed vistas of history and language, the illusion (which may not be an illusion) that its author knew exactly the languages each of its characters would have spoken and understood the events of ancient history that lead all of them to act as they do.In a realistic novelist, writing about a real war, this would be a remarkable feat of intelligence; when you consider that Tolkien invented absolutely everything - the backstory, the languages, the geography - it quickly becomes almost incredible. At some point, the critics and the literati have to admit that they were just wrong, and, by now, it is probably time to start considering his extraordinary flight of imagination as one of the key works of modern literature.
5 I remember reading these books when I was 7 or 8 years old, and finally, in my adult years decided to buy them and read them to my kids. This is a must have series.
4 This is the second 'collector's' edition of this work that I own. I have the red box edition, which was excellent, yet had some drawbacks. This edition is far and away what any serious Tolkien fan wants/needs. The box, binding, maps and extras are simply amazing. The gilt edges are gorgeous.I won't go into a pros and cons for this one - you either want this volume or you don't. I have gone almost exclusively to e-books in the past few years. Yet I simply had to have this one.Yes, it is leather-bound - with about the thinnest leather I have ever seen. While I would have appreciated a far more substantial leather binding, I understand the mass-market requirements. A full-grain leather binding would have put this out of the reach of most buyers. That said, I would still have enjoyed and willingly purchased such a tome.The maps are incredible - and it takes quite a bit of care and attention to unfold and fold them back up again. Once again - perhaps they could have been packaged as separate items for easier use.Sure - no volume of a true classic is going to please everyone. I am quite pleased with this purchase - I would love to own a volume with the extra details as I have described, yet does such a thing even exist?Again - for a Tolkien lover - this is truly a must.
5 I read "The Lord of the Rings" because I was involved in a stage adaptation of "The Hobbit" a few years ago. I really thought the it would basically be another version of "The Hobbit" just far more drawn out. I cant even count how many in which I was wrong. "The Hobbit" was a great book but it does not even come close to how great LOTR is. The story is gripping and the characters are fantastic, even though inner monologues are not used to describe how they are feeling. Tolkien was a story teller of genius. LOTR is a very impressive tale that, in my opinion, might have been even longer in the author's mind. The mythology that Tolkien created will live on as long as the Pagan or Norse mythologies of ages ago. "The Lord of the Rings" is STUNNING. ( But one really should read the Hobbit and maybe the Silmarillion before reading it.
5 The Lord of the Rings is Tolkien's epic work.  It began entire new genres of creative fiction.  Many authors have imitated; few have actually attained.
5 Given the fanaticism with which lovers of this book rave about it, one might be tempted to assume that it is overrated. This would be a mistake; it is one of the finest stories in literature, and well worth its reputation.Granted, it is not to everyone's taste; nothing is. Some may find it overly wordy or pretentious; this reviewer finds some of Tolkien's other works (notably his postumously published works, such as &quot;The Silmarilien&quot; and the &quot;Books of Lost Tales&quot;) to fit that description, and granted, this book occasionally comes closer to that than its companion volume, &quot;The Hobbit&quot;, which is told in a much more accessible, lighthearted style. (Others may not care for the heroic-fantasy genre at all; there's no accounting for taste.) This book, however, is intended to be a more serious tale, and its style reflects that. But it only rarely takes itself over-seriously, (at least until one finishes the actual story and reads the appendices, if one indeed bothers doing so) and is a story of much grander scope and accomplishment than &quot;The Hobbit&quot;.This book is nothing less than THE seminal modern heroic fantasy story; everything that has come after it owes much to its influence. Just as there were vampire stories before Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot;, there was heroic fantasy before Tolkien. And as there are modern vampire stories that diverge greatly from the concepts in &quot;Dracula&quot;, so there are modern heroic fantasies that similarly diverge from the concepts in &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;. Yet just as &quot;Dracula&quot; is unquestionably a major influence on all vampire fiction that has come after, so with &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; and heroic fantasy. If any author of heroic fantasy has not read this book (unlikely in and of itself) they still could not escape its influence, because WHATEVER stories they may have read that influenced their writings are guaranteed to have been influenced by Tolkien and this book. It is simply unavoidable.This is an absolute must-read for anyone with any interest at all in the heroic fantasy genre. If it were possible to rate any book higher than five stars, this would be one that rated at least six.
5 I have loved this trilogy for many years and was happy to be able to get it for my Kindle. The story is well-written and gripping. I think it appeals to men and women of all appropriate ages and makes the reader feel like they are in the story
4 With the Fellowship broken Sam and Frodo set off to fulfill their destiny alone, following the path into the fires of Mordor while Aragon, Legolas and Gimli set out in pursuit of their captured hobbit comrades, Merry and Pippin.  The novel is split into two parts consisting of the friends' separate adventures as the tale of Middle Earth continues to unfold.  The world teeters toward the brink of dark destruction with its fate resting squarely on Frodo's shoulders.Tolkien's second installment in the beloved Lord of the Rings trilogy captivates the reader with the same magical gravity and mystical allure as the Fellowship of the Ring and its predecessor, The Hobbit. However, this book did not seem to posses the same depth of substance.  As a bridge between the beginning and end of the series it had more of a transient feel; a piece rather than a whole.As always Tolkien writes lyrical flowing prose which captures the very spirit and dark majesty of Middle Earth. He paints vivid pictures of fanciful landscapes, gruesome battles and creatures both terrifying and beautiful.  Though the story does tend to drag at several points it never truly grows boring; Tolkien's masterful storytelling and flowery descriptive language is enough to compensate for lags in action. In the end Tolkien leaves another nail biting cliffhanger that will have you clambering for the next part of this epic adventure!
5 Loved this book, I first desired to read it because of the movies.this edition was interesting  because o  the extra content.
5 this book is great i am only 12 and i read it in 5 days. I think it is ten times better then that harry potter stuff. If your are looking for a good book to read this is the one for you.
5 I would have to say there is no other book that has repeatedly made an appearance throughout the course of my life than _The Lord_.Even _Alice in Wonderland_, _The Tale of Two Cities_ and  other such literary notables fail to take precedence over _The Lord_!It  effectively became part of my high school memories as we passed the book about, nearly a cult hit amongst us all.The joke was on us when we learned how long ago it had been published.I watched as my kids caught the fever and passed the same book about.  Now, it is a cinematic celebration and the editions go on and on.  It is quite an achievement for a novel to take on such notoriety and I am  grateful that I was able to have the opportunity to enjoy the read, as well as the movie.
5 &sbquo;The Two Towers' takes over, where TFotR ended. J.R.R. Tolkien takes us once again back to Middle-Earth, his fairy world populated with unique forms of life and filled with ancient myths. And amidst this enchanting setting, we accompany our merry band of Hobbits on their exciting adventures that carry them to places far beyond their and the readers imagination.After the fellowship broke apart at the waterfalls of Rauros, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas set out to rescue the two young Hobbits, Merry and Pippin, who had been captured by orcs to be brought to the traitor wizard Saruman. The chase itself is as fast paced as the second part of Tolkien's first book had been since the departure from Elrond's home. The events that unfold around the three hunters culminate in a furious battle at Helm's Deep where the riders of Rohan clash with Saruman's mighty forces. These chapters possibly form the most intense string of chapters of the whole LotR trilogy.In contrast to the classical epic fantasy style of the first part, the second part of TTT focuses on the journey of Frodo and his faithful companion Sam to Mount Doom, the mighty fortress of evil Sauron. While the first part of TTT is filled with strife and warfare, the second part is also a journey to the true meaning of friendship, trust, betrayal and courage. Frodo and Sam find assistance when they least expect it by the hands of Faramir, brother to late Boromir, who succeeds in uncovering Frodo's secret task, but rather gives the weary Hobbits hope than despair as he resists the temptation to take the one ring from Frodo when he has the chance to do that. And they experience betrayal at the hands of Gollum, who first brings them closer to their final destination, but eventually leads them into a fatal trap. But it's the courage of dear Sam, who prevails when things appear to have been lost and evil is just one final step from victory...And that's probably the key to 'The Two Towers'. Where TFotR focussed on the adventures of a group of heroes set out to defend good from evil, TTT teaches us about friendship and faith, all spiced up by exciting battles and mysterious riddles. That's what makes Tolkien's epic so unique, as it is more than just a string of adventures in a world of fantasy and magic.
5 While I am loathe to endorse books with movie covers, if those covers are the only thing making you want to read these books, that will have to do.Tolkien's works in this box set are broad in scope yet focus on these specific characters so well that you never feel intimidated by the world being created around you.These books are easy to get into and satisfying on each and ever page. The action is methodical and inspiring while the journeying is even more inspiring. The sub-text of the music in Middle-Earth is a wonderful aspect of these books that we miss in the movies.In any case, these books are a must read, in whatever form you can get them.
4 Sadly the map we're used to seeing at the back of Lord of the Rings doesn't work very well in Kindle format.
4 The books are great, I got this set as a gift. They were well received. Seems like something to 'collect' more than to read. Nice illustrations...
4 &#34;We see in the earliest materials what is very much a children's book, a sequel to &#34;The Hobbit&#34;, and as the story grows through various 'phases', there is an increase in seriousness and depth.&#34; - A note from Douglas A. Anderson in the May 2004 edition of &#34;The Lord of the Rings&#34;&#34;The Two Towers&#34; solidifies &#34;Lord of the Rings&#34; as an ADULT fantasy. The playfulness that pervades &#34;The Hobbit&#34; is merely a whisper in the second volume of Tolkien's trilogy, and signifies that this is no children's tale. The poems and songs, so goofy throughout &#34;The Hobbit&#34;, reference portents of death, and a pervading and all-consuming world-eating darkness.The giddiness of Bilbo dissipated in &#34;Fellowship of the Ring&#34; as the reader was exposed to the darker side of the former ring-bearer. And the weight is even heavier for Frodo as he drags himself across Middle-Earth, with Gollum as a guide, closing in on his fate at Mordor.&#34;This matter winds itself ever in new riddles.&#34;- Spoken by Faramir in &#34;The Two Towers&#34;&#34;Two Towers&#34; is broken into two chunks - the first being the travels of Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli as they chase after the Uruk Hai and orcs who've killed Boromir and run off with Pippen and Merry. The second portion follows Sam and Frodo as they meet Gollum and and travel without their companions towards Mordor. The Aragorn thread is a straight-up terrific adventure that propels much of Tolkien's Middle-Earth mythology, while building a foundation for his plot and the ultimate climax which is driven by Frodo's travails.I'm thoroughly enjoying &#34;Lord of the Rings&#34; and very satisfied with the maturation of Tolkien's world, characters and themes. It's heavy and dark and very serious...three extremely appealing traits that drive my fictional tastes.
4 I liked this book...it was a probably my favorite out of the series. I didnt like them quite as much as the hobbit, but it is still worth the reads
5 I first received *The Lord of the Rings* as part of a boxed set, complete with *The Hobbit,* for Christmas in 1985. I also received a boxed set of the first four *Dune* books. I was 13 and in 8th grade.Like many 13-year olds, I loved *The Hobbit* but I thought *The Lord of the Rings* was simply awful. For one thing, the plot was not immediately obvious to me. (Keep in mind that at the time my enjoyment reading primarily comprised Doctor Who novelizations and Choose Your Own Adventure books.) Instead of the short chapters of plot and dialogue to which I was accustomed, Tolkien provided page after page of exposition, describing the local color and history with any "action" provided almost as an afterthought. And then there is what may have been the biggest problem of all with *The Lord of the Rings,* the scores of strangely named characters and places, some of whom are central to the story and others of whom are purely peripheral and which is which is unclear. I mean, sheesh, who names their two main villains Sauron and Saruman, names that differ by only one syllable?It should be here noted that while I loved reading at age 13, I was also not the best reader. Memories of reading what I managed to of the trilogy consist mainly of reading a single page over and over and over again just to follow the main thread of the story. Somehow I managed to finish *The Fellowship of the Ring* and made it a few dozen pages into *The Two Towers* before I threw up my hands and abandoned Tolkien to the realm of "authors I think are overrated." I still have a vague recollection of giving a a pretty worthless presentation on the first book in front of Mrs. Fox's English class, the same class I was in when the Challenger exploded. (I also have an even vaguer memory of reviewing some disposable piece of genre SF calledDushau (Dushau Trilogy, No 1), but that's another story.) In short, I never thought I would ever read this book again, and considered all those folks who worshiped Tolkien to be little short of fools.Fast-forward sixteen years. It's Christmas time in Champaign, and I'm attending *The Two Towers* with my coworkers, mainly because the bosses gave us cinema tickets for the holidays. As the movie begins to unfold, I remember those few dozen pages that I read at 13, and I slowly begin the journey of reappraising Tolkien. While I agree with those who urge reading the book as well as simply seeing the movie, I think that in this case I could not have done the former if I had not done the latter. Peter Jackson's trilogy allowed me to familiarize myself with the overall story arch (something that was hard for me to do from within the perspective of the novel, at least at first) and also helped me to handle the enormous cast of strangely named characters. (Finally Saruman and Sauron were decidedly distinct characters in my mind's eye, and the logic behind their naming, based as it is on Tolkien's invented languages, became more apparent.) So in fall of 2007 I finally decided to give the damned book another chance, mooched the one-volume "trilogy" (apparently Tolkien always considered it one big novel) through BookMooch, chose it over the New Testament for 2008's "big book" (sorry Mom), and devoured it in January, 2008.In short, I loved it, particularly the exposition and the bizarre names for characters and places. Strange, huh, how the passage of time will do that to one's sensibilities? The very features of the novel that I found off-putting in 1985, I found absolutely ingenious in 2008. The names and locations in *The Lord of the Rings* all figure into a much-vaster cosmology and narrative history, and this becomes more apparent when the reader peruses the voluminous appendices. All the details that seemed arbitrary and distracting from "the action" were in fact anything but arbitrary, deriving as they did from a comprehensive mythology (of a world that did not exist until Tolkien wrote it into existence!). Take for example the appendix on the "translation" of the text explaining why Tolkien chose English words like "elf" and "dwarf" and "halfling" to "translate" the "original" Elvish words. Apart from the implication that there is really an original manuscript written in Elvish, this appendix also implies that the "elves" in this story aren't really elves, the "dwarves" aren't really dwarves, etc., but that these are the closest analogs that the translator could find in fantastic literature.That these 1,000+ pages, with all their hyper-detailed exposition, are merely the tip of the iceberg of Tolkien's invented world, makes the novel all the more amazing. This really is a masterpiece of storytelling and myth-making. I can understand now why so many people love this book. I think I'm now one of them.
5 I always was a giant fan of Lord of the Rings, ever since I got my hands on a copy of The Hobbit only to find out there was more to the story.  I never owned a true copy of Lord of the Rings until now and this book does not disappoint.  It is beautiful and extremely well made.  This Leather Bound edition is truly the One Book to Rule them All!!The Leather Bound 50th Anniversary edition of Lord of the Rings might be fairly expensive compared to the simple hard-cover edition, but it makes up for it in style.- Leather Bound book cover and Leather bound storage case (it feels like 'faux' leather to me however).  The leather isn't pitch black like the default image shows, and appears blueish if you try to photograph it.  The Leather my edition came with has this nice Black Ash look to it. Imagine black with some ash gently brushed into it.- Pages are gold edged, and are extremely reflective.  The pages themselves feel heavy duty and smooth to the touch. Also included are 3 pages from the Book of Mazarbul on laminated pages. Although I found the pictures a tad dark, it makes for a nice collective piece of Tolkien art.- The leafing on the leather itself is high quality and clearly  meant to lastThe included maps are beautiful, as is the addition of red text throughout the book on key elements (such as the writings on the ring) is a nice touch.  Included is a lovely red ribbon that is smooth and high quality.  It is bound to the book inside the binding itself.  With the entire story printed under one cover this book comes in at about 4 lbs**Overall this is a must have for the Lord of the Rings fan whom has always wanted a single print edition of the book.  There have been over 400 corrections made which makes this book the most accurate print version to date.  For the collector the [Leather Bound] version is worth the price!  High quality and just beautiful workmanship was put into this book.  For the casual fan, perhaps the standard hardcover edition would be enough and saves you some $ in the process.* A few warnings to be aware of with the Leather Bound edition.1- Check your binding!  The ribbon itself is bound to the binding itself.  My edition had the ribbon bound in the "middle" of the book and the binding was flawless. Reading around it appears versions where the ribbon was bound towards the beginning or end of the binding itself caused the binding to "weaken". (there are even user pictures showing this above)2- This isn't a 100% solid leather covering.  It is just leather wrapped around a standard hardcover frame. (you can tell because the leather itself isn't attached to the book at the spine)3- The Maps are attached / bound to the book so don't quickly yank on them or they will rip.  Be very careful when opening them also as they used adhesive to hold it closed (no idea why they would glue it closed)
5 What can I say - this classic will never loose its appeal
5 The Return of the King is the final part of The Lord of the Rings. In this last part the feeling of good versus evil reaches its pinnacle in LOTR. Tolkien gave incredible detail describing the War of the Ring, as it  spanned several chapters. All of the characters are developed further, and  for most of the TROTK, the story remains a two way split. TROTK has an  amazing conclusion, and that is partly bad. Upon finishing the novel, I was  sad that it was over, and I didn't want it to be over, because Middle-Earth  is a great place to get lost in. You go on the journey that the Fellowship  undertook, and feel everything that each member of the party felt. This is  possible because throughout LOTR, Tolkien wrote vivid passages describing  the regions of Middle-Earth, the characters, and what they were thinking. I  read TROTK more slowly, because I wanted to stay longer than what the novel  would allow. The four hobbits of the Fellowship become harden warriors, a  trait that was virtually absent from their kind. Even though the novel  finally came to a complete finish, it felt like it left room for more. It's  to bad that there is no direct sequel, and while it answers most of the  questions left from the end of The Hobbit, the reader can come up with  plenty more questions upon finishing LOTR. Professor Tolkien did a work  that was unexpected in its depth. He invented several REAL languages and  writing systems, a complete history to back the novel, and created a  wonderful world filled with diverse races and environments. Some fantasy  authors may have tried to reach Tolkien's level in fantasy literature, but  I am certain the The Lord of the Rings will never be duplicated. The Return  of the King stands as the incredible conclusion of the greatest epic ever  written. My only regret was that it ended.
5 Always enjoyed this series - loaned it out and it never came back.  Good to have it back and this will stay here at homre.
4 The following review is for people who wouldn't want the reviewer give away the big spoilers -- particularly regarding a certain Ringbearer you well-know and love.  But as you can imagine, the fates of the Fellowship of the Ring, Saruman, and Sauron are finally played out in this third and last installment of the Lord of the Rings trilogy.*** Aragorn faces his royal legacy, the hobbits serve valiantly in the battle against the Sauron, and the Quest of the Ring to Mount Doom is given a fitting conclusion.*** Tolkien's trilogy wraps up in a somewhat unusual manner. Many will find the latter part of "The Return of the King" to be superfluous and lacking the fire of the earlier action. But thoughtful readers will appreciate what Tolkien has to say.*** The Lord of the Rings adventure is immense and life-changing to its players -- particularly for the hobbits who never imagined themselves so far away from home and so instrumental to the forces of the world. Tolkien's final chapters are about coming home again and realizing that you have a responsibility, wisdom, and talent to bring to everyday life. For what is great war without a home to return to?
5 Likely the best books written in quite a while...this is a fascinating read.....one that I will read over and over again
3 A great story told well. A little cumbersome to read and could be more streamlined but a great story behind it.
5 Bought this for the husband for the one-year &#34;paper&#34; anniversary. He's one of those LOTR nerds who has read the whole dang thing about 108 times. So why would getting him another copy of a book he practically has memorized be a good idea? Because this edition blows all other editions away--it's simply gorgeous. It feels like something you'd wanna keep in the family and pass down to future hobbit freaks. And the husband loves it--I practically had to pry it out of his hands so we could go out to dinner.Also, there's an index. An index!
5 In many ways this is one of the foundational texts of the twentieth century. It's hard to imagine a world without Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and the hundreds of works that it influenced. For example there would be no Dark Tower Series by Stephen King or A Song of Ice and Fire by George R R Martin without Lord of the Rings. So rather than talk about how awesome and amazing this book is, I will talk about the one volume edition itself.This is a great purchase. It combines all three of the Lord of the Rings texts into a single volume at a reasonable price. Sometimes these massive paperbacks have a tendency to be a bit frail, however, this edition stood up well against my daily commuting through New York City. It survived lunches where I hunched over it with burritos and burgers. It endured a couple trips to bars where I read it over a few beers. This edition is durable.If you have the individually published books, I would still recommend picking this up. It is easy to flip back and forth between the sections. It also has an extensive appendix and index of the epic novel. Usually I tell people if they're hesitant to buy something like this it wait until they're sure, but for this I think it's worth the purchase.
5 As a big fan of the original trilogy and a big non-fan of Peter Jackson's movie version of same, I found this audiobook a delight. Rob Inglis is a wonderful reader and actor, bringing Tolkien's poetry, prose and song to life in a full, three-dimensional fashion. Even if you're a fan of the movie version, you won't be disappointed with this grand rendering of a timeless classic.
4 I didn't enjoy this as much as the first part of the trilogy, but it was still pretty good. Strangely divided, though. The events of this book take place simultaneously in two locations, and rather than skipping back and forth, Tolkien for some reason tells all of what happens in one place, then jumps to the other parallel story, occasionally giving chronological markers -- while such and such was happening in the great battle to the north, yada yada. Still, a good, and obviously crucial part of a great overall story.
5 The epic scope of this book makes it hard to describe. Good triumphs, but not without paying a tremendous price. The pain of betrayal and the power of friendship are each given a full examination. A whole world is created, with languages and customs that are far from those we understand, but that are based on their own inherent logic. This is just an incredible book; it transports the reader to a world where darkness and light struggle for dominance. There are few books that have this power; make sure you get the opportunity to be part of it.
5 As I wrote in my review of the recent film, I was in my younger days one of those early-1970's LOTR fetishists (and there were enough of us around to outnumber all the fell hordes of Mordor) who who regarded Tolkien's meisterwerk as something of a spiritual map.I've outgrown quite such an un-nuanced belief in Tolkien's grasp on Eternal Truth. In fact the last time I read the book, I was a little (dare I so much as whisper it, even in the well-lit halls of Rivendell?) cringed by the political incorrectness, the imperialistic assumptions, the sheer darn chauvinism of the narrative. Literary fashions move on, and Tolkien is an increasingly dated form of cool. But then the same could be said of Shakespeare. In a generation that is steeped in sword and sorcery imagery, it is so easy to forget that (allowing for his largely unacknowledged debt to Wagner), Tolkien invented the whole genre single-handedly.I'm not saying that LOTR is an easy read. It is long-winded in places. Tolkien had spent years developing the geography and history of his imaginary world, in fact he'd even explored the possibility of getting this work published, before he started work on the stories that make up "The Hobbit" and the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. And he was determined to get some of it in, even at the risk of slowing the pace of the narrative.Even so, the book is rewarding like no other fiction ever written. Tolkien knew enough to link his story to all the mythologies that are part of our cultural make-up, without ever actually plagiarising existing legends. He was a master of literary styles, ever matching his style of prose and poetry to the incident being narrated. His characters burst into vivid life, as do his landscapes. Above all, he makes you want to be there - a point proven by the many thousands of obsessive fans who do take up a kind of residence in his fantasy landscape.Simply life-changing. I first read LOTR as a cynical teenager, wanting to loath its fairy nonsense. But I was drawn in, mesmerised; I lived and breathed it. I finished it in an all night sitting from about 8 in the evening until 7 the next morning, when I reeled out into a flawlessly bright and dewy summer morning still unable to disengage my brain from that distant other world. Thirty years later it still ranks as my favourite novel of all time, and it shows every sign of being the most enduring piece of classical literature to come out of the English-speaking world in the 20th century.
5 I have come late to Tolkien's works, despite (or rather because of) the fact that they were cult reading when I was at school. One of my classmates, then aged about sixteen, proudly boasted that he had read the entire work about fifty times, and ever since I have tended to associate Tolkien with obsessive fanatics. I was, however, eventually persuaded to read the books by Peter Jackson's excellent trilogy of films.The plot of "Lord of the Rings", a novel of well over 1,000 pages, is too complex to be summarised here in any depth. At its centre is a magic ring (a motif Tolkien seems to have borrowed from Wagner). This ring can give its owner immense power, but can only be used for evil purposes. At the beginning of the work the ring is owned by the elderly hobbit Bilbo Baggins, who acquired it many years before (the story of how he did so is told in "The Hobbit") and has no idea of its power. He is warned, however, by the wizard Gandalf that the evil Dark Lord Sauron, who originally forged the ring, is trying to regain it in order to enslave Middle-Earth (the imagined world in which the story is set).The story has two interlocking themes. Firstly, there is the journey of Bilbo's nephew Frodo to destroy the ring, something that can only be achieved by casting it into Mount Doom, the volcano in which it was eventually forged. (During the early part of his journey, Frodo has a number of companions- the "Fellowship of the Ring"- but only one of these, his faithful servant Sam, stays with him to the end). The second is the war that is waged by Sauron and his allies against the peoples of Middle Earth- humans, hobbits, elves, dwarves and ents (walking trees)- and of their courageous resistance.The book is much more than a fantasy adventure. Many have tried to read hidden meanings into it, both religious and political, even though Tolkien explicitly stated that it was not an allegory. Certainly, it is not an allegory in the sense of "The Pilgrim's Progress" or "Animal Farm"- a book where every detail has a symbolic meaning or can be related to an actual historical event. (Sauron, for example is not simply another name for the Devil or a disguised portrait of Hitler). This does not, however, mean that there is no symbolism in "Lord of the Rings". The main symbol is the ring itself, which represents evil and its power to corrupt the human spirit. The heroes such as Gandalf and Frodo do not dare to use the ring against Sauron because they fear that if they do they will be corrupted by its power and become as evil as he is. The various races who people Middle Earth also have symbolic functions, especially the Elves and the Orcs. The former, in Tolkien's world, are not small fairy-like creatures but an ancient race, beautiful, wise and noble who represent the higher, spiritual side of human nature. The brutal and aggressive Orcs, by contrast, represent its lower, bestial side.The theme of good versus evil is one that is capable of either a religious or a secular interpretation, but Tolkien himself was a devout Christian, and some of the themes of the book seem to be directly related to Christian ideas. There is no single Christ-figure, but three of the heroes have Christ-like attributes. Frodo, the ring-bearer, symbolically bears the sin of the world. Gandalf the wise and benevolent sage rises from the dead after dying in a struggle with an evil adversary. The final part of the book is entitled "The Return of the King"; this relates to the reappearance of Aragorn, the lost heir to the throne of the kingdom of Gondor, but can also be taken as a reference to the Second Coming.So far, I have discussed the work in largely abstract terms, but it is not principally a book about abstractions. What sets it apart from many other fantasy works is that Middle-Earth is brilliantly imagined in all its concrete reality. It is a world that is in some respects a familiar one. Its geography, climate, flora and fauna are closely based on those of Europe. The hobbits, for all their small stature, hairy feet and habit of living in holes, are also reassuringly familiar; conservative and phlegmatic by temperament, they seem like the Middle-Earth equivalent of tweedy, pipe-smoking Englishmen. In other respects, Tolkien's world is highly exotic one. He spent many years of his life developing his ideas about the races who inhabit it, working out full details of their cultures, their histories, their mythologies and (most important from his point of view as he was an academic philologist) their languages. Many of these details are set out in the Appendices which, although they do not form part of the main story, are nevertheless a fascinating part of the work.Against this background, Tolkien creates a cast of characters who, even when they have a symbolic function, also come to life as individuals. (Something else that sets him apart from many other fantasy writers). Besides those mentioned above, I should also mention Sam, Frodo's loyal and steadfast servant, Saruman, a former colleague of Gandalf who was tempted by cynicism and self-interest to throw in his lot with Sauron, and especially Gollum. Gollum is the mysterious creature from whom Bilbo originally won the ring, and whose life is dominated by the desire to recapture it. He is vicious and treacherous, and yet at the same time capable of arousing pity. He both desires the ring and fears its power; at the end he will play an ironic yet vital role in its destruction. From evil, good can sometimes spring.Having read the work, I can now understand why it has such a fascination for many people, even if I have no immediate plans to read it another forty-nine times. In some literary and academic circles there may be a prejudice against the heroic fantasy genre, which is regarded (with some justification) as tending to produce shallow, one-dimensional works. The miracle of "The Lord of the Rings" is that Tolkien has taken this unfashionable genre and used it to produce a rich, multi-layered work, one which has taken its rightful place among the masterpieces of twentieth-century English literature.
5 This was my third reading of LOTR (the first was when I was in college in the 1960s). I'm glad to see that the trilogy is now in a single volume the way that Tolkien intended it to be published.LOTR is a classic story of high adventure and the triumph of good over evil, all set in the mythical fantasy world of Middle Earth. The saga is filled with some of the most memorable characters in literature, including hobbits, humans, dwarves, elves, orcs, ents, wizards, and witches. Epic battles are fought throughout the story, from Weathertop, where Frodo is seriously injured, to the final clash outside the Black Gate of Mordor.Those who have only seen the film versions of the three LOTR books owe it to themselves to read the trilogy. There was so much more in the books that could not be shown in the films due to time constraints. For example, in The Return of the King, the third book of the trilogy, there is a whole mini-story of what happens to the hobbits in the Shire after Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin return home. Even after defeating the Dark Lord Sauron, there was more evil to be confronted in the Shire, and from a most unexpected source.My test for a great book is... if I had to be stranded on a remote island for years without contact with the outside world, would it be one of only ten books I could take with me? In the case of LOTR, the answer is a resounding "yes."
5 These books were my friends when I was a lonely middle-schooler and thought nobody liked me.  Definitely worth reading if you never had.  Warning - if you've never read this type of book before, force yourself to get through the first 2-3 chapters - things become much more interesting the farther in you get.  Tolkien created a unique world - and any world has a lot of mundane things which must happen to ensure proper functionality.
5 I can only echo the strong praise given by other Amazon reviewers who give this audio book edition five stars and their highest accolades.Rob Inglis does an amazing job portraying all the characters in Tolkien's masterpiece.  As others have written, he is not merely reading the book, he is acting out all the parts and bringing them all to life in a vivid and compelling manner.I have read the LOTR many times like other convinced Tolkien fans. In listening to Mr. Inglis' presentation, I was moved more deeply and profoundly than by my own readings.  It goes almost without saying that the pure and unabridged, unchanged Tokien text as read by a great actor is also far superior to any dramatization of Tolkien, audio drama or film.  I recommend this audiobook with the strongest endorsement!
4 These books have really captured the imagination of my two middle-school aged children.  They read these books over and over again and are experts on all the trivia.  As a result, I will be in the market for a hardback set real soon!  I think it's great!
5 This made one little grandchild extremely delighted.  I am so thankful for healthy and pure reading material.  This met the bill.
5 I don't know what I can say that hasn't been said before, but I love this story so much that I just had to put in my two cents worth anyway.  This epic tale has everything any reader could ever want:  adventure, horror, romance, history....  We are carried away mentally and emotionally to Middle Earth and by the end of the story only wish we could go there physically as well.  The story reminds us of the value of friendship, honor, bravery, and begs us to consider what choices we would make given the same sort of circumstances.  I've read this book annually now for 30 years and hope to continue to read it for 30 more.  Run out and buy it, for even if you've seen the films, you're still missing a great deal.  Tolkien's way with words is unbelievable and you'll find if you've planned to read the book for an hour each night, you'll be lucky to get an hour's worth of sleep instead because you won't be able to put it down!  Once you've read the story, Frodo, Aragorn, Gandalf and all the others will remain in your heart forever.
5 I purchased this title because my print version of this edition was too bulky. The book is separated into chapters with quick links for easy navigation and also linked to footnotes. I am thoroughly enjoying this edition.
4 This book is long but it keeps you entertained. You have to had read the first book to follow the story but all ages need to read this.
4 A story told by a master craftsman, and a story that launched a thousand or more imitations.  It's far, far better than the movies.
5 Here's a little 'history' of the publishing: when Tolkien wrote 'Lord of the Rings', he wrote it as one book, wanted it read as one book, published as one book. 2 out of 3 isn't bad. Back in the day (1954-55) it was costly to print it as one book, so it got split into 3 (Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, Return of the King). Many years later, you go to the book shop and it like wall-to-wall with different varities of this book. I highly recommend getting the 'single voulme'. One book is easier to keep track of and store rather than three. Plus, it's how Tolkien WANTED it to be published. Now that he has passed away (Sept 2, 1973), as a reader, it's kind to respect his wishes. I don't want to spoil the book, other than you should The Hobbit first to really KNOW the WHOLE story, though you don't have to. Both The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings are excellent books. Highly recommended.
5 I can't imagine a better reader for this material than the man they chose, Rob Inglis.  I listen to LOTS AND LOTS of audiobooks, and this is among my favorite.  The books themselves are quite imposing in size for someone like me, in that I don't have a whole lot of time to read, so the audio version is always my first choice.  This is a breathtakingly spectacular piece of work.
4 I kind of did this backwards...I saw the movies before I read the book. I totally loved the Hobbit, maybe because I didn't see the movie (is there one?). The three Lord of the Rings books were really good, but man, they got boring sometimes. I mean, I think the movies actually improved on stuff, which is rare. In the book, Tolkien might spend 40 pages on some boring walk, including every detail of what they ate, what the trees looked like. Sure. All great stuff, in small chunks. But then he describes an epic battle scene in like 2 pages. That's supposed to be what everything else is leading up to.But that's about all I have to complain about. I mean the world in Lord of the Rings is so creative and interesting...like the Ents, as an example. They were way cool in the book. Even though it dragged sometimes, I read every word 'cause I liked it so much. A great read for anyone. Really. But definitely start with the Hobbit. That's the best of them all.
4 This book definately bests its predecessor, The Fellowship of the Ring.  There is less description and thank god, less SINGING!  The part of the book that really won me over was Book 4.  And especially the last 2 chapters!  I don't want to give anything away, but I read them in one sitting.  It was great.  At one point, it got me crying.  This is definately the best part of any book in the trilogy!  The only reason I gave this book 4 stars is because of Book 3.  I found it pretty boring, except for a few surprises here and there.  If you read the Two Towers, just skip straight to Book 4 and fasten your seatbelts.  It's going to be a great ride!
5 Cause it's the entirety of Lord of the Rings...who wouldn't give it 5-stars?!?!Also the Kindle version is extremely well formatted.
2 Is it okay that I didn't really like The Return of the King, or the entire Lord of the Ring Trilogy for that matter? I feel like a fantasy fan failure admitting that, but just put the pitchforks down and hear me out.The Fellowship of the Ring was just okay for me. The Two Towers was difficult to get through and The Return of the King was pretty much the same. I had to force myself to finish. I'm something of a completist. I had already put the time and effort into reading the first two and people kept telling me was that I had to read the last one, so I really tried to like it.The story is great. The characters, fantastic. I truly loved the movies. The books were something akin to torture, though. The names, the places and the descriptions were all lost on me. I would have needed a large cheat sheet to keep track of everyone and everything I was supposed to remember to follow the story. I constantly had to backtrack to figure who was who and to what they were referring. Strangely enough, the only thing I could keep track of was the different races of people. I suppose I could have gotten really into it had I read the trilogy as if it was a textbook, but this was supposed to be leisurely reading.The Return of the King dragged on and on with no end in sight. 85 pages of saying goodbye to one another is just overkill. The last many pages, on returning to the Shire, was the highlight of the entire trilogy for me, but couldn't help overcome my distaste for the rest of the book.I know people love this trilogy and this book specifically. It's constantly mentioned on favorite book lists and must read lists. I even understand how and why people like it (thanks to the movies). Reading the books just did not work for me. At all. I think it may have hurt my brain.
5 I've read many fantasy novels over the years.  Every time that I think I've found someone that outshines Tolkien, I come back to find that the books have deepened in my absence.The first time I read the book, I enjoyed it because it was a rip-roaring good story.  While it starts off a little slow (I'm not a fan of Tom Bombadil), it ratchets up and maintains a taunt pace for another six or seven hundred pages, not an unimpressive feat.  Strangely, Tolkien manages this without following some of the cardinal rules of storytelling (for example, show, don't tell; and end the story right after the climax).The last time I read it, I had just read the Silmarillion, which is basically a history book of Tolkien's world.  I was amazed at the level of detail in the Lord of the Rings.  Characters often refer offhandedly to ancestors or events thousands of years in their past.  In an earlier reading, I would just let the strange names wash over me, but this time I understood more of the references and why they would make the connection in the context of the story.  While the deep joys and sorrows were felt the first time I read it, seeing that this was merely the latest in a series of battles that had been going on for thousands of years made the sorrows that much keener; and seeing these characters achieve feats of heroism that their ancestors had not managed made the joy that much sweeter.C.S. Lewis said that a book not worth reading twice was not worth reading once.  This one is worth reading many times over.I have to agree with other reviewers that this particular edition, while gorgeous to look at, is rather difficult to read.  It is too heavy to hold comfortably and the fold out map makes following the journey more difficult than it need be.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth encompassed in The Silmarillion, The Children of Hurin, the Hobbit, and the Lord of the Rings can only be described as one of the greatest legends in history. Tolkien cannot fairly be likened to a modern author, but indeed unto Homer, Virgil, and Shahrazad.
5 and that is an extremely difficult decision for me to come by, but I can come to no other.The best word that I can come up with to describe The Lord of the Rings is that of perfect.  It is perfectly constucted,  perfectly executed.  The characters are perfect in that they are characters  with downfalls and fears, and only through the progression of this tale,  through new experiences and trials, are they able to bring themselves to  new and stonger levels of understanding and the strength that comes with  understanding.It is also exceptionally fun to read.  We may appreciate  Ulysses because of its intellectual brilliance, but The Lord of the Rings  is an enjoyable adventure while intellectually stimulating.For those who  have passed this book over as being something full of common fantasy  cliches, consider that this is where those cliches began.  Tolkien's  popularity has had such an effect on popular fantasy, that few authors have  not appropriated one Tolkien idea or another.In other words, read this  book.
5 First of all, if you've never heard of &quot;The Hobbit&quot; or the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; Trilogy, I'd be very surprised. Some have deemed them the &quot;greatest works of the 20th century.&quot; (But not having read all the books this century, I couldn't say.) But you will be VERY hard pressed not to justify spending ... for these four books.First of all, &quot;The Hobbit&quot; is basically a prelude to the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy. Tolkien didn't know what he was getting into when he wrote &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; but once the public swallowed it hook, line, and sinker, he delivered the rest with the same kind of magic that has made this a classic.&quot;The Hobbit&quot; is about Bilbo Baggins--a simple hobbit (a race of gentle, liesurely, dwarf-sized people whom Tolkien created)--who gets wrapped up in adventure when he has absolutely no intention of getting involved in one because of Gandalf, the wizard. (Probably the second most famous wizard in literature, after Merlin.) Anyway, Bilbo, Gandalf, and 12 dwarven companions set out to reclaim the dwarven mountain city which was stolen years ago by Smaug, the dragon. And as the case is for many great books, the adventure is both in the destination AND the journey.The trilogy which follows is a tad grittier than &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; and does not center around Bilbo Baggins, but rather his younger cousin, Frodo. It's simply a matter of taste on which you'll prefer--some will enjoy &quot;The Hobbit&quot; the best, while others the following trilogy.They are books I'd read to my children (someday when I have them) and I can't wait to watch their eyes widen with imagination. They are not &quot;children's books&quot; but children will still enjoy them (especially &quot;The Hobbit&quot;) as will adults. They are those rare books that anyone at any age can enjoy. I and my wife are reading &quot;The Hobbit&quot; together (she's never read it) and though she doesn't like fantasy, she is LOVING this book and can't wait to find out how it ends.The only reason I can think of that you would not get these 4 books for a mere $20 is that you already have them, or you'd rather get them in hardcover as nice display pieces on your library shelves. Understandable. But otherwise, give this a try, either for the first time, or the 3rd as is my case. It's the great grand-daddy of the whole fantasy genre, and deserves the credit it's due for that, but primarily because they are great stories.By the way--there is work being done on a movie trilogy for the &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; with the first one coming out Christmas of 2001. I would recommend you read the books first. Hopefully, the movies will catch that same awe, wonder, and magic, but just to be safe--read the books!
5 If you like fantasy and you have'nt read this book, then you must be dead!This is the one that started it all!Buy it! Read it! Love it!The absolute all time classic!!!!!!!
5 been watching the movies it about time to read the books. I love the kindle addition makes it easy to read on the go.
5 To cut short, everybody by now should now that the story of LOTR is excellent and Alan Lee's illustrations are the closest to the movies versions.Now about the US edition of the book:When I visited a local book store in Indonesia, I found they sell the same special edition with illustrations by Alan Lee, but published for UK by HarperCollins in a three hard cover illustrated book in a box.I was surprised to see the UK version is MUCH better from the US special edition.  The UK version has "cleaner" Map print out, with two colors (dark brown and black), and it was printed in the inside of back cover, so it used heavier paper quality.  This US version has hard-to-read and lower quality B/W map.If you want to buy, get a chance to see the UK version first by HarperCollins before deciding to buy the Houghton Mifflin illustrated edition.
5 Amazing copy of LOTR. Beautifully bound with gold rimmed pages. A must for any Lord of the Rings fan. Excellent quality and worksmanship.
5 No real need to go into detail.  Read these the first time when I was 9 years old, read them again every few years since.  Now I have them on my Kindle and can take the whole trilogy with me everywhere.  Nothing more needs to be said.
5 This is THE seminal book in fantasy.  The archetype.  All others that follow are a variation on the theme.  And, unfortunately, some are straight up rip offs (Brooks & McKiernan).  That said, Tolkein delivers the most cohesive mythos in fantasy ever.  Characters are perfectly crafted and delivered; the story is never disjointed - always coherent.  This is the penultimate fantasy work.  A MUST own for any student of specluative fiction.
5 This is a great deal! All three books for such a great price. If you are going to read one of the books you are going to want to read the other two so why not buy them all at the same time!
5 So after years of umming and ahhhing over reading this series I am finally glad to have done so! Having brought it I did not emerge from the book until I was finished and this is what I love in a book. One that truly ensnares the reader in the world and doesn't let go until the end. This is the essence of J.R.R.Tolkeins writing, he is the utmost master of writing that draws the reader in from the first world. I would insert a huge paragraph about how amazing these books are but given the fact that almost everyone knows how great they are it would be pointless.This kindle set is a nice set. Highly Recommend.
5 This is the third time I have visited the magical world of J.R.R Tolkien's unique Middle-Earth, and I'm sure it won't be the last time! The Return of the King is the final, and in my opinion the best, book in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. With just as much action, adventure, suspense and romance as the first two, the final episode breaks all bounds with not a dull moment in its entirety.The book resumes the story of the remnants of what was the Fellowship of the Ring, now the Grey Company. Each have gone their separate ways, and Frodo and Samwise have journeyed to Mordor to fulfill their dreadful task of destroying the Ring. Peregrin and Gandalf set out for the slowly dying city of Minas Tirith to inform its Steward, Denethor, of the death of his son Boromir, who died protecting Peregrin and Meriadoc. While Gandalf and Pippin ride East, Merry, with the rest of the Fellowship and the host of Rohan, rides to Edoras to consult the lady Eowyn, daughter of the king of Rohan. However, a new path is revealed to Aragorn and the Grey Company: The Paths of the Dead. All paths hold danger for each company, though Frodo's is the gravest. With Sauron's Eye upon him constantly, the Ring weighs heavier on his conscience than ever, slowly working its evil on his heart. Having lost all hope, Frodo succumbs to despair and even Sam's optimism cannot lift the heavy burden from his mind.Following the end of the novel, there are the Appendices, which describe the history of each ancient race and its background. Including some excerpts from Bilbo's Red Book, they are a great help in understanding Middle-Earth as a whole.I could not stop reading this book once I started, and I believe the reader will find it just as addictive. Tolkien combines all of the human weaknesses and strengths into this magnificent story of betrayal, temptation, courage, love, hate and valor. Journey with Frodo and Sam as all of the Races join in the fight that will seal the fate of Middle-Earth and end the Third Age. I guarantee it will be an adventure you will never forget.
4 all in all this was a good book, except for the begging.  I had trouble with the begging, because it switched around so fast and without any warning that it took half a page before i realized that it was a different set of charectors.  It had got fighting sceens and an exelent plot.  you should read this book, only after you've read the rest of the series, the hobbit and the silmarillion.
5 The books read as if your grandfather was telling you this amazing bedtime story everynight. I hear the voices and I see the characters, the landscapes; I feel the energy, the nervousness, the sorrow and the joy. Such a wonderful read and I am fully hooked.
5 I love that the Lord of the Rings was offered in a single volume, and that the price was VERY reasonable!  A wonderful buy!
5 The "Two Towers" is an excellant book, but you need to read the "Hobbit" and "Fellowship of the Ring" first
5 What more can be said about this legendary work?  It is truly the finest work in the history of the fantasy genre.  Often imitated but never duplicated, Tolkien set the bar to an unattainable height for all who have followed in his footsteps.  I first read these books as a young child and they have become an annual read in my adult life.  There is something new and rewarding every time.
5 and discover a complex world that you will believe must be real somewhere.  It will not seem possible that all this history, magic, language, and geography coulb be imaginary.  Tolkien must have been there and is just letting us in on the secret.  The story revolves around a gold ring created to let the wearer rule the world.  It comes into the possesion of a little unassuming hobbit named Bilbo Baggins (THE HOBBIT) and later to his nephew, Frodo (THE LORD OF THE RINGS Trilogy).  With a band of elves, dwarves, humans and a wizard they must trqvel to destroy the ring.  This probably sounds like Dungeons and Dragons stuff, but it is so much more.  Just read it and be amazed.
5 I'm writing this specifically about the boxed set with ISBN 0547928181, published by Mariner Books (a division of Houghton Mifflin) in September 2012. And I'm writing this because when I was trying to decide if I wanted to order this set, I could not find any reviews that specifically discussed the set. So if you are in the market for this particular set, here is some information about it.Mariner describes this as a deluxe set. One thing that makes it deluxe is that the cover images, which are, as it says on the back of each book in fine print, by J.R.R. Tolkien, are embossed, as are the titles and Tolkien's name. This gives them a very classy look and feel.There is no indication on any copyright pages or anywhere else in this set that the paper on which these books are printed is acid free or designed for permanence, so my guess is that the paper will eventually start to yellow though I cannot guess as to how many years that might take. I think a truly deluxe boxed set would contain books printed on the same kind of permanent paper on which academic books are often printed. At least the paper is sufficiently opaque that I cannot see text on the opposite side of the page I'm reading.The books are 8 1/4" x 5 1/2". Different font sizes are used for the main body of the text in The Hobbit and in the three volumes of LOTR. The font size in The Hobbit is larger and has 37 lines per page (on those pages that are filled with text). There are 42 lines per page in each LOTR volume. Given my eyesight I wish they all had the larger font size of The Hobbit, but the font size in the LOTR volumes is okay.The numbering for the 3 LOTR volumes is consecutive throughout the volumes, meaning that Fellowship begins on page 21 (following a note on the text, foreword to the second edition, and prologue), Two Towers begins on page 403, and Return of the King starts on page 731 (and ends on page 1008, after which there are another 100 or so pages of appendixes, an index and maps).I first read The Hobbit and LOTR in the sixties in the mass paperback versions published by Ballantine with cover illustrations by Barbara Remington. (There is a neat site titled "The Middle Earth Illustrators J.R.R. Tolkien Loved--and the Ones He Abhorred." Tolkien told a publisher that he thought Remington's cover illustration for The Hobbit was ugly.) When I recently decided that it was time to reread them (and so far I've only seen the first of the LOTR movies and I've yet to see The Hobbit), I considered getting a LOTR volume that had all the books in one, but after checking one out in a store I decided it would be more comfortable to hold them for reading if they were in separate volumes. Plus I wanted The Hobbit (which I plan to start reading aloud to my grandchildren) and I couldn't resist that Tolkien's designs were on the covers (I'm an artist and illustrator and cover art is important to me).Each of the volumes that come in the boxed set are available separately (i.e., the exact same books minus the box). The box itself is attractive and seems fairly sturdy.There are notes in The Hobbit in this set and in Fellowship regarding the corrected text. The notes in The Hobbit are dated 2001 and 1993 in Fellowship, and I assume that if corrections have been made to the text of these books since those dates, these corrections are not reflected in the books in this set.There are two maps and 8 other illustrations, all in black and white, in The Hobbit.That's it for what I can tell you about this particular boxed set of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. I will now add a comment about why I decided to reread these great books.I started to read The Game of Thrones (before I saw the first episode of the TV series, and in fact, before I even knew there was a series). It's author, George R. R. Martin, is often compared to Tolkien or at least his series of novels, A Song of Fire and Ice, of which Thrones is the first, is often compared to LOTR (and I just now realized that he and Tolkien share the same middle initials). And based on what I've read of Thrones so far I think the comparison is deserved. But reading Thrones made me want to go back to Tolkien (though I plan to continue reading Thrones as well as to watch the series).Last night I listened to a streaming radio interview with "The Tolkien Professor," Corey Olsen, author of Exploring J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Hobbit." He expressed his admiration for Martin and Martin's Song novels, but said that although Martin's Song novels set out to be darker and grittier than Tolkien's novels, and take place in a morally ambiguous world as opposed to Tolkien's world where there is absolute good and absolute evil, the kind of fantasy of which a A Song of Fire and Ice is an example, is derivative of Tolkien albeit in a "reversed way."That's what I began to sense as was reading Thrones and that is what made me want to go back to Tolkien. I didn't know then that Tolkien had once said that, "The Lord of the Rings is of course a fundamentally religious and Catholic work; unconsciously so at first, but consciously in the revision."Tolkien, I just recently learned, was a lifelong devout Roman Catholic who believed that the story of Jesus Christ is a "true myth" (and in fact C.S. Lewis attributed Tolkien's sharing this concept with him to Lewis's conversion to Christianity). There is something universal in the kinds of values reflected in The Hobbit and LOTR, and something higher and uplifting in the worldview that shines through these great works. One needn't be religious or have any particular kind of religious beliefs to appreciate this.Anyway, I think it was a partly unconscious desire to once again partake of that wholesome, ethical and ultimately uplifting worldview that made me want to dive back into Tolkien's novels. And it's because these books are so special that I wanted to buy a special set as opposed to mass market paperbacks and/or a version that has advertising for the movies all over the covers (though the cover of The Hobbit in this box set does have the words "Now a Major Motion Picture" below the title).The bottom line is that if you want a nice quality boxed set of trade paperbacks of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, this particular boxed set should fill the bill.
5 The Lord of the Rings is a classic in my mind. It takes the reader on an epic journey of good verses evil. Dramtic and exciting. The main Character, Frodo Baggins, is a wonderful hero.
5 The three volumes of the Lord of the Rings trilogy are collected into One Volume which Shall Rule Them All. Just kidding about the rule them all part. But the one volume is very well conceived and saves you a buck or two over the individual purchases. And Tolkien writes beautifully still. Sit down with it and enjoy the tale again.
5 An amazing tale of the small and insignifigant defeating the all powerful.  True epic and grandious in its development.  One of the most influencial books of the 20 century if not of all time.  The descriptions that Tolkien uses to bring his world to life are better than I have ever read and I have read a lot.  For anyone and everyone to enjoy.
5 I decided to revisit this wonderful tail and read all the way through for once. The Lord of the Rings for me is more than just a story, it's a tale of love and heartache, perseverance and triumph, shadow and dispair, loss and sorrow but also victory and friendship. This is one of the rare gems of our time, written by a man than few can compare to, it's a story that will forever be in my heart.
5 The series that started it all, any fans of fantasy should get this and read it, in whatever form they're most comfortable with.
5 Great bindings, quality paper, and without the illustrations by Alan Lee which were too graphic and frightening for my young daughter.  (Covers are illustrated). Very pleased.
5 One of the greatest stories ever written.  Well worth reading again and again.  The movies are great, but the book really brings the story out.
5 This is the third time to read this book.  I have the hard backs and I wanted to have it on my Kindle so thatI could take it with me anywhere.One of the finest fantasy novels ever written.
5 Everything positive about this novel has long since been said; suffice it to say it is brilliant.  This review, however, refers specifically to the version illustrated by Alan Lee.  His paintings are masterful and capture the true essence of Tolkien's imagination.  Furthermore, the book itself is printed on outstanding glossy paper, and the binding has proved remarkably durable.Whether you are reading this novel for the first time, or the fiftieth, this is the version you want.  While it is a bit pricey, it truly captures the romance of the novel in a way no other edition could possibly equal.
2 I was not taken with the Hobbit stories and have no really good reason why not.  I am a big fan of sci-fantasy as a general rule.
5 This is my first read of the Tolkien series - and I really enjoyed it.  I waited until I saw all the movies first.  His descriptions are terrific, this can be seen in the movies, which match the books quite well.  Ideal reading for anyone who enjoys fantasy reading.
5 J.R.R Tolkien has produced one of the best novels of all time. Not only did he create a story, he created a whole dynasty. Never again will such a book be written.
5 I could say that i am a little obssesed with the Lord of the Rings.This is the best Book/Movie that i have ever read/seen.I feel like an elf at heart my favorite character is the Elf Legalus, he is my favorite character even though he is not truly one of the main characters but then again to me he is Legulas is played by Orlando Bloom one of the best Male actors i have seen he also stars in Pirates of the Caribean. The special Effects of thid movie are spectacular every time i watch it i gasp at all the moves of corse J.R.R. Tolken had made this book and it would have never happened without  him.In the First movie every time i see the part where Frodo Says &#34; I wished the ring had never come to me , i wish this never happened &#34;, i all ways laugh thinking we never woukd have seen/read this without you...I hopa the other people that exspearinced this likes it as much as i did
5 Lord of the Rings Deluxe Edition - by J.R.R. TolkienThis is the deluxe edition and as such contains several books, "The Fellowship if the Ring," Book one and two; "The Two Towers," Book three and four; "The Return of the King," Book five and six.  There are several appendices and indexes. The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set, the other to be The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.  For economic reasons The Lord of the Rings was published in three volumes over the course of a year from July 29, 1954 to October 20, 1955.  The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King. Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume. Some editions combine the entire work into a single volume. The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous times and translated into many languages.  The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by J. R. R. Tolkien, later fitted as a trilogy. The story began as a sequel to Tolkien's earlier fantasy book The Hobbit and soon developed into a much larger story. It was written in stages between 1937 and 1949, with much of it being written during World War II. It was originally published in three volumes in 1954 and 1955, and has since been reprinted numerous times and translated into at least 38 different languages, becoming one of the most popular works in twentieth-century literature.The action in The Lord of the Rings is set in what the author conceived to be the lands of the real Earth, inhabited by humanity but placed in a fictional past, before our history but after the fall of his version of Atlantis, which he calls N&uacute;menor. Tolkien gave this setting a modern English name, Middle-earth, a rendering of the Old English Middangeard. It is not possible, even at great length, to give "The Lord of the Rings" a fair writing in a paragraph or two. There are over 600,000 words to the whole of the story.  Making this a masterpiece of storytelling and needs no assistance to entertain those sensitive to its qualities.  A story with a special blend of fantasy and adventure, its richness of language, duty and heroism, perseverance and sacrifice, the lust for war and the desire for peace, for more than fifty years unaided by enchiridia of any sort.The main conflictThe story concerns peoples such as Hobbits, Elves, Men, Dwarves, Wizards, and Orcs (called goblins in The Hobbit), and centers on the Ring of Power made by the Dark Lord Sauron. Starting from quiet beginnings in The Shire, the story ranges across Middle-earth and follows the courses of the War of the Ring. The main story is followed by six appendices that provide a wealth of historical and linguistic background material, as well as an index listing every character, place, song, and sword.Along with Tolkien's other writings, The Lord of the Rings has been subjected to extensive analysis of its literary themes and origins. Although a major work in itself, the story is merely the last movement of a larger mythological cycle, or legendarium, that Tolkien had worked on for many years since 1917. Influences on this earlier work, and on the story of The Lord of the Rings, include philology, mythology and religion, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien's experiences in World War I. The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great impact on modern fantasy, and the impact of Tolkien's works is such that the use of the words "Tolkienian" and "Tolkienesque" have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.The immense and enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture, the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien's works, and a large number of books about Tolkien and his works being published. The Lord of the Rings has inspired (and continues to inspire) short stories, video games, artworks and musical works (see Works inspired by J. R. R. Tolkien). Numerous adaptations of Tolkien's works have been made for a wide range of media. Adaptations of The Lord of the Rings in particular have been made for the radio, for the theatre, and for film. The 2001-2003 release of the Lord of the Rings film trilogy saw a surge of interest in The Lord of the Rings and Tolkien's other works.The Lord of the Rings takes up the story about 60 years after the end of The Hobbit.The Fellowship of the Ring:The story begins in the Shire, where the Hobbit Frodo Baggins inherits the Ring from Bilbo, his uncle and guardian. Neither is aware of its origin and nature, but Gandalf the Grey, a wizard and old friend of Bilbo, suspects the Ring's identity. When he becomes certain, he strongly advises Frodo to take it away from the Shire. Frodo leaves, accompanied by his gardener and friend, Samwise ("Sam") Gamgee, and two cousins, Meriadoc ("Merry") Brandybuck and Peregrin ("Pippin") Took. They nearly encounter the Nazgl while still in the Shire, but shake off pursuit by cutting through the Old Forest, where they are aided by the enigmatic Tom Bombadil, who alone is unaffected by the Ring's corrupting influence. After leaving the forest, they stop in the town of Bree where they meet Strider, who is later revealed to be Aragorn, Isildur's heir. He persuades them to take him on as guide and protector. They flee from Bree after narrowly escaping another assault, but the Nazgl follow and attack them on the hill of Weathertop, wounding Frodo with a Morgul blade. Aragorn leads the hobbits toward the Elven refuge of Rivendell, while Frodo gradually succumbs to the wound. The Ringwraiths nearly overtake Frodo at the Ford of Bruinen, but flood waters summoned by Elrond, master of Rivendell, rise up and overwhelm them.Frodo recovers in Rivendell under the care of Elrond. The Council of Elrond reveals much significant history about Sauron and the Ring, as well as the news that Sauron has corrupted Gandalf's fellow wizard, Saruman. The Council decides that the Ring must be destroyed, but that can only be done by returning it to the flames of Mount Doom in Mordor, where it was forged. Frodo volunteers to take on this daunting task, and a "Fellowship of the Ring" is formed to aid him: Sam, Merry, Pippin, Aragorn, Gandalf, Gimli the Dwarf, Legolas the Elf, and the Man Boromir, son of the Ruling Steward Denethor of the realm of Gondor.After a failed attempt to cross the Misty Mountains via the pass below Caradhras, the company are forced to try a more perilous path through the Mines of Moria, where they are attacked by the Watcher in the Water before the gate. Inside, they discover the fate of Balin and his colony of Dwarves. After repulsing an attack, they are pursued by orcs and an ancient and powerful demonic creature called a Balrog. Gandalf confronts the Balrog, but in their struggle, both fall into a deep chasm. The others escape and take refuge in the Elven forest of Lothl&oacute;rien, where they are counselled by Galadriel and Celeborn.With boats and gifts from Galadriel, the company travel down the River Anduin to the hill of Amon Hen. Boromir succumbs to the lure of the Ring and attempts to take it from Frodo. Frodo escapes and determines to continue the quest alone, though Sam guesses his intent and comes along. The Fellowship of the Ring is broken.The Two Towers:Orcs sent by Saruman and Sauron kill Boromir and kidnap Merry and Pippin. After agonizing over which pair of hobbits to follow, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas pursue the orcs bearing Merry and Pippin to Saruman. In the kingdom of Rohan, the orcs are slain by a company of the Rohirrim. Merry and Pippin escape into Fangorn Forest, where they are befriended by Treebeard, and the oldest of the tree-like Ents. Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas track the hobbits to Fangorn, and encounter Gandalf, resurrected as the significantly more powerful "Gandalf the White" after his mutually fatal duel with the Balrog. Gandalf assures them that Merry and Pippin are safe. They then ride to Fedoras, the capital of Rohan, where they free Th&eacute;oden, King of Rohan, from the influence of Saruman's henchman Gr&iacute;ma Wormtongue. Th&eacute;oden musters his fighting strength and rides to the ancient fortress of Helm's Deep, but en route Gandalf leaves to seek help from Treebeard.Meanwhile, the Ents, roused from their customarily peaceful ways by Merry and Pippin, attack Isengard, Saruman's stronghold, and trap the wizard in the tower of Orthanc. Gandalf convinces Treebeard to send an army of Huorns to Th&eacute;oden's aid. Gandalf and Rohirrim reinforcements arrive at Helm's Deep just in time to defeat and scatter Saruman's army. The Huorns dispose of the fleeing orcs. Gandalf then parleys with Saruman at Orthanc. When Saruman rejects his offer of redemption, Gandalf strips him of his rank and most of his powers. Pippin looks into a palant&iacute;r, a seeing-stone that Saruman had used to communicate with Sauron and through which he was enslaved. Gandalf rides for Minas Tirith, chief city of Gondor, taking Pippin with him.Frodo and Sam capture Gollum, who had been following them from Moria, and force him to guide them to Mordor. Finding Mordor's Black Gate too well guarded to attempt, they travel instead to a secret passage Gollum knows. Torn between his loyalty to Frodo and his desire for the Ring, Gollum eventually betrays Frodo by leading him to the great spider Shelob in the tunnels of Cirith Ungol. Frodo is felled by Shelob's bite, but Sam fights her off. Sam takes the Ring and leaves Frodo, believing him to be dead. When orcs find Frodo, Sam overhears them say that Frodo is only unconscious, and chases after them.The Return of the King:Sauron unleashes a heavy assault upon Gondor. Gandalf arrives at Minas Tirith to alert Denethor of the impending attack. The city is besieged, and Denethor, deceived by Sauron, gives up hope and commits suicide, nearly taking his remaining son Faramir with him. With time running out, Aragorn feels he has no choice but to take the Paths of the Dead, accompanied by Legolas, Gimli and the D&uacute;nedain Rangers from the North. There Aragorn raises an undead army of oath-breakers bound by an ancient curse. The ghostly army help them to defeat the Corsairs of Umbar invading southern Gondor. Commandeering the ships of the Corsairs, Aragorn leads reinforcements up the Anduin to relieve the siege of Minas Tirith, and the forces of Gondor and Rohan defeat Sauron's army in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields.Meanwhile, Sam rescues Frodo from the tower of Cirith Ungol, and they set out across Mordor. In order to distract Sauron from his true danger, Aragorn leads the armies of Gondor and Rohan in a march on the Black Gate of Mordor. His vastly outnumbered troops fight desperately against Sauron's forces. Reaching the edge of the Cracks of Doom, Frodo is unable to resist the Ring any longer, and suddenly and fiercely claims it for himself. But Gollum suddenly reappears, struggles with Frodo and bites off his finger, Ring and all. Celebrating wildly, Gollum accidentally falls into the fire, taking the Ring with him; and so Frodo's mission is completed. With the destruction of the One Ring, Sauron is permanently shorn of his power, the Nazgl perish, and his armies are thrown into such disarray that Aragorn's forces emerge victorious.With the end of the War of the Ring, Aragorn is crowned Elessar, King of Arnor and Gondor, and marries his long-time love, Arwen, daughter of Elrond. Saruman escapes from Isengard and, seeking to carve out a new kingdom, enslaves the Shire through Lotho Sackville-Baggins bearing the name "Sharkey", an orc term for "Old Man". The four hobbits, upon returning home, raise a rebellion and overthrow him. Gr&iacute;ma turns on Saruman and kills him, and is slain in turn by hobbit archers. The War of the Ring thus comes to its true end on Frodo's very doorstep. Merry and Pippin are acclaimed heroes, while Sam marries Rosie Cotton and uses his gifts from Galadriel to help heal the Shire. He later becomes mayor of the shire. Frodo, however, remains wounded in body and spirit after having borne the spiritual weight of the One Ring so long.Several years later, accompanied by Bilbo and Gandalf, he sails from the Grey Havens west over the Sea to the Undying Lands to find peace. After Rosie's death, Sam gives his daughter the Red Book of Westmarch, containing the account of Bilbo's adventures and the War of the Ring as witnessed by the hobbits. Sam is then said to have crossed west over the Sea himself, the last of the Ring-bearers.According to Tolkien's timeline, the events depicted in the story occurred between Bilbo's announcement of his September 22, 3001 birthday party, and Sam's re-arrival to Bag End on October 6, 3021. Most of the events portrayed in the story occur in 3018 and 3019, with Frodo heading out from Bag End on September 23 3018, and the destruction of the Ring six months later on March 25, 3019.This was a very entertaining fantasy adventure and I enjoyed the storytelling aspect of the story very much. The story flows well and is rich in lore as the characters finally reach their intended goal.  I would recommend reading these stories for an escape into another worldly-adventure.The book itself is a cloth bound paperback with a faux-suede cover that has grey, gold and black lettering.  The paper stock is of high quality, not like a tissue paper and the overall feel of the text leaves a positive tactile feel.For the reader:The Reader's Companion was designed to accompany the revised one-volume 50th anniversary edition of The Lord of the Rings Houghton Mifflin, 2004; ISBN 0-618-51765-0).The Lord of the Rings: A Reader's Companion won the 2006 Mythopoeic Scholarship Award for Inklings Studies - by Wayne G. Hammond and Christina ScullJ.R.R. Tolkien Companion and Guide (Two Volume Box Set) [Box set] [Hardcover] - by Wayne G. Hammond and Christina Scull  Hardcover: 2300 pages Publisher: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (October 6, 2006), ISBN-13: 978-0618391134
3 After watching the first two movies I was enchanted to read the books and I wanted to finish them before &quot;Return of the King&quot; came out on the theatre. Well, I finished all the books and they were kind of a chore to finish. If you are big into scenery more than action then these books are for you. I probably wont read them again because of the extreme detail of clouds, mountains, underground, rivers and such. I'd rather get more of the character's feelings and emotions and it was just hard for me to get that with these books. But the story is excellent otherwise and there are plenty of fighting and treachery.
5 WARNING!This review contains spoilers of the first book,so if you haven`t read that,I recommend you not to read this.Well,the first book introduced us to the world of fantasy.Then it is time to read the sequel.As you have probably read the first book before reading this,you need no further introduction to the characters.The fellowship of the ring broke up in the end of the first book. Aragorn (the human),Gimli (the dwarf),and Legolas (the elve)has now left Emyn Muil to save the hobbits Merry and Pippin from the evil orchs.Frodo and his best friend Sam now decides to enter the shadowland of Mordor alone,because it is too dangerous to enter it for the others.This book is divided in two halfs. The first half is about Legolas,Aragorn and Gimli`s adventures. First,they meet up with Gandalf (that might come as a surprise to many)and then leaves to help King Theoden of Rohan to fight the orchs.Merry and Pippin escapes the orchs and meet up with Treebeard,who is some kind of living tree - an ent.The second half is about Frodo and Sam`s adventures on their way to Mordor and Mount Doom,their encounter with the creature named Gollum and a really terrifying monster named Shelob.Over all,this sequel is very exciting. It is fun to read two adventures which takes place at the same time,but on different locations. The first book introduced us to the Middle Earth with detailed descriptions etc,but this one is more like just a great adventure. If you like action,this book will not disappoint you.There is a lot more action in this one.Over all,all of the books are like one great adventure. Like the first book,this book has a little unclear ending too (but I won`t reveal what)to overgo directly in "Return of the King",the last part of the series.As for what I remember,this was the most exciting book to read as there happend so much. It doesn`t feel slow at any time. There is always something. And Tolkien has chosen to put out the dramatic sequences here and there. There is no time when it`s just "action,action,action" and "talk,talk,talk". He varies it deeply in all of the books. And I really appreciate that.Now,the first film has already been released and I am now awaiting to see the big screen version of this book. But don`t forget to read the book too. If you don`t read this,you`ve really missed great litterature!
3 THE TWO TOWERS was more enjoyable than I remember THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING being.  There's more action and intrigue, and the thickening of the plot was enough to want me to read THE RETURN OF THE KING as soon as I was finished.  There's much good to say about this book, but its two flaws are more interesting.The first flaw is endemic to Tolkien.  Its what I think of as the "eagles drop out of the sky" problem.  Too often, Tolkien paints his characters into seemingly inescapable situations, only to be rescued by some new, external force.  I was most annoyed by this by rescuing eagles in THE HOBBIT, but the problem re-occurs, albeit to a lesser extent, in THE TWO TOWERS.  The problem here is that the characters rely on un-foreshadowed luck rather than their wits, or some element introduced earlier in the book (or series).  This problem is especially acute near the end of the book, where a hobbit humbles a giant spider that apparently has been so formidable for years than even armies of orcs had been at its mercy.But the ending has other problems as well, not the least of which being the missed chance for Tolkien to fool the reader into thinking that Frodo, one of the main characters, is dead (until the next book).  We think that for a few pages, but the book ends, serial-like, with Frodo's friend Sam realizing that he's alive.  Not only do we miss the suspense generated by Gandalf's apparent death at the end of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, but the ending seems too unresolved, even for a middle book.
5 Elegant rendering and masterful depiction. The Hobbit, Fellowship of The Ring, The Two Towers and Return of the King. Amazing classics!
5 This is my third time reading Lord of the Rings...first time on kindle......still my favorite book. Tolkien is the best.
3 As pure diversion Tolkien is superb, but for those of us who are a bit more on the non-fiction side it can be a bit pompous.Not recommended for anyone not at least dimly familiar with the story or who didn't read it in self-defense way back when it was nearly required to have any discourse in high school ('60s-'70s).You know what I mean.
5 For its 50th anniversary The Lord of the Rings has at last been produced in an edition worthy of the beauty of its contents.  For the first time, J.R.R. Tolkien's masterpiece has received the treatment due to its classic status: leather binding, gilded edges, fine paper, everything the finest literary works should be accorded but are rarely given.J.R.R. Tolkien was never very happy with the publishing treatment given to The Lord of the Rings.  He was obliged to leave out the pages of the dwarf history found in the Chamber of Mazarbul in Moria when the publishing technology of the mid 1950s wasn't able to accomodate his painstaking production.  He was never pleased with the arbitrary division of the book into three volumes, and much of the artwork, particularly that of the first American paperback editions, pained him deeply.  Now at last we can feel that he would pick up this edition and smile.For this edition Tolkien's son Christopher has carefully prepared the text so as to eliminate many typographical and other errors which had crept in over the years.  Noted Tolkien scholars Wayne Hammond, Christina Scull, and Douglas Anderson have contributed forewards to explain some of the history of these revisions. This edition will truly become the Standard Edition of The Lord of the Rings.This edition of The Lord of the Rings is worthy to be read in Middle earth itself. As I hold it in my hands, I can imagine reading it sitting by an open round window in Bag End, or in the Hall of Fire in Rivendell, or on a flet in Lothlorien or  a tower in Minas Tirith. Any edition of The Lord of the Rings will introduce you to Tolkien's world.  Only this one will do so in a manner worthy of the genius of its creator.
5 Houghton Mifflin Harcourt; Aniversary edition (October 29, 2013); ISBN-13: 978-0544273443.Five stars, of course, for the novel. And five stars for the presentation. This is a beautiful new, single volume edition of "Lord of the Rings" at a reasonable price. Technically a paperback, it's more a suedeback. Pleasant to hold. And, easy on the eyes. Good typography, very clearly printed on good non-glare, off-white paper. When open, lays fairly flat in the hands and the pages turn easy. If this were printed as three separate volumes, it would be even more easy on the hands. Yet, despite its size, not overly heavy. Well done. I wish this book had been printed like this ages ago. This one book rules them all!Now if only the publisher would issue a like version of "The Hobbit"!
5 Buy this box set.  I read almost NO fiction, I do read the Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings over and over.  Get it read it and re-read it until the pages fall out and then buy a new one.  This is the best deal out there too.  The books are individually marked on the spine at $6.99.  WHAT A DEAL!  This is some of the best fiction ever written.  It is deep, but is totally removed from reality.  If you need to get away from the real world for a couple of hours, just kick back and read this masterpiece.
5 I absolutely loved reading this again, it's about as fun as a book can get. My only (minor) quibble is that the kindle version occasionally skips to the index when changing pages, so pay attention to where you are at when reading!
5 A true marvel of imagination and fantasy.  Tolkien sets the standard for all English fantasy writing in this series of novels and is a true classic by any standard.  A true must read.I would offer a complaint for the Kindle edition.  I use the kindle app on my ipod and it is difficult to find and navigate to the bookmarks.  I highlighted a few passages, and the highlighted passages and bookmarks were combined in one section on the navigation page and it was difficult to find my bookmark.  For ease of use and portability though, it is awesome!
5 Most of the people who are going to buy this book are LOTR fanatics and collectors Is the book good value or is it collectable. Well...Yes. It is probably the nicest single volume set of The Lord of the Rings I have come across and that includes the India paper single volumes.The package is complete with embossed gilt eye and rings of Sauron, full leather gold gilt page block, silk page marker. Full maps. section sewn.The text font is very clear and legible unlike many other editions and you could use this book to read the whole saga. Though my personal preference is the Allen and Unwin editions particularly the 2nd edition.Very nice presentation and considering you would pay almost the same price for the "ordinary" hardcover volume represents good value. Consider how much you pay for the folio society set.Still I await the ultimate three volume set....maybe the 100th Anniversary edition.
5 I remember rereading The Lord of the Rings in graduate school for the first time since I had read it in my early teens. I remember expecting to read something juvenile, mildly entertaining, and largely forgettable. So when I found myself weeping over the closing pages, you might say I was surprised. This was not at all the book I thought I remembered--not at all the childish sword-and-sorcery humbug I had pictured. Rather, it was a masterfully plotted, beautifully described work of immense depth and power. It was deep in many senses of the word--philosophically and morally rich, and bearing layers of background, setting, and character that invited hours of further exploration into its imaginative world.Since that time, I have reread the book about every other year, and I still weep, as Gandalf tells us we may, "for not all tears are an evil." The ending of The Lord of the Rings is one of the saddest in literature, but it's not sad in the way so many of the brutally, even bestially, pessimistic books of the twentieth century. It's a realistic and an honest sadness, for it sums up Professor Tolkien's worldview--a view of the world as a good but corrupt place, a place where evil has marred beauty, distorted wills, and injured some people (like Frodo) beyond their ability ever to be the same again.Tolkien's work has never set well with most literary types--though there are notable exceptions (like W.H. Auden and Iris Murdoch). Sometimes the naysayers raise objections that are more or less reasoned and legitimate; more often, however, their objections reveal less about their concerns with Tolkien's writing as writing than they do about the critics' discomfort with his worldview or their unease with his popularity. I don't particularly identify with the worldview of Homer or of the Enuma Elish, but I believe that if I'm judging them as literature, I need to stick to making literary judgments.
5 J. R. R. Tolkien's "The Two Towers" is the second part of the classic "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, widely regarded by many as the greatest fantasy epic ever written. The novel is far more sweeping in scope than Peter Jackson's acclaimed film adaptation, especially when the latter comprises only one half of "The Two Towers" ("The Two Towers" has scenes which appear in the first and final installments of Jackson's film trilogy.). The title refers to the twin towers held by Middle-earth's dark lords; Orthanc, at Isengard, the home of the traitorous wizard Saruman and Bard-dur, the Dark Tower of Sauron in Mordor. This splendid novel continues the chronicles of Frodo Baggins, the Ring Bearer, and his companions and friends as they seek to destroy the accursed ring, and free Middle-earth once and for all from the threat posed by the Dark Lord Sauron.Book Five recounts the exploits of Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Merry and Pippin. It opens with Boromir's deathbed confession to Aragorn, admitting that he tried to seize The Ring from Frodo Baggins. Before he dies, Aragorn assures Boromir that he has regained his honor by fighting bravely in defense of Merry and Pippin, now captives of orcs - some from Isengard, and the others from Mordor - returning to Isengard with their prisoners. Soon Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli follow in pursuit of these orcs into the land of Rohan. Merry and Pippin escape and flee into the old forest of Fangorn, meeting Treebeard, the eldest of the Ents. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli venture into Fangorn too, and are reunited with Gandalf, newly risen from the dead, after his fierce struggle with the Balrog from Moria. Eventually their paths will cross in Rohan, at the capital city of Edoras, soon after a successful defense of the kingdom from Saruman's forces at Helm's Deep led by King Theoden, his nephew Eomer and Aragorn. And Merry and Pippin will see Saruman's power destroyed and his fortress of Isengard wrecked by vengeful Ents led by Treebeard.Book Six chronicles Frodo's and Sam's eastward trek towards Mordor. They meet Gollum, who is tamed - at least for a while - by Frodo, acting as their guide into Mordor. They also encounter Faramir, Captain of Gondor, Boromir's younger brother, who offers them friendship and advice regarding their journey. It is a journey that becomes more perilous due to Gollum's renewed treachery, as the trio head towards the dark pass of Cirith Ungol and the ancient evil lurking within.
5 This is the third volume in J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings trilogy.  It followsThe Fellowship of the RingandThe Two Towers.  Be sure to read both of them first.In the final volume the two main story lines reach their common end.  The hobbits Frodo and Sam have been slowly working their way toward the volcano deep in Mordor where the ring can be destroyed.  The other main characters and their allies converge by diverse paths on the city Gondor, where they will stand without hope against Sauron's invading armies.  No matter what the outcome, there will be some who will not see each other again.This book is necessary if you have read the first two volumes.  In fact, it would take tremendous will power not to read it to see how the story ends.  A warning if this is your first time through the trilogy.  After finishing this book many readers experience a lingering melancholy, a sense of loss for a time.  This seems to be only partially due to the story's events.  Having traveled, suffered, and grown with the characters, you may miss them.  There isn't any easy way to dispel this feeling.  In time it will fade.
1 Hi, if you're reading this, you probably are already familiar with the movies, and possibly have already read the books.  If you have seen the movie and haven't read the books yet, congratulations on taking the next step. Read them.  On the other hand. . .maybe you should reconsider buying the box edition with the movie scenes pasted all over it.Why? I enjoyed the movies, but reading through the last few chapters again a few days ago I noticed that the book experience was totally different from the passive movie experience.  I would try to distance myself from the images associated with the movie as much as possible while reading this. If you really loved the movie, you're doing the book a great disservice by constantly comparing the two.  Let Tolkien's charming, unique style take you on your own journey through Middle Earth. . .leave Mr. Jackson's vision for the silver screen.
1 this  BBC dramatization of lord of the rings was  in my opinion  poorly done at best  1 star  i listened to a few moments only and the voice for Gandalf was so far removed from  what i know of/understand of him that i couldnt bear to listen to listen anymore..now if a truely fine actor read this part( lawerence  olivier? sir  john gilgud ?liam neeson? Richard burton? etc  etc- [ugh all those misspelled] would be quite different story-  this is my brief review  i would give it one star,but suggest  others enjoyed it it seems so this is my opinion only ,recomend  look at some other reviews posted at that site for another more  favorable opinion .i strongly suggest instead- you should get  the recordings of Tolkien himself reading -they are  wonderful treasures- provide new insight into the beauty of tolkiens language not  to mention how to pronounce some of those words properly- 5  stars plus  !!!
5 Different in many ways, all of them good. The book is a larger storyline, and the characters are different than in the movies. Both the movies, and the books are great in there own special ways.
5 No one writes like J.R.R. Tolkien, and the newer edits are better than the 80's. Great set to keep for the family.
4 I found this book to be a great companion on my recent business travels.  Having enjoyed the movie version of part one with its abrupt ending... I picked up this book to ease my curious mind.I have been warned by some that Tolkien's writing is long and boring, but I did not find it to be that way at all.  The book is much more detailed than I anticipated and sometimes the story goes off on tangents, but I always found them interesting.Mostly, I like this book, and the entire three part story, becuase it is filled with so many mythological symbols and lessons.  I am a huge fan of Joseph Campbell and his writings on &quot;The Power of Myth&quot;.  This story is such a fine example of modern myth written to not only tell a interesting story, but to continue the tradition of teaching life's lessons and secrets through mythological stories.I would highly recommend this book and the other two in the series, as well.
5 There needs to be no explanation of how awesome of a writer Tolken is....but it case I must. The hobbit and TLOTR are beautifully written and the plots are complex but accessible to those not familiar with fantasy writing. These are a good starter for those wanting to dive into fantasy genre but dont know where to begin.
5 The "steep price" here of sixty dollars on Amazon is an amazing deal compared to what the book is retailing for: $100. Nevertheless, if Amazon didn't exist, I would have purchased the book.Luckily I didn't have to. &#60;grin&#62; I received this yesterday as a Christmas present, and it took quite a while to pry my eyes away from it. First I explained to all present (whether they cared to hear it or not) that the picture on the slipcase was the tower of Isengard, drawn by Tolkien himself as he intended it to look. They wondered why the tower in the movie was so harsh and foreboding, and I explained to them that the tower in the movie was a representation of Saruman's treachery, whereas in the "real" world of Tolkien Isengard was originally a fortress of Gondor - for the Dunedain, specifically, if I remember correctly.When I slipped the book out of its jacket and felt the supple leather of the book itself, I ran my hands over it several times. I couldn't have felt like a bigger geek if I had tried! But it is gorgeous leather - so far superior to the beautiful collector's edition that there is simply no comparison between the two books.It was interesting to note that a large amount of emendations were made to the text, and that a book will be published next year detailing each one, and the reasons they made it. One of the reasons I wanted the book (other than I collect hardcover LOTR editions) was specifically to see the emendations, so when this book they spoke of is published, I will probably reread LOTR for the first time in years. It should be fascinating to see what the changes are.With the combination of the supple cover and the gilded pages, the high quality of the pages themselves, this book is a treasure: easily worth the price of a shirt woven of mithril.
5 First read this when I was but a wee lad, great books a must read, why it reminds me of when I was a wee wee lad and my brother Charles Chadwick told me that he thought Smedley  (a bona fide little person who live up the road from us) had some firecrackers and maybe we should pay him a visit and maybe get to light some off! Well we hopped on the tractor and drove down to his house,farm country if you must know.We saw him from a distance shooting hoops on his makeshift gravel court we drove up and he of course had a puzzled look on his face since we had never visited him before, we just rode the same school bus. Well as an ice breaker we played a game of horse, he won. Then he challenged us to a game, which hardly seemed fair since he was a little person like the Dwarf in "Lord of The Rings" , we took him up on it and were soundly trounced, he had an amazing hook shot. Well my brother Charles Chadwick decided to broach the subject of firecrackers and Smedley didn't know what he was talking about, we followed him around abit and he showed us a 5 gallon bucket of grease for the tractors, we had never seen such a quantity of grease in our lives, pretty cool. As we were looking at the grease my brother Charles Chadwick told Smedley that he had dropped a quarter in the grease and he could have it if he dug it out, without hesitation Smedley reached elbow deep into the grease and then my brother Charles Chadwick laughed and said he didn't really, we all laughed, some more than others and thats about all I remember about that visit. But I digress, Lord of the Rings all the way! I found the Silmarillion a little difficult but you cant go wrong with the trilogy.
5 This was bought for my grandson, who will be studying it for a homeschool class... I am grateful for this item.. when my children were little, these books were read to them, so I feel as though I am passing on something to them...
5 I've read Lord of the Rings about 7-8 times in the past, but now read it in English the first time. It's still as good as ever, and can be read again and again - it's like meeting an old friend after a couple of years. The background invented by Tolkien for this book really shows in all the small details, and it feels like you're actually reading a true story from alternate reality, not just fairy tales. Several fantasy authors have tried to match Tolkien, but in my opinion most fall short of LoTR. Great story, excellent writing, and wonderful world makes it one of my all time favorites in all literature.
5 Do yourself a favor and read this. Go on the journey that so many have gone on before you. This magical adventure is timeless.
5 A chance to have a readily-readable format available for long-distance story reading (with my grandson): gladly purchased, not yet read to him.
5 The Lord of the Rings is an epic fantasy novel published in the 1950s. It was published in three volumes and is often (understandably) mistaken for a trilogy. It is one continuous story and is available nowadays as a single volume.The story follows the adventures of Frodo Baggins, nephew to Bilbo Baggins, the title character from The Hobbit. In that book, Bilbo found a strange magic ring that made him invisible. In this book, he reluctantly passes on this treasure to Frodo. They are both friends with Gandalf, a wizard who passes through their home town of Hobbiton every now and again. Gandalf suspects the ring has more to it than the hobbits know; through research he discovers it might be the one ring forged by Lord Sauron in Mount Doom to give him power over the other races of Middle Earth. The ring was lost for hundreds of years after Sauron lost a battle to an alliance of men and elves. Something must be done with the ring now, so Gandalf sends Frodo on an epic adventure to dispose of the ring.The novel is an amazing work of world-building. Middle Earth is a vast expanse populated by a wide variety of races who all have distinct histories, qualities, and languages. The history of the land is long and bits of that history keep coming out as the adventurers continue their journey. Middle Earth is a fully-realized other world.The moral imagining of the world is also impressive. Though God is never mentioned, the characters (especially Gandalf) often note the providential nature of events. When Frodo arrives in Bree to meet Gandalf, the wizard is not there. In stead, Frodo meets Strider, a northern ranger, who helps them on their way. Gandalf had left a note to be forwarded on to Frodo instructing him to hurry along but it was never delivered. Gandalf is kidnapped right after leaving the note. If it had been delivered, Frodo would not have found Gandalf or Strider. It's a case of dumb luck or divine providence. The characters acknowledge providence even if they never mention God.The morality in the book is deeper and more complicated than it is often given credit for. Characters struggle to choose the right thing to do and sometimes they choose wrongly because of their own personal flaws or doubts. Boromir, one of the fellow travelers with Frodo, tries to take the ring to use it as a weapon against Sauron. That choice causes a lot of immediate problems (including dividing the group just as a band of orcs attacks). He realizes his mistake and valiantly dies fighting the orcs. He has a moment of redemption. Few characters are irredeemably evil or perfectly competent.The Lord of the Rings is a triumph of narrative fiction and is, in my opinion, the greatest novel ever written.
5 These books are absolutely fantastic.  It just really doesn't get much better the The Lord of the Rings.  I read these books every year and they never get old.  Each time I pick them up I get as excited about reading them as I did on my very first time.  These books are for all ages though probably better suited to high school age and above.  They provide for an excellent insight in to Christian (more specifically Catholic) understanding.  This would be a wonderful gift to get anyone.  I've read this book many times and even when I receive a new copy as a present I'm always grateful due to the wear and tear I give to the books.  You just can't go wrong with this purchase.
5 The Lord of the Rings: 50th Anniversary, One Vol. Edition is Awsome. One or two spelling errors put it is 1000+  pagesThe book includes: A list if other works by J.R.R Tolkien, title page, copyright, contents, note on the text,Note on the 50th anniversary edition, forward to the second Edition, prologue, The Fellowship of the Ring, The two Towers, The Retun of The King,Apendix a trough appendix F, Index, Note on maps, 5 maps, and a pag of other books published by Houghton Miffin. Love it.
4 Lord of the Rings took me a very long time to read and sometimes got well...rather...boring. Though much of the book is in splendid detail, the reader gets to much of it in the first book of Fellowship of the Ring. The prologue should actually be the Epilogue I think because it gives the reader names and places they havent even seen.On the Content:The plot is obvious from the very start, around the first or second chapter, the destruction of the ring. But the book has many subplots and more subplots which give it a length over a thousand pages. The pages have many words on them too and are quite lengthy. The book starts off very slow, reminding the reader what happened in the book &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and describe each character's feelings etc etc. Once the journey begins however, and I mean really begins there is no turning back. It is not fair to tell you what happens but give the book a hundred and so pages and it starts to get really good. After the chapter Council of Elrond I wanted to throw the book in the trash and say enough of this boredom but it picks up greatly after that. There is great action in these books. The battle of Helm's Deep (Two Towers) and all the battles in Return of the King make this book an excitement to want to read again. Tolkien also describes the battle of the mind, the power the ring has over others. You will see this as Sam and Frodo draw nearer to Mordor. But the beauty of the world Tolkien creates in my opinion is his best. I'm telling you I don't think I know anyone who can better describe plants and herbs etc the way Tolkien does. All in all after just finishing Lord of the Rings, it took me a month, I give it a four. Many fantasy authors today get there ideas and creatures from Tolkien's original. I doubt he ever knew it would be such a big hit...
5 A lot of times you here about classics.  A Separate Peace, Lord of the Flies, etc.  Well they may be classics, but they are boring, and they are also poorly written.  The only reason they survive as &quot;classics&quot; is because some kind of message they had that is pretty much out of date.Anyways, LOTR is also considered a classic.  But this one is no where near boring!  Best book of all time for sure.  I got through this one so quickly, it's suprising it's over 1000 pages.  I suggest this to anyone.  Read it!  The characters, the creatures, the locations, and the history.  This book sucks you in like nothing else.
5 A book so full of wonder and highest virtue can only with perilous difficulty be captured in a few lines of reflection. Yet if any word could be spoken plainly and true, it would be that no thoughtful reading of this tale would leave its reader unmarked for the better or the worse, and if for the better, then perhaps the more so upon each subsequent rereading. The child will grow to love the lofty honor borne in its characters and the adult will find hope to live well in the midst of his own reality, whether in bitter times or times of peace. If Iliad rose to be the touchstone of the Greeks and Aeneid that or Rome, then may it be that Tolkien's Lord of the Rings becomes the touchstone of the lately-modern West, and may it call out to those future generations, cast adrift from sturdier moorings to find wisdom from deeper, more ancient stores of wisdom and majesty.
5 The Lord of the Rings is an amazing series. From the moment you read of Bilbo Baggins' setting out to kill the great dragon Smaug in the Hobbit, you are caught in the grips of a fantasy land of no equal. Middle-earth is an extensively developed world, with many maps and detailed descriptions of its various locales. And unlike fantasy lands in some other books, Middle-earth leaves you inspired and joyful about living on our own earth. You never have to worry about whether Frodo will get caught by the Ringwraiths, or whether this time Gandalf won't save them; throughout the whole story there is a sense of providence, a reassurance that good will prevail. And in the end, everyone is left singing songs and eating feasts, a tribute to the good life that is normal, but occasionally interrupted by the necessary battles with orcs and goblins. You can read these stories to your children, and teach them about how God has created our world, and governs it, and the joy that Christians have as a result. In many ways, Middle-earth *is* earth, and Tolkien forcefully presses this point home.
5 I prefer reading these books with my normal paper copy, but having an electronic edition to read when on the go is a big convenience!
5 I need not retell the story. It is so well known. But I would like to pass comment on this particular set. It is well bound on good paper and is beautifully presented. The box will last, and looks very very good. The cover and box artwork is fantastic. This is in fact one of the best affordable Tolkien sets ever made. Great value for high quality.
5 PURCHASED AS GIFT FOR #1  PERFECT GRANDSON. IT ARRIVED IN PERFECT CONDIITION IN PERFECT TIME. I WAS NOTIFIED OF PKG TRACKING # AND I WAS ABLE TO KEEP UP WITH PKG AND THEREFORE BE SURE TO HAVE SOME ONE HOME TO RECEIVE PKG ON ARRIVAL..  SELLER HANDLED TRANSACTION VERY PROFESSIONALLY. EVERYTHING WENT AS WAS PLANNED AND ARIVED ON TIME.  THANX FOR MAKING OUR HOLIDAYS PERFECT!
5 Love the bargain of this volume. All three books in one. It's broken down well. Utilizing the bookmark feature on my kindle I had no problem taking a break from Middle Earth between books.I want my own Hobbit hole in Hobbiton. I would love to see Rivendell, and meet the Ents.To me the best books are the ones that even though the world in it doesn't actually exist. You can lose yourself so completely in this made up world that it seems almost tangible.I fell in love with these charactersand places via the movies, I'm so glad I made the decision to read them. Just wonderful.
4 The boxed set came to me exactly as promised and is a terrific bargain. Along with other used books I've purchased from Amazon, these are a wonderful addition to my library at a wonderful price. I read the series years ago but wanted to read Tolkien again with my Christian mindset and see what new insights could be gleaned. Given that the author was a friend of C.S. Lewis, I was confident a second reading would be fruitful, and indeed it has been. Thank you, Amazon!  JPerin
5 I first read the Lord of the Rings in sixth grade, which began my lifelong love-affair with epic fantasy literature.  I re-read it again (at age 29) just before the films came out, and was reminded why I loved it so much.  This is a story that can be read by young and old, and it will fill you with a sense of wonder and excitement.Tolkien has certain weaknesses as a writer (he couldn't bear to remove any part, even the bad stuff) and so much happens "suddenly" in the story.  Nevertheless, he's vivid imagination, worldbuilding and touching descriptions tower above some of these minor flaws.None single book is truly a novel unto itself.  The books were originally published together, and unlike recent fantasy series, each work tends to lack its own storytelling crescendo.  Make sure you read all three books together.  For me, the Two Towers was the most enjoyable section of the story because it goes the furthest towards exploring the characters of Sam and Frodo.Lord of the Rings wasn't the first modern fantasy of the twentieth century (check out Fritz Leibers stories of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser for something excellent that is earlier).  However, it is the most influential. Almost every fantasy book and fantasy roleplaying game created in the last few decades owes something to Tolkien.  After you read Lord of the Rings, you will know why!  Enjoy it, and be taken on a journey you will never forget.
5 True Tolkien fans won't be disappointed by this edition of the trilogy. This is not just another version of the Lord of the Rings; this is indeed a collector's edition. The entire trilogy is here, as well as the appendices.  But what really makes this edition so special is the fine craftsmenship of the volume itself. It is beautifully bound in red leatherette in a matching box; the spine and cover are decorated with stamped gold and jewel-tone colors. It is printed on high quality paper and includes a wonderful fold-out map of Middle Earth. Houghton Mifflin have done a splendid job on this truely deluxe edition of Tolkien's wonderful trilogy.In an added note, The Leatherette Collector's Edition of the Hobbit is a fine companion to the above volume. It is also boxed and is nearly the exact height as the trilogy. The two look stunning on any collector's bookshelf. The Hobbit also contains illustrations by the author, an unexpected bonus!
4 Love this series and love the final book.  I just re-read it to prepare myself for the movie.  As much as I love the books, I'm so glad Peter Jackson veered from the book and beefed up the roles of Legolas, Gimli, in addition to the battle scenes.  Tolkien was one of the greatest creative minds of all time, but he didn't do a good job with the action, nor with Legolas and Gimli.  I do love how he wrote Aragorn, Gandalf, Frodo, Samwise and the other hobbits.  All in all, a great book and a great series (and an amazing set of movies!).  I wish Tolkien were still around to write more adventures.  I would have loved to know what happened to some of those guys and gals!!!
5 This book is a true classic of western literature.  Required reading.  Tolkien collates the mythology of the western world into  a story of unparalleled scope and depth.  All modern fantasy is essentially inspired by Lord of the Rings.This edition is great for all around reading.  It includes a good deal of reference and background material, footnotes, timelines, geneologies, etc. Not necessarily as fancy or nicely illustrated as some of the hard or leather bound collectors editions, but then again you wouldn't want to carry those around with you wherever you went.
5 By the time one gets to The Two Towers, after traveling through The Fellowship of the Ring, one feels quite at home in Middle-earth.  Unlike the first novel, where the action is fairly linear, this second installment of The Lord of the Rings is divided into two books.  The first chronicles Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli as they try to rescue Merry and Pippin, meet the king of Rohan, and fight the battle of Helm's Deep.  The second half jumps back in time to follow Frodo and Samwise as they try to make their way into Mordor.I enjoyed this book even more than Fellowship - possibly because there is more action in it.  Also, the story feels more compressed, as it deals with a relatively short amount time (a month, perhaps?) whereas Fellowship told a leisurely story that occurred over several months.  Once again, as I read, I was convinced that the point of these books is not to arrive at the end of the tale, but to simply enjoy the journey.  Because Tolkien is so good at his job, and has created a fully-realized world with three-dimensional characters, it is easy to understand how so many readers have come to lose themselves in the books.At this point in time, I cannot not talk about the movies.  If one comes to this book AFTER SEEING the films, one will realize that Peter Jackson played around with endings.  The beginning of the book The Two Towers is actually the end of the movie The Fellowship of the Ring.  Also, the adventures in this book take us far into the movie, The Return of the King.  I was pleased to find this out because the Hobbits' encounter with Shelob is one of my favorite parts in the story.
5 This is the mother of modern fantasy stories."Te lord of the rings is the tale of the Middle-Earth. The biggest proof of its grandeur and its quality is the fact that almost everybody has heard at least something about Tolkien's talent and his unforggetable characters like Frodo, Aragorn, Gandalf, Elrond and Sauron, just to name a few.The quiet hobbits, simbolyzing the purity and innocence of a world where the existence of Evil is incredibly strong, must travel to the heart of an accursed kingdom, and there destroy a powerful ring in the flames of the mountain where it was forged. During their journey they meet strong allies to get safely to the end of their quest, always trying to defeat the enemies the Dark Lord, who also wants the ring for its incredible power, sends in the fellowship's way."The Lord of the Rings" is a story with many meanings and can be read in many ways. Bottom line, it's the Story of Good against Evil, but can be interpreted as, for example, a re-reading of the story of Christianity.Besides, Tolkien's dedication to his work is impressive, writing an unique and complete tale, including inventing a whole new language for the elven people, a complete genealogy for the "houses of men", complete maps of the places where the story was past."The Lord of the rings" must be read and re-read many times, and the fantasy in its pages is a timeless source of pleasure for one who likes adventures like this.Grade 10/10
5 So even though the movies were epic and amazing in their time--There's no way you can cram ALL that wonderful lore and information into a 2 hour movie per book.  It's easy to forget how amazing the books really are.  I've fallen bak in love with Tolkien.
5 ...This is not lightweight fantasy, this is worldbuilding on a grand scale. Tolkien's achievement ranges from the epic to the intimate, painting a canvas which draws the reader in and makes us feel deeply for the characters. It is difficult to sum up in a few words what LoTR is about: the struggle between the forces of good and evil certainly, but it's also about loyalty and friendship and honor and difficult choices and sacrifice and hope...woven in a rich tapestry involving the creation of beings and languages that came solely from Tolkien's imagination. You will laugh, you will cry, you will never forget experiencing Middle Earth for the first time. If your first exposure to Tolkien is through Peter Jackson's movies, now treat yourself to the whole story. Middle Earth awaits!
5 I wanted all of the LOTR books in one volume, so I ran a search to find a book to meet that desire. Having read through it now, I can confirm that, indeed, all three books are there.
5 This is the final book of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Although a little shorter than the previous two books, it does a wonderful job of bringing all the plot lines back together in an altogether satisfying conclusion. What I love about The Lord of the Rings is how Tolkien brings the unlikely Fellowship together and then has the members spin out into their own adventures- all in service to their original goal, but with each character fully realized and making their contributions in keeping with their own strengths and personalities. It is not the heroism of just one or two characters that make success possible- they are all absolutely essential in their own inestimable ways. Much subsequent fantasy that has followed in his wake falls woefully short of this wonderful mix of plot and personality. It all moves forward with a sense of inevitability that never feels forced. This is a true classic in every sense of the word, and while we all have favorite scenes in this or that particular book, they all work together as a whole. Everything is necessary, very little is gratuitous or drags the story out longer than is absolutely necessary- a trait of restraint that a number of subsequent popular fantasy writers should perhaps have taken more note of. This is even more astounding when you realize the depth with which Tolkien has realized the world of Middle Earth. You sense a real and rich background world, which is evident without being constantly spelled out. For those of you interested in this background material, I would strongly suggest reading the Silmarillian. Only then do you really understand how deep the linguistic and fictional history of Middle Earth actually is- the origin of Sauron's master, the master's fall and Sauron's apparent rehabilitation, the creation of the rings of power and the past history of man, elves, dwarfs and halflings that eventually leads to the story of the ring. Then go back and read The Lord  of the Rings again with a whole new level of understanding and appreciation.
5 Tolkien is one of the best fantasy writters and in this book you will discover why. The book is faster than its prequel and it makes you want to drop every thing else until you finish it
5 One Ring to find themOne Ring to bring them allAnd in the darkness bind themEach generation of storytellers creates a new myth that grabs hold of the imagination of future generations for decades to come. In 1937, J.R.R Tolkien started such a myth with the publication of &quot;The Hobbit&quot;.  Despite the flaws of their creator and the displays of racial, class, and gender prejudices that is obvious to a modern audience, the books of the trilogy brilliantly recount the tale of Hobbits, Elves, Dwarves and Men and their battle with evil. It is in the portrayal of his heroes struggle against the baser forces that the author transcends his own shortcomings to pen what has become one of the best sagas of courage, nobility of spirit, and raw adventure.Although often referred to as a trilogy Tolkien first wrote &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; as a single novel consisting of six books plus appendices. Tolkien's publisher divided this massive book into three novels. The first novel, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot;, was first published 1954. This book continues the story begun in &quot;The Hobbit&quot; when Bilbo Baggins, a Hobbit, found a shiny ring lost by a creature called Gollum.&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; reintroduces the audience to Middle Earth and her occupants. Each of the nine characters that compose the fellowship of the ring represents a different race that lives in Middle Earth. There is Gandalf the gray, a mighty wizard; Legolas the noble elf; the men Aragon a ranger and future king of men and Boromir eldest son of the Stewart of Gondor; Gimli, a dwarf lord; and finally the Hobbits Frodo, the ring bearer; his gardener and friend Sam and his two younger cousins Meriadoc or Merry and Peregrin or Pip.This first book also tells the story of the creation of the Rings of Power by the Elven-smiths and how Sauron the Dark lord of Mordor forged the One Ring filling it with his own power so that he could bind all the other ring wearers to his will. Although defeated centuries ago and his ring lost, Sauron now awakes and seeks it. Bilbo's ring is soon discovered by Gandalf to be the One Ring. Soon it is decided that Frodo and his companions must enter Mordor and cast the ring into the very fires from which it was forged. This is the only way to destroy it.The fellowship ends with the fall of Gandalf to the fiery creature the Balrog, the death of Boromir at the hands of the evil Orcs who kidnap Merry and Pip and the decision of Frodo to continue on with only Sam to Mordor. Aragon, Legolas, and Gimli set of to rescue Merry and Pip from the Orcs.Book two, &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; chronicles the separate adventures of Aragon traveling with Legolas and Gimli, Pip and Merry fleeing from the Orcs meeting up with the Ents and reuniting with Gandalf and of Frodo and Sam moving toward Mordor. This book also introduces us to new characters: Faramir, younger brother of Boromir; the Ents, the treelike guardians of the woods; King Theoden of the Rohan, his nephew Eomer and his niece Eowyn. We are also reintroduced to the evil wizard Saruman and his city of Isengard and to the creature Gollum.Book three, &quot;The Return of the King,&quot; is the final novel in the trilogy and by far the best. This is an example of the author surpassing his own limitations as the characters thrive and grow.  This novel opens as the shadow of Mordor grows. The companions of the Ring continue to follow separate paths all leading toward the same goal, the overthrow of Sauron. Aragon is now revealed as the heir of the ancient kings of the West. Along with Legolas, Gimli, and Merry, he has joined forces with king Theoden and the riders of Rohan to go to the aid of the mighty city of Gondor. If Gondor falls so will the rest of Middle Earth.Pip is now in the service of Denethor the steward of Gondor and father of Boromir and Faramir. He serves this harsh lord while awaiting the coming conflict.  Gandalf gathers news and makes his own preparations for battle. Frodo and Sam after escaping the clutches of the giant spider Shelob continue their journey toward the Cracks of Doom and the destruction of the One Ring. All the while, Sauron's forces gather for the great battle for Middle Earth.When I first read these books as a child, they captured my imagination and have not completely let it go yet. Rereading them in my late teens and early twenties I became disappointed by the author's prejudices that marred some of the passages for me. However, as I grew older and reread them again I realized that those things that offended my sensibilities were mere reflections of the age and climate in which the author was raised. They were not essential parts of this tale of the continuing battle between good and evil.Tolkien set out to tell a story about the struggle between the world of nature represented by the Elves and the Hobbits and the age of the machine represented by Sauron and especially Saruman who destroyed entire forests to build his city and war machines. However, these stories transcend mere allegories about the struggle between man and machine or good and evil and become cosmic in their application when speaking of basic concepts such as good, evil, courage, friendship, loyalty and hope.I had first set out only to review the third book &quot;The Return of the King&quot;, because the movie will be out in December. However, I realized that for those of you who have not read the other books that it was essential to give back-story and this resulted in a review of all the books. I hope you find this review helpful and derive as much pleasure from reading these books as I did. The only thing I found confusing in the entire trilogy was the fact that the name of the evil overlord Sauron was so similar to that of Saruman the evil wizard. Fantasy and adventure lovers who have not yet read the books should do so.
4 Now divided &amp; separated, the surviving members of the fellowship continued on with their individual missions.  More characters were introduced (good &amp; bad alike) &amp; more actions were seen on the first half of the book - what with the battle of Orthanc.  The second half was quite slow &amp; focused on Frodo &amp; Sam's search of the Tower.  What made it a little exciting was the continuous suspicion they had on their newly found ally (GUESS WHO!).  I think the saving grace of the second half was its ending (here, I will not divulge any further) which promised a very exciting start for the subsequent book - The Return of the King.I suggest you immediately proceed reading the sequel once you finish this book.
5 I put off finishing this book a few days because I did not want to leave the company of these magnificent characters.  I have read this book many times over the years and each time it is a wonder to my mind and heart.  I believe Peter Jackson did the best he could to translate this into the movies.  But so much had to be left out and some significant things were changed.  What was done to Faramir is unforgivable.  This book is a classic.  There is so much depth and detail both presented and implied.  It feels like I have entered a complete world each time I decide to give myself the pleasure of reading it again.  The writing is unsurpassed in skill and delicacy.  There are not enough stars to give it what it deserves and I cannot recommend it more highly.
5 In my reviews of The Hobbit and The Fellowship of the Ring, both read by British Shakesperean actor Rob Inglis, I wrote that the sound quality on these audio books is crystal clear (neither too high, too low or distorted in any way), Inglis's characterizations are spot-on and the story itself (presented here in the only unabridged version available) is engrossing.The Two Towers continues the story begun in The Fellowship of the Ring but introduces new characters, more battle scenes and a nearly palpable feeling of impending doom as Sauron and Saruman search for the ring.Speaking of new characters, I don't think you'll ever find characters more fascinating than Ents. Ents are walking, talking trees found in Fanghorn Forest. Treebeard (a most &quot;unhasty&quot; Ent) is their leader. He's the oldest living thing in Middle Earth. As Inglis read these passages, I could almost picture the unhasty trees talking to Merry and Pippin. And I longed to look into their very old, wise eyes as they did.The bottom line: The Two Towers (part two of the Lord of the Rings &quot;trilogy&quot;) is equal to the previous books in every way.Which means there really isn't much more that needs to be written. This is, without doubt, the best audio books edition of The Lord of the Rings available.How do you know if The Two Towers read by Rob Inglis is right for you? Well, if you...1. Love Tolkien's stories.2. Have drive time on your hands.3. Enjoy hearing a British voice.4. Don't want to here a &quot;dramatized,&quot; multi-voiced version.5. Have already listened to (or are familiar with) The Fellowship of the Ring.6. Have a cat you'd like to keep company during the day while you're at work (simply load up your CD changer, push &quot;Play&quot; and &quot;Repeat All&quot; and let Rob Inglis serenade your feline)THEN...This unabridged audio books edition of Tokien's masterpiece read by Rob Inglis is exactly what you need.
5 Well I finally finished this volumus book.  Even though it took me all  summer it was fantastic.  Tolkein is the master of the fantasy and this  novel is easily the best one written.  Those some times tedious in details  of every event you are drawn into the novel from the first page.  If you  have the time read this, you will not be disappointed.
5 When I bought this novel and knew I had to read old English, I was somehow dissapointed. However, this was absolutely not a problem to finish the book faster than I supposed at the beginning, because you can follow the story while learning &quot;you says&quot; and such expressions on-the-fly.The story is very interesting, the characters are well defined and you do feel their emotions in the exciting parts of the saga.After reading TLR, I went to The Hobbit, looking for more, but The Hobbit is not as good as TLR. I'll try The Silmarillion later.
5 At this time I don't think I need to go on about &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; being the best fantasy epic ever written.  Anyone who enjoys reading about a different world will enjoy these tales of brave deeds done in Middle-Earth.  Instead I'm going to say that if you're going to purchase this book, I recommend the one I did.  I bought the Hardcover version with Illustrations done by Alan Lee.  I think everyone should consider this one.  I know we're not babies anymore who need pictures but I found that the pictures greatly increased my ability to imagine this facinating land.  Sometimes you can't get the full image of Minas Tirith in your head by just words and Alan Lee always kept my mind more amazed.Overall, buy the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; if you haven't yet.  Then consider the Hardcover Illustrated Version when you do.
5 I first read LTOR over twenty years ago in high school, and, when I reread it recently, was stunned again by the shear force of Tolkien's masterpiece.  Virtually every fantasy &quot;epic&quot; written today has the same tired plot line: a young boy/man from a small town discovers that he has vast powers and becomes the primary weapon against an all-encompassing evil.  Jordan, Feist, Williams, etc, all use this same device.  Not Tolkien.  The true heroes of LOTR are Sam and Frodo, who are physically weaker that virtually every other character in the tale and have no magical powers.  It is their moral courage and innate goodness that is their real strength and enables them to triumph.  If I want to read about &quot;real&quot;, tragically flawed heroes, I can read the newspaper.  Tolkien's work is a triumph of the romantic spirit that leaves you with a smile long after you turn the last page. It's simply the best.
5 I read the Lord of the Rings saga and The Hobbit after careful persuasion of several of my friends who were totally enthralled by the books.  From the first couple lines of the Hobbit (&quot;In a hole there lived a hobbit.  Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole filled with ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor a dry, bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat; it was a hobbit-hole, and that means comfort&quot;) to the discovery of the ring, and to the heroic triumph of the fellowship of the rings, I was totally and completely spell-bound.  The imagery was excellent, everything was described as if though it was alive right outside your window or taking place in your most vivid dreams.  The characters are the most extraordinary in the entire fantasy world, from the faithful Sam, to the powerful Gandalf, and finally to the insidious Sauron, everyone of them came alive as if you knew them all of your life.  The plot line and the brief glimpses of Middle Earth history in the books gave the series an added depth that transcended any fantasy book written before and even after.  These books are the paradigm of all fantasy books written there after and all writers incorporate some of the basic ideas of Tolkien found in this series.Tolkien was a devout man of faith and as such he wrote these books not only to entertain, but to teach important life and spiritual lessons to those who read them.  Many of his ideas for this series come from the Bible.  For this reason these books are strongly recommended for kids to read, even though they are difficult books to understand.  The books are enjoyable for anyone who reads them and is definetly recommended for everyone.
3 This is a review of the red Houhgton Mifflin Collector's Edition, ISBN 0-395-19395-8, no longer in print. If you are looking for a review of the black 50th Anniversary Edition, or of the Lord of the Rings as a story, skip this review.The Good:1. This is a handsome book. Its boards are bound in red faux leather, in imitation of the original at Undertowers. Stylized trees and stars, in gold and blue and green foil, adorn the covers and spine. It has some heft but feels good and lies open in the hand.2. The Shire map is drawn in a finer hand than that of my paperback reading copy. It seems less cluttered; everything is there, but the finer lines give the appearance of more space.3. The book is printed in red and black. The red adds very little to the text, but it looks great on the big fold-out map of Middle-earth.4. The text seems correct. My reading copy (a 1990s paperback) is missing a line of the Ring verse, but it is present here.The Bad:1. The fold-out map of Middle-earth is the only map of Middle-earth. It is very large, and it is not convenient to unfold it while reading. I would have included the quadrant maps prepared for the paperback editions in addition to the fold-out, for easier reference while reading. There are more than enough blank endpapers.2. The large scale map of Rohan, Gondor, and Mordor is missing. They didn't print it on a fold-out and paste it into the book, they didn't reduce it and print it in the text block, it's just not there. This is an integral part of Return of the King, having been published in the first edition and (as far as I know) every edition thereafter. Its absence is very regrettable. The Houghton Mifflin catalog says this edition includes fold-out maps, plural; so do I have a defective book, or is the catalog text wrong? (Further research suggests all copies of the book are missing the map; the catalog is wrong.)The Ugly:1. The font in the textual note and the table of contents is slender and crisp, but the font in the text is slightly larger and less crisp. It's still entirely readable, but some letters are broken or bleed.2. The page numbering begins anew with each "part."3. Some of the pages were wrinkled.So, three stars. It is a good looking book, on the outside, but the inside falls short. I wouldn't recommend it as a reading copy due to the map issues, and I don't think it's really worth "collecting."
5 What else can be said about Tolkien's epic fantasy that has not already been said by critics more worthy than myself?Lord of the Rings, for a point of fact is three books, the title referring to the trilogy as a whole. It is also one of the most exciting stories that will ever grip teenager and adult alike.  Who needs Harry Potter and friends when we have Frodo Baggins and the fellowship of the ring?  The storyline is simple enough.  Frodo and his cousins, plus the dim but loveable Sam Gamgee leave the safety of shire to head for adventures and lands unknown.  Lead by the mysterious wizard Gandalf, their first task is to find out the origins of the &quot;one ring&quot;, a ring with a history as bloody and magnificent as Middle Earth itself.  Frodo Baggins is an unlikely hero in every sense of the word, just as his Uncle Bilbo was in the prequel to Lord of the Rings, The Hobbit where the &quot;one ring&quot; makes it first appearance. It is on Frodo's small shoulders that the fate of Middle Earth rests, and when Gandalf is lost along the way, all seems doomed.I won't say anything more about the plot less I give too much away and annoy potential readers to this wonderful epic of magic, war, music and tragedy.On a more practical level I just love this chunky one book edition but I will warn you it is VERY heavy to hold so it might be worth investing in the individual books of the triology for ease of read.  Let's put it this way I have biceps on my wrists from holding this book up in bed so choose your Lord of the Rings books with care is all I can say!
5 I don't think anyone needs to say more about THE classic trilogy except that it now comes in a four box set. Essential reading for lovers of a great story.
5 This edition of Lord of the Rings is an excellent addition to any collection.  It has very detailed maps that are large enough you can actually read them.  The story with in is one of the best stories ever written!  Lord of the Rings is the bases of all other Fantasy books!  It is a great read and wonderful for all ages!
5 Received this through Amazon also to give as a gift to my grandson.  Hopefully it was the correct selection and he'll love it.
5 In 1970 I read &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; for the first time.  It was like nothing I'd ever read, and it kind of spoiled fantasy for me ever since, because I started with the best and nothing else measures up (well, maybe Narnia).  I've read it pretty much every year since, including once out loud to my children.  In 1978 my husband gave me the red-leather volume as a wedding present, and it's one of my prized possessions.  I have other copies to sling around, but I keep that one at home to read carefully and reverently.  I don't know if it's real leather or not, but it's certainly beautiful.  Ringers call it the &quot;Red Book&quot;, after Bilbo's Red Book of Westmarch.  If I close my eyes I can call up the evocative smell of its pages, and see the beautful elven calligraphy in the margins.  My husband also gave me the companion volume of &quot;The Hobbit&quot; in green leather.  If you get this book, you should get that as well.
5 WHAT? HOW MANY WORDS DO YOU NEED TO FIND OUT I READ THE BOOK AND REALLY LIKED THE WHOLE SERIES ONE OF MY FAVORITS
5 The second part of Tolkiens trilogy is perhaps the most encompassing and captivating. It is a true symbol of Imagination, colors,fantastic characters and epic Battles.It is not easy to forget the slimy Gollum or the Touching devotion Sam showes his Master at the End of the Book.Unlike the other two Novels this one does not suffer from a lack of supense, nor is it in anyway overexaggerated. Through ceartain part one truly imagines he can hear the pages breathing. A true classic and an epic symbol of Moralistic Fantasy which in many ways surpasses the recent Movie.
5 That's all I have to say about this very rich work of fantasy which has become a classic in modern literature.  My only advice: if you have not read it yet, please read it before watching the movie.
5 The books within this boxed set are everything all the other reviewers have said - if you haven't read them (like myself!) go out and get a copy, somewhere, anywhere.As for this boxed set, I purchased it hoping that it would be a high-quality collection of the books that I could keep for a long time.  The hardcover three-volume edition had me interested, but these were at the local bookstore, so I picked them up.  Let me tell you, I'm not disappointed.Where some said the hardcover had horrible type, this series has some great type - quality of the books is very nice, they all have a good heft to them, and the appearance of the box just standing is very beautiful.  Quality-made boxed set, I recommend it to anyone who's interested in getting a good copy of these books (plus the Hobbit!) .
5 First Tolkien, a linguist, created a language.  Then he created a world for that language.  The result is one of the seminal works of 20th century literature.  This year, the epic has finally and wonderfully been translated to film.  I predict a sudden and huge demand for the books, and envy those who will be coming to the written work for the first time.  The full, three-dimensional and all-absorbing emersion in Middle Earth is only fully realized with the first reading- I wish I could read it again for the first time.  But the work is so textured and rich that subsequent readings, no matter how frequent, can always mine a new detail or nuance previously missed.
5 All the stars. It is an all time classic.. The reader must like fantasy. It is much better than the movies.
5 The movie version of the Lord of the Rings in the best possible version!  All the added detail that you must know about the trilolgy.  Once you pick it up you won't put it down.  I would never opt to get the paperback copies as long as this is available.  These are must have copies of the three books!
5 My boyfriend loved this! He is an avide book junky, and thought it was well made, and also a great collectors piece
5 I've been reading the Tolkien books since the 70's. I'm reading Two Towers now. I re-read them every few months.
5 I just finished this trilogy for the 21st time.  Words simply do not exist  in the English language to accurately describe the artistry, power and  inspiration of these books.
5 What can you say about a book like this? No matter how you put it's wonderful. These are the greatest books of all time! In the beginning its about Frodo, who after being given a magic ring by his uncle Bilbo finds that it is evil and must be destroyed. Frodo sets out with his nine others and they begin the long trip to Mordor to destroy it, but they break up and all go different ways causing the story to revolve around them. As I said before this is a great book.
5 Every fan of fantasy needs to read the Lord of the Rings at least once.  Reading this series is basically a rite of passage.  A compelling story with good characters, these books have a long history of thrilling readers.
5 this would be one of the biggest softback books of I've ever read and it was incredible to have it on the Kindle and not have aching arms
2 I'm not gonna write about the content of the story as I don't need to.  However, the quality control is pretty sad.  The first book I got was dented in one corner with the gold binding squished in.  Other corners of the book weren't that perfect either.  The book was media mailed to me in a mangled cardboard box with no padding whatsoever.  It appeared as if the box was thrown around and the book is heavy!  It was *really* annoying to see the crushed leather corner, so I returned it.The 2nd book was packaged must better, but not that great though.  They cardboarded one face of the book and shrink wrapped it.  Amazon is great in this sense as they picked up the damaged book and sent me the 2nd one via UPS 2nd day air.  However, this edition is flawed in ways that are perhaps worse than the first one.  The binding is glued wrong so the first few pages are wrinkled in the middle part of the binding.  And the bottom pages aren't cut straight.  It is noticeable by eye when reading and especially if you close the book and look at the gold edge.  And yes, the text is centered way too high.  At least this copy seems to have the text aligned straight!In any note, i think I will keep this book as it's a hassle to return and, chances are, I might end up getting a book that's even worse!  At least this copy looks marvelous in the slip case as opposed to the dented original.
5 I've read &quot;LOTR&quot; just about every year since 1964 when my high school English teacher said, &quot;I think you might like this.&quot;  She was so right.  And now, having all three books, unabridged, on CD is so marvelous.  Mr. Inglis does a wonderful job bringing the characters to life (you always know when Gimli is talking) and even the greater part of the appendix is included.You cannot know how great it is to fall asleep at night listening to tales from Middle Earth with some of my favorite characters of all time.  There are times when I wish he'd read instead of sung some of the tunes, but it never detracts from the beauty of Tolkien's prose or the magnificance of the story.I still cry reading the last parts of RoTK - it's all so very well done.
5 I have not even opened my set of books yet. This is my back-up set. I read the Trilogy at LEAST once a year. At that rate, I wear out my copies within a few years. I never want to be without and so I have my next set ready to go!I know it is hard to understand, if you haven't read the books, how these books can be for children, young adults, and adults and be compelling for all. But the sheer overwhelming enthusiasm these books generate should tell you that you are not dealing with ordinary or even extraordinary stories. These books are on a level all their own. The magnitude of the creativity and detail is awe-inspiring. The characters are unique, fully-developed personalities. That is amazing in itself considering how many characters there are.In December 2001, the &quot;Lord of the Rings Trilogy&quot; movies will start being released. Whether the movies are good (hopefully) or bad I hope the exposure will inspire many more readers to experience the books. I wanted to share my deep love of these books with anyone who may become curious about what these stories are all about. No matter how the movies turn out you WILL NOT be disappointed by the books!!! OUTSTANDING!!!
5 Reading the Lord of the Rings, it's easy to see why it took something like 15 years to write. The sheer scale of it is awe-inspiring. Nothing else I've ever read even comes close to the vast, intricately created world of Tolkien, complete with its own geography, flora, fauna, history and of course a fabulous cast of characters (I'm gushing a bit here, amn't I?).I first read the Lord of the Rings when I was something like 8 or 9, and it's been a couple of years since I last opened it, but so many details are still vivid in my mind - Gandalf's stand on the Bridge of Moria, the vivid battle scenes (one with comic relief as an elf and a dwarf compete to see who can kill more orcs), the horrors of Mordor, the final confrontation with the Enemy and the wistful, bittersweet final chapter. Of course, this could be partly because I've reread the whole book once at least, and certain bits more times than Barad-Dur has dungeons.The Lord of the Rings also contains many intelligent personal stories set against its vast canvas. The hero, Frodo the hobbit, tortured by the terrible burden of the Ring that he carries, the good man corrupted by its terrible power, the wise and powerful people who fall under the spell of the Enemy without realising it, the schizophrenic Smeagol/Gollum, all these and more can be found in this book.Galvanised by the oncoming release of the first part in cinemas (December of next year), I am going to read this wonderful book again soon. I suggest you read it too if you haven't, and even if you have it's well worth returning to.One last thing - if you get the appendices with this edition, read the first and second ones when you've finished for an excellent overview of events, and in particular make sure you read The Tale of Aragorn and Arwen, which further explains one of the prime motivations of an important character.
5 The way that Tolkien describes the scenes to such great detail without boring the reader is outstanding. Not a lot of writers can do that. Frodo, Bilbo's nephew, is the next great hero of the series. I feel he is deeper than his uncle and has more character. With Frodo you got that he was more adventurous. Maybe that is because he is younger than his uncle was at the time he went on his adventure. Either way, I liked Frodo better than Bilbo. The way that Tolkien draws you into his world is genius. He made it a lot more vast than in the Hobbit and had a bigger and more interesting cast. With Tolkien you don't just read his works, you are absorbed into them. You become an invisible companion to Frodo and his band of misfit characters.A Great book that I recomend is The Price of Immortality. It is a great read that I honestly enjoyed.
4 As I know, this book began from Tolkien's bedtime story for his children.  The first sentence started &quot;Once upon a time....there lived a hobbit in a hobbit hole&quot;.  But, reading the book and turning the pages, I thought this book is a little cruel for children.  (When I was reading the stories written by Anderson, I'd never thought that they were cruel for me under age of 10....but... )The adventures before facing the dragon, were filled with murder and eating the victims.  And, after the death of dragon, the friendship was replaced by greed.  Though the dying Thorin got back agian his kind heart, I was disappinted with the relatives of Bilbo.Well..considering this book was written in ealry 20th century, it is wonderful.  This book is the ancestor of the fantasy novels anf PC games ever after.P.S. do the readers know that the image of dragon in western countries is opposite to that in oriental world?
5 I finished this one right around the end of October 2002. I found this installment to be a much easier read than the first, with fewer expository sections. The action was fast-paced and relentless. The detail was outstanding, though I was expecting no less after reading the first part. There was a surprising amount of character development nestled within the combat and plotting. I found myself laughing out loud more than once at the burgeoning friendship between Legolas and Gimli. I also found Tolkien's characterization of Gollum masterful. I felt sympathy for him even in my suspicion. The book was truly epic.
5 Love this book now on to the last one  return of the king here I come so pumped to read
5 Tolkien refuses to end things quite as expected in the conclusion of the Lord of the Rings.As it begins, Pippin stews in Gondor recuperating from his traumatic experience at the end of his story in &quot;Two Towers&quot; under Gandalf's watchful eye, while we see the final battle through Merry's eyes as he unexpectedly plays a major part in the end of the war.  Meanwhile, Sam attempts to rescue Frodo, who is weakened both physically and mentally as they near Mordor...This is the most emotional entry of the trilogy, ending not with the war but it's aftermath as the hobbits return to the Shire only to find that trouble has hit home.  Merry leads a defense as Frodo begins to learn the price he must pay for having been the Ringbearer.Not only the greatest fantasy ever written, the trilogy also becomes, in this final installment, an allegory about why isolationism doesn't work - and why sometimes the good fight has to be fought, occasionally at great cost, long before home becomes the battlefield.
4 My fiance' has been pestering me for years about the Lord of the Rings, since he figures any fantasy fan worth her/his salt ought to have experienced the trilogy.  I've begun to read the books a bunch of times, and every time I found them beautifully written--but also slow, plodding, and devoid of convincing female characters.  Finally, on a long road trip, I made myself finish the first two books, and when I hit the third book, I got the reward!_The Return of the King_ is worth every plodding moment in the first two installments, IMHO.  Though the story has been slow up until this point, suddenly it breaks into nonstop adrenaline-laced action with the battle of Minas Tirith, and heartbreaking suspense as Frodo and Sam travel the last agonizing stretch to Orodruin.  And none of this would make any sense without the first two books' buildup.  If you can get through the first two books, you'll find that they're worth it.And lo and behold, I also found the feisty Eowyn, for whom I caught myself cheering aloud a couple of times!
4 The LOTR trilogy is fantastic. But more on that in a moment, first a note about this three-book hardcover version (with the off-white covers). It was impossible for me to choose which edition I wanted, and I settled on this one. I was very disappointed when--despite Amazon's description--it is not illustrated by Alan Lee. There are no illustrations except Tolkien's from the original text. Otherwise, though, this is a good, durable, convient for reading, individual hardcover set. The hardcovers are a good size for reading.First time reading this since I saw the movie, second time reading.A classic of the genre that started too many clich&eacute;s of that genre. The characters are pretty flat and much of it is simplistic and silly and incredibly tedious and often confusing (hence where the films succeed with loving care). And yet, it's still wonderful. Clever and imaginative, and frankly, just stunningly beautiful in the richness of the language and the (epic) poetry of the descriptions, details, moods, and feelings. The idea of the littlest, humblest creature being in possession of great, tempting evil and his epic journey to carry the burden through a falling world in order to destroy it. Just simply fantastic storytelling with a loving appreciation for the power of words.The books get darker and richer as they move on, reflecting a deep appreciation for the reality under the fantasy--the reality of the burdens within heroism, of the darkness and oppression of evil, the grim emotions of loss and longing, a understanding of the bonds of friendship. Tolkien's epic is filled with beautiful imagery (Faramir's dreams, the dead marshes, the old forests, and most importantly, the weight of the Ring) that bring together simple (and therefore more powerful) magical fantasy with empirical reality.The last book is the best of the trilogy, rich in poetic feelings of bittersweet triumph, the sorrow and ever-lasting suffering of heroism, the renew of beauty and life in a world almost destroyed by ash and shadow, but a world that will never forget the darkness, the sadness of innocence lost and pastoral paradise that can never be returned to, and the deep bonds and devotion of friendship. Ultimately, the theme of these beautifully written epic books is that the smallest, unlikeliest person can be the grandest hero, as long as he does the best he can when fate deals him a difficult hand. And fate will deal us monstrous duties, but we must become the hero. Also, evil is evil, as is power, and it cannot be used for good. It will corrupt and destroy everything. Tolkien's beautiful poetry describes this with simple and stunning power.
4 A Good finale for the preceeding two books.  It ties up and explain what happens to all the characters.  The appendices also give a good perspective and time line for the story.
5 This isn't one of the world's most popular and loved fantasy classics of all time for no reason. I know a lot of people may be intimidated by it (despite/especially if they've seen Peter Jackson's film trilogy) but this is actually a very great read.
5 As an author with my debut novel in its initial release, I am often asked at speaking engagements about my youthful reading experiences.  While I am a mystery writer, I almost always cite J.R.R. Tolkien as an important early influence.  I remember being in the eighth grade, reading THE LORD OF THE RINGS along with a group of close friends.  These were fascinating books then, and they remain so today.  In high school, a familiarity with THE HOBBIT really impressed a certain young lady I had grown interested in.  These books are wonderfully written stories with strong ethical codes embedded within them.  I still find myself occasionally re-reading them, and my teenaged children have all found copies of this set given to them for special occasions.  You can't make a mistake in reading Tolkien.
5 The Lord of the Rings is the most rereadably ripping yarn of the 20th century.  No modern literary fiction has been nearly so devotedly reread by its admirers.To foreshorten, hobbits are not just rabbits or even leprechauns:  hobbits are Pycts (evidently migrant pygmies, who picked Britain out of all the world, before even the Celts came, following whom Romans, Saxons and Normans became Britons too).  Tolkien's interlaced narrative is as Dickensian as it is medieval, and hobbits are Dickensian ambassadors to Valhalla.Like all of Tolkien's fictions, The Lord of the Rings is a saga:  the story of a family's place in the history of the world.  Frodo and Sam, master and servant, become family.  With reference presumably to Malory's Arthur, Tolkien termed The Lord of the Rings a Romance.  The point being that, unlike almost all other longer modern prose fictions, The Lord of the Rings is not a novel.  Nor is it a fanciful gloss of medieval society, but rather of medieval literature per se.There are female characters in The Lord of the Rings, and the journeys of the Fellowship are great nature hikes.  The Lord of the Rings has been translated into many languages.There are 1100+ lines of verse in the Old and Middle English alliterative meters, the long, common and half ballad measures and two neoClassical meters, the leonine hexameter and the English fourteener; plus an invented-language group in pastiches of metrical devices from various Celtic, Germanic and Latinate traditions.  There is a near-hiatus of verse in volume two after its first hundred pages, and volume three's reprise of all prior metrical modalities features the Old English meter prominently.  There are also Tolkien's own runes and his son's map.To the Bible belt school of Tolkien criticism I should recommend Thucydides' History of the Pelloponesian War, in which I count a few hundred parallels.  The Lord of the Rings is neither childish nor humorless:  it's preChristianitively stern.I look forward to a full-length animation with landscapes in the manner of Ted Nasmith and hobbits in that of Darrell Sweet, in which Sam will have a Liverpool accent.
5 No matter what edition you have of Lord of the Rings, what's important is thast you have it.  Not three books, but in reality one whole book in three volumes, Lord of the Rings is, IMO, the greatest novel ever written.  Filled with awe and majesty that pervades the O so real world of Middle Earth, this is a tale about power, heroism, coming of age, and much more, telling the magical story of the young hobbit, Frodo, sacrificing all to do what he knows is right.  I will not reveal any more, for it is an experience that one must face alone.  I'll just say that it comes to the most climactic ending I've ever read.  Don't take the story literally of course:  everyone should know that good and evil do not exist in people the way they do here.  It is however, a picture of what goes on within us all as we try to find our inner goodness.  Lord of the Rings is essentially a god as a fairy tale is a human; an immensely enhanced form of the fairy tale for all to read and enjoy.  Don't take my word for it:  read it yourself.  It will change your life.(note:  for best effect, read the book first, THEN see the movies)
5 I saw the Hobbit cartoon when I was a kid, and although it has been at least twenty years since I saw it, the images in my head were still distracting from the book when I finally got around to reading it this year. I would recommend that anyone interested in the stories should read the books before seeing the movies, so that your impression will not be tainted by someone else's interpretation. After having read all four books, I am now REALLY looking forward to the movies!In general, the stories are great, although they can get bogged down in detail at times. The beginning of The Hobbit as well as the beginning of The Fellowship of the Rings both seemed ploddingly slow to my anxious mind. If you have any interest in the genre, and occasional patience, then these books will satisfy you greatly.
5 I know I am a raving fan, but rereading this today, left me the impression that JRR was a genius. You will enjoy how whimsical and scary this book can be, all in the same sentence.
5 I bought this to replace my older set of the lord of the rings.This package was received in very good condition and on time.I would recommend this to anyone that is a J.R.R Tolkien fan.
5 Maybe it is pointless for me to give this book (which is split into three volumes, but is really one book, and which I will refer to as a book) its 443rd review. There isn't really anything that will make this text stand out from all the other five-star reviews around it. I will say, however, that this book is every bit as good as people make it out to be, and I'm not some seventh grader who sings the praises of every fantasy book he comes across because he doesn't know how much better books can get. (I used to be, though.)Of course, this doesn't answer the question that is really worth answering: why is it so good? The reason is not obvious. True, I like the characters, but they are heavily polarized and not good enough on their own to make a great book. The writing style is grand and epic, and that certainly adds something, but it wouldn't help if Tolkien had had nothing to write about. The plot was much more original when the book came out than it seems today, but it isn't superlative.The only thing left is the setting, and I think that this is indeed where the secret lies--but what, exactly, is it about the setting? I've seen other settings that should, by rational analysis, have been just as good, but they weren't, and as the Tolkien-mimics have shown, a setting that resembles this one quite closely isn't necessarily as good as it is, or good at all, for that matter. I think the answer is that Tolkien put his soul into this book in a way few authors could. His deep love for his creations shows through, and I can't help sharing it. This is also why Tolkien's imitators are not good authors, for the most part; they take him as a model in exactly the wrong way. Tolkien wrote a book based on his own interests and passions, and fantasists should emulate that, rather than the specifics of his creation, which can't work correctly in other hands.Of course, just because I consider this book an amazing work of art doesn't mean that I agree with all the ideas it contains. Tolkien seems to equate the East and South with evil, and gives the Orcs curved swords and slanted eyes. He also places great importance on descent. Hereditary rulership was all well and good in the pre-democratic Middle Ages, since it prevented wars from breaking out every time the monarch died, but we don't need to promote genetic determinism today. (Of course, we must also consider Tolkien's choice of protagonist; Hobbits are not marked out for greatness.) The book sometimes also presents a romanticized view of warfare that I don't consider desirable, though there are other passages that contradict that view.My only other criticism of the book seems pale in comparison to the previous ones: the first few chapters of The Fellowship of the Ring seem like a sequel to The Hobbit. I love The Hobbit, of course, but its lighthearted tone doesn't mesh well with the epic scope of LotR. If you have started to read the book and are getting impatient, keep reading! Once Strider appears, everything will change, and you will get what you came for.
4 This book is very good. it started slow but became a great book at the end. it really let you imagine what was happening as you read it.
5 LOTR [Lord of the Rings] has been rated for decades, by readers of the English language, as one of the best classic works of all time -- especially as a fantasy saga written in the early twentieth century. Readers in other languages seem to much appreciate this central master-work of J. R. R. Tolkien as well. To this reader it seems fun, rich, vivid, and very deep.LOTR has most of the basic elements of a classic fantasy saga -- glorious characters, plots, dramas, settings, imagery, prose, poetry, and mystery. The LOTR saga seems to be a finely inter-woven tapestry of core Western cultural themes. Some of these are the interplay of Celto-Nordic, Greco-Roman, and Judeo-Christian aspects -- inspired, as well, by the Kalevala of the Finns and its language. However, LOTR seems to transcend even these sources to become a world classic.LOTR, and associated works, such as the Silmarillion, has greatly inspired the the creators and creation of various fantasy sagas, games, and movies. The recent movie rendition of LOTR, by Peter Jackson and many helpers, is a wonderful example of Tolkien deeply inspiring creativity. The Medieval aspects, such as armor, arms, and action, are well done -- which may honor Tolkien very well.Tolkien had wished for a quality edition of his "trilogy" as one saga in one book. This specific edition of the LOTR "trilogy" seems to go far in meeting this desire. My particular copy is a fine one indeed -- sturdy lovely leather-skinned book-case and book-cover, good semi-classic binding, semi-matte gilded pagination, sharp and clear font, classic place-marker ribbon, and a good choice of maps, pictures, and appendices +++
5 I wanted to voice my opinion on this, but I don't wish to bore anyone with a long, drawn-out dialogue on a subject that many others have already given credit to.  Therefore, I shall merely point out that novels that have a longevity beyond a single generation as a respected and prolific work are simply in a league of their own.  This work rises to the top of that small selection, and is the standard by which ALL writing is set.
5 It's consensus throughout the publishing world that The Lord of the Rings is the greatest literary achievement of the twentieth century. No other writer than J.R.R. Tolkien would dare to have spent most of his life creating background material for a single book. Even if you have seen the movies, you should read the books because there is so much stuff in the The Lord of the Rings that never made it into the films.The thing that impresses me the most about The Lord of the Rings is how real everything seems. I'm not yet fully convinced that there isn't a real Middle-Earth with Hobbits, Elves, and Wizards in a forgotten pre-history of our world! Anyone who considers themselves a true fantasy fan should read these books.The Lord of the Rings is one of the only books (trilogy or otherwise) I find myself constantly reading over and over again. They truly don't write books like The Lord of the Rings anymore. It is a masterpiece of literature without peer and will remain so for years to come. One ring to rule them all indeed!
5 I'm 18 years old, and I still can't describe my love for these books.  Hands down, these are my favorite books in the world.  Growing up, they provided a whole world of excitement to escape to or simply to visit at bed time--a world of knights and dragons, of kings and castles, and of a young 'hobbit' growing up with the burden of the world upon his shoulders.I wish i could convey my love for these books through words.  Tolkien, through these novels, creates a whole different reality.  The stakes are so high, with the balance of humanity and all that is good riding on the aspirations and strength of Frodo, the young hobbit.  Tolkien truly captures the reader, toying with their emotions on a roller coaster ride.  Just when the reader believes all hope is lost, tolkien reminds the reader, with faith and courage, hope never quite can be crushed.These, i guarantee, will be books i will read to my son if I ever have one.  They blow Harry Potter out of the water.  Simply ask anyone who has read both.  Tolkien has so much depth and realness to all of his characters.  They are the books that really sparked my desire to read.Buy these.  You'll never regret it.
2 There's nothing in this book that is new to the crowd that's been playing RPGs for the last ten years. Orcs, elves, trolls, dwarves, been there done that, from AD&D; via Warhammer to Warcraft. If you're familiar with the last three, you'll probably find LOTR to be an overlong travelogue wrapped around a WWII kind of story with orcs and trolls instead of Nazis.But you should read it, it won't leave you fascinated and amazed but it's a classic, an inspiration for about the half of RPG titles and swords & sorcery books right up to Harry Potter.
5 LOTR is the Best fantasy book ever written. Period.Anyone who doesn't give this book 5 stars must be crazy (j/k)but seriously, LOTR is THE fantasy book and imo maybe one of the best outside of fantasy too.
5 When is the fantasy genre also great literature?  In this marvelous trilogy.  The word &#34;masterpiece&#34; is oft overused these days, but an accolade Tolkien's work highly deserves.
4 It was a good book to read but I think it needed more action and I kind of wish there was a fourth book.
5 I bought this as a gift for a friend who had never read it.  I think everyone should get a chance to read Lord of the Rings.  It has been part of my life for a long time.  This book is beyond my reviewing.  It stands in a class by itself.  I refuse to see the movie because I want my images in my head, not the ones created by the movie. I recommend this book to everyone old enough to read it.
5 I love this set and have loved it since I was a kid.  Right away I sat down to read this classic set.  Thank you for the prompt shipping.
1 I've been reading and re-reading Tolkien for 45 years and have numerous editions of the trilogy.  When I bought the Kindle it was the first book I bought.  Sorry, the Kindle version is very poor.  Ebooks often are in want of good proofreading but this has a staggering number of typos (proper nouns without capitalization, misspellings etc.)  The maps are also missing from this version.  For the price they could have done a much better job and honored Professor Tolkien's work.
5 The Lord of the Rings is an Epic story told through many smaller ones, about Power and it's ability to bend even the strongest of men.  Taking place in the imaginary world of Middle Earth, it's a huge tale, with many countries, peoples, languages and histories and is one of the most entertaining and captivating books  ever written.  Good and Evil are explored at length, and the bad people here are very bad indeed.  Tolkein reveals them in great detail and their stories are forever twisting, turning and ending, often starting up again and continuing in unexpected directions.  Of course the good characters are also very good and you really come to care about them and their epic adventures as you read.  In fact, this tale pulls you into it's center so much that you begin to feel like one of it's characters yourself after a while.  A fantastic adventure, made believable by the way it explores human nature. I was glad for the length of the book(s), because I really did not want to put it down.
4 This audio book is really good - the narrator used clearly distinctive voices which allowed me to keep track of the various characters even when there were many of them interacting together. He also was able to convey the emotions of the characters in a believable way.  The book is well written and the audio book presentation is excellent with the voice of the narrator being clear and all of the nuances which are put in the voices being evident. The only issue I had with the audiobook is that the last 3 CDs out of 16 is for a book detailing the history of the kings and rulers of Middle Earth - it is very boring and only for persons who are obsessed with knowing EVERYTHING  about Lord of The Rings. The novel itself is excellent and a great finish for a wonderful series
4 I know there are plenty of reviews for this book, but I wanted to throw in my two cents as a non-fantasy person..The Hobbit was great. The story moved quickly, a lot of action. The reading level is fairly simple. I'm sure a smart 12 year old would follow along fine..The Lord of the Rings..Book 1 set the story up well. Overall, I enjoyed it almost as much as the hobbit. There is definately a big jump in the writing style though, so it's more of an adult book.Book 2 was my least favorite. I thought the story tended to drag after Sam &amp; Frodo left the Company. I did not follow all of the history very well, since the names are tough to keep track of. After the story picked back up with Sam &amp; Frodo, I started to like it more. I think Gollum is a hilarious character because of his language. The Gollum passages are my favorite.Book 3 was back to being good. I would have liked more details about Sauron once Sam &amp; Frodo made their way to Mount Doom. After such a long journey, I expected more about the finale. The end was a bit disappointing. I did not understand why they left via boat to go somewhere else. Maybe I would understand if I read a sequel, but for now I am a little confused about that..My general opinion.. Hobbits = good, Gollum = great, Humans = a little boring.. Still worth reading..
3 I bought this CD version of TLOTR in order to introduce the story to my wife as we went on a road trip from Texas to Colorado a few years ago.Although both this and The Hobbit were true to the original story, the dramatization (apparently done by the BBC) was poor and lacked emotion. The audio value is bad, with volume problems. The music was at best loud, at worse bothersome.Still, we listened to it, and my wife was introduced to two classics of literature.(this review is for the boxed, CD recording of the books)
2 As a dedicated reader of 20 or more years,i went back and read this after seeing the movie. honestly, skip the books,the writing is stilted, dialog poor. 20 some years ago, we all read tolkien and loved it, becuase there was not a lot else to read!. i worked my way thru this and prayed everyone would just fall into the crack of doom, and end the book. my reading friends all concurred w me,can't wait for part two of the movie.
5 I've read these books and the hobbit four times each. I adored them as an adolescent and in my twenties. Always fascinated by fairy tales, mythology, and the Arthurian stories of White and others, Tolkien's tales remained the ultimate in combining these genres with exquisite writing that surpasses the years. Both my husband and I have owned a variety of paperbacks of the books, but when the movie was made and I saw this edition, I decided to splurge and get it. I went and saw the first and second movies without prereading again, and for a deaf person, seeing a film in the theater is something we rarely do, but I did to get the majesty of the film and the story. AFter the recent release of the second part of the film, I finally opened this edition, and started reading.The story has not faded with time, if anything it still remains the ultimate fictional story of good against evil. This edition is absolutely breathtaking. The map alone is worth opening again and again to understand the major work Tolkien did in writing this epic. He created an entire world that breathes, he created languages and poetry to go with this world, and characters that feel as real as our often long distant families.Every child, every adolescent deserves to be able to read these books, and become familiar with the English language as it adorns these books. For those enamored of the trilogy and movie, this is the ultimate gift. The book is complete with drawings and runes of elves. An incredibly brilliant lifetime achievement of one man's imagination, that continually feeds our own imaginations.Karen Sadler,Science Education,University of Pittsburgh
4 I'm glad to have a kindle version of my favorite book! The kindle version is good, but the links to the appendices could still be easier to navigate.
5 The boxed set is a wonderful way to pass on the fun to the next generation of readers.  I recently  bought the set for two nephews and a niece, and they all enjoy having a set of books that look &quot;professional.&quot;I don't really need to comment on the story, because many others have  already done so.  It goes without saying that these books are top of the  line novels that will provide days of reading pleasure for the young and  old (that's me) alike.
5 The single volume edition is both a blessing and a pain in the neck.  The epic, one of the best ever written, is such a gripping story that once I begin reading the story (over and over) even from the middle I just can't put it down until I've read it through to the end.This means, however, lugging the heavy and large volume around, whereever I go.  Separate volumes make this process easier.  However, the joy of having everything in one place, the entire story as one book (as it was meant to be) is great.I spent too much time reading the forwards and notes concerning the various editions and corrections made to the story from print to print.  I would recommend putting that off until you finish the main story (perhaps a few times).  The appendix and notes following the story adds much to the experience.Once you finish the story, do read the Silmarillion.
5 It's said that J.R.R. Tolkien invented an entirely new genre, "Sword and Sorcery," by creatingThe Lord of the Rings. Some readers will insist that Tolkien's work falls under the rubric of "High Fantasy," but the difference between the two genres seems, to this reviewer, to be equivalent to the difference between purple and violet.More relevantly, fully 30% of all fiction books published today fall into the genre, whatever name we give it. In truth, Tolkien breathed life back into the old Northern European myths about Elves and Dwarves and Trolls.Tolkien, when he wasn't teaching philology at Oxford, academically translating Anglo-Saxon epics, working on the staff of the Oxford Dictionary of the English Language, or raising his fair-sized family, spent all his adult life creating the LORD OF THE RINGS universe, which includes the entire SILMARILLION legendarium.Tolkien's desire was to create a mythology for England. More properly, one might say he wanted to create a mythology for Anglo-Saxon England based upon it's Germanic roots. Arguably, England's mythology would be the mythology of the original Celts who populated the Scepter'd Isle, but so much of that has been lost under the palimpsest of Roman, Anglo-Saxon, and Norman domination that only fragments remain, and during his lifetime Tolkien admitted he did not much consider the fragments compelling.Although Tolkien began writing THE SILMARILLION legendarium in 1917, it was considered bizarre and ultimately unpublishable by the decision-makers of the day. A history of the speakers of the "Elvish Tongues," it grew out of Tolkien's invention of those tongues. Like a classical composer, Tolkien was compelled to put his favorite sounds down on paper, and once having done so, wove a history around the development of the languages he created, which were based, in part, on Finnish (Quenya, or High-Elven) and Welsh (Sindarin, or Grey-Elven).The legendarium backed into published existence when Tolkien wrote down an episodic bedtime story he had been telling his children over the years. As written down and published it becameThe Hobbit, the story of the hobbit Bilbo Baggins and his amazing journey "there and back again" to wrest a treasure from a dragon. Willy-nilly, it contained elements of his legendarium, and quite unexpectedly, it became a best-seller when published in 1937.With his publishers clamoring for a sequel, Tolkien sat down to write it. It took him twelve years to complete, finally seeing the light of day as THE LORD OF THE RINGS. I first read THE TWO TOWERS back in 1976, just as Tolkien's work began to enjoy a resurgence. Having been embraced by 1950s longhairs, and then by 1960s counterculturists who loved its vision of a pastoral and unspoiled Middle-Earth, we in the late 1970s valued it for its escapism (and not a little for the in-joke of good-natured, laid-back Hobbits indulging in "pipe-weed"). Tolkien's popularity amongst my generation spawned the publication of THE SILMARILLION, the republication of THE LORD OF THE RINGS and THE HOBBIT in leatherbound editions with typo-corrected texts, and the production of aJ.R.R. Tolkien Animated Films Set (The Hobbit/The Lord of the Rings/The Return of the King)in those years.I own the leatherbound editions, and the old Ballantine boxed set editions (seen here) copyrighted 1966 (which I bought in 1976). It's tough to carry the leatherbound editions around (or even read them in bed) and my Ballantine editions have fallen apart due to re-reading and age, so I bought a new boxed set. I'm glad to see that the text in the new set is the corrected text, though the maps in the old paperback edition were larger and clearer.Despite being called a "trilogy," THE LORD OF THE RINGS is not a trilogy in any real sense. Tolkien conceived THE LORD OF THE RINGS as a single volume comprising six books (plus appendices) but the original publisher split the work into three, publishing two books per volume with the appendices included into the third. The titles proposed by Tolkien for separate books were: Book I, "The First Journey" or "The Ring Sets Out"; Book II, "The Journey of the Nine Companions" or "The Ring Goes South"; Book III, "The Treason of Isengard"; Book IV, "The Journey of the Ring-bearers" or "The Ring Goes East"; Book V, "The War of the Ring"; and Book VI, "The End of the Third Age".Tolkien accepted, but did not like, the publisher-created titles, the ones most readers know. He felt that THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING was properly descriptive, but felt that THE RETURN OF THE KING gave away the ending of the story. He preferred THE WAR OF THE RING for the third volume. THE TWO TOWERS is the most obscure of the titles. Does the name refer to Saruman's Isengard and Sauron's Barad-Dur, or to Gondor's Minas Tirith and Mordor's Minas Morgul, or for that matter to the Tower of Cirith Ungol? It could be any of these combinations or others.In synopsis, it is belatedly discovered that The Ring held by the Hobbit Frodo Baggins is the One Ring, the Master Ring of all magical Rings in Middle-Earth. The Ring was created by the Dark Lord Sauron more than two thousand years before, and, having recently (as time is measured in Middle-Earth) re-established his Kingdom in the Land of Mordor, Sauron is seeking the One Ring.THE TWO TOWERS is the second publisher-created volume. It begins right where THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING ends. The storyline of THE TWO TOWERS divides in three: Boromir, killed by Orcs at the end of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, is laid to rest by Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, who then set out in a seemingly hopeless pursuit of the Orcs who have captured Merry and Pippin. In the course of their pursuit they meet up with Gandalf The White, travel to the Kingdom of Rohan, and bring Rohan into the War, fighting the great Battle of Helm's Deep against the corrupt wizard Saruman.Even as the Battle of Helm's Deep goes on, Merry and Pippin, having escaped the clutches of the Orcs, flee into Fangorn Forest where they become friends with Treebeard the Ent who leads his people against Saruman himself at Saruman's redoubt of Isengard. (In a book filled with invented races and their languages, Tolkien's Ents, a race of living, walking, speaking trees is a stroke of brilliance, a paean to the trees and woods he loved so much.)Frodo and Sam leave the Fellowship in secret and set out to take The Ring back to Mordor, where, if unrecaptured by Sauron, it can be destroyed in the fire where it was first cast. Along the way, they ally themselves with Gollum, the deranged Hobbit who had held The Ring for some 500 years, who acts as their guide into the Black Land.Considering the complexities of maintaining the three storylines, Tolkien demonstrates incredible care in his storytelling. This is not simply authorship, it is the detailed craftsmanship of a master wordsmith. The Moon is in a consistent phase across all three storylines and the weather varies locally but is referenced across-the-board. In all my re-readings of THE TWO TOWERS I have found only two unforced errors: That of Faramir the Captain of Gondor, who rejects The Ring in passing (although, to be fair to Tolkien, he never actually sees it), and the fact that Sam puts on The Ring within the boundaries of Mordor but is not discovered (Frodo, who does so later, is perceived by Sauron).Tolkien, who is the Shakespeare of Sword and Sorcery, sets a high standard for fantasy authors who come after him (not that he ever imagined the legions of writers who would follow in the footsteps of Frodo and his Nine Companions) by crafting his Middle-Earth with such precision and detail.Thus, we are allowed to experience, "the smell of a distant wood borne from afar by a cool breeze at night." The trees are "great ilexes of huge girth standing dark and solemn in wide glades," the Valley of the Tower of Sorcery, itself illuminated with "a noisome exhalation of decay, a corpse-light," is filled with "shadowy meads filled with pale white flowers . . . beautiful yet horrible of shape like the demented forms in an uneasy dream." Even in a battle scene, there comes, "A blare of trumpets . . . a crash and a flash of flame and darkness." And of Shelob, the monstrous spider of Cirith Ungol, Tolkien writes, "All living things were her food and her vomit darkness."This is poetry. Not just adventure, Tolkien created art---a portrait in words. "Aiya E&auml;rendil Elenion Ancalima! Hail E&auml;rendil, brightest of stars!"  THE TWO TOWERS deserves as many stars as it can get.
5 The Two Towers is the second volume of the Lord of the Rings, and like the first, it's divided into two "books."  Spoilers for the next five paragraphs.The first book covers the further splintering of the fellowship, as Merry and Pippin are carried off by a band of orcs, which have just killed the warrior Boromir.  Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas pursue them towards Isenguard, but soon discover that all the orcs were killed by the horsemen of Rohan, and the hobbits escaped into Fangorn.  They pursue them, but eventually, find Gandalf; alive and dressed in white, who tells them that the hobbits will be fine.Indeed, Merry and Pippin are alright; having befriended a monstrous tree-being named Treebeard; leader of the ents.  Soon, the ents are going to war with the wizard Saruman, who sent the orcs into their land.Gandalf and the others, however, travel to Rohan to muster their horsemen against Saruman's remaining forces.  There's a battle at Helm's Deep, and a confrontation with the wizard Saruman himself to endure, but ultimately, it's only a foretaste of the tremendous conflict to come; with Sauron, and Mordor.The second book of the Two Towers chronicles the journey of Frodo and Sam across the lands outside of Mordor; the cliffs, the marshes, and the crossroads, where after discovering that traveling through the black gate isn't an option, they meet the Gondor captain Faramir.  He finds out about the ring, but refuses to try to claim it, or take it back to Gondor with him.  Instead, he lets the hobbits go on their way again, towards Cirith Ungol; where a tremendous spider lays in wait for them.Over the course of this book, the hobbits meet and befriend Gollum, who, for a while, guides them towards Mordor, but ultimately betrays them in the hopes of getting the ring back.  The book ends with a climactic fight between the giant spider Shelob and Sam; struggling to protect the life of his best friend Frodo.The themes of good and evil are perhaps a bit less pronounced during the Saruman arc, but not by much.  It's pretty clear that he's the bad guy from the start, and this story delves much more into the specific things that evil does to a person who was once good.  The face-off scene between Saruman and Gandalf is, in my opinion, quite possibly the most complex and magnificent scene in the entire book; showcasing the true differences between the two, and the difference between minds accustomed to good, and to evil.I also found the first book just a bit more exciting than its predecessors, though I won't say it was perfect.  The parts with Treebeard moved rather slowly, and at times, it became difficult to tell who was responsible for what evils.  I also found the ents just a tiny bit threatening; not in terms of being scarey, but because they reminded me of modern naturalists.Still, even on those terms, anyone trying to use ents as an analogy for naturalism would be basically shooting themselves in the foot, because there's no serious comparison of the sort that could be made.  Ents are intelligent, and trees aren't.  If trees were intelligent, they too would have civil rights, and naturalists would be out of a job.I also feel I should say a few words about the battle at Helm's Deep.  I really enjoyed reading it, and liked the way it was resolved.  In fact, I'm sort of not sure which I like better; the movie version or the book version, and up to now, I've liked the movie version of most Tolkien battles better.  Maybe it's just that this is the first battle he actually took time to dwell on and describe.As for the second book, I honestly think that it's the best I've read so far, out of the first four.  It has tension, which doesn't really let up at any point during it, and the final battle against Shelob is one of the best in the book series.  I was also very impressed with the strong relationships between the characters of Frodo and Sam, and the constant development of the character of Gollum throughout the book.  His character in particular is both amusing (at times) and also an interesting illustration of what happens to a person mired in, and addicted to grave evil; how they develop when shown kindness, and how easily they betray when tempted again.I found Faramir to be an interesting character, in a sense, although many of Tolkien's human characters seem to ring a bit hollow to me, perhaps because I personally prefer stories of the fantastic, while he seems enamored with humans (a major thread in LOTR, at any rate, though less in the movies than in the books.)  Faramir doesn't really suffer from this, however, because he has the chance to develop relationships with Frodo, Sam and Gollum, and to show what kind of man he is by the choices he makes.  Because all this effort was put into him, I find him to be a well fleshed-out character, and a boon to this book, rather than a drag.On the whole, I was very pleased with this book, and like the others, I reccomend it to those with patience and good reading skills.  It was a pleasure to read.
5 I love the Trilogy for the depth of beauty in the writing, the history, the created languages -- everything about this is wonderful.  But I am not writing to review the book.  I wanted to say that whatever problems the kindle edition had, they seem to be corrected.  Have not noticed any typographical errors or problems with runes, elven speech etc.  It all seems perfect to me.  The map of Middle Earth is a bit small, but maybe it is best viewed on a pc instead of the kindle anyway.  The map is divided into 4 parts, so you can see each quadrant separately.  That helps.  If you love LOTR, it is great to have it on your kindle for those moments when you have to relive the meeting with Galadriel, the battle at the gates of Mordor etc.
5 The one-volume Kindle edition has joined my collection of Tolkien hardbacks and paperback editions in both  in one and three volumes. It is a treasure I reread every few years, always finding something to ponder from a new point of view. There is a reason that other fantasy sagas are compared in one way or another to Tolkien: he set the bar, and he set it high. Few, if any, fantasies even approach The Lord of the Rings in depth and detail.
5 This is a wonderful book. Filled with mythology and battles. It's great for any one really.I love Lord of the Rings because it has excellent imagery and well spoken materiel.
5 This beautifully presented 50th Anniversary Edition of The Lord Of The Rings is an essential addition to any Tolkein aficionado's library. I've read the LOTR books many times, my favorite being The Two Towers, and I cannot give enough praise for Tolkein's magnificent work. Enriched with a plethora of fascinating detail on the history of Middle Earth and the quest to destroy the one ring, this is the quintessential fantasy story collection, and a perennial favorite on booklover's top 100 lists. Never before has one man molded an entire world and filled it with such enthusiasm and excitement. Great characters, well-plotted battles, genius storytelling and a satisfying finale with ROTK, what more can I say except that this is the greatest story ever written and will always be.
5 I purchased this particular set of books because I enjoy reading.  I read the entire series when I was about ten but I had forgotten the majority of the content.  I am pleased to say that I enjoyed reading the series.  J.R.R. Tolkien is a master when it comes to creating reality out of fantasy.  He creates a world with a history as real as our own and unforgetable characters.  After re-reading the series I watched the movies and although the movies are great fun, the books are where the true adventure is to be found.
5 This book is 2 inches thick and weights 3-4 pounds, Don't fall asleep while reading this book or you might hurt yourself! Other than that it a good book with all 3 of the books in one, I like having them all as one personaly. I would have prefered them separate if they were hardcover.
5 what can I say that hasn't already been said for 30 years.  The LR trilogy is amazing, vivid, exceptionally well written and a true adventure every time I open the book and read it again.
5 Not unlike many, Peter Jackson's wonderfully well told cinematic version of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; brought upon me a desire to return to this extraordinary trilogy and read it once again as the first and last time I read it was well over twenty years before.  There are many choices of releases in which to read this incomparable tale, from paperbacks to mass trade paperbacks to a few different types of hardbacks and then there is this, this wonderfully well crafted Leatherette Collector's Edition which does much to add to the experience that is reading Tolkien's masterpiece, &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;Personally, I've read a great many novels in several different genres to include the fantasy genre in which Tolkien's first masterpiece &quot;The Hobbit&quot; kindled that love of fantasy fiction and was then further fueled by reading &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; so many years ago.  In reading so many fantasy novels today, it is so clear that many of today's authors were influenced by Tolkien's style in which he wrote this novel as they almost to a number, mimic the formula for fantasy writing that he established in &quot;LOTR.&quot;For overall feel and ambience, this Leatherette Collector's Edition is the most obvious choice if one is looking to read this great fantasy tale, the only true caution is that it may be a bit cost prohibitive for some but it is well worth every penny and I might add that the best price for this novel may be found here on this site!The Premise:By now, many know the overall premise of this extraordinary tale in which Frodo, a hobbit from the Shire in Middle Earth finds himself and his companions thrust into the matters of the world as he is suddenly the ring bearer, the one chosen to bear the ring to Mordor for its ultimate destruction and the end of the dark threat that the creator of that ring, Sauron, poses to the good peoples of Middle Earth.  Contained within these well crated pages is nothing less than the most extensive, well thought out, extravagant fantasy tale ever written that transcends the fantasy genre to become a story not of Hobbits, Men, Orcs and other creatures but a story of people and the choices they must make in the harshest of conditions and the care that they have for one another in those circumstances.Overall, I highly recommend this novel and this wonderful version to any and all that wish to say that they know the true version, in all it's wonderfully glory, of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; as master storyteller; J.R.R. Tolkien meant it to be.  Not to take away from the accomplishments of Peter Jackson and the rest involved in making the movies as they're truly beautifully well made movies that are a pure joy to watch but they're but a mere shadow of what is written in the pages of this outstanding novel!  {ssintrepid}
5 This is the only unabridged reading of the Lord of the Rings Trilogy out there.  While it is a little pricey it is 58 hours of audio.  The reading is great and complete I really only wish it was out there as a Audio file or on DvD instead of CDs because then there wouldn't be so many discs.
4 Obviously the book is one of the greatest of all time, and you lose none of that on Kindle. However, whereas it is nice to have it on the Kindle and not have to lug around a 1000 page book with you, there are some minor inconveniences: it is difficult to navigate between chapters, the footnotes take you to the end of the note instead of the beginning, and the map has quite poor resolution.  That's all.
1 This series is horrible beyond all conception.  Tolkien overbloats EVERYTHING to the point where it's absolutely ridiculous, and I loose tract of the plot amidst unimportant details.  Quite frankly my only thought is I DON'T CARE WHO EVERYONE'S FATHER IS, IF YOU WANT ME TO KNOW THEN WRITE A PREQUEL, JUST TELL THE STORY IT IDIOTIC BRIT!  I don't know how someone who wrote something as good as &quot;The Hobbit&quot; could produce this junk.  I think what happened was he had a bunch of notes left over, and wanted to cash in by writing a sequel, so he threw all the details he had onto a shallow plot, but sense it was to complicated to be called &quot;dumbed-down&quot; like most money-making sequels noone could attack it.  And it was so complicated people have been trying to convince others for decades that they're intellegent because they can understand this book, but since noone understands it, noone can test them to see if they really do or not.  Anyway, if you want a complicated plot you can understand, read &quot;Dune&quot; by Frank Herbert.
5 This is an excellent digital copy. J.R.R. Tolkien is, of course, the best fantasy writer in the history of mankind. If you have never read The Lord of The Rings: You owe it to yourself to do so now! You will never regret it. I enjoyed reading this so very much. I wish he was alive and still writing.
5 The three volumes of LOTR plus The Hobbit were only a small part of the massive narrative that Tolkien labored on over his entire life. It was nothing less than an alternative universe, with some similarity to the Abrahamic (it was created by an all-powerful, eternal being) mixed with polytheistic elements (the world is ruled by beings similar to the gods and goddesses of folklore and mythology). As such, most of Tolkien's energy was channeled into the world he created; the places, the defining events, and the creatures like elves, dwarves, and others that people it. The characters themselves take a back seat to the environment - most of them are one-dimensional, barely developing through the course of the story. The exception is Bilbo Baggins, who starts out as a timid, comfort-loving homebody, and ends up as a worldly adventurer. Sauron, the great antagonist of Middle-Earth, exists only in the description of others - as a character, he doesn't even make a direct appearance, and is known only second-hand by the effect he has. One possible interpretation could be that Sauron doesn't really exist - like the character of Satan in Abrahamic mythology, he is a symbol of total evil, a construct to explain the origin of wickedness and destruction, but not a real being.Tolkien manages to incorporate the innumerable features of his world seamlessly into the story, without stopping the action. The reader discerns a detailed, multi-thousand year history within which the characters operate, an authentic impression since this was, in fact, the case. Tolkien wrote LOTR only after fully conceiving the world that began in &#34;The Silmarillion.&#34; The authenticity was supported by his command of language - there are no incongruent or embarrassing names as one finds in &#34;Harry Potter.&#34; Tolkien employed his vast knowledge of Welsh, Old Norse, Finnish, and other languages in such a way so that everything fits - none of the names sound merely made up out of his imagination, but as if they were always there, like any foreign language in our world. Frank Herbert borrowed this technique for &#34;Dune&#34; by using Arabic-sounding names for the desert world of Arrakis. In contrast, the names in &#34;Harry Potter&#34; are all over the place - we have &#34;normal&#34; British names like &#34;Ron Weasley&#34; along with wizardish-sounding names like &#34;Albus Dumbledore&#34; (the word &#34;dumbledore&#34; itself was lifted from LOTR), and fake Latin names like &#34;Draco Malfoy&#34; and &#34;Bartemius Crouch.&#34; Tolkien managed to avoid such silliness, not an easy feat given the sheer number of &#34;foreign&#34; names and words he had to deal with.LOTR remains the apotheosis of multi-volume alternative-world series. No other one achieved the same level of detail, and no fantasy series that followed it entirely escaped its influence.
5 Sometimes the middle of a long story is accused of being boring or, at least, inferior to the story's beginning and end.  This is not the case with "The Two Towers," which lives up to its status as the second of the three volumes of J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings" by being the true heart of the entire work.After the death of a major character (an event depicted at the end of Peter Jackson's film adaptation of "The Fellowship of the Ring"), Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli search for Merry and Pippin, who have been captured by Orcs.  The Three Hunters, as they call themselves, encounter a major plot surprise, meet several new characters and take part in an enormous battle before finding their friends, who have escaped their captors and encountered Treebeard, a kindly Ent, or "tree-herd," who looks something like a walking, talking tree.  Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam are joined on their journey to Mordor by the sinister, conflicted Gollum, a background presence in "Fellowship" who now steps into the spotlight.The scenes in the first half of the book with the Elf Legolas and the Dwarf Gimli develop their characters and their unlikely friendship to an extent not found in "Fellowship."  Tall and short, pointy-eared and gruffly emotional, Legolas and Gimli are both the C3PO and R2D2 and the Spock and McCoy of "The Lord of the Rings"; their contest to see who can kill the most Orcs during the Battle of Helm's Deep is gruesome yet delightful.  The star of the second half of the book, however, is Gollum, and his interactions with Frodo and Sam serve to define their characters more strongly than before.  Imagine that you and your best friend are on a long, dangerous journey with a disgusting, dangerous creature who desperately wants something your friend has and would kill to get it.  All your life you have heard the story of how your friend's uncle got this object from the creature and barely escaped from him alive.  You never expected to meet or even see the creature yourself, but here he is in the wilderness with you, having sworn to serve your friend.  Now you wish the two of you could get rid of the creature -- but you need his help to reach your destination and thus save the entire world.  That's the situation Sam Gamgee finds himself in, and the resulting interplay between Sam, Frodo and Gollum makes for great drama.  In the book version of "Fellowship" Gandalf tells Frodo that Gollum both hates and loves himself; readers of "The Two Towers" will come both to love and hate Gollum.  It's no wonder that when the Beatles were planning to make a "Lord of the Rings" movie starring themselves, John Lennon apparently desired the role of Gollum, considering it the starring role of the whole story.If you've enjoyed the book or the movie of "Fellowship," you should enjoy reading "The Two Towers" and finding out what happens next.  Even if it were not the central third of one of the great novels of the twentieth century, "The Two Towers" would be one of the world's greatest fantasies in its own right.  However, be sure to have a copy of "The Return of the King" handy when you finish "The Two Towers," which, unlike "Fellowship," ends with a fairly spectacular cliffhanger...
5 I have been a fan of the LoTR for many years, having read it a few times since I was a young fella. I was just given this beautiful box set and have found it to be all I could hope it could be.  I actually depended on many of the reviews here to decide which edition I wanted and let me fully endorse the BBC, blue edition with the painted figures of Gandolf, Frodo and others. I cannot speak for or against the 9 CD set that comes in a wooden box, but I hated that version of &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and have been deligted with the &quot;Lord Of The Rings&quot; adaptation. For prior readers or fresh ones, I heartily recommend this set of dramtized CDs.
5 I'm a long time fan of JRR Tolkien having read him in past years. The movie does not due him credit or display his ability as a writer.
5 Purchased the Kindle Edition in the second week of November, 2009. I believe this was sourced from the 2002 LOTR edition and is currently the latest -- this is indicated in the "Note on the 50th Anniversary Edition" included in the Kindle Edition.I'm pretty much through it and have found only one slight format problem in chapter 5 (Fellowship of the Ring) with two words stuck together.  All of the maps come through and can be enlarged.  However, it really is nice to be able to go online and look at full color maps on a 30" monitor but the Kindle maps are OK.  Also, the clickable footnotes are a huge plus!  The Tolkien spellings are true, and the format is quite nice -- italics for the songs along with a correct symbol representation of the "fire writing" and runes where they show up.  Anybody who owns a Kindle and loves LOTR would do well with this edition.
5 Ok i was really sceptical when I started this series but I love these books.  I think I could read them for the rest of my life!  I highly recommend this book or anyone who loves trial and error and good vs. evil stories.  READ IT!
5 What's better than The Lord of the Rings?  The Lord of the Rings in one volume, is what!  No need to pause between The Two Towers and The Return of the King:  just keep reading!  My only problem with this bundled set is that when I got to the end, I wanted to just scroll back to the beginning and start over again.  So why didn't I?  Because I have so many unread books waiting for me, and I've already read The Rings at least four times.  Now I've got it!  I'll set it aside and use it for a reward, for having read oh, let's say four more books.
5 This is an incredibly luxurious and grand edition of my favorite book, J.R.R. Tolkien's magnum opus.  It is interesting to compare it to my other leather-clad single-volume edition, given to me as a gift in 1977.  The cover is greenish-brown suede, as opposed to the bonded red leather cover of the '77.  The garish polychrome 70s graphics have been replaced with a dignified rendering of one of JRRT's own drawings of Minas Tirith, and the edges are gilded instead of plain, a glaring oversight in the '77.  The maps are the same; the case bindings are the same as the book.  The typography is different, though, with the lurid red print of the chapter headings being made uniform with the text.  The introduction assures us that typographical errors have all been repaired, and we shall not run into "dwarfish" when JRRT wrote "dwarven".  The index is improved, more complete.  All in all, a great improvement and, despite the price, a must-have for the Tolkin aficianado.  Highly recommended.
5 The Lord of the Rings trilogy changed my life. Its as simple as that. Everyone should read this book, and you will be changed by the reading of it. It is the most amazing work of fiction ever attempted by mortal man. So, what makes me rave so much about this book? To start with it is incredibly well written, (and even that is an understatement) it is so moving - I have never experienced such a wide range of emotions simply by just reading a book! Yes, you'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll come away will a whole new outlook on life. Basically the main character,Frodo, who is one of those stupid, absurb and lovable creatures called hobbits, discovers that he posseses the most powerful object in the whole of Middle Earth, a seemingly innocent gold ring. Everyone from the Dark Lord down is searching for the ring while Middle Earth is ravaged by war and evil. Frodo undertakes his quest to destroy the ring and what follows is a story of battles,the struggle for freedom, fading ages - but mostly of how one person can make a difference and change the world. Someone once told me that 'you've never lived unless you've read the Lord of the Rings' and they were right. This trilogy is stunning in every sense of the word.
5 Every one knows this story so nothing more need be said about the tale, but the style is impressive. Tolkiens careful choice of words adds an extra dimension to the tale; consider where Boromir says &#34;no one leaves Lothlorien unharmed&#34;, but Gandalf says &#34;say rather unscathed&#34; - a subtle but very different meaning. The whole book is filled with these carefully chosen words and phrases which sometimes creates the necessity for the reader to reread a passage to be sure of its meaning. This is a book that immerses the reader in the world of Middle Earth. As an adjunct to the last statement, this used to be called the hippies bible back in the 60's.
5 Reading Lord of the Rings is one of the most perfect experiences that an avid reader can have.  I first read it over 40 years ago and have read it approximately ever five years since then.  My daughter, whom I read it aloud to her when she was too young to read it herself, now has reread it at least ten times.
5 Tolkien heard the gorgeous music of narrative, with all its valleys and hilltops, with all the grit of the fight, all the glory of overcoming, all the long, drawn out parts of day in and day out small faithfulness. He heard a musical narrative and he composed a symphony. But like all great masterpieces, one&#8217;s affections and tastes must be enlarged and strengthened to enjoy wine this strong. Such a stout story is not for the faint in heart. In an era where our literature sensibilities are shaped by cheap paperback fiction, reality TV, inane tweets, texts, and Facebook posts, we are a society easily pleased by cultural fast food, and we often can&#8217;t appreciate with the robustness of a story told this well. There are answers in this story to questions we&#8217;ve never thought to ask. This story explores places in the heart we&#8217;ve never thought to search, depths of the human soul we&#8217;ve never considered worth pluming. If we don&#8217;t resonate with this story it is because there is much that the author wants to tell us that we are not yet ready to hear.Search the world over, and I don&#8217;t believe you&#8217;ll find another piece of fiction as epic, as moving, as heart-transforming, as the Lord of the Rings Trilogy. What sets the literary genius of Tolkien above most other authors of fiction is his ability to make his imaginary world shine with such brilliance that the affections of the heart will come to love its shores, its stories, its struggle to stay in the light. Story is one thing that cannot be faked by a shallow writer. Either an author has within him an tale of inspiring beauty, of struggle, of overcoming, of fighting and conquering, of living and dying for what one believes in&#8212;or he does not&#8212;and what comes out instead is flat, bland, one-dimensional.But if one is willing to be a patient learner, one can have one&#8217;s mind and heart expanded by being a slow and thoughtful reader. If your heart does not sing by the end of the book, if you do not have a new resolve to overcome the evil in your own heart, if you are not transformed to live for truth and beauty by the end, then I wonder if you have a pulse.The only precaution I give you is the peculiar feeling of sharp disappointment that will pang you as you read the last line of last volume, knowing that the book is over and there will never be another like it. The only solace I allowed myself was the thought that soon my children will be at an age to appreciate it and I can relive the volumes through their imaginations. Be prepared to mourn for the series' finitude even as you enjoy every brilliant page.
2 This book! I cannot get through it!  I know alot of people love these books, but I couldn't get anything out of it. I felt like I was reading nonsense. "And Merry walked forward, 'to ho, Frodo', but the light for they found was neath the ground and then, yay pickled fury from way into the forest with armor and swords engraved with red and hicksey; to hicksey Frodo seeth the little hobbit house, blah blah blah blah blah blah..." what the hell! It was harder trying cut my way through this strange, convoluted, purple prose than when I've tried reading an Ann Rice book.  I kept wanting the story to advance, but finally I got too tangled in the prose and gave up. I didn't even get to see Gollum.
5 I have enjoyed the Lord of the Rings for years. Reading it again as a single volume was really nice. Great price for a nice version of a great book.
5 Before anything else is said about it, it should be noted that in the context of serious 20th century fiction, 'The Lord of the Rings' is a really, really weird book.  A lot of people, most notably literary reviewers, literary journalists, public intellectuals and academics, never miss a chance to pour scorn on the book and dismiss it as rubbish.  It is, however, enormously popular, and has been so since it was first published in the years after the Second World War.  Why does the book inspire such fondness, and such derision?I myself have a chequered history with it.  I first read it aged about 12, and loved it.  I became at the time a fully-fledged Tolkien geek, immersing myself in the arcana of writing in Elvish and so on, which is more than most fans of the book do.  I grew out of that phase, and forgot about the book.  Later on, in my early 20s, I read it again - but this time, I had read and absorbed shelves-full of academic literary criticism of the then dominant Anglo-French persuasion, Marxism-lite with a heady pinch of deconstruction, and I despised the book for being wilfully archaic, not enough strong roles for women, surely there was more than a hint of racism in the depiction of the bad guys as coming from the East and South, the style was sheer fustian...and so on.Aged 30 I read it again, because the movies were coming out and I wanted to watch them, and I was wondering why I'd liked the book in the first place.  Much to my surprise, I enjoyed it.  It seemed far more haunted, less triumphant, more ambiguous than I remembered.  Subsequent readings have confirmed this assessment.  The 'The Lord of the Rings' is a really weird book because, almost alone among serious mid-20th-century fiction in English, it is not at all interested in doing the things that the most critically acclaimed fiction of its era wanted to do.  I doubt that any serious writer of Tolkien's level of education was more intellectually independent and single-mindedly focused on his own personal creative mission than he was.  Most fiction writers are over-stuffed with ideas about things they want to do, which they put into practice with little or no concern about whether they have much to do with the story they want to tell.  (I suppose the nec plus ultra would be a writer such as B.S. Johnson, who went as far as to proclaim that it didn't matter anymore what the story was, the only thing that was important was how it was told - and then defied his own pronouncement by frequently refusing to write about anything that hadn't actually happened to him or to someone he knew.)  Tolkien, like very few writers of his generation, doggedly worked and worked until he knew exactly what he wanted to do, and then proceeded to do it.'The Lord of the Rings' is a yarn.  It is a good story; to a certain extent, you could retell it yourself and it would still retain much of its power to move and enthrall a listener.  In that respect, it is unlike much great modern fiction.  'Ulysses' is one of my favourite novels of all time, but I am under no illusion that I could persuade someone how great it is by just recounting what happens in it in my own tone of voice.'The Lord of the Rings' has been criticised as being racist; the usual charge is that blackness is associated with the bad guys.  Also, it has been noted that some of the bad guys have crossed 'orcs' (a non-human species) with humans, and this is Not a Good Thing.  Elsewhere, journalists have had simple-minded fun with the extremely tenuous links between Tolkien, philology and German romanticism on the one hand, and the Nazi party on the other.  This needs to be said: the book is not racist in any recognisable way.  Whiteness is equally associated in the book with sterility and barrenness, or else corruption and death.  Many of the hobbits are recognised as being of mixed ethnic origin, and one of the main good guys is Elrond, who is of mixed Elf-Human parentage.  So much for the charge of racism.  What the book's left-wing critics have not noticed is that it is not racist but speciesist; the characters are always ready to reserve sympathy for men who have gone to the bad, but they never bat an eyelid before killing orcs, who are presented as being reasonably rational and sentient beings, albeit of a different species.  But since orcs are a fictional species, does it matter?  Animal rights campaigners might profit from looking at the book and the way it has been misinterpreted.The most dismissive and least cogent criticism of the book has been that it glorifies vanquishing a conquered enemy, and that it's in some way an allegory of the second world war.  This does not fit.  The author once observed that if the book were an allegory of recent history, the Ring (for which read=atomic bomb) would have been used by the most powerful good guy against the main bad guy, and the majority of the population of Middle-Earth would end up falling under the hegemony of whoever had used the Ring in the first place - which, we may note, is exactly what happened in real life.In the book, the Ring (which is a symbol of power and potentially unlimited hegemony) has to be destroyed, so that an unwinnable war can be averted.  That is exactly what didn't happen in real life, which is why American soldiers are now dying in a senseless war in Iraq.  'The Lord of the Rings' is a classic novel because, for all its faults (it's long, it's oddly structured, it's sometimes long-winded, there aren't many interesting female characters, and perhaps most importantly it seems to exist a little too aside from the history that engendered it), it has a remarkable capacity to talk to successive generations about the things that worry and beset them - what am I doing here?  What is my purpose?  Am I really the person who should do this?  Why keep going when it looks like I won't live to see the benefit of it all?Tolkien knew what he was doing.  This is his best book, far more gripping and readable than the interesting and sometimes gorgeous but basically sluggish and arcane 'Silmarillion', and readers who have disdained it in the past would do well to come off that high literary horse and give it a go.  Not the least thing I got from reading Tolkien was a conviction that nobody can call her- or himself an educated reader without at least a bare acquaintance with Old English literature.  Tolkien was saturated in the stuff, and it gives his work essential depth, richness and perspective.  (The Riders of Rohan basically speak Old English, slightly modified.)And in the end, it's perhaps the most haunting and saddest of fantasy novels.  Tolkien knew about post-traumatic stress disorder before it was called that.  He had served as an Army officer on the Somme in World War One, and knew first-hand the damage and grief that are caused by war, which is a lot more than many of his critics and some of his right-wing fans can say.  This book respects his experience and transmutes it into something rich, strange and memorable.  Isn't that what we who care about good writing normally call art?
5 This may be the best book you will ever read.  If you are a fan of fantasy, read it.  If you aren't, read it anyway!  Tolkien's masterpiece draws you into a world all its own, and once you enter Middle-Earth, you won't want to leave.  You come into a world of Elves and Dwarves, Men, Hobbits, and Orcs, and their conflicts and struggles become your own.  This work is so amazing and enchanting that you will finish it and want to read it all over again.  And again.  And again...you will never grow tired of this classic that will outlast the generations.  I know I won't.
5 If you are a lover of fantasy, then you should definitely read this book. I was inspired to read this book after watching a movie. You'll jump into another world full of fantasy. Hard to forget!
5 There is something about this story that makes me think of it as the best story I ever read.  I like the immensity of it.  It is nothing short of a Biblical struggle between good and evil.  And yet it isn't just a "shoot-em-up" because the heroes have chosen to destroy power, not to wield it.The title character, the Lord of the Rings, is a hideous creature named Sauron who is the most powerful living thing in "Middle Earth".  He has concentrated much of his power into a magic ring, which has been lost many centuries, but the ring has finally been found by a small "hobbit".  If Sauron recovers it, his awesome power will be multiplied and he will be unstoppable.  He will rule the world in Hitler fashion.The heroes of the free world are the wizard Gandalf, mankind's most valiant Aragorn, powerful and magical elf leaders Elrond and Galadriel, and little hobbit Frodo Baggins who holds the One Ring of power.The writer's style is often Biblical, but sometimes it is geared to a young readership, playful.  Pippin Took and Tom Bombadil are characters that seem drawn to appeal to children.To me, every character is a gift to be treasured.
5 Well if you're anything like me and have kids then you have heard of these books and if your kids are like mind then you have been to the movies and watch some of the shows. At first you think they are nothing more than kid shows until you get hooked like me and start reading the books and find out you're hooked right along with your kids. You pick up the books and can't stop reading. Great books for your kids and even better for you. They are must read books-Larry Hobson-Author  "The Day Of The Rose"
5 I own the individual volumes as well as this single volume in hardcopy. As an electronic copy,  I feel this is the best way to go and was pleased to purchase it when it became available.
4 I bought the Hobbit by Tolkien and really enjoyed the book.  After reading the Hobbit I decided I wanted to read the Novel to get the full story.  I really enjoyed the book and was amazed at how much was left out of the books.I will say some of the writing in the 'medieval' style was a little difficult to comprehend at times but still it was a very good reading and enjoyed every bit of the book.
5 This is a 3 books in one group and over 1100 pages.  However, the story telling, descriptions and poetry are lovely.  I have finished, thus far, about half the book and can't put it down, although I can only read in the evening.  I bought it used and it was in the good condition that it was advertised and also arrived well within the time allotted for delivery.
4 I read The Two Towers years ago and was pleased to find The Lord of the Rings in audio format.  Now I have the complete set on CD and have listened to them several times over.
5 I never watched the films.  Friends kept telling me too, but I just couldn't get into them.  I decided to get the books and read them first.  Luckily, I got a boxed set, so I can go from one to the other.  I love the books!!  The writing is so wonderful, it just pulls you into the story.  You become almost like an unseen observer, traveling with the characters.  I recommend this to anyone.  A fascinating read!!
5 my son, age 11 reads these over and over.  we also won these on audio from audible.com.  you should own the books as well.
4 Just to set the record straight, I give the stories themselves 5 stars.  This commentary concerns the quality of this particular boxed set.The type in these books looks like it was photocopied--the letters aren't sharp, and parts of some letters are even missing.  If you need/want sharp text for legibility or aesthetics, this is not the set for you.That said, I do like the maps in these books better than the maps in other LOTR editions that I own.  There is an overall map, and then there are maps that zoom in on sections of the overall map.And last but not least, the multiple movie stills on the front and back covers are excellent.  They may override all other considerations when deciding which of the many editions to purchase.
5 I remember when I first began reading the Hobbit, when I was 7 or 8, absorbed immediately by the young, innocent hobbits. Like me, they were drawn into a world with strange races, people of every shape and size, all with their own hopes and desires, languages and cultures. I was hooked.I've reread the series many, many times since then, and have had the joy of seeing my own son become completely enamored with it. I still name characters 'Aragorn' when I play computer games, because he became such a symbol to me of honesty, integrity, perseverence against all odds. Some girls dreamt of handsome princes. I dreamt of a man who, while not 'fair of face', was the protector of innocents, the defender, the one who strove and fought without reward.In a world where so many books are full of sex, gratuitious violence, disrespect, infidelity, etc. etc., it is amazing to go back to this book that was researched to the Nth degree and promotes that honesty and justice, after hard work and effort, does finally win out in the end.It's not a sugar-coated book, though. There are betrayals, there are sad scenes and suffering. If anything, the book does a great job to show that no matter what someone looks like, or where they come from, they have the same basic longings and needs. If someone comes to think that dwarves and elves and hobbits and such are all able to work together, then our silly concerns about 'shades of grey' in humans' skins seem amazingly shallow.If you haven't read this yet, please do. It is one of the best written and thoroughly researched books of the past few centuries. JRR developed whole cultures for his characters, and that depth really shows. His writing style is amazing. The epic leaves you wishing he wrote a 9-parter instead of the works he did. Still, even what we have is more than enough to keep me re-reading ...
4 Hard not to love the LOR but contrary to when I read it years ago this version seems...a little too long at times. Still a great story.
5 Those who know and love this book just get it...and this book will always have a special place in their hearts.  Some won't...or will prefer the movies.  If you truly love this book...try also the audio book...the unabridged version read by Rob Inglis.  It is beautifully done.
5 I loved the movies, bought them on blu-ray and wasn't disappointed. I wanted to read the books to answer some questions i still had because movies never cover everything talked about in the book version. This book has all 3 books collected as one. I thought it came with the Hobbit but it doesn't. Overall i think this book is worth getting. the paper is fine i don't know what some people have been complaining about. The book is definitely thick. I can't wait to start reading it in the summer! Buy it!
5 If you haven't read this book, you need to. It's part of a trilogy that ranks among the top 5 books ever published in my humble opionion.
5 Just wonderful! From one beautiful golden edged page to the last, it was pure joy. I will treasure it always.
5 I admit, Tolkien is an excellent writer. He is vivid, descriptive, and ultimately creative. Unfortunately, not everyone can get into Tolkien's fantasy worlds, all thanks to our MTV-based society. Fortunately, for the illiterati, Peter Jackson has made some movies for those with movie-going attention spans.Regardless, The Two Towers follows the lives of the our loved fellowship shortly after the breaking up. Sam and Frodo press on to destroy the ring in Mt. Doom, and the rest search for the Orc-Kidnapped Merry and Pippen. This novel left me in laughter, awe, and sometimes even in tears. I don't want to spoil the ending, but I will tell you this: After I completed The Two Towers, I had to immediately start The Return of the King, just to find out if what happened really was what I thought happened (those who have read it should know of what I'm talking).Two words: Read it.
5 I read The Lord of the Rings three times in my teens and twenties and decided it was time to try it again to see if it still moved me as much as it did before. I decided to listen to the audiobook version (unabridged, of course; beware of many abridged versions of this and other long books). Narrator Roy Inglis does an excellent job of acting out the myriad of voices in this vast novel. He even sings the many songs, some in the Elvish language. I highly recommend the audiobook, especially to anyone already familiar with the story; hearing it read adds a dimension. If you haven't yet read it, it might be better to read the print version as there are many subplots and characters to keep track of. I think the Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest works of literature in the English language. I'm afraid that it is often dismissed as a mere genre novel,  of interest only to fantasy enthusiasts. In truth, I think it is more akin to an epic novel like War and Peace. Indeed, having read the latter fairly recently I was struck by some similarities. Not in the writing style, but in the scope and the amazing subtleties of character. Both novels, in addition to being centered on great wars, focus on the importance of smaller characters and apparent random chance in the making of history. The most impressive quality of Tolkien's novel is the way he literally created a completely believable world that is at once beautiful and terrible. The descriptions of geography, languages and the various races of folk sometimes seem excessive, but these serve to create an unparalleled authenticity. Tolkien's Middle Earth is more plausible than the "real" places of most other writers. One could write an entire book on some of the philosophical and spiritual implications of LOR, especially on the topic of duality. Some, including myself, are not comfortable with the apparent Manichean quality of his universe, where everything seems to be good vs. evil. There may even be some justification for claims that the book has certain ethnocentric qualities -e.g. the constant association of black with evil and white with good, and also the tendency of good being associated with the West, and evil with the East. However, the book also contains enough subtleties and shadings to compensate for this; characters such as Gollum and Saruman, who exist on a shaky moral precipice, show that Tolkien did not see life in simplistic terms. Beyond all of this, and most importantly, The Lord of the Rings is simply one of the most entertaining and exciting novels ever written.
4 The writing, of course, gets five stars.Until recently, my favorite story was represented on my bookshelf by yellowed paperbacks from the `70s. I went shopping for a durable hardcover edition that would better reflect my love of Tolkien's masterwork.Having enjoyed Alan Lee's work as a designer on the Peter Jackson films and his exquisite illustrations in the book CASTLES, my choice did not take long to make. I was not disappointed.Lee's watercolors are detailed and evocative without imposing on the reader's own imagination. Although there are several portraits and battle scenes, characters are usually dwarfed by the vast landscapes and imaginative architecture that Lee excels at rendering. Tangled untamed forests, crumbling castles, and savage mountainscapes abound. These illustrations hold up to repeated viewings. The prevailing atmosphere may seem grim to those readers who may expect vibrant, children's book colors. The picket-fenced charm of Bag End, for example, is sombered by autumn leaves flying before dark gathering clouds.Although I highly recommend this edition, I cannot quite give it five stars. The print quality of the text pages is not up to that of the color inserts. The type is nice and large, but it is often broken up or flecked with fuzz, as if the plates are wearing out after multiple printings. Also the maps are weakly reproduced, unlike the large red-and-black foldouts I enjoy in my copies of THE SILMARILLION and UNFINISHED TALES. Indeed, these are quibbles, but for the hefty suggested retail price, I hoped for perfection!
5 As a young girl I checked the lord of the rings trilogy out of the library, I was probably about 13 then, but for some reason I never read them, I must have returned them without even trying. It strikes me as strange - that something sparked when I read the back covers - but not enough to attempt reading them. Many (12) years later I married a man who considered the series to be his favorite book(s). He reread them soon after we married and offered them to me to try, and I refused saying that I knew 'fantasy' wasn't my thing. But, when I heard they were creating the trilogy into a cinematic event that was to be Peter Jackson's crowning glory - I decided to try. I knew my husband would drag me to see the films and I do have a thing about knowing a story before I see the film. Well really it only took the first chapter to get me trapped. I bought them in my own set of paperbacks so that I could bend them and keep each I was reading with me at all times. This is a series that has subsequently changed my life, considering my husband and I (and millions of others) have spent the last 3 years anticipating the 3 films. I am so thankful that I read these books. I think that much of my reading life has been divided into pre-LOTR and post-LOTR. The only downside is you'll find yourself ever searching for another epic that compares. But - is there one?
5 I'd bought this edition back in the 60's when it was first released, and lost it when I loaned it to a friend. Since I's also bought the companion books I didn't want a 'new' version so I was pleasantly surprised when I found this 60's edition. It is in great shape and looks perfect next to the others on my bookshelf.
5 the consisitencey of the sci fi/fantasy reader and not the other way.  This book was a delightful read which is masterfully woven and told.  So Many great events and emotions, LOVE, HATE, DESIRE, ENVY, DESPAIR. this tale brings the reader in and makes him a companion of the companions.  The lord of the rings allows you, the reader,  to experience the emotions and dreams of the charachters and forbids any one person from putting it down.  I read this book without interuption (other books) and am so moved, that i would like to read again from the beginning.  this is a classic of its genre and definitely a MUST READ!
5 This is a great book! In my perspective it is a little bit less scary than the Fellowship of the Ring, the first book. I liked it because there is a lot more joy in it than in the first book. In the book, the fellowship has broken up, but Aragorn plans to bring them back together again. In their quest they bring back to the fellowship Merry and Pippin, who were taken by orcs, and Gandalf, who almost died in the mines of Moria. But not yet Sam and Frodo who are still on their quest to destroy the One Ring.
5 Well written series. Exciting with beautiful words & detailed descriptions.  A pleasure to read . A classic series that is worth returning to again and again.
5 I bought the Hobbit and Fellowship of the Rings for my 13 year old granddaughter for Christmas to add to her classic collection of books she loves to read over and over.I bought the Two Towers and The Return of the King for her birthday in February.  She loves them!  Good quality books that will last a long time and thru many readings I'm sure.  I also bought her the little book &#34;Bilbo's poem&#34; which she also likes for her collection.
2 All I can say is that the guy who wrote this is no Harold Robbins.
5 All three of the shorter novels published as "the Lord of the Rings trilogy" are fantastic novels, but the action taking place in The Two Towers is fantastic! This "trilogy" (originally meant to be published as one book) contains lush imagery, rich and detailed description, heart-pounding action and you can really immerse yourself in the world of Middle Earth.In The Two Towers, Frodo and Sam continue their solitary journey to Mordor, and are eventually overtaken by Gollum (Sm&eacute;agol). Gollum agrees to guide them to the Black Gate of Mordor, but their journey is fraught with danger (not the least of which is Gollum's dual-personality dilemma). Tolkien cleverly wrote his master epic in six books - two books for each volume which was eventually published. In The Two Towers, the books show the division between the Frodo/Sam storyline and the remainder of the Fellowship. Pippin and Merry become separated from the rest of the Fellowship and flee into an ancient forest full of strange and wondrous creatures. A fantastic journey filled with Orcs, Ents, a confrontation with Saruman and a reunion, not only with the remainder of the broken Fellowship, but with the reborn Gandalf, this chapter of the adventure is definitely a page-turner. Even if words on a page don't tend to excite you, this will keep you enthralled. The world that Tolkien has created in Middle Earth is so easy to lose yourself in, you might not want to come back!
5 without my JJRT would be death.  These books really are in our &#34;never lose these under any conditions&#34; box of books (when we're not reading them, of course).
1 I know there are a ton of people that think these books are the greatest, I don't.  Some of the worst writing ever and the movies were just as bad.
5 Yup. Still a favorite. There are moments when I read this book where I can hear the call by Theoden as he leads Rohan to Gondors aid. I can smell the ash in Mordor as Frodo and Sam make their way across the barren lands and creep up the side of the mountain.What is amazing to me is that, for a book that is centered so solely about the Ringbearer and his quest, there is actually not that much time devoted to Frodo and Sam. There is always so much happening, battles and the rallying taking place to get to those battles. But all the while, as I read about these huge scenes and feel the enormity of them, I also feel how closely tied everything is and how small the world is in the sense that if Frodo fails - Middle Earth fails.I have a few favorite moments in The Return of the King. One the movie did fantastically well, the other was completely ignored by the movie.The first is, of course, Eowyn's battle with the Lord of the Nazgul. If Middle Earth were a real place, if we were allowed to go there and to live in whichever place we choose I wouldn't choose the peaceful land of the Shire, the cold beauty of Lothlorian or the regal beauty of Minas Tirith. I'd choose Rohan. The strength of character in the men there is apparent even through the treachery of Wormtongue. (And I have to admit having a bit of a crush on Eomer - even more so than on Aragorn). Eowyn facing down the Lord of the Nazgul is such a powerful scene that even as I think back on it, my heart leaps into my throat and I feel a thrill from my head to the very tips of my toes.And my second favorite moment in this book is the Hobbits return to the Shire. I love feeling the confidence that they themselves feel and enjoy watching them take their newfound knowledge, skill and judgment and show themselves to be the worthy Hobbits they are. And there's something just.. satisfying about seeing their enemy reduced to what he is.I seriously could go on and on about this book and how fantastic it is. I know I've seen some comments from folks who have not read the trilogy informing me that they haven't read it because it intimidates them. Don't let these books intimidate you if you haven't read them. I envy you your chance to explore them for the first time. And if you think you know the story because you've seen the movies - let me assure you that you don't. The level of detail and back-story woven through these books is so complex that the movies, although they were beautiful and well-done, just cannot compare to the original tale put down here by Tolkien.
5 One of the greatest classics of our time, and worth reading for anyone that loves fantasy. It's quite an adventure, though not one to be undertaken lightly.
5 These are amazing!  The illustrations are rich and beautiful and the books are a wonderful addition to a book lover's collection!
5 I picked this edition up for my husband - he collects editions of LotR. This is not the best one out there, but then there is no such thing as a bad copy LOL. I bought this at Amazon.com from an Awesome Deal I found on DailyTool.com.
2 I Loved the hobbit and I managed to get through the fellowship of the ring but in the middle of this book I Just couldnt take it anymore. It just started rambling on about nothing that important. It completely ran short of action
4 Well, what can I say.....? This is an incredible book. It creates a world that is flawless in every detail and has so much information on the history and origins of everything you find yourself believing it could be real. However, having said that, sometimes it does tend to waffle a bit, especially in the Two Towers. At moments like these I was very tempted to skip chunks of it, but determinedly read on just in case it was at all relevant to the plot. It wasn't.The actual story itself is brilliant,though at times less believable than the history side of things (eg. Sam being so subservient throughout all the Mount Doom bit), but that is just one flaw in an otherwise excellent book. Tolkien creates some great characters and places and describes everything with great skill. Parts of it are absolutely superb, which easily make up for the waffling parts (although I am sure that if I read Lord of the Rings again all the details would slot into place and I could make sense of the names and translations. Or if I bothered to read the appendices).Don't expect this to be just an extension of The Hobbit-it isn't, its far better and more complex. In many ways it is more than just a story; it is a complete history and mythology of Middle Earth and a linguistic study, which is what Tolkien wanted it to be.If you want to know more read The Simarillion; if you're just looking for a good book to curl up with read Lord of The Rings anyway- it's definitely worth it.
5 Love this little addition to our bookcase.  The craftsmanship is wonderful!  Being a huge fan, you must own this.  Too good to pass up,  If you can acquire one, I highly recommend it!
5 These books have been much underappreciated for too long and now that the movies are out they have a much wider audience, though that has unleashed a new plague upon the world: movie fans who think they know the books. If you are one of them, may become one of them, have simply seen the movies, or even haven't seen the movies then you should read the books. These books are a spectacular rendering of the writers' art, rich in details, plot and characters.While the amateur fantasy reader might find the sudden blast of this new world they are sudddenly exposed to a little overpowering or confusing, or even a little boring at times, it all combines to form a timeless epic that has already captured the hearts of millions and deserves a few more readers.Before you start reading (preferably with the hobbit) you have to prepare yourself for the onslaught of information that bombards you. With every chapter, every page, every sentance there is something new to digest some new name or place with an obscure and similar-sounding name that you have to catalog in your mind for future reference in case it should (and it probably will) come up again. This mass of information is probably the thing that turns so many people away from this book and though it takes a little getting used to the books are well worth the effort.
5 I had not read it for years, and I'm so glad to have returned to Middle Earth. Tolkien was dynamite!
5 This book has the fellowship scattered in every which way. Frodo is traveling through Mordor with Sam, while Pippin and Merry show incredible inner strength in their encounters with orcs. Gandalf (who is supposedly killed in book 1) resurrects with gallantry as Gandalf the White. The characters begin to take on more and more challenges. Frodo is gettin guided by who but Gollum and a new type of soldier emerges--Ents. Readers are introduced to Faramir, Theoden, Wormtongue, and the Rohirrim. The trail to the final battle between good an evil narrows ever-more as the book draws to a close. Each reader has begun to see each character in a new light, truces are made, blood is shed, and now readers can begin to decide who is the most important character in the book. I personally have never been able, as all characters play such an immense part in the story of the rings. I recommend both the book and the recording (Rob Inglis is the most incredible reader).
5 I am not even going to do a synopsis of these books.  If you aren't familiar, crawl out from under your rock.  At least watch the excellent movies!I say excellent movies, when I should be angry so much got cut out from the  EVEN MORE AMAZING books... but I still think the movies rock too.Reading these books is a wonderful escapist opportunity for me.  They are so vivid and detailed I can see the picture of what I am reading easily.  The story line is complicated and phenomenal.  It truly is world building at it's finest.  I have read these books 10 times at least and plan on reading them many more.  Part of the charm is that they are so detailed it is easy to pick out different parts each time, so the feeling of freshness never fades.  I confess, however, to skipping some of the longer poems/songs.Of all the characters, I love Eowyn the most.  Her lands and lifestyle fit me, and her silent love makes her believable and endearing.  My second favorite is Gandalf, because he is funny and powerful.  That is a heady combination.If you haven't read these books, put in the investment.  I advise people who can't get into the story to skip the party scene in the beginning and begin when Frodo leaves the Shire.  That is a major turning point and true beginning of the novel.&#34;It's a dangerous business, Frodo, going out of your door,&#34; he used to say. &#34;You step into the Road, and if you don't keep your feet, there is no knowing where you might be swept off to.&#34;- Bilbo Baggins
5 In these tales of woe and grief, suffering and sacrifice, there is a light that keeps you turning the pages. The beauty of Tolkiens writing. The richness of detail paints a wonderful tapestry of this age and time which practically makes it feel, well, real.These books far outshine the works of C.S. Lewis and Philip Pullman. Though these books are long and take you on a journey as ruin frought as the tale of Odyseyses the gripping plot and enticing details pull you in for a journey that could only be named THE LORD OF THE RINGS.
5 Edition reviewed: Houghton Mifflin ISBN-10: 0395489326Hardcover boxed set, cloth editions, box and jackets illustrated by Alan Leehttp://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0395489326I really wanted a nice hardbound edition of LOTR for my forever bookshelf. There are so many different editions out there it was really tough going through them all, especially when I couldn't see them in person. I'm pretty picky -- I wanted a three-volume hardbound set, with a classic and low key design and quality paper and printing. I browsed what was available in B&N;'s inventory and didn't see anything I liked. Some were nice looking but were either one volume or the paper or printing was substandard. Some seemed well-made but the design was off-putting. I looked at out-of-print editions, and some looked nice but were very expensive. I kept seeing this one, but it was so widely available and such a good price that I kind of assumed something had to be wrong with it. However, not finding an edition I was happy with, I took a flyer on this and I am completely happy with it. Wonderful set. Very attractive cover and box art, no reference to the movies, fold-out maps, nice feeling paper, good solid print... it's everything I wanted, and such a fantastic price. Don't look any farther, get this one.
5 What can I say that hasn't been said before?  It's as enthralling on the 6th reading as it was on the first.
5 ...you'll love this set of books. LotR is what introduced myself and many others into the wonderful and imaginative (and at times clich&eacute;d) world of fantasy. But this is where it all began.LotR is somewhat of a followup to the children's book, the Hobbit. It talks of what happens after Bilbo finds his ring and returns to Bag End. Without going into too much detail to avoid spoiling something, Bilbo entrusts the ring to his heir, Frodo, who has to set out and destroy it. Of course, the actual story is much more descriptive, with elegant speech, realistic and vivid backdrops as well as surprises around every corner.Whether you don't like fantasy, have never tried it, or, and especially, if you're a huge fan of the genre, read this book. I guarantee, it will give you a new perspective of how you see literature.
5 Wonderful books written by a brilliant author. I never wanted these book to end. You go on quite an adventure into Middle Earth, in fact, it seemed as though you automatically 'connect' with other people that have journeyed to the Middle Earth.
4 With the movies now wildly popular, I decided to re-examine these old classics.  What you get is a decidedly different feel from the movies.  The on-screen versions of the stories have a much more "desperate" feel to them, with the quest as a desperate rush against evil, while the books are more of a journey and an adventure, with the interesting parts being the next person the group runs into, or the next adventure that takes place.  I found both genres to be great, but they do have a different feel.  People who watch the movie and decide to read the books afterwards will be shocked at the slower pace of the books (i.e. Bilbo not leaving for years after discovering that he has the Ring of Power as opposed the mad rush to escape in the movie) and the amount of song/poetry.  How you feel about those "chants" will go a long way towards your opinion of the books.  While they did get a little tedious after long bouts of reading, they are great in coloring the characters.  Read the books at a slower pace so that you never find yourself scanning past them to continue the story - it will be worth the time to fully appreciate the art of these books.  Keeping track of the characters is a full time job as some are introduced, leave the scene, and reappear hundreds of pages and even books later with no repeat introduction.  The sometimes shocking similarities of the names of different characters (i.e. the two main villians being named "Sauron" and "Saruman") makes you wonder why Tolkein didn't look at other keys on his typewriter...  I knocked a star off of the rating because the maps provided in the books are pretty worthless.  Too many places that are referred to in stories do not appear on the maps, and a number of extraneous locales do.  Those trying to visualize the journey using the map will find it very difficult and frustrating.  But not enough to take away from the greatness of a "rediscovered" classic.
5 Anyone who read all of The Fellowship of the Ring and bemoaned its supposed slow start or lack of action (misguided souls ... surely God will correct them im the afterlife) will finally find a home in the second part of The Lord of the Rings. The Two Towers has the benefit of an established world the author no longer needs to set up, and the story moves along from wonder to terror and back again at a most satisfying pace.When we left Frodo, he had abandoned all the fellowship except his servant Sam, unwilling to share his seemingly certain destruction with them. Thus, Tolkien splits his narrative. Book III is devoted to the adventures of Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli as they learn the fate of the fallen wizard, Gandalf, and seek to rescue the hobbits Merry and Pippin from the clutches of the orcs. Book IV returns us to Frodo and Sam on the hopeless trek to Mordor. Along the way, they enlist the help of a most unlikely guide ...Epic battles, walking tree-gods, monstrous spiders, and reintroduction of literature's most tragic villain, Gollum, highlight this most worthy second part of the greatest fantasy epic ever written.(This review has been posted by Marcus Damanda, author of the vampire fantasy, "Teeth.")
4 I read this first in 1968, and have read it many times in the following years.  The movie disappointed me so much that I was moved to go back and read all three books again, and I found the work to be profoundly richer, deeper, and more troubling than I remembered.It goes beyond being an engrossing fantasy or work of adventure.  This is an incisive character study, with keen and harrowing examinations of the nature of good and evil.The heros are flawed - they can be weak and cowardly, and at times show stupendous bad judgement.  The most evil characters (outside THE source of evil, Sauron) have a failed nobility; one senses they became evil out of the best of intentions.  The ultimate triumph of good brings about much sadness and loss in its wake, and the central hero does not return from his trials to live happily ever after.I think what the book teaches us is that great acts of heroism and decency can come from the least likely of sources, that acts of great courage entail great risk, that evil is more insidious and close at hand that we might want to think.So, although it is probably the greatest 20th century work of imagination and adventure, what will make it endure in other centuries is its examination of the nature of good and evil, and of how the most ordinary of characters (and hence, readers) struggle with them both in daily life.
5 Got this on kindle cause I was helping someone recuperate from surgery and was away from home for months. I've read the books several times but this was great having it on my kindle instead of several books to travel with. Always love reading it enjoy the fantasy.
2 Ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a confusion regarding which edition we are evaluating.  The book advertised is a paperback, and you are talking about the rich leather binding -- on a paperback?As to the content, the only reason I read it is that everyone I knew had read LOTR.  I was curious, and ordered the book, only to see that in order to understand the book (I like to read first things first) you had to read The Hobbit.  In my opinion this is like a fairy tale, and I think adults are too old for fairy tales.  I care much more for realist literature, or books that write about someone strange, like The Stranger, by Camus; or Sartre's Les Mots.  Also, LOTR is too long.  Even Anna Karenina (and that is great literature) is shorter.  The only reason I read LOTR is that I'd heard about Bored of the Rings, and wanted to read it.
5 i have red this book many times, but, to have it in kindle is the best. I know that it is a long book but every page is alive and fuel your immagination. I recommend it to everybody, young and old.
5 I got "The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings Box Set" for my birthday, and wow, have I really enjoyed it! All my best friends except for one have read the whole set and I felt rather left out when they spoke about it with themselves. So, naturally, I was really looking forward to reading these books and I honestly can say that these books are DEFINENTLY my favorites! The songs in it were very interesting and the plot and everything was really good!***The Hobbit***A really 'enchanting prelude to Lord of the Rings' about the respectable hobbit Bilbo Baggins and how he is hired by Gandalf and a band of dwarves to become a burglar...to recover treasure which the evil dragon Smaug stole years ago from the dwarves' ancestors of Lonely Mountain.In other words, he, the dwarves, and Gandalf has an exciting adventure which includes huge spiders, a dark creature named Golumn(here's where Bilbo finds the Ring of Power!), orcs, goblins, Wargs, many other worse unknown dangers, and finally, the confrontation of the dragon Smaug. My favorite character is Beorn the skin-changer, who helps the adventurers pretty much at Mirkwood Forest.I think this book is something you have to read before Lord of the Rings. It would make the Trilogy even more fun and easier to understand.***The Fellowship of the Rings***Bilbo is now 111 years old and the Ring is beginning to have its first effects on him. "I feel all thin, sort of stretched..." "I won't give my precious away, I tell you..." (Bilbo is about to leave his home and go for a long journey and to visit and stay with the Elves, but he doesn't want to leave his Ring behind, despite what Gandalf urges him to.) Gandalf, alarmed at this, makes him leave the Ring.The accursed Ring of Power which, if the evil Dark Lord finds it, would destroy all that was good in Middle-Earth, is now Frodo's and he now has a heavy burden: To go to Mordor, the very center of Sauron's dark kingdom, with a Fellowship of Nine and to throw the accursed Ring into Mount Doom. With dark, fearsome Ringwraiths, orcs, goblins, and other evil things following them, what would happen?***The Two Towers***The Fellowship is now scattered. Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli are trying to recue Merry and Pippen who were taken by orcs, and were also fighting against the evil wizard Saruman. Only Frodo and Sam are left with the orginal task of throwing the Ring into the fires of Mount Doom, where it can only be unmade. Their guide was Golumn, but can they trust him?My favorite book in the Trilogy and it's very exciting.***The Return of the King***Frodo and Sam are nearing the end of their journey, but each step makes Frodo's burden heavier and heavier, until Frodo begins to lose hope in everything. Can the task be finished or will the Dark Lord Sauron capture the Ring and destroy Middle-Earth?Gondor is being attacked by overwhelming evil forces and evil could prevail. Unless Aragorn son of Arathorn returns from the Paths of Dead to help them cThis book was also exciting and has a good ending, too! I loved reading the LOTR Trilogy and also The Hobbit. I fm sure anyone would enjoy reading this! The movie was very interesting, also!
5 Hooray for HarperCollins, releasing the trilogy and several other Tolkien works for e-book reading!!I've several battered editions I will now donate.
5 Great read.  love having it on my Kindles...now whenever I want to relax, I can revisit my old friends: Frodo, Gimli, Strider, Legolas...
5 Everyone must read the Lord of the Rings at least once in their life.The only down side to this book is on the older kindles the maps are hard to read.
5 "But I will say this: the rule of no realm is mine, neither of Gondornor any other, great or small. But all worthy things that are in perilas the world now stands, those are my care. And for my part I shallnot wholly fail of my task, though Gondor should perish, if anything passesthrough this night that can still grow fair or bear fruit and flower in days to come."[The Return Of The King]The last century may easily be remebered by three deeds - we put the man on the moon, we created internet and ...Tolkien wrote the Book. Kind regards, Mario.
3 Sorry, I think I'm unable to understand what is so great with this book. I began to read this book with very large expections and was so dissapointed. It tells nothing it doesn't wakes any sort of feelings in the reader. It is  something you can read, but nothing more.I admit that Tolkien was the  first author to write this, the fight of good against evil, but sometimes  this is not enough.Anybody out there saying Tolkien can write? Me not.  His charakters are plain, they are never facing any kind of decicion. There  is either good or evil, light or darkness, but nothing in between.AND  he missed the end. After the coronation of Aragorn the book is over, but  Tolkien keeps telling something.The Lord of the Rings is something like  a legend and its creation was &quot;good&quot; but its fame is larger than  the truth.
5 With all the different editions of Lord of the Rings available, I recommend this version for a few reasons:1) Hardcover - classics should be owned in hardcover. Paperback is best for books you don't intend to re-read.2) Alan Lee - simply the best of all the Tolkien artists (and there are other great ones out there). Alan Lee has a keen sense of the look and feel of Middle Earth and its inhabitants, and has a particularly excellent ability to capture mood and emotion within a particular scene.3) Although I like the idea of publishing LOTR in a single volume, as Tolkien intended originally, I find the single volumes difficult to actually read comfortably. Keeping the books as three separate volumes makes the books physically easier to read.
5 I first read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings about the time the author died in 1973.  I've since read the Hobbit another four or five times, and his trilogy twice.  I've read about everything else he's published.John Ronald Ruel Tolkien was a quiet, peaceful man who was orphaned at a young age, raised by his parish priest, suffered shell shock during the Great War and later became a sensitive, loving father and husband, master of languages, friend of C.S. Lewis, and died complete.  He was a man of faith who made up a world unrelated to his religion where the characters there, also, had to struggle against evil.  That's what the Lord of the Rings is about.While the movies look like they'll be good, please don't pass up the opportunity to bathe in Tolkien's printed word.  There are so many sublime, powerful moments to be discovered.  I was seized by racking sobs at the author's narrative of Sam contemplating the stars while Frodo slept in the heart of Mordor.  Please take the time to read these books and find your own great moments.
5 These 4 books are amazing, as all of us who have read it well know.&quot;The Hobbit&quot;  starts out with Bilbo Baggins sitting at his front door enjoying the sun.  Hobbits are small, furry creatures that don't enjoy adventuring at all, and love gardens and flowers.  This first book is more of a fairy tale for young kids.  All the bad guys die, and all the good guys win.  The last 50 pages or so actually start looking serious.&quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot;  is where Frodo comes into play.  He is Bilbo's predecessor, and takes over Frodo's estate and also Bag End, Frodo's hole.  Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin start off on their adventure to destroy the One Ring.  On the way they run into lots of people, and monsters, and the adventures are great.&quot;The Two Towers&quot;  is the second installment in the Lord of the Rings.  This is where all the action and stuff comes in place, even though there was plenty of action in the others.  Orcs drag off Meriadoc and Peregin and they are on the way to take them to Saruman.  Riders of Rohan intercept the orcs and kill them all.  I don't want to spoil any of it, because pretty much every page in these books are great and action-packed, plenty of foreshadowing and great dialogue is in these books.&quot;The Return of the King&quot;  is the last and greatest book.  In book VI we are brought in, out and under the Dark Land of Sauron.  Sauron has been alive forever, he forged the one and most powerful ring, and he lost it, and wants it back.  If he gets it back, then he has won the war, and Evil takes over forever.  In order for this not to happen, the ring must be destroyed.  Mount Doom is where the ring must be taken, and it must be destroyed.  The problem is, is that the Ring is evil, and whoever wears it falls under its power and wont give it up to anyone or anything.  This is what happens to Frodo, just like it did to Bilbo.  Well, in order to not &quot;Give away the farm&quot; I'm going to stop.  I've given away too much already, these are very enjoying, and really, it's hard not to keep reading these book until you are finished.Mark_Sigel
2 The Hobbit is a great book, especially for young ones. The Fellowship is one of the moster overated books ever, The Two Towers is good throughout and even has some great parts, The Return of The King takes away a lot of the fun of the 2 towers and is kind of slower besides Sam and Frodo parts.
4 I tried to read my brother's "The Lord of the Rings" paperbacks in high school a few decades ago, but bogged down somewhere in the first third of "The Two Towers" and gave up. After seeing the movies I was willing to give the books another try. I'm glad I did.In case you want to know about the Kindle edition that combines all three books:  Compared to other Kindle books I've read, LOTR is virtually error free--I remember less than half a dozen in this very long work. (If the Elfish contains mistakes, I wouldn't know.)  The table of contents works properly. It's easy to find one's way around. The text includes hyperlinks to the appendices so you can learn more about characters, kingdoms, etc. if you wish. I only skimmed the appendices so can't comment substantively on those, but they also seem easy to navigate. I never even try to look at maps or illustrations on my first generation Kindle screen and believe that readers to whom these are important should purchase the physical book for maximum legibility and enjoyment.As to the literary merit and entertainment value of LOTR:Tolkien breaks every modern rule of good writing. Weak verbs, nominalizations and the passive voice abound. He calls the same characters by multiple names, and uses similar names for different characters, confusing the reader who wants to keep track without making LOTR and its supplemental materials a life study. For example, Aragorn, a major character, also goes by Strider and some other name I don't remember. It took me a while to get bad guys Sauron and Saruman straight in my mind, even having seen the movies first. Of Eomer and Eowyn, which is the man and which is the woman? Not only does Tolkien disregard Orwell's maxim, "Write in English," but he liberally sprinkles the text with words in unintelligible languages he made up himself, Elfish and Dwarfish. I know of his scholarship in philology and linguistics and imagine he and hard-core fans may enjoy it, but to the casual reader, it smacks of showing off. Step by footsore, hungry step, the reader follows the protagonists as they climb up the side of the mountain, they climb down the side of a mountain, they climb up the side of a mountain, rinse, repeat, with a battle or an encounter with fantastical beings thrown in here and there.Nonetheless, I enjoyed reading LOTR enormously. No doubt it helps me to envision Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn (he would captivate me if he played a mailbox) and the other wonderful performers and film craftspeople who brought Peter Jackson's vision of the inhabitants and landscapes of Middle Earth to such compelling life. I also loved for their own sake the musicality of Tolkien's old-fashioned narrative voice, his pastoral descriptions, and the vividness and completeness of his richly imagined universe. The hobbits bring delightful humor and humanity (hobbitity?) to what might have, absent Tolkien's gifts as a storyteller, affection for the natural world and leavening wit, been a dreary tale of a struggle for freedom against corrupt power.LOTR can at times tax the reader's patience. If your taste runs to John Grisham thrillers, you may want to avoid it. I am glad to have acquired the serenity to roll along with it at its own pace, not stress about keeping every character and kingdom straight, appreciate Tolkien's highly personal artistry, and enjoy the adventure.
4 There is little point in commenting on the text of this monumental, timeless classic; when you go for this version, it's all about the edition. (It is confusing that Amazon throws together all reviews of this book irrespective of editions!). The price has come down quite a bit since it was first issued, but this will still be an expensive buy by most standards, and one that raises expectations of a very well made book. These expectations are only partly met. I was very pleased with the mottled grey appearance of the coverings; the book itself feels somewhat suede like, quite pleasant, though it doesn't look or feel 'leather bound', the covering material is very thin. The book  is large, heavy and seems fairly sturdy, even though the covers are maybe just a little thin in proportion to the bulk of the book. The paper is slightly cream-colored, with very little show-through, and the text is set in a clear, crisp type. Title pages have two-colored print, red and black. The gilded edges are a rich or slightly tacky detail, according to taste. Two large foldout maps are at the front and back of the book. They are kept closed by a little dot of glue, which seems unnecessary and carries the risk of damaging them when folding them out.On closer inspection there are some disappointments. The slipcase in particular seems to be put together rather indifferently. I suppose few owners will spend much time staring at the innards of this box, but at this price that is still no reason to leave it the mess that it is. Basically the slipcase is a loosely folded, prefab box with the cover-material wrapped around it. The edges inside are uneven, and outside, in my copy at least, on the front of the box surplus glue has oozed from under them. The illustrations on the back and front are not completely correctly positioned, their edges are not quite parallel to those of the box. As there are no indentations you have to give the slipcase a very firm shake to extract the book from it. The book itself lacks a headband at the bottom, a small but surprising omission that reinforces the feeling that the book was made to impress at first glance rather than from a wish to produce a truly excellent book. There is a whiff of the fake about it.I would urge people interested in a deluxe edition of LOTR to check out the one that Harper Collins published in the UK. Another reviewer has compared both editions in some detail, and I fully agree with his findings. The UK edition is less obviously spectacular, but has an understated chic that makes it more timeless. As a book, it is clearly better made than the US edition, the level of finish is indeed quite amazing. It is slightly more expensive, but definitely worth the extra outlay. And die-hard fans may be pleased to find that, unlike with the US edition, a matching version of The Hobbit is available.
5 I have to admit that I first tried to read this and the Hobbit forty years ago. I simply couldn't get my brain around it. My interest was rekindled by Peter Jackson's movies, yet I resisted. Finally, as the release of the first Hobbit movie approached, I picked up the copy that's sat on my shelf gathering dust for nearly thirty years. I was hooked and immediately ordered this single-volume edition. I'm now a complete Tolkien fan. I spent a lot of time reading fantasy, and I can honestly say that Middle-earth is the most completely realized fantasy world I've ever experienced. It simply comes to life in Tolkien's capable hands. I'm usually ready for a book to be over by the time I'm finished reading it. In the case of The Lord of the Rings, I was sad that it was over. I wanted more, and I will have to continue reading about Middle-earth. This is the highest praise I can offer any book.
5 i love this book. it restores all three lord of the rings books into one volume like it was originally planned to be all those years ago when it was written. there are maps of middle earth inside along with geneology of the hobbits and an alphabet of the language. i got this book for my last birthday but first read it 9 years ago when i was in 9th grade. it's a bit heavy to carry along with 3 other skool books but i managed and believe it or not it actually got me out of trouble once. anyway, i love this book just because of the aesthetic beauty of it. the story inside is wonderful as well. it's the tale of frodo baggins and his inheritance of the One ring from bilbo. it goes from the rolling hills of the shire to the dark shadows of the mountains of mordor. the quest to destroy the ring and frodo is the only person to have the strength to carry out the deed. it's the tale of the nine and their odyssey to mt. doom to throw the ring back from whence it came. this book is filled with danger, battles, orcs, evil spirits, ring wraiths that hunt the bearer, and sauron the original owner of the ring who wants to get it back. a must read for any fan of the hobbit or of the new movie that has come out.
5 One might question my motives behind writing a review when many others have written so eloquently.  Still, my deep, abiding love for Tolkein's narrative presses me, so that I cannot remain silent.  Tolkien represents to us a world of enchantment, a world where all of our adult pretentions  are peeled away until the child of years past returns to us.  In this age  where every book you open is filled with cynicism, illicit sexual acts, and  meaningless violence, how refreshing is this tale which extolls virtue and  heroic sacrifice.  Everyone should read this book.A bit of news to  those that haven't yet heard:  'The Fellowship of the Ring,' a live action  movie of the first part of Tolkien's masterpiece, will arrive in theatres  the fall of 2001.  'The Two Towers' will follow the year after, and 'The  Return of the King' arrives 2003.
5 This is the third time I have read this book and each time I have e noted it more.Thank you J.R.R.Tolkien
5 I first read "Lord of the Rings" in high school in the 1960's.  I have worn out a couple of paperback copies re-reading it.  I really like the Kindle version.  With the font set to a comfortable size, the time to read all three volumes has been really enjoyable and taken less time.
5 Very nice set for the beginning reader, or someone who likes to share books. Got these for my 9 year old grandson, and they were perfect for him. Def a good purchase.
5 This is the ultimate audio production of The Lord of the Rings with an absolutely stellar cast, music and sound effects. I got a big kick out of the fact that Ian Holm played Frodo in this production and played the aged Bilbo in the more recent movies! The character development is stunning--pay attention to how Strider/Aragorn's speech changes as the story progresses. To me, the recent movie trilogy falls very short of what I picture as I listen to this production--it is one of the best radio productions I have ever heard!
5 LOTR is the first fantasy book I have read, and, I could say, the last. Any other one about the subject I tried to read was not able to reach the same level, or also something comparable. Too deep the gap between LOTR and  the others, and, maybe, too difficult to reach the same thouroughness of  its structure, both from philology and novellistic point of view.  The  author is able to branch the story into different threads, to deal properly  with them, and then to join them again (people with scientific background  cannot help liking this &quot;unifying&quot; effort). The end is a bit sad,  leaving the memory of a world that no longer exists (or that have never  existed): a metaphor of human growth.
1 The ONLY reason why I chose to buy this particular edition was because of the incredibly low price tag it carried for FOUR books. However, once the package arrived and I had worked my way past the first and second chapters (of the Hobbit) it became obvious WHY this particular printing had been such a steal.For someone like me, who has read the ORIGINAL Hobbit (Unwin Publication), this edition was as close to a rip-off as one could get in the book-publishing world. Let me make a list here.1. Typographical errors2. The RUNES of the map are not correct either. It should read, "When the Trush Knocks", instead it reads,"Hwen the Trush Knocks"3. The ENTIRE introduction by the author, (On Runes and their history, from where I learnt to read them 15 years ago) is MISSING! I wonder what anyone who reads this publication will think of Tolkien's runic writing without the authors guiding words.Sadly, I have now lost the original Hobbit book (I lent it to a friend who lost it) so I will have to make do with the one from this boxed set. It's something. But it certainly WILL NOT PLEASE ANY FAN OF TOLKIEN.If you are a Tolkien fan, or want to enjoy the TRUE magic of the Ring, DO NOT BUY THIS BOXED SET!!! This is strictly for the casual reader who cannot tell Tolkien from Eddings!(...)
5 OK, OK.  You have seen the numerous reviews.  Five stars, five stars, five stars;  It's unanimous (almost).  What is NEW is that the first of three huge MOVIES based on these books will be released this December.  So if you haven't got around to it, or if you haven't read these books in a long time, I suggest you do so NOW, so you can form (or refresh) your own images of these great books.
5 The Return of The King concludes the adventures of the people of middle-earth that were chronicled in The Fellowship of The Ring and then in The Two Towers.  As in the previous two installments The Return of The King is divided into two books, Book 5 and Book 6.Book 5 takes place in the land of Gondor, one of the last resisting outposts to the dark forces of Sauron.  New characters are introduced such as the evil king of nazgul, Dernhelm the warrior of Rohan and most notably Denethor, the steward of Gondor and father of Boromir and Faramir who is now living in his twilight years.  The characters of Faramir and Eowyn are also expanded on in considerable detail.  In preparation of Sauron's dark forces waging a battle against Gondor, Aragorn gathers around his armies to fight back. Pippin and Gandalf ride into Gondor and Pippin becomes part of the towerguard.  Many people of Rohan also join Gondor in the fight, including Dernhelm, King Theoden and Merry, who was left behind in The Two Towers.  As the forces of Sauron approach and the great battle begins, Denethor slips into madness and becomes suicidal, wanting to pull his own son Faramir down with him.It's not until halfway through the novel, in book 6, that we get to read about Sam and Frodo.  After a climactic battle in the tower of Cirith Ungol against the giant spider Shelob, Frodo is captured and now a prisoner of the Orcs.  Sam however has managed to escape with the ring.  His first instinct tells him that he must now carry on the quest to destroy the ring by himself but as loneliness and the weight of the ring bears in on him, he decides to turn around and attempt to rescue Frodo. As Sam and Frodo continue their journey and etch closer and closer to the fires of Mount Doom, they encounter several obstacles along the way, including marching armies of Orcs and the ever-looming presence of the slinking creature Gollum.Book 5 and book 6 are quite different in tone and structure.  Book 5 is admitedly very wordy and talkative.  There are lots of slow passages and in-depth character development that often made me wonder whether I really was reading the conclusion to one of the greatest epics of all time.  The battle sequence is only described over 20 pages or so.  The author does not go into great detail attempting to describe it however, he places such vivid images in the head of the reader that we can easily picture in our minds what is going on.  The reward for reading through the at-times murky first half of the novel is that when we fnally get to follow the adventures of Sam and Frodo in Book 6 the action becomes non-stop and the suspense never lets up.  Tolkien is so good at describing their journey that he managed to make me feel what the charactes were feeling.  As I was reading, I actually started to feel hungry, thirsty, physically drained and increasingly sympathetic towards Sam's frustration with Gollum's antics.Curiously, by the time Sam and Frodo's journey comes to an end, there is still about 100 pages to go.  These first few pages start off with reunions, gatherings and farewells.  As I was reading these first few pages, I started to worry about the the daunting prospect of having to read through 100 pages of farewells and sob stories but it turns out ol' Tolkien had a few more tricks up his sleeve.  As the hobbits return to the Shire, they discover one last major obstacle awaiting them.  These pages are easily among some of the best in the entire series.Reading The Return of The King on the eve of its theatrical release, I can barely contain my excitement and anticipation at seeing  the spider Shelob, the cracks of Mount Doom and especially the battle of Gondor put to film.  It is rumoured that the battle of Gondor will  be the biggest battle scene in cinematic history.  In an interview I read Peter Jackson mentions that the grandeur of this battle will easily eclipse the epic battlle at Helm's Deep in The Two Towers.  To give an idea of just how big the battle will be consider this: At Helm's Deep there were approximately 300 middle-earthians defending the wall and 10000 Orcs trying to barge through it.  Well, multiply the number of people behind the wall by 5 and the number of Orcs by 7 and that will be the battle of Gondor.Suffice to say, I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  I find The Return of The King to be the most satisfying part of the trilogy.  And as for the slow moments, they are alleviated by Tolkien's beautiful artistic prose filled with ultra-clever metaphors.  There is a difference between simply reading Tolkien and understanding Tolkien and I am quite pleased to see that other reviewers have enjoyed this book as much as I have.
5 Lord of the Rings is the best fantasy epic ever written.  J.R.R. Tolkien used much more than any other author in the creation of this story.  It all stems back to the fact that he created an entire world, not just this story.  While reading this you feel the angst of Middle-Earth as all of its beings are drawn into a struggle against evil.  You can detect how some are swayed to try to use the One Ring to save good even though it will in the end betray and corrupt them.  The setting of the story gives a feeling of being in a forgotten world or a forgotten time in our own history.  It almost is soothing, for it puts you in a possition where you are no longer in the midst of the hustle and bustle of our world.  Indeed, you are taken into a world where the only hustle is to destroy the Ring.  The many references to the history of Middle-Earth make the book even deeper as you see that there is much more to this world than meets your eye at first glance.  The depth of the world makes Middle-Earth more than a world... it makes it your world.  I suggest this book to everyone!
4 I've always been interested in reading the Trilogy but never got around to it until long after I saw all three of the movies.  If it weren't for the movies I may have never gotten around to it.This story is very sweeping in its scale and complexity.  Almost to a fault.  In fact, that's why it got a 4 (from me) instead of a 5.  The first 200 pages were difficult for me to get through.  But I persevered through them because I really wanted to see how closely the movies followed the source material.  And I have to say that Peter Jackson and company did a tremendous job of compiling everything and making a series of movies that remained true to the books.A problem I had with the book was the different speach patterns and mannerisms that the different characters/races used.  That as well as the intermingling of made up words and historical exposition that Tolkien put in the story to flesh out this world that he created from the ground up.  Alot of the history that he goes into really doesn't have much to do with the plot other than to give more substance to the world that he's trying to involve the reader in.After the first 200 pages is when the book picks up.  My recommendation to anyone who is contemplating putting the book down prior to getting past the first part of the book should keep reading on.  Once the fellowhship forms it really takes off.Took me awhile to read it, very heavy book and difficult at times, but anyone who's a fan of literature, or the movies, especially fantasy fans, should give this one a try.  This is the first book in the fantasy genre that I've read and now I'm interested in reading other books in that category.
4 This is a review of the Alan Lee illustrated, Houghton Mifflin hardcover book (ISBN: 0395595118).This edition of LORD OF THE RINGS is very &quot;deluxe&quot;.  The dust jacket has the same gold-foil runic borders that THE HOBBIT and THE SILMARILLION editions have (released at the same time).  The Alan Lee illustrations are first-rate and abundant throughout the book.  There is a nice red bookmark sewed into the book's spine.  The Tolkien maps are included, but (like many of the paperback versions) are simply printed on pages - not glued to the back cover as a fold-out.I am happy with my copy.  LORD OF THE RINGS, of course, is one of my favorite books.  One has to take care when reading it -- all three volumes in one book create quite a weight in one's lap!For the first-time reader of RINGS:  THE FELLOWSHIP (vol. 1) mixes adventure and high fantasy (ex: Tom Bombadil and the Barrow Wights) to good effect and really hooks the reader in.  THE TWO TOWERS (vol. 2) takes its time.  The characters are split and Tolkien spends exclusive time with each faction.  Don't expect film-like cutting between the main storylines.  Tolkien, instead, spends several chapters concentrating solely on Sam and Frodo leaving the reader to wonder what's been happening to Merry or Pippin in the meantime.  RETURN OF THE KING (vol. 3) becomes quite beautiful and poetic and is a great reward if you can make it that far!  The characters by this time have become quite dear.Enjoy this edition -- definitely one for the bookshelves!
5 Come on, it Tolkien! How many of us fans re-read these books over and over? I decided it's a series I wanted to have always available and the paper version is quite large and bulky. This is perfect for kicking back on a plane or car ride and drifting off to the land of hobbits and rings. Highly recommend this for all fans.
5 of my favorite book ever.This edition is lovely.  I've had many copies of the paperbacks over the years but this is beautiful.I read LotR for the first time when I was 14 and from then on I was hooked.  I read it once a year until I was in my 20's then put it aside until I began to read it aloud to my own kids.  They weren't quite the enthusiasts I was until the movies arrived.  Now they are almost as big of LotR junkies as their mom.  (I took one daughter to see it 9 times during the day when the theater was empty, center balcony seats, HUGE screen, wow, what an experience, but that's the movie and I digress...)I've heard that LotR and the Bible were the two most influential books of the 20th century. I believe it.  So many things I did in my life may have gotten a seed planted by something I read that Tolkien wrote.  I even bought our wedding rings, (the "Comfort Band" style) because they look just like the One Ring.  THAT impressed my kids.  Especially when I put it on top of a creme brulee and it looked just like the scene in the movie when the ring is destroyed in the mountain of fire.The book is so beautifully written, such rich, beautiful images, such a real country to visit, how can anyone not read LotR and not be affected profoundly?  It is a credit to Tolkien's pure writing that Peter Jackson was able to recreate scenes that were just as I had pictured them in my mind long before Jackson ever had the idea to make the movie.  Perhaps Tolkien was guiding him from that far green country....Buy this book for life.  It is a masterpiece, a gift to the world from Prof. Tolkien.
5 There is nothing I can say that hasn't already been said.  One of the greatest series of all time.  Enjoy!
5 This is one of most impressive literary achievements in the modern world.  Loved by millions, this story spans generations and the epic struggle of good versus evil is played out in a wonderfully detail.  The characters are complex, full and connect with you on an emotional level, and the evil takes many unsuspecting forms.Don't settle for simply watching the movie - immerse yourself in the world of middle earth, and enjoy the original illustrations as a view into the world of Tolkien
5 Having been an unwaveringly regular reader and re-reader of "The Lord of the Rings" since I first encountered it way back in 1965, seeing the work of the greatest story-teller of the 20th century makes my (hairless) toes curl up in joy at its availability in Kindle format.  Doubly so since my rapidly failing eyesight no longer has to struggle with the printed page.  Kudos to Amazon, ditto to Harper for making it and "The Hobbit" available.  To them 's as have never read either, plunge in, enjoy, and like all the rest of Tolkien's readers, be sorry when you reach the end!  (By way of a postscript.  I also think that the late, very Catholic Professor Tolkien is pleased to see his masterpiece made available in this format to so many of his readers during the season of Easter.)
2 Leather is "leather-look" paper on both box and book cover. Page edge gilding is a tacky bright gold. As others have said, because of improperly placed glue, unfolding the maps guarantees ripping the maps (you might have better results if you bend the maps so that you remove the glue from inside out). At any rate...I now have a brand new $50 book with scotch tape on the damaged parts of the maps. Paper is very slick & somewhat shine-y and there is zero info as to whether it is acid-free. I cannot recommend this edition.
5 Sure this is a handsome, sturdy edition, but nothing new here. Some Tolkien paintings are nice, slip case is nice, but its hardly a revised text, it's the same text they've been printing for years.If you have the red-leatherette version or the magnificent Allen Lee Illustrated version don't go this route. If all you have is three volume or paperback, this ones a nice addition.I would, however, recomend the Allen Lee version, the text is not only complete, but the page numbers are correct and do not start over at "1" with the Two Towers and ROTK. Plus, Peter Jacksons films look exactly like the Allen Lee illustrations, some are so close they look like he was painting the film, not the other way around.So, nice copy, but not an upgrade.
5 My parents first bought this set for me back in 1975 and I have read it many times since then.  I fell in love with it the first time and the feeling just continues to grow.  As a child my imagination built all these worlds in my head and I must say that the just released movies fit my imagination quite well.  That said, I pull these books out about once a year and read them again.  Constantly learning something I did not see before.Definately a great read, and good for kids...teaches that no matter how hopeless it appears good is always better then evil and will triumph in the end.
5 I love the conclusion to a series.  For example, for pure enjoyment, give me &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot;, to see the ends tied together.  I like the sense of inclusion and completeness when you finish a great series.Like it or not, the Lord of the Rings trilogy is one of the most influential books of the century - it spawned an entire genre in its ideas and precepts.  Some people find Tolkien too slow, his ideas to archaic and/or derivative (but since he was in many ways the original, Middle Earth at least is not derivative).This is not an entirely happy ending trilogy - Tolkien did live through the second world war after all.  It is high fantasy at its best, glinting, tragic, fighting against evil, the characters larger than life and vulnerable at the same time.  I read these books every summer as a treat.  Some people find them boring, too slow, too much description (it is a very rich world).  All I can say is that if you read fantasy, any fantasy at all, then you should love these books.
5 The actor reading this book is phenomenal!  Reading is clear, and brings out the story without the voices used enhance the story without overshadowing it.  I would highly recommend this to anyone.
5 VG I now know one more of Tolkien's books; it was an exciting adventure; gave it to my granddaughter who could not put it down once she started reading.
5 i love the LOTR trilogy, it stands as one of my favorite books. even the movies are great capturing every single detail of Mr. Tolkeins books. the story is about Frodo Baggins who sets out o a quest to destroy the evil and hated one ring forged by the dark lord Sauron. along the way people join him on his quest and form the fellowship of the ring. then in the second book the fellowship has been broken, Frodo and Sam continue on to Mt. Doom, Aragorn and company try to save Pippen and Mary, then Aragorn must help the land of Rohan which is underattack by the now cursed tower of Isengard. then in the final book Frodo, Sam, and Gollum reach Mordor, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Gandalf, Mary, and Pippen prepare for the battle of Minis Tirith. the end is great and well written. read this truly astounding book
5 My 6th grade teacher gave me &quot;The Hobbit.&quot;  That is what I remember most about him.  The book led me to the LOTR and I have re-read the series quite often since.  If you want to make an impression on a young adult, give him/her this series.
1 Hardcover, paperback, Kindle - you name it - I won't get it here. Why? Because it's difficult to figure out what kind of product you're getting since they lump reviews of different editions together. I've been an enthusiastic Amazon customer for years, but this just makes me angry.I'm going to make an old-fashioned trip to a number of old-fashioned bookstores and enjoy the process of hand-picking that special edition for myself. Devote a day to it. Because Tolkien is worth the effort.
5 I first read these books when I was in high school and have read them at least once every year since.  They are so rich, so moving that I'm always finding something else to appreciate about them.  If you have never read these books before, I highly recommend you give them a chance--even if you don't normally read fantasy.  Although these books are not what I would consider an easy read, I promise that you won't regret it if you give them your time and attention.  The first time I read them, I have to admit that I skipped the long passages of elfish poetry, and even skipped ahead at the beginning of The Return of the King to see what happens to Sam and Frodo.  Don't worry if you are tempted to do this--just keep reading.  You will be rewarded!  Don't let yourself get bogged down in the first 100 pages of the Fellowship of the Ring.  I promise you that the story gets absolutely gripping after that and contains some of the most remarkable passages of action you'll ever read.If you want to do something different, try reading it out loud with a friend.  I recently read the entire trilogy out loud to my husband while he did the dishes each evening.  Tolkien is very gifted at crafting dialogue, and some of the passages are quite striking.
1 We purchased the 50th anniversary volume Amazon shows as the edition readers buy with the Literary Lessons.  It is NOT the correct edition!!!  My son is having a lot of trouble completing the assignments and I sat down with him to figure out why.  It turns out the book he should be using is an entirely different edition, but you wouldn't know it the way Amazon markets the two books!  Once you look carefully at the Literary Lessons you'll see that you need one of the following versions:ISBN 0618260250 (one-volume paperback)ISBN 0618260242 (one-volume hardback)ISBN 0618343997 (one-volume paperback)ISBN 0618345841 (one-volume hardbackISBN 0618260293 (three volume paperback in slipcase with film coversWe're out the money and my son has been stressing needlessly - thanks a lot, Amazon!  But I wanted to save someone else the trouble!
5 I screwed up. I watched the movies first. . .My mistake!! These books are AMAZING!! And so much better than the movies. Its a classic that in my opinion everyone should own.
5 Leave it to the BBC to completely nail Tolkien's masterpiece. While an unabridged audio adaptation might work well for the Hobbit, and there's a Silmarillion reading I like very much, I believe the BBC's radio adaptation of LotR is just fantastic. Terrific voice choices, great pacing, and a fine editing hand make this production more than worthwhile. Try it out.
1 This trilogy amazes me. I will not talk about THE HOBBIT, but just about the trilogy. I think people get so amazed that someone could write almost 1500 pages of boring fantasy, that Tolkien's work became some sort of &quot;trash cult&quot;...My God, he just can't seem to know how to tell a history in a moving, spirited and dynamic way!!1) The characters are awful, their dialogues a joke. They seem all to be machines;2) The environment descriptions are all over the history, suffocating it (and the reader) due to its sheer boredom.3) The forces of good and evil are clearly divided. The good guys are perfect, even when they slash enemies and take delight in counting the number of bodies at their feet;4) The dreadful songs are a joke. After trying to read some of them, I skipped them all all the way until the end of this nightmare of a trilogy.5) I'm out of words to say how much overrated this book is. I realize the book has enough ingredients to make for a sucessfull movie, adn to have launched the RPG genre of games. I was player myself, once. BUt to read this trilogy is another totally different matter. It's a tour de force of your inner determination to not to put the book down to rest forever!!
5 LORD OF THE RINGS is everything that you've ever heard.  It is an amazing journey.  An action packed story with wonderful characters.  A story packed with hundreds of pages of history, language, and research beyond any other fictional novel that I have ever encountered (only Frank Herbert's Dune novels come close).  And truly The Lord of the Rings Saga is the cornerstone of the Fantasy genre.Forewarning, anyone who wishes to read the Lord of the Rings saga should start with The Hobbit.  Hobbit is an easy fun story and it will help ground you to the first 100 pages of LOR.LOR is obviously divided into three main books (and the three upcoming movies that have helped gather even more hype around the saga).Part 1 - Fellowship of the Ring is an excellent intro to the entire saga.  We learn of the history behind the Ring and its creator Sauron.  We learn of Bilbo Baggins acquiring it from the evil Gollum.  And, we learn of the gathering of the Fellowship of the Ring.  It's a lot to take in, and there are numerous characters to follow...but stay with it and the pay-off will be rewarding.  The highlight being the fellowship's battles in the dungeon mines with an army or orcs and the dreaded balrog.Part 2 - The Two Towers is my personal favorite section of the LOR saga.  This section divides the adventures of the fellowship into two areas.  The hobbits journey to destory the ring and the fellowships battles with the evil wizard Saruman and the armies of evil.  The action in this part is incredible and delivered at a breakneck pace.  The highlight being Frodo and Sam traveling with the fiendish Gollum and then encountering the monster Shelob.Part 3 - The Return of the King is the conclusion of the saga.  All of the storylines connect and the heroes and villains travel their course.  I can't mention anything here because at a combined amount of 1,000+ pages...if you make it this far then you should be allowed to enjoy the ride without any spoilers.For any fan of reading and adventure and fans of any age I can praise nothing more highly than J,R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings Saga.
5 This fiftieth-anniversary edition is fully corrected and has a quite helpful, very extensive new index.Of the many Great Books which are part of the Western Cannon, like Lord of the Rings (LOTR) (as well as The Hobbit, The Silmarillion, and all the rest of Tolkien's many other magnificent works) are like unto far too many other truly profound works of Literary Art of the past: They have been quite deliberately ignored, shunned, loudly ridiculed and sadly under-rated, by the oh-so-snooty Literary and Academic institutional elites of both the USA and Europe.Lord of the Rings is only just now (over slightly more than just the last decade) is being rightly recognized -- world-wide -- as a truly awesome Magnum Opus; among the very highest (If not THE very highest) body of work of English Literature ever written. Furthermore, LOTR by itself is only now seen on par with of the world's greatest and most developed (complex) epic national mythologies. In this case, a body of English myth written by a single genius over the course of but a single lifetime. (Tolkien began writing about Middle-earth in the trenches of WWI France in 1917.) In contrast, LOTR is quite unlike the great epic mythologies of the distant past: great mythic traditions which evolved by the participation of entire peoples over millennia. However, in this one exceptional case, Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and his other mythic works, put together, are indeed the singular work of but one brilliant man's lifetime; he single handedly created something very much on par with the grand mythological (epic) tales of the ancient Western world; in this case quite deliberately for England. Yet, it should be stressed that LOTR was, sadly, rarely seen in this light during Tolkien's lifetime. (C.S. Lewis called it, "Lightning out of a blue sky.")Almost miraculously, Lord of the Rings and the rest of Tolkien's other writings, have finally become near-universally seen as well deserving quite close academic study and analysis; are among the best sources of creative inspiration across the various Fine Arts, world wide. Moreover, many of the world's top artists and artisans look to LOTR in particular, as a primary source of mythic inspiration; it has likewise spawned a mammoth, multi-billion dollar subdivision of art, literature, music and movie making: the so-called Fantasy genre.Lord of the Rings, now, is held up as worthy of the very highest Academic, Artistic/Musical, Philosophical, and Literary institutions and the brightest individuals here in the USA, Europe, and all around the world: For its awesome, majestic beauty of the texts; its stunning imagery; its brilliant depth of meaning; and the rich myriad of deeply moving, profoundly thought-provoking ideas it holds. Thus, like other Great Works of Literature and epic myth, LOTR is filled with both exhilarating triumphs and disturbingly sorrowful tragedies; its timeless concepts, and truly life-altering wisdom; with all its deeply complicated elements, theme connections, and associations which certainly do not all become apparent upon a single casual reading, nor commonly with even several careful readings thereafter.The Lord of the Rings alone has been translated into over 40 languages: these include French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Danish, Polish, Hebrew, Portuguese, Norwegian, Dutch, Flemish, Turkish, Polynesian, Mongolian, Swedish, Greek, Icelandic, Gaelic, Mandarin & Cantonese Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, Swahili, Armenian, Ukrainian, Danish, Finnish, and Korean, to name but a few. Moreover, every translation has thusfar remained a top best-seller in each of their respective language editions. (It's worth noting that LOTR, like all of Tolkien's works, are banned throughout most Mohammedan lands, just as they were too in Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia; a region which seems a very real Mordor -- a looming evil for well over the last 1,500 years. Likewise, a very orcish Iran also outright bans -- and openly hates -- Tolkien; quite a ringing endorsement.)J.R.R. Tolkien (1892-1973)Beloved throughout the world as the creator of The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, The Silmarillion, and many other works, was a professor of Anglo-Saxon (Old English) at Magdalen College, Oxford; was a fellow of Pembroke College, and a fellow of Merton College until his retirement in 1959. His chief interest was the linguistic aspects of the early English written tradition, but while he studied Great classic works of the past, he was creating a set of his own.MORE TO EXPLORE...After reading LOTR,The Silmarillion, Second Editionand thenThe Children of Hurin, are are both must-reads. Following that, theUnfinished Tales of Numenor and Middle-earth 1st (first) edition Text Onlyis also quite worth reading too ...Lastly, regarding the realm of the Fine Arts, there are a series of breathtaking downloadable MP3's, all by a National Danish classical musical ensemble, various outstanding soloists and a Danish chamber choir, whom are together combined with the amazing voice talents of Sir Christopher Lee; they create an outstanding work of classical-themed music, incorporating the Great English poetry and (previously unscored) song lyrics, from The Lord of the Rings; written of course by J.R.R.Tolkien. The best place to start, is withSelected Songs and Poems from The Lord of the Rings: Leaving RivendellBeyond this, in the realm of Fine Drawings, one need look no further than the monumental work of (now "Sir") Alan Lee:The Lord of the Rings Sketchbook-- Who's brilliant ideas were used most extensively throughout the excellent, yet slightly flawed,The Lord of the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy (Special Extended Edition); by the multiple Academy Award-winning Director, (also now "Sir") Peter Jackson. (Sir Alan's stunning artistic contributions were also fully partnered with the outstanding artistry and artistic consulting work of Mr. John Howe; who has a truly amazing, encyclopedic knowledge of mediaeval arms, armaments and warfare.)
5 I hadn't read the whole series since I was in 8th grade, but just this past summer I started with the Hobbit and read the Lord of the Rings and then the Simillarion -- what a story!  I literarlly could not put the books  down and gave up the better part of 3-4 days reading, totally immersed in  the forests and land of Frodo, Gollum, Bilbo, etc....  Tolkien's genius is  that he really created a whole world complete with languages, customs,  social divisions, along with memorable characters -- heck, even Led Zepplin  sings of &quot;Golum and the evil one.&quot;  Anyone who loves these books  should also check out another fantasy type writer, Jonathan Carroll.  Lest  anyone not be impressed by what Tolkein did in these books, his linguistic  studies and achievements are even more noteworthy.  These books are great  to read aloud to your kids and get them hooked on reading.  Long live  Gandolf!
5 My dad has had this edition on his desk for many years. I think it is the best all-in-one edition of Tolkien's classic fantasy novel.
5 People who complain about the slow pacing of the books probably haven't made it past Fellowship of the Ring.  That book, for all its merits (and it has many) could have been called "LOTR: The Onset of Exposition" at times, so heavy does the weight of backstory fall on the reader.  However, I like the backstory and find that it makes Middle-Earth richer and more realistic, knowing that for every offhand reference to some hill that the characters walk past, Tolkien came up with an entire history for that very hill and we're only hearing a tiny bit of it.  I have no choice but to admire that.  The other hurdle for readers of the first book was that the plot was resolutely linear in nature, since all the companions were together you basically have Point A to Point B stuff, first they walk "here" and then they go "here" and things happen and so on.  Two Towers fixes those problems with style.  With the Fellowship split, Tolkien divides the plot into Frodo/Sam and everyone else.  Having already dealt with setting up the premise (ring=bad) he can go to town on the plot itself and it's amazing how breakneck things are, considering this is coming from a mild mannered Oxford professor.  Aragorn and company range across Rohan trying to find the hobbits, trying not to get killed, running into friends and enemies while meanwhile the rest of Middle-Earth is waking up to the fact that Sauron really does want to kill everyone . . . at the same time Frodo and Sam start to realize that they might be on a bit of a suicide mission.  Fantastic locations abound and Tolkien's imagination seems endless as he whips out magical setting after magical setting, switching from wondrous to horrifying to just plain beautiful in chapter after chapter.  As big and epic as the events of the novels are, he never loses sight of the humanity of his characters and often contrasts the workings of the important immortal characters (Gandalf, the elves, etc) with the regular people who populate Middle-Earth and getting their perspective on things.  And he never forgets to include moments of small humor and delight, Merry and Pippen finding a stash of food, Frodo and Sam discussing how people will remember their tale for years after it's over, so that the characters seem like real people who are simply caught up in things beyond their reckoning and just trying to figure out how to make it through alive.  Again, it's not perfect but it's as close to the distilled essence of epic fantasy as we're likely to get.  One thing I did notice that I didn't remember from my first time reading it is that the novels are almost like musicials, Tolkien must have been a frustrated songwriter because it seems like every few pages (this is more pronounced in the first novel) people stop to sing a song about something, anything.  Not saying it's good or bad, just commnenting.  And for those coming in from the movies, this book seems most affected by the transition from text to film, with whole sections chopped out to get crammed into the next movie and a lot of stuff simply just changed.  So don't think because you've seen the films you've seen it all, the novels are still the first source and still highly preferred for those so inclined.  So for all those folks who said "all they do is walk around!" this is where they start to get proven wrong.
5 I first read 'Lord of the Rings' when I was 12. Ever since then I have been hoping to read a book as good, I have read many good ones but none have come close- in a way it's depressing to start at the top. Every few years I pull it off the shelf and reread it. It has many strengths, the obvious being the incredibly detailed background of Middle-earth. It is also thematically a complex work, with many underlying themes, such as faith, good vs evil, the perils of technology, and the ability of seemingly inconsequential persons to affect great events are ones that come to mind. But I also love, what seems to put off many people, the slightly archaic language Tolkien used. I find it entirely fitting, and gives the book a mythological grandeur. I include the dialogue in this judgment, there is some simply wonderful dialogue in the 'Lord of the Rings'.My favourite book ever.
5 Never has there been a universe in fantasy so intricately detailed from languages to races to every aspect of the shire.  It reads like a legand or a history, so character development is not the point of the book.  The idea to to create the non-existant English mythology.  And he has managed.  This book will always be a legand.  It is wordy, at times slow, and at times the battles can get annoying, but it is definately worth a read.
5 Read these books back in the 80's and with the new Hobbit films coming out wanted to go back and read all these books again. Books arrived in excellent shape and make a great addition to my library.
5 The greatest fantasy story ever written published the way it was meant to be - in a single volume.  The book is sturdy and well-made.  It has held up to my nine year old carrying it around for a couple of months now with no sign of damage.  If you want a grand presentation gift for a big LOTR fan, choose one of the expensive boxed sets, but if you want to read the book, this is the one to choose.
5 I bought this book, along with &quot;The Hobbit&quot;, for my 14-year old  son as a Christmas present. I read it for the first time in 8th grade, and  wanted to give him an opportunity to experience it also. He loved &quot;The  Hobbit&quot; but delaying starting &quot;The Lords of the Rings&quot; for  several months. But once he started, he was hooked. I hope he'll pass the  word on to his son someday. Now that he's finished it, I'm rereading it  myself for the 4th or 5th time. It's been almost 20 years since the last  time I read it, so it's almost like experiencing it for the first time all  over again.
5 As the Shadow of Mordor grows across the land, Aragorn is revealed as the  hidden heir of the ancient kings. Gandalf miraculously returns and defeats  the evil wizard, Saruman. Sam leaves his master for dead after a battle  with the giant spider, Shelob; but Frodo is still alive in the hands of the  Orcs. And all the while the armies of the Dark Lord are massing and the One  Ring comes ever closer to the Cracks of Doom. While Gandalf, Aragon and the  others from the fellowship fight at the battle for minas tirith.  This  is the exciting finally of the lord of the rings. Yet, don't worry Tolkien  hasn't gotten worse with time in fact I believe that he has gotten even  better. So go out and get this book and you will be awe of his epic  work.By: Michael
5 This review is not of the Lord of the Rings.  So much has been written already and after the movies everyone has their own opinion.  I purchased The Lord of the Rings (Millennium Edition) in 2000 and I absolutely love the set I have.  I have read the books countless times, but I like how there are seven separate volumes (six books one appendix).  Each volume has the original book title that Tolkien himself named it.  This is how Tolkien intended for the Lord of the Rings to be read.  Each volume is hardbound and artwork on the box is all top notch.  I recommend this to anyone looking for a quality Lord of the Rings set.
5 This series is very exciting and a joy to read.  I would recommend it to anyone.  I hope the rest of his work is published.
4 While it would be nice if the maps were in the book, and if more of the images had been included, this is a great book.The text has all of the corrections up to the most recent print editions, the story is great and these are books any fan of fantasy should read.
5 Sometimes called the &quot;Douglas Anderson&quot; edition, the 1987/1988 three-volume printing of The Lord of the Rings incorporates the final corrections Tolkien made to the book.  No previous edition includes all the corrections.Unfortunately, Houghton Mifflin's book production quality has declined through the years and these books are as liable to fall apart with normal usage as not.  But any reader who wants the most accurate representation of Tolkien's masterpiece needs this edition.  Not even the Alan Lee illustrated Centenniel edition incorporates the final textual changes.The value of owning the &quot;most faithful text&quot; really depends on whether you want to know if a Silmaril was Luthien's bride-price or bride-piece (the former is the correct term, though many editions say bride-price).When I am in doubt about what Tolkien actually intended to say for any Second Edition passage, I turn to the Douglas Anderson printing.  It is a necessary tool for any Tolkien researcher.
5 Tolkien creates a world and breathes so much life in it. These three books can not be separated. They are a trio. So much of the story is built in its characters and the plot is interesting. The main player Frodo has to take the One Ring and throw it into the pits of Mount Doom. Seems easy enough right. Oh yeah don't forget that Ringwraiths are after it, everyone who comes into contact with the ring wants to use it to control Middle Earth, you get separated from your best friend, a crazy split personality helps guide you along the way, and that Sauraman and Sauron are both trying to find you. A great story that weaves so much action and interesting characters (Gimli, Merry, Aragorn, Pippin, Treebeard, Gollum, Gandalf, Sauraman, Theoden, Samwise, and Legolas) together without missing a beat. These books are just plain awesome.
2 As a lord of the rings fan, I find this audio drama offensive.  The voices, the sections left out, the actual audio itself was of such poor quality that it left its listener confused, turning up the volume, and vainly trying to find out if this was a new lord of the rings, written by someone else.  Usually I enjoy BBC drama's, but this was not the case.
5 The Lord of the Rings consists of three parts, that is The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.  It tells the story of the halfling Frodo Baggins, who receives a magic Ring of Invisibility from his uncle Bilbo (see The Hobbit).  Frodo discovers that the ring has the power to control the entire world and, he discovers, to corrupt its owner. Joined by fellow hobbits, dwarfs, elves, and men he goes on a mission to destroy the Ring by casting it into the fires of the Crack of Doom where it was forged. Their mission is opposed by Sauron and his evil Black Riders.  In summary the book recounts the Great War of the Ring and the closing of Middle-Earth's Third Age.  It is a time men rise to dominance and the magic of old begins to fade.The book is exciting, detailed, filled with diversity of scenes and characters.  Tolkien's masterpiece is exhaustive and it is difficult to imagine another fantasy novel being it's equal.  I recommend this work for anyone who appreciates skillful writing.
5 The Lord of the Rings is a parable of war, love, truth and honour in a world brilliantly conceived and written. It is a soaring tale of incredible landscapes, men, women, elves and dwarves fighting to save their world from evil. Tolkein has created in Frodo, Pippin, Merry, Gandalff, Aragorn and so many others, characters that resonate with heroics, truth and beauty. It is fun, frightening, beautifully written, with glorious scenes and a landscape of incredible beauty. It is a must read for anyone who enjoys fiction...a parable for our age, but even more a delight!
5 I have been writing, drawing maps, creating languages, weaving histories and birthing charactors for ten years and NOTHING that I have EVER written comes ANYWHERE NEAR Tolkens Lord of the Rings.  I read it when I was 12 on my kindle and since then I have been marking it and making notes on it and highliting it till not a single page is all clear.  Tolken had the mind of an artist and a small brush in his hand and, with it, created a masterpiece.  It is the third only to the Bible and Book of Mormon. YPU MUST READ THIS BOOK!!  Since i have read this i have written 3 books and a trilogy and I'm only 13!  I love Tolken and his steadfast charactors and diabolical evil and the end which made me cry and I don't cry easily.  To sum everything all up, I love the Lord of the Rigns and  nothing you write, no matter how little stars you give it, will change my mind.
4 I have always loved these books. I needed my own set for my family. I prefer hardback books but these are a good value.
5 I think The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King was a very good book.  This book proves that even the smallest of good can overcome evil. Frodo and Sam continue their journey into the depths of Mordor to Mount Doom.While Frodo's burden gets heavier and he gets weaker, he still trudges on. You can find that friends can appear in the most unlikely places, even if you don't expect them to turn up. Sam Gamgee is a good hobbit at heart. He stays true even if Frodo brushes his ideas aside. You can also be powerful without being better then everyone else.  Captain Faramir may be powerful, yet he does not take his power to overrule people. You can journey with everyone from Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli, and Aragorn to Smeagol, Frodo, and Sam.  If you liked Shelob in the Two Towers, you can take off from the tower where the last book was left off at!!!The Lord of the Rings: The return of the King is an excellent book for all occassions! With action- packed and excellent adventures, this book can take you for a ride (I'd suggest a horse, the Oliophaunts are too big)! Check out the excellent movie too (the movie missed a couple of parts, but it was still excellent)!!
5 This thick paperback packs in all three of Tolkien's classic fantasy books under one cover, making it a highly recommended pick for any newcomer to the Lord Of The Rings trilogy. The adventures of Frodo and the hobbits and elves of the kingdom receive new life under one cover: one book to find them all....
5 What can I say about Tolkien except that he either lived these stories in a previous life or is one of the most gifted and imaginatively creative authors that will ever be. I like to believe it's a little of both. All that needs to be said about these novels is that I am utterly disappointed that I will never have the joy of reading them again for the first time.
5 Incredible a  always and quite a masterpiece comparable to those of ShakespeareA great leisurely read.High praises for this fine work of fiction and poetry.
5 I rarely reread a book or see a movie more than once. This is the exception. This literary master excels on every level, nuff said.
5 If only I could have a dollar for every book reviewed which is compared to the Lord of the Rings (LOTR), I would be financially secure for the rest of my years.  For over 50 years, this work has been The Standard for epic fantasy.  JRR Tolkien's masterful storytelling, characterization and setting detail have become the benchmark to which all other epic fantasies are compared.LOTR is a classic epic storyline between good and evil.  I am a big fan of epic fantasies but this one remains special.  While many epic fantasy stories have been written with similar plots, few can draw the reader in so thoroughly with such engaging characters and meticulous plot details.  The Fellowship of the Ring characters (Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Gimli, Boromir, Strider, Gandalf and Legolas) remain characters which I can recall details with little effort and are truly made to feel lifelike.  The villain, Sauron, is known mainly through his deeds and legends but is one of the more menacing villains in epic fantasy.  These characters progress through a plot of breathtaking scope and detail as the Fellowship of the Ring must confront Sauron to save Middle Earth.Tolkien's attention, if not obsession, to detail in creating the setting, Middle Earth, is unmatched in other fantasy stories which I have read.  Tolkien creates such detail of the history, languages, cultures and arts of Middle Earth that the reader is immersed in Middle Earth instead of merely passing through.  This detail includes extensive appendices on the history of Middle Earth which I personally have not more than skimmed but which are nonetheless illustrative of the author's attention to detail.  I cannot help but think that much of this is due to his academic career in languages and literature.  I cannot also help but think of how few academics could supplement such astounding detail with such entertaining storytelling that the result is the pinnacle of epic fantasy instead of a story more reminiscent of an academic thesis.  The only area where Tolkien spared detail, as compared to contemporary epic fantasy, was the rules and limitations of magic.  I have no issue with his lack of detail in this one area; in particular, since magic is so rarely used in the Lord of the Rings as compared to contemporary epic fantasy novels.The Hobbitis the prequel story to the Lord of the Rings.  The Hobbit was written more as a Young Adult Fantasy which can be enjoyed by adult readers.  The Hobbit is a simpler, but very entertaining, fantasy quest while the Lord of the Rings is an epic fantasy for adult readers which can be enjoyed equally by younger readers.This is a must read book for fans of epic fantasy stories.  The movies are great but not a substitute for reading the novels which inspired the movies.  The Lord of the Rings (One Volume) is 27,736 Kindle locations long excluding the extensive appendices.  Standard length novels seem to run in the 4,500 to 7,000 plus Kindle location range.  Longer novels, such as those in Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series, can range from 15,000 to 20,000 plus Kindle locations.
5 [I originally published this review back in 2007.  Also included is an abandoned review I wrote for "The Fellowship of the Ring" all the way back in early 2000 but was never posted on Amazon, explaining how Tolkien's life work of "The Lord of the Rings" is NOT a trilogy but rather three parts of one work divided up for publishing purposes]Over the past several decades, THE LORD OF THE RINGS has sold millions of copies and is commonly regarded as one of the most influential fantasy novels ever published. Many first time readers have began their trek into Middle-earth with Frodo and the Company of the Ring in recent years. What they will encounter there has been loved by millions of readers before them, and if they allow themselves to respond to Tolkien and his Myth will doubtless become a loyal and ardent fan of Tolkien and those furry-footed hobbits. What's also notable about THE LORD OF THE RINGS is, for a book as long as it is, many of its readers reread the novel many times over. Yet despite its enduring popularity, Tolkien is often held in complete disregard by the literary establishment.The real question is why? In the literary climate that is characterized by modernism and post-modernism where the twentieth and twenty first century is a wasteland why does a "series" of fantasy novels become one of the most beloved works in modern times?It's because the power of myth over the human imagination works wonders, creating a longing and a hunger that, Tolkien argues, is met by the Christian religion. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis are the flip-sides of the same coin, with Lewis giving us accounts of the longing and Tolkien providing the books that would create that longing. And what about the longing? It's that longing for Myth, that love for those beauties which Tolkien shows us in THE LORD OF THE RINGS. It's that longing that sets man apart from all other creatures in the universe: a craving for beauty and for joy. The German word for this longing is "senhsucht". In a time characterized by fast-food, cell-phones, materialism, superficiality, the account of a Hobbit working against all odds in a mythic landscape so captures the human imagination (and this is NOT hype) that an entire genre is created. It is because of how Tolkien so masterfully handles Myth that he has been so highly treasured by such a large fan base.Still, there are a few things to consider when reading Tolkien nowadays. Looking over the reviews, it proved rather shocking to me that people have been complaining that, although it was original when it was published, much of what Tolkien has done has become cliche and that other writers are much better working with these cliches and making them more exciting than Tolkien. They complain about his "endless descriptions" of the natural world, very detailed accounts of geography and not enough "characterization." The characters are unrealistic: the "human drama" required by the book's very nature is beyond Tolkien's scope as a writer. THE FELLOWSHIP is both uneven and very weak in pacing, with so much invested in the world and its history Tolkien forgets to make us care about the characters themselves. Another fault oft cited against Tolkien is the lack of "female characters," and there have been accusations that Tolkien is racist; one of my favorite misconceptions is that Frodo and Sam are homosexuals.Academia has no time for Tolkien, and many of our key critics have denounced Tolkien as ill-written or escapist (Harold Bloom said that THE LORD OF THE RINGS is a period piece which will simply not die but just keeps lingering on long after its relevance. This is the stance taken by a lot of professional critics with a grudge against Tolkien, and wonderfully have been proven wrong). To this day, while not nearly as openly hostile as previous decades, academia in general harbors resentment against Tolkien and everything he's done. As far as they're concerned, he's done something that is actually popular and therefore unworthy of study. It's one of those "high-brow vs. low-brow" situations, and instead of producing "worthwhile" academic research, Tolkien instead writes a "series" of novels which become one of the most established authors of this century. In recent years, academic support has grown tremendously for Tolkien, but he is still a very hotly contested modern writer, unlike some other "academically undeniable" classics such as James Joyce. Unlike the academic favorites, Tolkien highly polarizes the professional literary establishment. Fortunately he has gained some ground here though.Much of the complaints voiced against THE LORD OF THE RINGS are both unimportant and irrelevant. Tolkien is working with literary traditions not in-tune with the modern mind, but is instead handling narrative threads of Myth. Tolkien gives us solid archetypes to work with, bringing out the very qualities of masculinity and the beauties and stark wonders of femininty, but all expressed in mythological terminology. The idea of Sam and Frodo as homosexual is both ridiculous and totally unfounded. In Myth, good is characterized and seen as "White," and the evil is dark and perverted. Those who say Tolkien is racist approach him from the wrong standpoint.As for the modern fantasy reader, those who complain about Tolkien's originality (while acknowledging it, but that later writers do a much better job with it) is like saying Shakespeare, while a good dramatist, is not that good because other people take his principals and make them more exciting, etc. I heard a story once about a person who went to see a Shakespeare play and went away complaining there were too many quotes in the play to make it any good. Shakespeare is the source of these quotes and he did not even realise it.Most people know that Tolkien founded modern fantasy. Tolkien laid down the template for the fantasy genre in general, and anyone who reads fantasy has been touched, directly or indirectly, by Tolkien's work. Almost all of the major fantasy authors have acknowledge their debt to Tolkien, and the shadow Tolkien casts over fantasy literature is very long indeed. Because there is fifty years separating us from the original publication, it is much harder to approach THE LORD OF THE RINGS as those first reviewers, for those who have grown up reading fantasy literature are now accustomed to Dwarves and Elves and Dark Lords and Epic Quests, but when it was issued THE LORD OF THE RINGS transformed and invented an entire new genre. It is not Tolkien's fault that his vision of a mythology was so successful that everyone else decided they would try their hand at fantasy and work within Tolkien's templates. The main problem with fantasy authors in general are they are more interested in emulation than they are in true "myth-making." Much like early rock and roll, which, because rock was not an established form of music, the early musicians relied on other forms to create a new genre, Tolkien did not have this tradition to fall back on so instead he used various literatures and epic poems to create his own vision of myth. A lot of fantasy writers do not work in the context of myth any more, but rather rely on genre stereotypes which are generally found in Tolkien. Many readers who are interested in "pulp" fantasy get bogged down in Tolkien because he takes the time to fully explain his world and its cultures, because his goal is different. There is plenty of action in LORD OF THE RINGS, but those raised on the pulp fantasy will not care for it.Ultimately, THE LORD OF THE RINGS's criticism has shown itself to be of little important on its durability as a major text. Ever since its publication in 1954, 1955, and 1956, LOTR has become one of the most important literary works our era has produced, highly regarded and passionately loved by an enormous amount of people. Despite the very vocal minority who despise Tolkien and his work, THE LORD OF THE RINGS has consistently topped the polls for the best book of the last one hundred years. Whatever the critics say, THE LORD OF THE RINGS is here to stay because popular imagination has grabbed hold of Tolkien's vision and ran with it. Tolkien and Lewis have been wonderfully vindicated in their belief that there is an enormous adult appetite for Myth and fantasy literature.For many, it's more than a mere novel.  It's a glimpse of the divine.It is like water in a dry place...-----THE LORD OF THE RINGS is NOT a trilogyI have been looking over the reviews THE LORD OF THE RINGS.  There is one consistent problem that keeps jumping to my attention: the reviewers keep talking as if each volume in "the trilogy" is a self-contained novel.  They are not actual novels.  THE LORD OF THE RINGS is not a trilogy - it's a single novel divided into three parts for publication purposes.  That's why they're published Part I, Part II, and Part III instead of Book I, etc.When Tolkien wrote it and had it published by Allen & Unwin, Sir Stanley Unwin had doubts about its size and the market (remember, this was back in the 50s, and THE HOBBIT had been a book for children - now they have this book that has all the hall marks of a publishing nightmare).  Instead of publishing it as a whole, they decided to divide the novel* into three parts.  Because there were six subdivisions therein (although I might be mistaken, and these Books I-VI might also be publication impositions), they chose to publish THE LORD OF THE RINGS in three books.  One purpose for this was to hide the sheer size of the book.  The second reason for doing so was to get three reviews instead of one.  Tolkien himself, however, always made it a point to tell people that it is not a trilogy but a single, unified work.Although THE LORD OF THE RINGS basically invented the fantasy genre, from a publisher's standpoint, it was a dangerous gamble.  It had to be sold at a high cost (21 shillings) to the reader, but Rayner Unwin (Sir Stanley's son) thought it a `work of genius', so they published it.  Instead of usual royalty payments, Tolkien got half of all profits, which meant that if the book flopped (most probable) he wouldn't get anything, because the book had to pay for itself before either the author OR the publisher got profits.  Obviously Tolkien came out far ahead on that deal than had he gone with a more traditional publishing arrangement with Stanley Unwin.
5 Excellent book. Foreward explains how JRR Tolkien & his son Christopher made corrections to editions. Looking forward to reading Christipher Tolkien's work next.
5 This production is vastly superior to the Mind's Eye version and the 1978 Cartoon version. Sir Ian Holm is magnificent as Frodo and Peter Woodthorpe will never be bested in his role as Gollum. The music is perfect, as are the sound effects and the narration. This collection is a must for any Tolkien fan.
3 Everyone knows at least some of the plot, so I won't go into that.I found Fellowship of the Ring to be rather dull, except for a few scenes.I found Two Towers to be little better, and by the beginning of the Return of the King I was sick of the whole thing. The biggest problem had to be their change of speech.Did anyone else notice that in the beginning they talked just about the same as one might hear walking down the street, and that by the end of The Return of the King the characters sounded like they were quoting Shakespeare?Also, some times Tolkien had his characters say very strange things, for example:Sam says "Ninnyhammer! Noodles! My beautiful rope!" something like that, but.. honestly, NINNYHAMMER??And then, before that, when discussing the elven rope, Sam also says "the rope is as soft as milk" or the like.Anyways, overall, a great book, Tolkien really started off the entire Fantasy genre, but just because he was the first, doesn't mean he's the best. I prefer Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time series, but then again, several of Jordan's stuff came from The Lord of the Rings, so.. I just don't know..By the way, I liked the movie better, which almost NEVER happens.
5 Having just re-read this after 23 years since the first read, I must admit  it's much better when it's NOT required reading in high school!  This  series has everything you need to take you on a magical fantasy ride.  I  can't possibly say anything that has not already been said about this  trilogy.  You'll find suspense, surprises, magic, hobbitts, elves, dwarves,  magical forests, good and evil...it covers the full scale of a satisfying  read.  In fact, I was sad to see it end and made a pact to myself to read  it again next year.
5 Yes, I can admit it.  I am 45 and have never given much thought to reading LOTR even after the movies came out and were wildly successful.  I would pass through a store (be it Barnes Noble, Target, Stop & Shop) and see this book and be tempted to buy it but the price ($20) would always make me change my mind.As you can see from all my reviews, I have a very diverse taste in what I read and deep down I felt that one day I would have to read LOTR, if only to say that I read it.  I am very precise in that if a book has a prequel, I have to read it and if the movie is out, I have to read the books before seeing the movie.  Finally I broke down and purchased both books (one on my Kindle and one paperback-no matter how much I love my Kindle there is something about holding a new book and turning the pages).  I first started reading LOTR and because the first pages are sort of a prologue (a summary of The Hobbit) it wasn't all that exciting.I was about to stop reading LOTR but went back to the reviews (if ever you are in doubt about a product read the reviews-as many as you can).  I would say that 95% of the reviews were positive about this being one of the greatest novels to date.  Another thing said about this book is that once you start reading it, you can't stop.  Once I finished the prologue which wasn't boring but wasn't that exciting either, I started to read the first chapter.  I find that many fantasy books start off with something happening in a world that I do not know so I get confused until I get immersed in the book.  Quite the opposite of LOTR.  It started off simple, understandable with a bang (I mean party).  I started to read it but kept thinking that I should stop and read The Hobbit first but I have to say that the reviewers are right, once you start this book, you will keep coming back to it.  That's what is happening to me.  I read more than 2 or 3 books at a time but I keep stopping the other books which are quite good and coming back to LOTR.I won't bother telling you what this book is all about since everyone but me (LOL) knows but I will continue to read it.  My plan is to read LOTR, then The Hobbit and then see the movies on DVD.I am so glad I took a chance because I love books that completely absorb me and I can't seem to stop reading or going back to them.  Only a few books can do that (like Wheel of Fortune by Susan Howatch or Sunne Splendor by Sharon Kay Penman).Thanks to all the reviewers.  You make a difference.
5 JRR Tolkien is the grandfather of modern fantasy; his epic work THE LORD OF THE RINGS continues to inspire writers.  Without Tolkien, we don't have Terry Pratchett, JK Rowling, Jim Butcher, Mercedes Lackey -- the list is long. Tolkien took fantasy from the province of children and created a new genre of literature that was the proper playground for adults.  He made a place for the myths and legends of the past to come and be welcome in the modern world.THE LORD OF THE RINGS is a grand epic story set in the world that Tolkien created called Middle-Earth, astonishingly peopled and rich in lore, languages and cultures. (The different languages caused publication errors and inconsistencies in many early editions.)  It is fabulous entertainment on so vast a scale that no movie to date has completely captured all the diverse themes and characters. (Yes, Peter Jackson made a great try, but where's Saruman, eh?) It is difficult for a short review to do this great work justice. But part of the impact and fascination of the work can be explained by examining Tolkien's three main heroes.Gandalf the Wizard is an attractive figure, mysterious and powerful. With his long beard, homespun robes and long staff, he has some of the characteristics of a Biblical prophet, and he is indeed a messenger of the gods, sent to struggle against the evil of the Enemy.  He's kind to hobbits and children, good with fireworks and special effects at parties, but he's also capable of chasing away Nazgul and healing King Theoden. He's likable, compelling, magical and not without touches of humor. He can't even die -- he gets sent back to assure that his job gets done.Aragon is a figure out of legend--the king in exile who will defeat the Great Enemy and restore the kingdom to peace and glory.  Spurring him on in his ambition is the great love of his life, Arwen Evenstar, who will chose a mortal life to be his wife and Queen. Aragon changes in the eyes of the reader from the suspicious Strider to the noble king being crowned at Minas Tirith but this is a case of his nature being gradually revealed to us.Wizard and warrior king are stock characters in traditional fantasy.  Tolkien gives us great examples in Gandalf and Aragon, but the compelling edge of his great epic comes from the character of Frodo.  Whereas Gandalf has a job to do and is given great powers to help accomplish it, Frodo has only dogged perseverance. While Aragon wins his kingdom and his elven princess, Frodo hazards all he has, and loses it. He sacrifices everything for the Shire, but returns so damaged in spirit that he can not live there.When I first read this book as a teeny-bopper, I thought Gandalf was cool--galloping around on a fabulous horse and zapping bad guys on winged monsters.  Later, I thought Aragon was a heartthrob--so handsome and noble, all the girls are crazy about him.  But as I get older, the character of Frodo speaks to me: the little guy, putting one foot after another on a hopeless quest, bearing a treasure that must be destroyed, knowing in his heart that he will fail before the end, and at the last, accomplishing his quest only because he showed mercy to an enemy. Is this fantasy? Or wisdom to armor one in the quest for a life well-lived?More than 40 years after I first read this, I bowed to the inevitable and replaced my tattered paperback edition with a boxed hardback set.  I love having the red and black ink maps of Middle Earth in full fold-out glory.
4 I wish this was not abridged. It is great for all that. I really like that Ian Holm is the voice of Frodo here and plays Bilbo in the new movies series.
5 I've had no problem with this version. There are no illustrations/maps, but that's not what I'm looking for in a Kindle version.  Having everything in one volume is perfect for me.  Haven't noticed any type issues.
5 I was disappointed to see only two reviews....Tolkien's work is arguably the finest work of fiction, in any language, of the twentieth century. It is and will continue and enduring classic rrad fifty and probably five hundred and fifty years from now....and, it is also a wonderful, fun , inspiring read. I named my first racing bike after a great sword (Anduril), i can recite some of Tolkien's poetry by heart and I captivate my nine year old twin boys with anecdots and stories from the books. Please be aware that if you read The Hobbit first, which you should, it is a children's book, while the Lord Of The Rings is an adult epic. Do not measure your potential enjoyment of the Lord of the Rings by the tone and tenor of The Hobbit, which is a wonderful book all to itself.Think about it - Elves, Dwarves, Hobbits, men, goblins, Nazgul, sorcerers, wizards, talking eagles....all credible characters written with such style and ease that it takes no effort to suspend disbelief. Middle Earth is as it is -- not work required.Miore than anything, I love the work for it is pure....heorism, evil, everything and all things are white and black except the main plot line -- Frodo and the Quest. Here the grey that is the inner soul, weakness and strength, is illustrated and it is here Tolkien is a master writer, not just a master story teller.The greatest book ever written? That may be Bleak House. But this is a close second.Michael Shulman MichShul@aol.com
5 From the first time I read this book as a teenager until now, it has captured my attention and imagination every time.I'm always amazed at the author's ability to create such a rich and detailed history, current story, and future events.Read this classic and beautiful book (all volumes in one) and be swept away in a land of magic, triumph, love, and friendship.
5 I have already read this excellent and marvelous book (and am sure that many other viewers have too). I am not here to review the contents of it, since many other reviewers have already written what I wanted to say. I want to comment on a particular edition, the One-Volume Hardcover 50th anniversary edition. I wanted a sturdy, well-made copy of the Lord of the Rings, but was not willing to buy the expensive collector's edition. So I searched for an alternative, and I found this. It is less than half of the collector's edition price, with the same 50th Anniversary text. Plus, it is a sturdy copy, and well-bound. It has the same illustration on its dust jacket as the paper-back edition, illustrated by renoun artist Alan Lee. The best thing about this edition, though, is its pages. It is not the regular kind of acid-free paper, it is a strong, almost shiny paper (no, it doesn't hurt the eyes); it is hard to explain, but you'll know what I mean by this if you get it. This book is a beautiful, well-made copy of Lord of the Rings that will last for a very long time. Get this one.As a side-note, I bought my friend the paperback version of this book as a present (she being a Tolkien Fan and in need of a replacement for her beaten up copy) and found that the paperback is also a wonderful alternative to buy for one who doesn't want a hardcover edition. It is a sturdy and pretty copy, and though the paper in the paperback is not of the quality of the hardcover, it is acid free. Plus it has the revised text.
5 Let's see, I could pay $21 to get each of the 3 volumes (Fellowship, Two Towers, and Return of the King) separately, or I could pay $10 to get it all as one volume. Since I like to read the whole thing, and not just randomly re-read one third of it, it makes sense that it is all togehter. The book itself is fantastic. Tolkien had created a whole world, and the way he set this epic story in that world gave the readers the sense of that. Even though they didn't know all the details of that world or history.
5 This is a classic. It has everything a story could have. I have read it more than once and each time I have gotten something different out of the story.
5 This is my favorite book.  I read it at least twice a year along with other works of Middle-earth.I added the Kindle version to my collection.  I now own it in hardback, paperback, audiobook and e-book along with the movies.E-book version is easy to read and a nice addition to my Kindle library.
5 That pretty much sums it up.  This is, without a doubt, the best book of the fantasy genre.  I have yet to read something that would surpass it.  It may be hard to understand at some times. but it always keeps you captivated.  Anyone who hasn't read it yet should read it.
5 Years ago, back when I had a radio that played tapes instead of ruined them, I bought the BBC Lord of the Rings audio dramatization on tape. I have since been trying to find the same version on CD, but so far have only succeeded in accidentally getting the AMERICAN dramatized edition, which I am ashamed to even call a Lord of the Rings dramatization. And even if it were good, it would still be disappointing. Because the BBC version is the best, quite simply. There's no contest.Whether it's the brilliance of the actors, or the brilliance of the script, or of the conception, or of the music, I'm not quite sure. But there's something magical about this performance -- and that of the BBC Hobbit -- that can't be matched by other attempts. Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's sad, sometimes it's appropriately awe-inspiring. There are no jarring moments where it just feels fake (you never experience a character's obviously false scream of terror followed by cheesy sound effects, for instance) and it's just...great. Perfect. Amazing. What more is there to say?The trip up Mount Doom is just as emotional and draining as it's meant to be, Strider is appropriately ominous, the battles are well done, the characters are perfect, the music is amazing (particularly good were the songs of the Grey Havens and after the Cracks of Doom).If you want the audio version of Lord of the Rings, don't be tempted into buying any other version. Buy the BBC production. You won't be disappointed.Rating: Masterpiece
5 I bought this for my 28 year old daughter in Hawaii.  She raved.  Loves it.  Loves having all the volumes in 1.
5 This is the second book in The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, so obviously, if you haven't read The Fellowship of the Ring, you won't get it.  Otherwise, it is one of the best books that I have ever read.  I'll admit, the first  50 pages were kind of slow,  but when Merry and Pippin meet Treebeard,  everything is swept along from there.  I liked how Frodo almost tamed  Gollum, bringing  him away from the lure of the Ring. Unfortunately, he  doesn't quite succeed.  Gollum delivers Samwise and Frodo into the hands .  . . er-claws of Shelob and . . . well, I won't tell you the rest.  Just  listen to my advice, and read this book!
5 The Lord of the Rings is truly the most wonderful book ever. J.R.R Tolkien puts his amazing imagination to work and creates The Lord of the Rings, which has been peoples favorite read for quite some time. The way J.R.R explains middle earth makes it sound as it was a real place; a place of enchanting elves, hobbites, men and dwarfs. The books by J.R.R Tolkien are definatly books you will read and love for a very long. In these books, you can expect surprises which are good and sad. I know they will always be a favorite to me, as to many people. If you haven't read this book, I recommend this book to people of all ages. These books are ones you will find hard to put down!
5 Convenient, Up-to-date Edition for the KindleThe Lord of the Rings is one of my most favorite story, and I still read it almost annually (probably for the last 40 years). Now that my vision has deteriorated, I am so glad I was able to get it on my Kindle (reading at size 16 font). Having the six original books all in one volume is very convenient for me, and the price was great. Also I like it that earlier mistakes and discrepancies have been corrected.
5 The kindle version makes getting through the entire volume nice and easy. If you haven't read this classic then pick up this version and get to it.
5 The Hobbit is a nice prequel to LOTR but was actually written with no sequel in mind.  This story derives from a mythological world that Tolkien had in his mind long before The Hobbit was written.  Even 20 years or so before he wrote The Hobbit he was doing writings on this world of his.  When The Hobbit was successful he was asked to do a sequel.  His plan was to put out the Silmarillion and LOTR as one giant book so that his whole world could be explained.  This caused problems for himself and LOTR ended up taking many years to write.  He worked on the Silmarillion for the entire rest of his life and it was never fully completed.  Luckily LOTR came out and we at least have that fully published.  Christopher Tolkien decided to publish The Silmarillion after his father passed since he knew there was so much information in there.  He took historical records his father had written on Middle-Earth, other writings that he had written throughout his life like structures of how The Silmarillion should be done, many poems on Middle-Earth, and combined them to make the most complete Silmarillion book that he possibly could.  He did a good job but it still seemed too short.  Next he published The History of Middle-Earth books(1-12) to try and help people get as much understanding of his father's world as they can.  You may think that it would be better to read The Silmarillion first since it is pre-LOTR and you would be right.  Here is the exact order I would read the Middle-Earth books if I just would have known how deep this world was before I started.1-start with The Silmarillion and stop when you hit the chapter 'The Fall of Gondolin' AND DON'T READ IT YET.2-in the 'Unfinished Tales' book read the first chapter 'Of Tuor and His Coming to Gondolin'.3-after that in 'The Book of Lost Tales 2' read the chapter 'The Fall of Gondolin''4-now pick up 'The Silmarillion' where you left off and it will give you a breif recap of what you just read and the recap will help get you back into the exact names that 'The Silmarillion' uses.  You will see name changes because Tolkien was always redoing his stories and changing names.  Also, the last chapter called 'Of the Rings of Power and the Third Age' SHOULD NOT BE READ YET.  It is a very good writing, but it would spoil the entire Lord of the Rings experience.5-After you finish 'The Silmarillion' I would read 'The Hobbit'.  It is a quick read and then you can move on to The LOTR and get a lot more out of it.If this seems a bit much and you don't want to have to get 3 or 4 other books then just pick up LOTR, and 'The Hobbit' if you want.  If you have seen the movie and loved it then you may like the books even more.  The ending is a lot different and overall LOTR remains my favorite book ever.  I kind of wish I would have never read it because every single book I have ever read now I always say that it was nowhere near as good as The Lord of the Rings.
5 JRR Tolkien has managed to set the standard for perfection in storytelling. This is the best story I have ever read. I highly recommend this to all readers. Read it yourself, read it to your children, use any reason to read it, but read it. Even if you have seen the films, you should still read the books. They can't match the skill and art put into the written form. This edition is in the higher price range because it is a leather bound edition. This is for the bigger Tolkien fans. I know it is in my wish list.
5 This truly is one of the greatest works of art ever, and one of the greatest books. I love it, everything about it; the story is of course beautiful, emotional, everything and most of the characters are great and realistic (they're 'round' characters). Too bad it suddenly ended so fast, I wish it was longer.
3 Im an 11 year old girl and i thought it was kindof confusing because there were some hard words that i didnt know and sometimes it was confusing who was who but overall i think that it was a pretty good book.
5 Very nice quality boxed set of these wonderful literary classics! I purchased it for my grandchildren's book collection. The price was extremely reasonable.
5 &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; the second part of Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; delivers on the promise and potential of epic-scale action and adventure carried over from the cliffhanger ending of &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring.&quot;  With the dispersal of the Fellowship, Tolkien takes a different narrative tact in the second part of the Ring saga.  The Fellowship now in three units - Frodo and Sam; Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas; Merry and Pippin - Tolkien deals with each unit separately, preferring for the sake of unity to relate the fortunes of each unit for long stretches.  Herein is the great triumph of Part 2 - the development of character and involvement with each that the segmenting of the Fellowship allows.  Here we get depth and feeling, along with high action and truly epic scope.&quot;The Two Towers&quot; begins with the aftermath of Boromir's attack on Frodo in an attempt to wrest the One Ring from him.  The Fellowship disbands - Frodo and Sam leave to try to destroy the Ring on their own, Merry and Pippin try to find them, only to be captured by Orcs, and Gimli, Legolas, and Aragorn attempt to track down Merry and Pippin.  The apparently dead Gandalf reappears to the third party, stronger and more committed to the goal than ever.  The split action of the novel, with regard to the title, concerns the ways that the members of the Fellowship deal with the major sources of crisis facing Middle-earth:  the ambitious wizard Saruman at the Tower of Orthanc in Isengard and the Dark Lord, Sauron at the Tower of Barad-dur in Mordor.One cannot get too excited about the virtues of &quot;The Two Towers.&quot; The relationships between the characters are so finely rendered - for my part, the job that Tolkien does in developing Merry, Pippin, Gimli, and Legolas is magical in itself.  Merry and Pippin are underestimated and undervalued by everyone, including themselves.  The illumination and discussions of their doubts, fears, and modest desires against the spectacular backdrop of millennial conflict is so understated, that the two hobbits actually bring a sense of prosaic normalcy to Tolkien's epic fantasy.  Gimli the dwarf and Legolas the elf, members of long-antagonized peoples, thrust together by the common goal of the Fellowship, is another fascinating pairing.  The contrast in their characters and the process by which they become bosom friends is lovely to behold and offers one of the great homosocial relationships I've encountered in English literature.  In both cases, throughout &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; Tolkien continually privileges the individual over the national, an approach which forces war and conflict to appear as it should, as an unnatural and horrific evil in the world.The minor characters add colour and vibrant life to &quot;The Two Towers.&quot; Good characters, like the melancholy Ents; evil characters, like the eternally-infighting Orcs; and ambivalent characters, like Wormtongue and Smeagol - all contribute to the development of the primary characters, while Tolkien carefully allows these minor figures the dignity of their own histories, actions, conversations, and fleshing out.  All of this adds to the complexity of the Ring saga and shows more of the intricate social and even ecological effects that the anticipated War of the Ring will have on Middle-earth.&quot;The Two Towers&quot; is literally and figuratively the heart of the Ring saga.  Rich in content, detail, and action, here, Tolkien's epic vision is most fully realized.  Choice is a major theme of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; as a whole, and, again, in the many individual, minute choices made by the characters throughout Part 2, Tolkien allows us to see how the fate of people and nations can hang on the most seemingly insignificant choices.  In the scope of an epic, Tolkien stresses the importance of the individual and of tolerance and patient judgment in decision making.  Overall, my favourite of the three parts of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;
2 I got this for my 14 yr old who is an avid reader.  He didn't like it at all and I returned it through kindle.  I am pleased they took the return because I got this and The Lord of the Rings so it would have been a waste of money!
5 I first read Tolkien's masterpiece when I was 11 years old in secondary school from the library; I was instantly hooked and have re-read it a few more times, the latest being about 5 years ago (I'm 26) and each time I read it, it appears fresh and there is always something new to be savoured and discovered. The language Tolkien uses is superb and very noble and elegant, biblical almost, and it is language unfortunately not seen very often in more modern books.The central plot of the book is a wonderful battle of Good versus Evil but the real delight is in the myriad characters and landscapes inhabited by all sorts of mythical creatures that Tolkien so evocatively describes in his amazing world. Parts of the book are deeply comic, moving, tragic, exciting, joyous...The cast of main characters is also epic: Frodo, Sam, Merry, Pippin, Gandalf, Boromir, Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas....etc. etc.! Each of these is different...Anyway, I have read quite a few other fantasy works since then as I am an avid reader and I can honestly say that, at least in my experience, no fantasy book comes near Tolkien's magnus opus in terms of scope, greatness, characterisation, grandeur; in fact, most are plane rip-offs of Tolkien! The only other fictional work I have read which is comparable is Dune by Frank Herbert but even that is not quite as good!
5 I do not own a kindle, i just use the app on my phone and may start using it on my computer(s).  The Lord of the Rings is a great book to start out a kindle ebook collection.  If you get sucked into the world that Tolkien has created, you will want to come back to your favorite passages again and again. And unlike a cumbersome book (or three, depending on how you bought the story), this is very easy to search and book mark and add notation (or tags for searching).  It will get you using some of kindle's more advanced features and it will increase your satisfaction as you can quickly bounce between appendices and the main story.Even if you have a physical copy, any fan would do well to pick up this fabulous digital edition.
4 First of, this is an excellent book.  Although not really a life-changer it will probably do a lot to dispel the idea that fantasy books are boring.  As a person who isn't a particular fan of the genre, I personally loved this book.  The story is a follow up from the first novel in the set, 'The Fellowship Of The Rings'.  Split into two sections it mostly concerns the aftermath of the dismemberment of the fellowship.  In the first half Merry and Pippin are hobbit-napped by orcs, and Strider, Legolas and Gimli follow in pursuit, on the way meeting battle and an old friend.  The second half is mostly taken up by the character Sam, as Frodo feels the weight of his task ever more, becoming ever more weary as they come closer to their destination.  On the journey they find help from an unwanted ally - Gollum.Obviously there are several problems with the story, such as characters like Treebeard that are dull and often unneeded.  However, despite this it can be very exciting in parts and brings a whole new dimension to the 'journey' story.  All of the characters are drawn exceptionally well, even if some are clearly more interesting than others.  In addition, the fight scenes are a lot more than the usual hacking and chopping but include some surprising light humour that really helps dispel the possibility of boredom.  Even if the homoerotic overtones between Frodo and Sam are a little on-the-nose then at least you've got Shalob the giant spider at the end to give a pounding finale with a great cliffhanger.  Plus, it's certainly a plus that Tolkien can write in a giant spider without his reader questioning it for a moment and just enjoying the moment.This is a great book, although I'm worried as to how they'll transfer characters such as Shalob onto the big screen later this year.
5 This edition is absolutely wonderful. The fold out maps are beautiful and incredibly helpful if referenced while reading. Tolkien's original design of the Eye and the Rings on the front cover is the most intense thing ever.i dont know, simply put this is the best edition of this masterpiece that is now available.
5 There are so many reviews so I'll keep mine brief.  I bought this set to replace old beat up paperback versions I obtained in high school. I couldn't be happier with this purchase.  Between Alan Lee's amazing art and Tolkien's beautiful words, I had a religious experience reading this.  If you're looking for a nice collection that looks sexy on the book shelf, you can't go wrong.
4 Having only recently delved into the works of Tolkien recently for the first time, I have to say that I wasn't all that impressed with The Hobbit or The Fellowship of the Ring.  While I thought that Tolkien had a fantastic and original idea for his time, his writing left much to be desired for me.  I did however, enjoy The Two Towers more than the previously mentioned books despite it having a few flaws for me as well.  The Fellowship of the Ring needs to be read before this book, and because of that, I am not going to recap what happens in that book for this review.  So be forewarned, the following can contain spoilers for those who haven't read the first book.Frodo and Sam had taken off for Mordor by themselves, leaving the rest of the Fellowship to its fate.  They encounter the mysterious creature Gollum on the way and through capture, convince him to promise to be nice and lead them along the best path to Mordor.  Gollum is a tricky character though and not the most trustworthy and leads Sam and Frodo closer to their peril.  Meanwhile, Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli have set off in pursuit of Merry and Pipin, who were captured by Orcs.  Along the way they come across the Riders of the Kingdom of Rohan, known for their horses, and in the midst of a terrible war.  The war is with the white wizard turned evil, Saruman, and his army of orcs that his is unleashing on the Southern kingdom.  They decide to help and turn the odds against this horrible force that is descending upon the land.The characters in this book aren't quite as developed as in the first one.  While we have plenty of background on the Fellowship characters from the previous book, we don't get much in the way of description for the Riders of Rohan or some of the other newer characters.  I do have to say that Gollum is still my favorite.  The interesting way he has of speaking and his interactions with the Hobbits are very interesting and a pleasure to read.The writing is very descriptive in other ways and unfortunately this can make the book slow reading at parts.  It would have been nice to have more character description as opposed to the multiple instances of describing scenery and legends that aren't even really pertinent to the story.  I did find that this book had less song and rhyme than the other and I appreciated that as I tend to skip over them since they distract from the flow of the book.  The book isn't very offensive either and despite having battles, not really violent.I look forward to the last book and seeing if it will be my favorite out of all.  My opinion has grown more positive with each book and I hope that it does improve.The HobbitBook 1: The Fellowship of the RingThe Two TowersCopyright 1954398 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2011
5 The Two Towers is the second book in the Lord of the Rings trilogy by J.R.R. Tolkien. The book starts off in a forest where Orcs--evil creatures who act under the direction of Saruman--have been sent to find the Fellowship (which consists of hobbits--Frodo, Pippin, Merry, and Sam; two men--Aragorn and Boromir; an elf--Legolas; and a dwarf--Gimli), kidnap the hobbits, and bring them to Saruman--alive.The main character, Frodo, is the bearer of the One Ring, created by Sauron, which holds an immense amount of power and evil. This is why the Orcs must capture the hobbits. The book had very good imagery included, giving us vibrant descriptions of the characters and scenes.During the battle between the Orcs and the Fellowship, Boromir is shot with arrows while trying to save Merry and Pippin--who get kidnapped by the Orcs--and dies when Aragorn finally makes it to him. This really teaches a moral to the Fellowship, because Boromir had tried to take the ring from Frodo not much earlier.Luckily, Frodo escapes from the Orcs and ends up heading towards Mordor (which is the one place that the ring can be destroyed) alone. That is, until his &quot;loyal servant&quot; Sam catches up and comes along. This splits up the plot, of whole flow of the story, into three different parts--Frodo and Sam trying to make it to Mordor, Merry and Pippin's attempts to escape from the Orcs, and Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli's attempts to track down and find the Orcs to hopefully save Merry and Pippin.Eventually, Frodo and Sam encounter the creature Gollum--or Sm&eacute;agol--who helps lead them to Mordor. Meanwhile, Merry and Pippin escape the Orcs, heading off into the Fangorn Forest, where they meet Treebeard and the other Ents (tree-like, living, talking, walking creatures).I like this book because the way J.R.R. Tolkien writes is very creative, as are his ideas. In it a whole new world is created, where there is a seemingly endless war going on. I loved the fantasy elements and the new creatures and places. The whole concept just adds to the great sequel to The Fellowship of the Ring.
5 It is not really appropriate to rate this book as a standalone volume, as it is really just a third of a greater story.  Nonetheless, this rates a full five stars as the loose ends from the first two parts are tied up.The way things are resolved are both brilliant and follow from what is hinted at before.  From the final fate of the Ring to the problems in the Shire, it all fits.  In addition, the appendices add a richness to the world of Middle-Earth, giving it a depth in history and language that is incredible.Books have been written about this trilogy, and hundreds of books have tried to imitate it, so it is obviously not a small task to praise it appropriately in this small area.  It is sufficient to give it five stars and let it speak for itself.
4 This is J.R.R. Tolkien at his best if you can look beyond the weakness of the edition. He creates worlds full of life, and song, and color like no other. His personae are lovingly detailed, with their own characteristics and habits, born out of medieval Nordic sagas that have proven so fruitful an inspiration for modern literatuThe Woman and The Ravenre.
5 Got this for my son...who is 40...for Christmas. He reads through the series every year. His old set had worn out so this was a perfect gift for him.
5 Do you have to ask? If you have not read this series, get all three and start today. Not tomorrow - today!
5 I was delighted to reread these books with my adult eyes, as I had not read them since a youngster.  My favorite line in the Hobbit to parapharse was, &quot;All of Bilbo's adventures had led him to this point, where he had to face the ultimate horror (Smaug the Dragon) alone.&quot;  There are points in all the books where the primary character faces an ultimate challenge alone.  It is a wonderful lesson and a great psychological truth, we all are ultimately alone.  It is the moments of merry making after overcoming the milestone fears that make life truly worth living.
5 I've read a respectable number of fantasy novels.  The short list: Piers Anthony, Robert Asprin, Terry Brooks, Steven Brust, Jack Chalker, Robert Charrette, CJ Cherryh, Troy Denning, David Eddings, Raymond Feist, Barbara Hambly, Robert Heinlein, Frank Herbert, Robert Howard, Robert Jordan, Jak Koke, Mercedes Lackey, George RR Martin, Jack McDevitt, Mel Odom, Ann Rice, Joel Rosenberg, RA Salvatore, Charles Sheffield, Christopher Stasheff, Tad Williams, Weis and Hickman...I am sick and tired of hearing people say, &quot;Tolkien is the best.&quot; &quot;Tolkien is God.&quot;  &quot;Nobody writes stories as good as The Lord of the Rings.&quot;  I've read from authors who give deeper characterization than Tolkien.  I've read from authors who give more colorful settings, and more vivid encounters, and more believable character interactions.But I must admit that very few, if any, manage to balance all of the various elements well enough to match this trilogy.  Piers Anthony's frequent use of mild sexual scenes kept my interest in his books much stronger than my interest in Tolkien.  But after I left puberty, rereading his stories proved very disappointing.  Eddings has extremely lovable heroes but extremely shallow villians and simplistic plotlines.  Jordan's influence of &quot;Ta'veren&quot; coupled with Min's special prophetic visions ruin half the story because you know if, how, and when some characters will die.  Martin's willingness to kill off protagonists brings superb 'realism' into the story.  But the enjoyment a reader gets from the realistic element is greatly diminished by the dismay at losing a favorite character.  And so forth...I haven't read The Lord of the Rings in years (five times through should be enough for anyone).  But they remain the rulestick for measuring fantasy, and a disappointingly small number of current writers come even close.
5 It all starts here. . . Tolkien's &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; are classics in the fantasy genre. Enter the world of Middle-Earth and meet those unforgettable characters that are legends in  our own world as well as theirs, to anyone who loves visiting other worlds.  In these books you'll meet hobbits, small and sensible cave-dwelling  creatures who generally disapprove of adventures. . . or anything else that  might make them late for dinner. However, despite their own sensible  inclinations, a few of them do manage to get involved in the most  interesting adventures -- and so will you, once you open one of these  books. Prepare for the journey of your life, as you meet Bilbo, Frodo,  Samwise, Gandalf, Gollum, and others. The boxed set is well worth buying,  because once you read one of these books, you'll want the others on hand!
5 Getting a series as a single volume on a Kindle makes it so much easier to read.  Any spelling or alignment errors that others have noted seem to have been fixed by the time I read this (2013).  The single version is much cheaper than buying each book separately.  Other than that there's not much to say: It's Tolkien-He's a legend for a reason.  For those who have seen the movies and now wish to read the books, try to forget everything you know.  The movies are an incredible take on these great books, but each is different in its own right. Much of the order of the journey is switched around.  Take the time to read the extravagant details that build this amazing fantasy world.
4 Thank goodness the book (still better than the movie) is as good as I remeber, The only reason I gave it 4 was shipping by the seller was slow.I just wish they had followed the book when they made the movie. I had the first edition when it came to USA but after reading and rereading it fell apart. Need I say more
5 My husband usually doesn't like *any* type of fiction; he usually finds the stories dull or mediocre at best.  But this is different - he eagerly looks forward to reading the Trilogy every 2-3 years.  And for him, that's reading a story on a regular basis.  (I purchased the leatherette edition - The Red Book of Westmarch - as a Christmas present for him.)As for me, the only reference I had heard to these stories was back in the late 1970's, when I was in high school.  An English teacher asked the class if any of us had read the books.  I had never heard of them at that point - but one boy, a burnout (this was back when high schools had smoking lounges), raised his hand and said it was the best story he'd ever read!  For a boy whose face looked drawn and whose hair is best described as scraggily, I have to admit I was absolutely stunned.  Of course, I didn't bother to search out the story.  What a mistake!It took marriage to my husband (just 3 weeks shy of my 22nd birthday) to find out about this wonderful Trilogy, and how he originally read it in grade 6, at the age of 11.  Although he didn't understand a lot of it at the time, he was utterly taken with it, as his teacher thought he would be.That it took took me another 2 or 3 years after I got married to buy the authorized paperback editions makes me want to kick myself for waiting so long.  I have since read it about 7 times, and it has never ceased to move or amaze me.  You truly pick up different things each time you read it.  In fact, even though I know how the story ends, it always makes me cry (the 1st time through, I could barely make out the words as my eyes were flooded with tears).Yes, the movies don't quite follow the books, but the movies are a visual medium, and, with the books, you can read at your leisure; you can drink in all the vast, lovely details that make Tolkien's Middle Earth a place you want to visit again and again.
5 At the end of Fellowship of the Rings, Frodo and Sam have left the fellowship to destroy the ring in Mordor but what happens after that. Divided into two books, (one for Aragorn, Legolas, Merry, Pippin, Gimli and everyone else. And one for Sam and Frodo) this story answers that question. The first book (and my preferred part) tells about how Merry and Pippin are captured by Orcs. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli must rescue them before it's too late, friends and enemies on the way. But when they reunite with an old friend they learn that they must help to defeat the evil dark wizard Saruman.The second book follows Sam and Frodo on their long journey to destroy the ring. Frodo is weakening slowly under the rings weight and needs help if he wants to finish his quest. But when he receives that help in the shape of Gollum, a dark creature who is more or less a slave to the ring (his "precious") Sam is less sure than Frodo to accept his help. Gollum may seem harmless but what plans does he have for the two young hobbits? Is he being a faithful guide or leading them into danger?I really enjoyed this book. In my opinion it was even better than the last. The first volume of this book was my favorite due to the extensive presence of my favorite character Aragorn and the creating of a new kind of friend called the Ents. This book was well written and the characters drawn wonderfully. I can't wait to read the next and final book in the trilogy. Just like the last one the end leaves you with quite a cliff hanger.
5 It is a great book! Even though it is pretty thick I finished it off in one weekend :)
5 Although quite spendy for a kindle book, this was quite worth it, I loved every bit of the story and am considering purchasing the actual title in print, this was well worth it. Every fan of LOTR should read this, and any library full of science fiction fantasy novels is incomplete without this amazing trilogy. Truly an amazing story of the adventures of the ring company. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys reading.
5 I chose this particular box set to review in because it includes the Hobbit and all three Lord of the Rings.  I'm giving the epic 5 (billion) stars.J.R.R. Tolkien is the Master of Fantasy, and there's no doubt about it.  The Journey from the Hobbit to the Return of the King is riveting, exciting, sad, scary, and unforgettable.  It is a masterpiece worthy of all the medals ever created for literature.  J.R.R. Tolkien was my first introduction into the world of literature, and I am so glad it was.  Thank you, Tolkien, for Middle Earth.Now, I wish I could put two ratings, because for this particular box set, I would like to rate it one star.  The spelling mistakes are glaring, and change the meaning of many of the sentences and paragraphs within the books.The redone maps suck as well.So While I give J.R.R Tolkien and his incredible epic 5 (billion) stars, I give this particular set 1 star for it's many glaring problems.  You're better off getting each book seperately.What I think we need now is a Box Set of all the books J.R.R. Tolkien has ever written about Middle Earth, from the Hobbit all the way to his last Middle Earth novel (although they shouldn't be redone, as this particular box set proves... just stick to putting the originals in there).
4 There isn't much that I could say about Tolkien's masterpiece that hasn't already been said, and while the movie's pacing was much stronger, one can't deny the power that these books have had over readers for all these years.  Tolkien's wit and intelligence comes through brilliantly and he paints a vivid picture of heroism and adventure that no one has yet topped.  While the first 100 or so pages are a bit to drudge through and the plot just stews, once you get past those pages, the rest of the read is worth the time.  I would say that this work could easily rank among the few books that I have read that could be considered good literature.  Tolkien's expertise of languages and education really shine in this trilogy and he manages to delve into characters and situations that were alluded to in The Hobbit.  The adventure of Frodo and Samwise is long and arduous and readers will be greatly rewarded for sticking through the book when they reach Mt. Doom.  The writing is superb and some of the scenes seem to jump right out of the book and into your living room.  For anyone looking for an epic adventure of high fantasy, this is the trilogy for you!
5 The Two Towers is the second book in the greatest epic fantasy trilogy of our time. The first book, The Fellowship of the Ring, told of the forming of the Company of the Ring, nine companions, who embarked on a perilous quest to the land of the Dark Lord, the land of Mordor. In the Company Frodo the Hobbit was the bearer of the accursed Ring of Power, which Sauron forged in secret eons ago, and which must be destroyed in the fires of the Cracks of Doom, the one place where the Ring can be destroyed, in order to save Middle-earth from annihilation.The Two Towers begins exactly where the first book left off. The Company of the Ring is scattered by a sudden attack oforc-soldiers, some in the service of the Dark Lord of Mordor, some of the traitor Saruman the Wizard. The orcs, mistaking the Hobbits Pippin and Merry to be the Ring-bearer and his servant, capture them, and Aragorn the Human, Legolas the Elf, and Gimli the Dwarf embark on a pursuit of the orcs, determined to rescue the Hobbits. Boromir has been slain by the orcs in an attempt to defend the Hobbits.Meanwhile, only Frodo and his loyal hobbit companion Samwise Gamgee are left to carry the deadly Ring of Power to the Mount of Orodruin, the Cracks of Dooom, in Mordor. After escaping from a dreary land of rocky mountains, discovers the creature Gollum, who had once possessed the Ring, becomes their guide as they cross the borders of Mordor. . .Meanwhile Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli discover Gandalf the Wizard returned from death. Together with the armies of Rohan, they battle against the forces and strategy of Saruman the traitor. . .The Two Towers is a highly thrilling novel, efficiently and vividly describing the Secondary World of Middle-earth, and the highly believable characters that populate it. I can hardly wait for the film to be released in theaters this December. 5 stars.
5 It is the Lord of the Rings set that includes the Hobbit.  If you enjoy reading these books it is a good deal
5 The Two Towers by J.R.R. Tolkien is an epic tale about two courageous hobbits.  Their fate separates them from the rest of the Fellowship when attacked by a group of orcs.  In the attack, Boromir is slain and the hobbits Pippin and Merry are taken captive.  The other two hobbits, Frodo the ring bearer and Samwise his trusty servant, leave during the attack on a quest to destroy the evil Ring of Power in the feared land of Mordor. The remaining members of the fellowship Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli begin their chase of the orcs to save the captured Pippin and Merry.  While Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli were hunting the orcs, Frodo and Sam find an unlikely guide who takes them to the gates of Mordor and beyond. Frodo and Sam meet untold perils on their trek to the gates of Mordor.  Meanwhile, Aragorn, Legalos, and Gimli take part in an epic battle that leads to a turning point in the war against Sauron, and begins Pippin and Merry on their road to fame and glory.I recommend this book to people who like action, drama and fantsy.  Before you read this book you should read two other books written by J.R.R. Tolkien.  These are "The Hobbit" and "The Fellowship of the Ring", the prologue and first book in The Lord of the Rings trilogy, respectively.  These books are all very good books and are definitely worth your time.
2 So you've just seen the film and you absolutely can't wait for the next cinematic installment so you buy the book in the hope of quenching your curiosity. Naive consumer I blame you not. But before you purchase the book consider this. Obviously theres lots and lots of pages to this work so first ask yourself- is this something I'm really interested in persuing? Am I ready for this level of commitment in my life? Secondly theres literally hundreds of charcters in this work which in itself requires a superlative mnemonic feat on part of the reader. Then there's those numerous prolonged descrpitive passages which do very little to move the story along and are such a tremendous bore. And those maps? All rather silly and contrived really. Their inclusion in the novel, far from enhancing the story, is quite distracting and only makes the reader self conscious of the fact that they're reading a work of fiction. Kudos to old Tolky though for writing what is basically a sound storyline even if his ambition ultimately exceeded his ability to realize it. Person who will enevitably click &quot;not helpful&quot; button I have but two words for you- Mervyn Peake (he did the whole fantasy schtick soooo much better).
5 This book is the third and final installment of J.R.R. Tolkein's Lord of the Rings Trilogy. Even though the forces of good have one great victories at Helm's Deep and Isengard they are not out of the woods yet. The evil armies of Mordor are coming to attack Gondor, so Gandalf, Aragon and company must hurry to its defense. At the same time Frodo and Sam draw closer to Morder and Mount Doom, but even as they do the Ring becomes more and more of burden on both of them. Will Gandalf, Merry, Pippin and Aragon have enough strength to defend Gondor and drive away the Dark Lord's Armies? Will Frodo and Sam fulfull their quest to destroy the ring? You are just going to have to read the book to find out.Tolkein's trilogy is the father of all modern fantasy series. Before Jordan, before Martin, before Eddings, before Brooks there was Tolkein. Every single fantasy author that comes along owes a debt to the work of Tolkein - because not only did Tolkein do it first, he did it better. His characters and settings seem to leap off the page and you find yourself reading with bated breath to find out what happens next. His world is in depth, colorful and unforgettable. Most important Tolkein understands the need to have a beginning, a middle and an end to his series (this is directed at you Robert Jordan). His series tells the story it set out to tell and reaches the end of its tale. So many more recent writers have their series stretching on and on for no apparent reason.(Side note: Has anyone ever noticed how the first few chapters of Robert Jordan's &quot;Eye of the World&quot; are almost a direct lift from Fellowship of the Ring? Boys (hobbits) living in a remote village (the shire) are visited by a mysterious Aes Sedai (Gandolf) who alerts them to a growing danger (The ring). They are then forced to flee from the Myradraal (the Ringwraiths) with the help of the Aes Sedai and her warder (Strider). I actually read Jordan first and have since read Tolkein and trust me Jordan just re-wrote the first part of Fellowship)If you want to read how great epic fantasy can be the only place to start is with Tolkein. Tolkein's work puts all of the others to shame in its story, its characters..everything. The movies that go along with the books are good too, but I always read the book before I see the movie; otherwise the movie kills what ever ideas I had in my head beforehand. Before you read Jordan, Brooks, or Martin - read Tolkein. You won't regret it.
5 Tolkien was a professional scholar of ancient European languages and literatures at Oxford. He loved the way people create self-identity through the myths about heroes and wars between good and evil. Tolkien disliked modern world's materialistic attitude towards a human mind which gave rise to horrible inhuman ideologies such as Nazism and COmmunism and provoked two World Wars. Tolkien was a kind-hearted man who saw so much suffering in his life that he finally desided  to write a popular book, based on his researches in Nordic and Celtic mythology and art to help people in the West understand the roots of their spirituality and culture to help them appreciate each other as fellow human beings.And this book is awesome!!! &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; is written in beautiful, colorful English language unlike most other popular fantasy books. It has a great story, it is full of detail, poetry, adventure, emotion and wisdom. Characters who represent the Good are real, lovable and memorable not cheesy and stereotypical. Evil is really Evil, it cant be seen as cool, it is disguisting and ultimately miserable.Besides providing the great entertainment and fun as a story, &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; is a really serious book. It is full of sadness and beauty. It is infused by religious Biblical mythologies, which are cleverly hidden and not forced upon the reader at all. It is also a book about the way in which we should appreciate people around us and world we live in and oppose destructive and hateful tendencies. It is a book wonderful because of its healthy simple, but at the same time deeply profound message about being good and honest and life affirming believer. This book is indeed based on simple beliefs, common to all people: the belief of the child in the beautiful fairy tale, the belief in just heroes and wonderful stories.The aim of Tolkien was &quot;to write a history of Western world&quot; - not the real history, but the mythical history dreamed by people themselves, who believed in this history and its values wholeheartedly during the centuries of misery and hardship and this belief kept them going. This ancient mythical history was taken from us by modernity, so Tolkien tries to give it back to mankind to prevent us from losing our humanity in the age of cynicism.
5 The first time I read the Lord of the Rings was 20 years ago when I was 13 years old.  Every few years or so, I still return to these magnificent tomes and have just recently finished a through sitting-down with them.  It amazes me that these books still have so much to offer.  As I grow older and wiser, the characters continue to grow and obtain an even greater depth than when I first read their words and thoughts.  Aragon's self-doubt and struggle to define himself early on, the High Elves and their bittersweet knowledge that time and the rest of the world must pass them by; these things become clearer to me and more potent in their meaning as I grow older.If you have not read these wonderous books, I envy you.  Many times I wish that I could experience the powerful intensity that these books struck me with the first time that I read them.  If you have read these books, I invite you to read them again. ...and again!  I think that the intelligent reader will find, as I have, that these books have such detail and richness that it simply cannot be absorbed in one sitting.A classic story fit for anyone, at any age.  This is also the appropriate introduction to the world of Tolkien.  If you like these books, I would further recommend The Silmarillion, The Unfinished Tales and The Lays of Beleriand.  Of the volumes and volumes of posthumously published works, these three alone, [so far], are worthy of praise for pleasure reading.
5 This book continues the events that took place in the Fellowship of the Ring, as now the Fellowship is broken up.  Each small party explores different parts of the land, Middle-Earth created by Tolkien.  Aragorn, Legolas and Gimili explore the fields of Rohan, Merry and Pippin befriend a  survivor of an ancient race, and Frodo and Sam go straight into Mordor,  leaded by the creature, Gollum.  This was a great book and keeps you  interested all the time.  It really is hard to put it down once you start  reading it.  Afte rteh Fellowship of the Ring, I strongly suggest picking  this book up (whether it be from a library or a store) and read it!  It  will keep you wondering what will happen in the third edition of the  series.....
5 This is a review of the Centennial Edition released around 1992 for the 100th anniversary of Tolkien's birth (Tolkien lived from 1892-1973). The Centennial Edition is devoid of the movie art, photo stills or any similar tie-ins to Peter Jackson's production of The Lord of the Rings movies.  The book itself (or books, if you read it as a trilogy) is a classic and doing justice to it in a review of less than 1000 words is nearly impossible.This single-volume hardcover is commonly referred to as the Alan Lee Edition. Lee contributed about 50 watercolor plates for the book and they range from solid (the Old Forest, Treebeard) to spectacular (Dawn over Minas Tirith, Helm's Deep, Orthanc, The Black Gate) and, altogether, render Tolkien's world realistically while simultaneously (through the medium of watercolor with its muted colors, soft lines and blended images) maintaining the mystical qualities of Middle Earth.  Lee is probably the most accomplished of the Tolkien artists (John Howe, Ted Nasmith, the Hildebrants, et al.) and his paintings of the Morannon (the gate of Mordor) and Helm's Deep are famous images of Tolkien's world.  The print quality of this edition is a larger and clearer version of the text used in the mass-market paperback editions from the 1970s and 1980s. The maps are only ok, and that's the sole problem with the edition.Alan Lee (along with John Howe) was one of the artistic consultants for the Peter Jackson films.  His artwork is therefore a basis for the "look" of many of the films key sequences.  This edition provides a fine one-volume compilation of The Lord of the Rings, replete with the art gallery of the most influential of the Tolkien artists.  Highly recommended.
5 In only the form that Tolkien can give, we find that the Fellowship has all but split apart, where frodo and sam head of towards Mordor, while Strider and the others go off to save pippin and merry from a horrible death.The books takes the reader more in depth, emotionally and otherwise, with the main characters.  We find that the fellowship has only been split up physically.  Everyone is starting to find the strength in themselves to go on and fight for what they believe in even if it spells out their own death.This book is another reason why Tolkien is one of the best writers of his generation.  A very moving book.
5 I recomend this copy to every LOTR fan who can afford to buy it. I knew for the type of money I was shelling out it would be a good copy, but it even surpassed my high expectations.The thing I enjoy most is the feel. The outside is a soft smooth leather that is a pleasure to hold. The pages are a super fine paper that feels perfectly smooth yet doesn't allow the ink to smear one tiny bit. If you read as much as I do you know the pleasure of holding and leafing through an expensive book as opposed to one that used cheap, rough, highly acidic paper.The other great thing is the look. The gold leaf is very thick and vibrant and doesn't flake off in your hand. On some books the gold leaf can have a washed out look. Not the case here. The gold lettering on the spine and on the cover are also well done.Last but definitely not least is the text. The print is the perfect size, not too small and not too big. The fold out maps are also beautifully done in red and black ink, be extra careful when unfolding them the first time to not rip it.If you love LOTR you owe yourself the joy of having a book of a physical quality that matches the quality of the words J. R. R. Tolkein gave to us. It's worth the price.
5 Of course I lived it. Who wouldn't?  This has quickly become a classic and the movies omit much from the book m
5 I'll begin with the edition and will follow with the actual story. There's nothing to be reproached to this edition: the paper is fine quality, the printing is flawless, the illustrations are printed on glazed paper; everything is perfect. The hardcover is really good too, with Tolkien's stylised initials on the front side of the book.A review on that book may not be particularly needed, given all the attention this work has received, but I can still try. "The Lord of the Rings" reads like a marathon, but not one that bores you, though it may tire you. Having read "The Hobbit" before, I think this book will please you way more than its predecessor.Since I already gave it 5 stars and that pretty much everything has been said about "The Lord of the Rings", I'll indulge in some negative criticism, not because I dislike the book but most because I don't feel like stating the obvious, especially when it has been said countless times before. So here is my (slightly) negative criticism.Having seen the movies, my reading was necessarily influenced. For instance, had I not seen the movies, I'm not at all sure that I would have actually understood that there was something between Aragorn and Arwen; I also seem to have missed their wedding, though I can't be sure why that is. Perhaps I was dozing as I read, or perhaps Tolkien didn't spend much time on that. I honestly don't know.I read somewhere that the book was criticised for its "simplistic character psychology" which didn't seem especially relevant to me, or actually accurate, but I couldn't describe my impressions of Faramir falling in love with Eowen in any other way. This is but a trivial detail in the whole story, but when you read that bit, it does seem a but hard to swallow. From the moment they meet to the moment they marry there's not an awful lot of time (and pages) and so it seems a bit incredible. But then again, that's just a detail.Another thing I must admit I wasn't crazy about was all the singing and poetry reciting. I'm quite glad they didn't take on that in the movies because it would have easily become a musical. Again, it won't spoil the book's pleasure for you or anything, but I can't say that I read those bits with much delight.I'll stop here for the negative criticism because it's really not much.A word about the illustrations: they're gorgeous. There are many, and they're wonderfully executed.
5 I orded this book because I wanted a worthy bound edition of The Lord of the Rings that would be a great part of my collection.First off Id like to comment on the delivery. I ordered quite a few books, so to conserve a few bucks I went with the Free Super-Savers Option. I ordered them on the 14th and it estimated that they would arrive between the 24th and the 26th. I recieved my books on the 19th, a full 5 days before the estimate, so as far as shipping goes, Amazon did an amazing job.As far reviewing the story, Im going to omit that part as I believe that most of the people who order this book have already read The Lord of the Rings, and believes it to be a wonderful work of art. (otherwise why would they order a 63 dollar copy of the book?)Now for the most important part, the Review of the actual book itself. The book is simply stunning. It has a great smooth leather cover, with wonderful gilded pages and great foil stamping on the cover. You'll be a little weirded out at first with the pages because of the gilding they are slightly stuck together, however, after thumbing through it a few times it improves. Also, the map at the begining of the book is delightful as are the color images of the Dwarf Book inside.I believe that any Lord of the Rings fan would be stunned with book and will cherise it as a wonderful addition to their collection.
4 &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; had made a breakthrough, it was the first in a long line of Fantasy books. When you come to read this book, you can't ignore its reputation as &quot;The Best Fantasy Book&quot;. However, I disagree. The idea is great, but the book is too long and have many exhausting parts, it is not a fun and floating reading, and I often found myself forcing me to keep on reading, just because of the Reputation. It's a must in every bookshelf, but i'm affraid that it'll stay unmoved on my private bookshelf. It is the first, and for that it disorves its honor, but it is surely not the best.
5 Oh, don't be silly. Of course not!
4 This was a nice book for the price.  The binding and paper were as expected for this price point, and the book was well packaged.  The print quality was adequate.
5 I have had these books for years. I purchased this set for a gift for someone who had never read them or seen the movies.
4 "The Lord of the Rings" is an epic fantasy of magic and a battle between the forces of evil and those of good.  It is a long tale, in three parts, and it is mostly good.  However, there are portions in parts two and three that are somewhat boring.  Part three is ..  I guess the best word is: dark. This is not some cute tale for young children.  This is a myth-like, complicated, story for adults.You see: Bilbo, the Hobbit brought a ring back from his adventure, many years ago.  Now, Gandolf finds that "Bilbo's ring" is one of a set of rings and is magically very powerful.  Gandolf decides that it must be destroyed.  But, there is only one way to destroy it and a long and dangerous journey will be necessary.  For the next several hundred pages we trek through that difficult journey.I am glad that I read the story.  It is quite good.  However, the tendency to drag along, more and more slowly as the story moves on, is not a plus.While this printing is reasonably nice, the price seems steep for what the customer gets.Buy it.  Read it.  I enjoyed it.
3 I think it&#65533;s fair to say that this book is not as good as the first one in the series, nor is it as good as The Hobbit. But as the middle piece of the trilogy of Middle Earth, it serves a method for getting from point A (Fellowship of the Ring) to point B (Return of the King). And in that, it does a good enough job.When it comes down to it, here's the truth of the matter. This is the least enjoyable of the trilogy. But if you're going to read the first and last books, you can't skip the second book. It just doesn&#65533;t make sense. Too much of the story transpires in book 2, and since the trilogy is ultimately 1 huge book divided into 3 segments, there's no way to skip to book 3 without first stopping at this one.My main problem with this book is that there isn&#65533;t enough action nor dialogue. It might be better stated that there&#65533;s too much transition and not enough action. I believe Tolkien does his best work when he's writing about character interactions in any given scene. The Two Towers lacks in presenting the reader with enough of those situations to keep them interested.The story is generally good enough, though at times you do scratch your head. Some of the story lines seem to come to a point where Tolkien didn&#65533;t know what to do next. I think, all in all, that's how this book struggles the most.The struggle is one of trying to put a few good ideas in book of this length. There simply aren&#65533;t enough of those ideas to make it go as far as it needs to go. With that, it seems to me that Tolkien invents new scenes that enable him to add pages to his story. These scenes often times seem forced, as if he didn&#65533;t even buy into them.All in all, the book does a fair job as the middle child in this 3 step series. It doesn't bore you to the point of putting it down. Ultimately, the main story line is consistent with the main arrow of the narrative; a narrative which has good doing battle with evil in 2 different arenas.As a stand alone book, this one would never be a keeper. But as it is, this trilogy is not meant to be 3 individual books but 3 read in succession. So there's no need to look at it as a book on its own.This review serves to warn the reader that #2 is not going to be as exciting as any of the other 3 in this story (including the Hobbit). However, since the reader undoubtedly will buy and read the trilogy as one, few people will be reading any review here with an eye towards trying to decide to read this book or not.So proceed on with the trilogy, get ready for a bit of a slower ride than either of the previous 2 books, and chew off as much of this one as you can as you make your way to book #3.
5 What can you say about &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; that hasn't been said already?  Obviously this is not just a fantasy novel, it is the fantasy novel.  It's the one that moved the genre beyond cheesy entertainment and showed us what could an author with real vision, skill, and understanding could do.  Tolkien brought us meaning, depth, and power.  He brought us a story that is truly magnificent.  Small wonder that so many of today's fantasy dwarves have decided to just rip him off rather than coming up with their own story.  Small wonder also that those who are actually forging new frontiers and thinking up new ideas continue to cite Tolkien as their favorite author and leading influence.What exactly is it that Tolkien gets and the dwarves don't?  Everything, really.  But character is at the heart of it.  Tolkien starts out with characters; that's why he wrote an opening chapter designed the show us the world of the Shire before the action actually starts.  We understand Frodo not just as an automaton who experiences fear at point A and hope at point B, but rather as a living, breathing person.  We know where he comes from, how he was raised, what drives him, and so forth, and thus we actually care what happens to him.  And Tolkien does something that Brooks, Jordan, Goodkind, et. al. would never even consider: he works out true, dynamic personalities for his entire cast.  Even minor characters such as Legolas and Gimli are distinct, not just cheesy comic relief sidekicks.But what really builds &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; into the greatest experience in fantasy is the little moments.  Things that don't necessarily have the fate of the entire world hinging on them, but which are still emotionally memorable.  For instance, when Sam first sees an enemy soldier dying near the start of book four, he pauses a moment to reflect on what that man's life might have been like and why he chose to serve the side of darkness.  I also especially commend the scenes in the Houses of Healing in book six, Gimli's reflections after visiting Lothorien, and some of the pleasant banter between the hobbits in the first three chapters.  Robert Jordan and the terrible Terrys, obsessed as they are with lame fight scenes and cheap melodrama, probably wouldn't be capable of such truly moving moments even if they had the desire to be real authors.Some people claim that Tolkien achieved his current vaunted status merely by being the first author to stew together mythology and fairy tales in a novel with such a large vision, and that his actually skill at writing isn't that great.  They're wrong; it is that great.  In the nuts and bolts elements of writing, he is without peer.  Look at the landscapes.  When the Hobbits arrive at the Black Gate and see the barren mountains of Mordor, Tolkien actually makes you feel the desolation of the landscape and the brooding presence of evil, rather than just telling you that they exist.  I personally have always been delighted by authors who throw in some descriptions of nature just for the sake of describing nature.  It not only helps you visualize the scene, but also lets you enjoy the beauty of it.
5 I love the lord of the rings movies so I decided to read the book, amazing book and also this is one of if not the best edition you can buy of all three books and appendices in one hardcover book!
5 I love all the stories of Lord of the Rings.  I especially enjoyed reading them all in one volume. The books are so much better than the movies.  Much more information and a totally different ending.  I preferred the book.  Would recommend!
5 I shall pretend that there are actually some people reading these reviews who have not already read LotR...First off, LotR is the defining work of fantasy fiction. I think EVERYONE publishing in the genre today owes some kind of debt to Tolkien, consciously or not. Basically, Tolkien is a world-builder and not a mere novelist. He had a very deliberate project of creating a new mythology and he succeeded admirably. The amount of originally unpublished (but now available) background material for this book is truly amazing and reveals the depth of Tolkien's project.As a writer, however, Tolkien has definite flaws. His style is somewhat antiquated (and British) but I, personally, do not see these as bad things. (IMHO, very little being published in the genre today has any literary merit.) His characters are rather flat and he has a very poor sense of the dramatic: the death of a major character is disposed of in a paragraph; the climactic battles cover only a few pages. (In this regard, the movies did a far superior job).The beauty of Tolkien, however, is that he's not a "professional" writer; he's not churning out formulaic novels that conform to the "conventional wisdom," i.e., novels that are designed to sell and not to be good. Yes, he "tells" instead of "shows" but his narratives a gracefully crafted and, often, truly beautiful. True, any literary agent today would probably turn Tolkien away, but this is a sad commentary on the publishing business and the low standards of the reading public.I read Tolkien the same way I read Poe or Shakespeare: to appreciate the use of language in-and-of itself, as well as for the actual story-line. In his own way, I think Tolkien has a subtle brilliance. Even so, I'm sure that LotR is "boring" to some. I can see why they would think this, but, in the end, I think that says more about the standards (and intellectual capabilities?) of the reader than it does about J.R.R. Tolkien.With the possible (?) exception of the Bible, I think LotR is literally the most-loved book in the world. You owe it to yourself to give it a chance. To never read this book is to miss out on a true pleasure and a gift.
5 Simply put:A classicwatching the movies first is definitely helpful in keeping track just who is who. Especially, since it seems like everyone has more than one name.
5 There are some who will knock this edition because it isn't museum grade, or as precisely manufactured as something several times the price.  However for Tolkien fans, having this edition makes reading it feel different.  The gilded pages, maps, quality of the paper, all make you want to wash your hands, sit in a chair and read it carefully.  This edition is the new standard for the book, having been most carefully vetted for errors, etc.  All three &#34;books&#34; of The Lord of the Rings are within it.  This is an edition you use, yet care for and show with pride on a coffee table or book shelf.  I personally have added it to higher end hardbound editions of the Sil, Hobbit, and Children of Hurin.
5 I have read this trilogy at least three times since I was a boy. It is a wonderful book for getting through rough spots, since it literally transports you to another world. I used to regard the trilogy as probably the best work of fantasy fiction ever written, but still fiction. Then I read an account where Tolkien claimed that he wrote most of this work &quot;automatically.&quot; He claimed that it just flowed to him (he had no idea from where) but that he definately had the feeling that he was recording events that had actually happened. That would explain the inspired nature of the work. Perhaps &quot;Middle Earth&quot; really exists, perhaps it is the middle ground between our dull earth and higher realms....As for this specific edition, I have wanted it for twenty years and apparently thanks to the popularity of the movie I can finally treat myself to it. This is a story that deserves to be housed between guilt leather covers.
5 For years, I had heard enough people say that The Lord of the Rings was too long and dated to be worth reading that I avoided them. Recently, I picked up the first one, The Fellowship of the Rings, and I found that those people were flat wrong. The books have aged well. The characters are extremely interesting and loveable and the plot is well paced and exciting.The Two Towers picks up right where Fellowship left off. The narrative is split between the two divisions of the fellowship. The first two books follow Merry, Pippin, Gimli, Legolas, Aragorn, and others as they join forces with the Ents (the coolest characters in the series so far) to fight against the rising power of Saruman. The last two books in The Two Towers follow Frodo and Sams' continuing quest into Mordor to try and destroy the ring. They face some interesting obstacles, and there are quite a few plot twists in the narrative.The Two Towers is a truly entertaining read. The narrative in this is pretty fast-paces (except for one section at the beginning). There are some new characters and creatures which are really interesting. The conflicts are intense, and there are a lot of plot twists to keep you entertained. The book is especially exciting near the end. It really leaves you needing to read the last chronicle. I can't wait to experience the rest of The Lord of the Rings. I only wish I hadn't waited so long to get to it.
5 Though I completely adored THE HOBBIT as a child, I never got deep enough into THE LORD OF THE RINGS to appreciate what Tolkien was really doing. Twenty years of setting it aside, I spent the end of this past summer slowly and patiently enjoying every minute of Tolkien's grand and masterful tale of Middle-earth.The hobbit Frodo has a simple task fraught with the most terrible of dangers--journey to the Crack of Doom to destroy the One Ring so that the evil lord Sauron cannot use it to subjugate the land and all its inhabitants.  The trouble is that the Crack of Doom is in Sauron's own country, and his Eye sees almost everything.  Advised by the wizard Gandalf and accompanied by three fellow hobbits, two men, a dwarf and an elf, Frodo's journey is the main thrust of the tale.  Meanwhile, preparations for the decisive war are being made on both sides of the mountains that border Mordor, the land of Sauron.Tolkien's style is straightforward and measured--the narrator never gets excited.  Tolkien was a Classics professor so it should be no surprise that Frodo's journey is told with several Homeric devices, notably the repeated descriptions of the weather (reminded me of &quot;dawn's rosy fingers&quot; reappearing every day in THE ODYSSEY) and the state of the characters' stomachs.  Also like Homer, Tolkien allows his characters to tell their own stories around the fire.  To read THE LORD OF THE RINGS well perhaps also takes the skills of a good listener.The length of THE LORD OF THE RINGS forces well-intended readers afflicted with the modern short attention span into a calmer, more relaxed perspective.  While Frodo and his dear friend Sam may run till they drop, while Gandalf's horse Shadowfax may outpace all other animals that run, Tolkien never rushes. This deliberate pacing is a prime reason why his epic is so rich and rewarding.THE LORD OF RINGS gives us much to think about on the theme of what any one of us is really capable of.  It deals with honor, endurance, treachery and sacrifice like few other stories of the twentieth century.  Sit back, relax, and be transported to Middle-earth.
2 At the outset let me state that I prefer prose to poetry; taste to texture; action and plot to description and setting.  I unabashedly admit enjoying The Count of Monte Cristo more than Don Quixote and am liable to devour a book whole rather than delve into its heart and soul like that time I gorged on the first seven books of the Wheel of Time in seven days straight.  Perhaps for the preceding reasons I may be classified more of a casual reader than a serious bibliophile.  Nevertheless, please don't ignore my protestations completely.I guess it is inevitable that review lists like this will have many more reviews from supporters of a book than reviews from detractors, especially a series of such stature as Lord of the Rings.  Loyal devotees would naturally be drawn here while those dissatisfied would likely not even bother.  As one of the few detractors though that has bothered to post, let me at least weigh in and try to counter the imbalance I perceive.  First this warning to all those out there that have not read or bought LOTR yet, especially those who may have been drawn to it via other popular fantasy fare:  contrary to what some of the posts here would have you believe, LOTR is not for everyone.Although this series figured prominently in the establishment of the fantasy genre as we know it today, and is deservedly considered a classic, it is my opinion that it would also suffer from all the stereotypes associated with a &quot;classic.&quot;  Lord of the Rings is actually quite a different animal from the popular fantasy stories dominating the market today.  It has pretensions of being highbrow and is not a soap opera.  It is epic in the sense you'd characterize The Iliad, The Odyssey, or Beowulf (and equally dreary) and not in the sense Jordan's Wheel of Time (which I confess is probably a tad too fruity) is epic.  LOTR has more in common with The Chronicles of Narnia (which I prefer) than contemporary populist fantasy.One reviewer said that no one would ever make a series to compare to LOTR.  I agree.  I think LOTR was the right work that came out at the right time.  If another work had defined the fantasy genre and LOTR came out only now to compete with the current crop of fantasy, I suspect LOTR would be a commercial flop despite any literary merit or advantage it may have.  Disagree?  Please refer to the contemporary series that most closely follows LOTR in style and form if not substance.  Not many very well known that I can think of.  Most are of the soap opera variety, not classic epic.  I would have thought that the imitators would be more recognizable and come in much greater numbers.Like another reviewer here, I had to force myself to keep reading LOTR.  Unfortunately I had to keep it up even past the first 100 pages and I did not end up enjoying it. The reason I put up with it is probably the least arguable reason I can think of for reading LOTR.  LOTR probably carries enough gravitas because of its significant role in developing fantasy to make it worthwhile to read just for the sake of reading it.  Now at least I can say I've read it if nothing else.If you like symbolism and profound insight in a fantasy setting and don't think you'd get bored in the process, you might find it here. I wouldn't know for sure-that's not what I read fantasy for.  If that was what I was after I'd read the Bible, Dead Sea Scrolls, Qu'ran, Shakespeare, Nietzsche, Catcher in the Rye, or something else.However, if a good story is the only thing you are after, it is debatable if you'll enjoy LOTR.  A story that will have you at the edge of your seat with cliffhanger after cliffhanger LOTR is not and I doubt it is a series one would likely lose sleep over.
5 1/18/2013Back to square one.They did it again!!!!!  This is supposed to be about the DELL 2012 edition!  They can not seem to understand WHY we customers want to know about a particular product.  Is a book review JUST about the content of a book or is it possible that it should be about both content and the actual edition you are looking at.  So once again we are back to 1,400 reviews and growing and we are all left hanging.  I used to write a lot of book reviews, cd reviews, and audio book reviews but with this problem only getting worse I have deleted most of these type of reviews.How can a customer decide if a particular book is what they want if they can not also review the binding of a book or it's printing... or in the case of a ebook it's formatting.  These are all things that matter to a purchaser but seem to be too difficult for amazon's review system to segregate the many formats that might be available.1/2/2013(I have deleted my original caution since it appears amazon has resolved the issue of combining reviews for OLD editions, NEW editions, multiple formats, audio formats, cd's etc......)WHEN I POSTED THIS CAUTION THERE WERE OVER 1,400 REVIEWS.THANKS TO WHOMEVER AT AMAZON RESOLVED THIS.ON A SIDE NOTE I DID FILE A NOTE TO AMAZON POINTING OUT THE ERRORS.... You can do the same thing I did.  At the bottom of each item on amazon are two or three buttons you click on and tell amazon CS what is wrong with item description.I encourage everyone to do what I did and file an exception when an item Is so out of whack as this one was.  We the customer were confused by what had been 12 year old reviews for a 2012 new edition of the 4  book set.*********************************************************************I am reviewing the DELL version that was published in the year 2012.*********************************************************************After reading some of the reviews I was concerned that this might not be a quality boxed set.Mine is.  It is a great set for a young child.  It is what I would call a throw away book.... in that he is not going to take care of these books.  They will be tossed around from book bag to book bag.... left laying on the floor of his room etc..........IF you want a quality rendering of these works this is NOT the set you want.  The text is too small and the illustrations are hard to see.It contains the Hobbit and the old style 3 book breakdown of the classic tale.So I am not about to try and review J.R.R. Tolkien. As you probably know C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien were best of friends and each impacted the others works.  The striking similarities between Narnia and The Lord of the Rings is no accident.  They collaborated freely.  The Hobbit is what he is reading now.  I have cautioned him that THE Lord of the Rings is much more complex.The box that holds the 4 books is nice. Looks just like the picture of the item.
4 Why can't the Tolkien fanatics be honest. The Lord of the Rings is a great story, but the author (despite his credentials) is a mediocre writer. His sentences run on and on, and often times become jumbled. The narrative reaches five stars during the action scenes, but then comes the laborious descriptive narrative. You know, where the writer actual has to tell the story. Yikes! It is like reading a Henry James novel without the benefit of Henry James. Nonetheless, it is a great story with superb irony. To destroy the evil, one must also destroy the good. That's a brilliant story line. Also, the Elvin language is very interesting and colorful. If you want great fantasy, this is the book. If you want to read great writing try Hemmingway, Faulkner or Fitzgerald. These are writers that knew their craft, not just their imagination. And please, stop comparing this guy to Shakespeare!!!
5 I got this for my husband years ago.  He loved  The Lord of the Rings and liked this volume. It is one of the items my youngest son has asked for out of all the books I have.  I think it will be a keepsake and reminder of his dad. So it's more than just a book. The embellishments make it even more other-worldly.
5 No knock on the Bible, but I find more wisdom in this tome than any passage of the Bible and it has a much better story flow ;)
3 Harassed by the faithful for my ambivalent views of the movie instalments, the main allegation levelled at me was "you can't understand it unless you've read the books". Notwithstanding that this by itself is a pretty damning criticism of a film, I thought, all right, I'll do it. Two months later, I'm finally done.The good parts: The Lord of the Rings is a collossal feat of imagination, no doubt about it. Tolkien indeed hasconstructed an entire world, a history and a mythology, invented a language (though what the point of that was, for the purposes of writing a novel, I'm not really sure) and devised some pretty authentic sounding epic poetry, although the main pleasure I took from these frequent songs, poems and ditties was skipping them completely and thereby moving a step closer to my quest (viz., getting to the end of this monstrous ordeal).And - though I'm not sure this is necessarily a good thing - Tolkien definitely founded a new literary genre: the sword and sorcery corner of your bookshop owes its existence to this mammoth tome.But for all that, getting through Lord of the Rings was VERY HARD WORK.Mostly responsible is Tolkien's dreadful, dreadful prose. Tolkien's voice is throughout peppered with hithers, thithers and whithers, yonder this and lo! that. The dialogue is similarly cod heroic in a way which you either go for, or you find laughable, for a while, and then sapping of your very will to go on. This also creates an impression of general humourlessness - for a story about elves, gnomes, trolls and wizards, it's all taken rather too seriously.And it is not sub-edited nearly vigourously enough, to the point where the sense of the story (as opposed to the "quest") pretty much dies on the vine. Tolkien will take pages to describe fairly simple mechanical details: four pages, in one case, to describe how Sam and Frodo descended from a rock ledge to the ground. The story is forced this way to become episodic, and a thousand page yarn can't afford to be just a string of otherwise unconnected events.And having slogged through nearly a thousand pages for it, I was dismayed to hit the main climax of the quest with a good 60 pages still to go. Bizarrely a completely unrelated sub-story was then tacked on to the end. A decent sub-editor would have simply dropped the "Scouring of the Shire" into the waste paper basket.So much for execution. Given the elaborate historical and social context that Tolkien has devised, what is most surprising about the content is how extraorinarily simple - naive, really - Tolkien's moral universe is. There are two forces: good and evil, and you're either one or the other.This seemed to me to rob the story of any intellectual sophistication beyond that of an elaborate fairytale.Not only is the moral scheme naive but it isn't properly prepared. Nothing is ever done (and it's not like a lack of space prevented it!) to explain who or what Sauron is, and why he is evil. Similarly, except for the merest hint at the gates of Gondor, barely a thought is expounded on whether Gandalf (undoubtedly a powerful and persuasive figure, and one with a great deal to gain from the downfall  of Saruman and Sauron) might have alterior motives. Those characters who do make this suggestion turn out to be enchanted by the Evil One themselves.For all that, though, the complexity and sophistication of the physical universe that Tolkien has created is the impression that lasts, and I suspect that Tolkien's story will continue to sell long after the special edition DVDs have been remaindered.
5 I'm finally reading this! The book is amazing. I have never read a book in which the author has put so much effort. As for this edition, everything is indexed, from people to songs, and all of the original appendices and maps are included. Every lover of fantasy should read this, and this is a good edition to do so.
5 I believe the Lord of the Rings to be the greatest fiction of the 20th Century and perhaps the greatest of all time.  The failure to include it on the Modern Library Top 100 is completely inexplicable.  Happily, the Amazon Top 100, which was voted on by actual readers, put it at number one.  Allow me to offer the reasons, both objective and personal, why I think that is it's rightful place on any list.When we speak of authors as gods, or more likely they speak of themselves as such, there is of course an element of hyperbole, but it accompanies a kernel of truth.  Within the boundaries of their fiction, authors are in fact Creators and wield godlike powers.  They define reality, control events, decide who lives and who dies.  The best of them create characters and situations that the reader genuinely cares about and a very few of them, the best of the best, create characters and situations which seem to exist beyond the bounds of the story.  To take an easy example, there is Sherlock Holmes.  Not only do many people simply assume that he actually existed, not only did readers demand that he be brought back from the dead, there is a continual flow of further adventures and prequels being written all the time.  Holmes is so &quot;real&quot; to us that an author can write about his childhood or his old age and easily carry us along because in our guts we feel that he enjoyed such phases of life.  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle created a character whom we feel must have had a past and a future independent of the tales the author left us.  This is truly a remarkable accomplishment.On the other hand, consider Leopold Bloom from James Joyce's Ulysses (see Orrin's review).  Because the entire novel is technique and artifice it is impossible to imagine a Bloom who exists outside of the author's head.  He has no past or future because Joyce didn't write them.  This in itself does not make Ulysses a bad book--there are plenty of other reasons that it is a bad book.  It is certainly possible to create a great book or a great protagonist within these bounds.  Holden Caufield, for instance, is a great character and Catcher in the Rye a great book (see Orrin's review), but he is unimaginable as an adult.  Though memorable and sympathetic, his existence is intrinsically enmeshed within this particular novel.All of which is by way of introduction to what is perhaps the greatest feat of creative imagination in all of literature, Tolkien's Lord of the Rings.  Tolkien created not merely one or two characters who seem to have an external existence, he created an entire world, several races, entire languages, mythologies, songs, poetry, and so on, until finally it comes to seem that he is merely the historian of a separate world, rather than it's Creator.  The thoroughness with which he realizes his unique vision gives to his fiction a texture and a substance which may never be equaled.  He was able to achieve this remarkable effect in large part by spending years working on the background elements of his story before ever turning his attention to the main narrative thread.  For example, dwarves are a common enough staple of fantasy and fairy tales, but because Tolkien had spent years developing a dwarvish language and writing a history of the dwarves and imagining a dwarvish mythology, when we come upon a dwarf in Middle Earth, he seems not to be a convenient imaginary figure but an actual being with his own life story, racial history and tongue.  This is likewise true for the elves, the hobbits, even the orcs--a pretty amazing achievement.All of this would suffice to rank these books among the world's greatest, even if he just put the characters through some fairly pedestrian paces, just some standard quest or adventure.  But Tolkien's has a much higher ambition here.  His religious influences and aims are well understood and I'll not dwell on them here.  I'm more interested in the way the stories function as democratic myth.  The great tension in the series is not truly between good and evil, rather it derives from the capacity of power to corrupt good people.  Elves and men and dwarves and even Gandalf must all struggle, some successfully, some not, against the temptation to take the ring of power themselves.  Each is able to imagine that committing acts of short term evil will allow them to act for what they perceive as the greater good.  But in fact it is only the lowly hobbits, Sam and Frodo, with no aspirations towards greatness, who can wield power selflessly and even they ultimately require divine intervention to finally destroy the ring.  This political understanding further elevates the series and provides it with a message that resonates with our experience, particularly in the 20th Century.  The various races who are tempted by the ring resemble New Dealers and Bolsheviks and Maoists, each of them thinking that they are uniquely capable of using power toward good ends, failing to perceive that the seductive qualities of power itself is warping their souls.  In the end, in Middle Earth as on Earth, only the humble folk should be trusted with power and even they bear watching.Finally, to my subjective reasons.  If my Mom is to be believed, and I think we can trust her on this one, it was around 5th grade that I really became a reader.  As I recall, my teacher Mrs. Deakens got me going on books about explorers.  Like any young boy I was captivated by such tales of adventure.  I devoured comic books swashbucklers and science fiction.  I read every Doc Savage I could get my hands on, Tarzan (see Orrin's review), John Carter of Mars, Conan, and any other pulp fiction I could find.  Meanwhile, our neighbor, Mark Farris, read the same books over and over again in an unending cycle--the Chronicles of Narnia (see Orrin's review) straight through, then the Lord of the Rings from start to finish and back to Narnia--and he swore by them.  Now the Narnia books weren't too daunting. each one is pretty slender, so I managed them.  But the Lord of the Rings offers quite an imposing structure to the kid who contemplates reading it.  Taken together the four books are what? maybe 1700 or so pages?  Well, of course I did eventually screw up my courage and tackle this daunting task and not only was I ensorceled by the story, but having finished I was naturally inordinately proud of myself.  Add that sense of self satisfaction into the mix and I'd imagine that for most kids who read the series at a certain age it inevitably becomes their favorite.  In fact, I'd like to get these kids who are so enraptured by the Harry Potter books (see Orrin's review) and make sure that they continue on through C.S. Lewis and on to Tolkien.  The Potter books are fun; Tolkien is sublime.GRADE: A+
5 "The Two Towers" continues "The Lord of the Rings" history in two books after the breaking of the Fellowship of the Ring as the first part follows Aragorn, Boromir, Legolas the Elf, Gimli the Dwarf, and Merry and Pippin the Hobbits seeing as the second half addresses the eventful journey of Frodo and Samwise the Hobbits towards the land of Mordor.  The author expertly introduces more fascinating creatures, timeless scenarios, and awesome battles in a dark and ominous fantasy.Continuing the creative progression, amazing entities such as an Ent or objects like the palantir provide further depth to a phenomenal epic.  Insight into the menacing Enemy forces arrayed against the good people of Middle-earth is realized with the many layers of deception and intrigue while maintaining a sensible yet young reading level.  Shocking reunions and unforgettable events deliver quality entertainment with subtle environmental messages.Unlike most novels, "The Two Towers" divides the separate group plotlines from the original Fellowship instead of intermixing them down a chronological perspective.  The method might be confusing but minor references and a moderately short time span helps organize the proceedings.The collection I own has "The Hobbit" along with all books of "The Lord of the Rings" and contains inside the final novel a comprehensive appendices and index, the ultimate standard for any author wishing to compile a comprehensive series.  As with about every film-based novel, I would suggest at least not watching the movie prior to reading the book if not forgoing the movie (although it is one of the greatest movies of all time) thereby leaving the story entirely to the imagination.I highly recommend the book collection to any fan of the fantasy genre.Thank you.
5 'The Lord of the Rings' is probably the longest &#34;regular&#34; book (or work) I have read, but one of the best, though you must be a real fan to remember most of the details. Having seen the movies, I tend to think about the scenes when reading this book. Of course, as must be the case, the book has everything -- names, places, situations -- but what really matters (for me) is the plot, which is one of the best you can get.All the details can be a burden for some, and you must turn to some of the other works by Tolkien if you want to know more about the origin of some of this (I think). Having read 'The Hobbit', but not some other works by Tolkien (yet), I am more interested in the excitement which comes with 'The Hobbit' and the three volumes of 'The Lord of the Rings'. The stories in them stays with you for a long time. But it is the creatures and persons, and of course, hobbits, that really stays in your head, and which Tolkien is a master of describing; their characteristics is well laid out for the reader, and their development as the story unfolds makes you want to read all three volumes.All that said, there are (for me) some quite boring situations in the work, e.g. the long battle scenes which makes up much of the middle part of the work. But if you want to read an exciting and interesting fantasy story, &#34;The Lord of the Rings&#34; must be on top of your list.
5 The Lord of the Rings in my opinion is the single greatest piece of literature to be written and conceived by a single man.  Tolkien was am absolutely brilliant Philologist and was way ahead of all the scholars back then (when he was at oxford), and still is even after his death.  He had a noble heart and was generous with his time to others.  And Most of all he loved the natural world as god had created it untainted by industry.  He was a lover of trees.  He was and still is the greatest English Literary scholar  of european and germanic languages, and read more than most people read in a lifetime.  On the whole he knew the entire history of English literature, Could speak fluent anglo saxon, German and Greek and Latin.  He knew the great tales of men's past not in their modern english translations but as they were originally written and conceived.  Like the Iliad anf the odyssey, in greek, the kalevala in finnish, and beowulf in the original saxon.  He had also read the Elder Edda and Younger Edda, sometimes known as the poetic edda and the prose edda, in original ancient german.  He had read the whole corpus of Icelandic Sagas in their original language, and was a lover of the latin translation of the bible which he recited at catholic mass.  Here is a book that should be taught in English classes in  middle school  and high schools and colleges.  But the literary elite does'nt want that to happen because of their preference for post-modernism and reality based fiction.  Plus he knew good literature, and not that snobby tripe they shove down our throats in school.
5 What's so great about the Kindle Edition:1.  The price is VERY reasonable, only $12.95 for the entire trilogy as I write this.  What a bargain- you are actually getting 3 separate, long books.2.  Much more portable.  It's a real joy to carry my slender Kindle instead of the huge LOTR books, which are big even in paperback.There is nothing more I could write that would add to what has been written about this outstanding trilogy.  Many rightfully claim it is the best set of books ever written, and I'm inclined to agree; it certainly is the best fantasy/mythology ever written.  Getting this in a Kindle version is a huge win for readers!
3 No doubt THE LORD OF THE RINGS set the tone for all modern fantasy fiction, and certainly the story herein has been much imitated by the talented and talentless, and no doubt this is a good story. For those reasons, LORD OF THE RINGS is awarded 3 stars.But...There are two things about this trilogy which drive me insane, and I am wondering if I am the only one. First, Tolkein is so long-winded, spending pages (literally!) describing scenery, which is interesting to a point, quickly bores me as being unnecessary. Teachers in every writing class have told me to cut to the chase, not to be too long-winded; so why is Tolkein never criticized for his lack of an editor?Secondly, and far more importantly, is the underlying racism that pervades this trilogy. I hate to say this about a book so venerated to my favorite genre, but the racism of Tolkein set the tone for the next 50+ years in terms of the racism that was (and still is) so prevalent in the fantasy genre. His descriptions of orcs resembles 13th-century descriptions of Mongols, giving them no redeeming factors at all. I realize that the 1950s weren't the most politically correct times, but Tolkein was an academic, and I feel he has a responsibility to fight this sort of mindless drivel. He was a professor at Oxford, so he likely understood what he was writing, and that makes what he wrote all the more galling. This racism in my eyes almost negates all the positives of this trilogy, but I am a fair person and give it some credit.Reccommended, but understand what you are reading.
5 This is such a great set of books.  I bought it for my grandchildren.  They saw the movies, some multiple times.  Now they can experience the joy again by reading the stories for themselves, and further their reading skills at the same time.
5 I like the fantasy genre, and I feel, after having read many many different authors, that tolkien is unsurpassed in his rendering of an &#34;alternate earth&#34;.
5 I became interested in reading LOR after I saw the three LOR Movies many many times.  I read the Silmarillion first, then the Hobbit and finally LOR.  I also followed along with The Atlas of Middle-Earth by Karen Wynn Fonstad.  While it is depressing and very difficult to read the Silmarillion, it was worth it by the time I got to LOR.  I was able to experience the richness of LOR to its fullest.  Much has been written so there is not much more I can really say about this brilliant piece of literature other than it is truly a privilege to read this book.  Mine was the 50th anniversary edition.  It is a book of quality.  The gold leaf held up well and the attached ribbbon that acts as a book marker is very handy.  After one read it still looks new.  I wished it had pictures like The Hobbit but really pictures are not needed with such a brilliant and gifted author, JRR Tolkien.  No one can paint a picture like JRR Tolkien.  What truly amazed me is how different the story is in the book verses the movies.  The movies are basically an outline to the book.  Buy and read this book.  You will never regret it.  When I started watching the movies, I believed the story to be fantasy.  Now being at the end of the JRR Tolkien journey, I am convinced that the story was real!  I experienced it firsthand!
1 I originally read these out of my dad's hardback copies, but when taking a Tolkien class recently, I needed copies that I could write and highlight all over. While they were intended as throwaway copies, the print was very hard to read and the printing was often crooked from page to page, and there were a curious amount of typos. After one read through, the spines were completely destroyed, so if you're interested in reading these books, save up a few dollars and buy a better set. Plus, it's always a little embarrassing to read a book with pictures of its movie adaptation on the cover.
5 I read these back in college, but had never forgotten their magic. I recently gave this set to my young daughter and shequickly emersed herself headlong into the beautiful and bewitching world which Tolkien creates for the reader. Dothe same for your young ones!
5 With this book, the second installment in "The Lord of the Rings" (a single extremely long novel, not a trilogy), things start to fall into place.The Fellowship of the Ringwas great, but it felt like it was basically build-up for bigger things to come.  Well, by the time "The Two Towers" starts, the ball is rolling, and fast.I was weary about the decision to split the book into two halves, one half dealing with Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Merry, and Pippin, and the other half dealing with Frodo, Sam, and Gollum, because I thought it might have been a wiser decision to mix it up a bit; have one chapter deal with Aragorn and company, the next with Frodo and company, and so on.  However, the way it is set up is probably for the better.  Each half read very well, advancing this classic story in big ways.Again, as I mentioned in my review for "Fellowship," Tolkien's work isn't for the impatient reader.  His beefy sentences demand that you comb through them, soaking in the language and appreciating the intensely thought-out sub-creation of Tolkien's Middle-earth.  Thing is, that kind of writing isn't for everyone.  I've read pompous reviewers insulting those who don't appreciate Tolkien's style, but the "get on with the story, Tolkien" complaints are not without merit.  I thoroughly enjoyed "The Two Towers" and consider the overall arc ofThe Lord of the Ringsto be a classic and timeless story, but the style of writing can, at times, grate against one's patience.So I'll end my review for this book by including something I said in my review for "Fellowship," which very much applies here:  "Pour a cup of tea. Heck, sit it on a tea cozy. Turn off your phone, and absorb the writing. Visualize the mountains, rivers, all of the scenery. Feel what is happening, don't just read it. True, there is a lot of back story that could have been taken out, but it wasn't. So deal, and read it--most of it, if not all, is interesting."PS: The character arc of Gollum (and his dialogue!) alone is worth reading this book.  We loves it, my precious!10/10 Classic.
4 duh, its tolkien. too much violence for my likng but a classic good vs evil saga..not for younger audiences either
5 I have owned a copy of this remarkable BBC radio dramatization of the Lord of the Rings for probably 15 years, and still remember its appearance on National Public Radio over twenty years ago.  I read the books thirty years ago.  I have loved the movies.I feel I'm qualified to answer the question:  &quot;Is hearing this worth it?&quot;  &quot;Do I really need to own this?&quot;You need this.  The books are wonderful (and unlike all other versions are of course &quot;unabridged&quot;).  However, how often can you read them?  The movies are wonderful, however again how often can you find the time to commit to watch them.  Plus, everything is &quot;invisioned&quot; for you.  This is a work of imagination!  Shouldn't you use your own imagination?This radio drama sits in the pleasant middle ground.  You can use your mind to see what your ears hear.  This is a portable experience, you can take it with you, and multi-task while you're experiencing it.Artistically, this production is as wonderful as the movie production, and has a more quiet charm.  You have high quality actors in top form (Michael Hordern, Robert Stephans, Ian Holm to name a few).  You have quieter music (chamber strings and harp mostly)  You have more of Tolkien's own lyrics and poetry.  You also have more of Tolkien's original plot, the Scouring of the Shire is not in the movie.I will restate what other reviews have said:  &quot;Stay away from the Mind's Eye version!&quot;  Unfortunately, only the BBC really knows how to turn out high quality, aurally detailed radio drama.  (Well, so does ZBS media, but that's another story.)
5 After so many people have reviewed this book in such a deservedly positive fashion, it's hard to add much that's new.  I will say that it probably would have been difficult for Tolkien to get this book published today, or an editor might have chopped out a lot of the lavish detail in order to make it read a little more briskly.  But I think it's better the way it is, and it's also a reflection of writing style from 50 years ago, to some degree.  The following has probably already been said a zillion times: it sure seems like there is religious symbolism in the tremendously long journey involving the ring.  I understand that Tolkien himself was quite religious.  Author ofAdjust Your Brain: A Practical Theory for Maximizing Mental Health.
5 This set is long, but worth it.  Rob Inglis creates a series of voices for the characters that bring them to life.  I haven't seen the movie yet, but this is one of the best audiobooks I have heard!
4 I think rarely does one say that the movies are better than the books. However, I think this is the case. If this is the first time reading these type series I strongly suggest reading George RR Martin or Terry Goodkind. These are much easier reads.Don't get me wrong I like these books but there really kinda slow compaired to the other authors out there. I am fortunate enough to have all six books bound individually. You do want to make this part of your library.
5 The book set arrived "as advertised" -- there was a bit of wear on the slipcase, but when I know about it in advance, we're good!  Service was very timely -- books always arrive in very good time.
5 Everyone has told me how great this book is so I finally got it. So far it's been okay. The book game in very good condition and on time.
4 This book is fantastic. I've always loved the movies and finally got around to reading the books. I should have done it a long time ago
5 I'm really enjoying reading the books.. I can almost see the Movie as I read the books.... Thanks....I will be looking for more great deals..
5 Quite simply some of the best books every written. If you haven't read them, you should. They are long and detailed and so deep in their aspect. They -can- be a bit dry at points but well worth it in the end.
5 I can remember how impressed with myself I was for reading the whole work  in the late sixties. Now when I go back to this trilogy I'm amazed at what  a model of compact efficiency it is! (If only Robert Jordan could get to  the point this quickly). Some groundbreaking works don't age well; their  ideas are expanded and improved by those who come after. But Tolkein is a  scholar, a thinker, and a gifted writer, and no one who's copme along since  can handle this kind of material as well as he did. The writing is  beautifully crafted, the characters vivid, and the tale built on a solid  foundation of mythic story-telling. You read golden age SF so that you can  understand the roots of what came later, but you read the Lord of the Rings  because it's just that good. A timeless classic, this, so good that I'll  take the time to write this review even though it will probably go unread  and unclicked simply because this work DESERVES to have a boat-load of  glowing reviews attached.
5 I doubt that a better audio dramatisation of the Lord of the Rings will ever be produced. This BBC version is an abridged account, but one that still runs to thirteen one-hour episodes. Tolkien's work has been intelligently and sympathetically produced with the skill and dramatic eye one expects from the BBC. Lovers of the book will be pleased that no aspect of the story has been compromised by being condensed. Indeed I expect that Tolkien would have been very pleased with this product because surely this was the way he -- a scholar of the oral story-telling tradition -- would have wanted the Lord of the Rings to be told.The BBC dramatisation is restrained but uses clever sound effects to heighten the building tension of the story. The various actors all seem to 'fit' their characters well, and do not reduce their personas to cartoon-like figures, which would be easy enough to do. Very occasionally listeners may become confused in identifying the characters simply through their voices, but mostly this is not a problem because of the very distinct voice portrayals.In sum, this production is one of the very few additions to the seemingly unstoppable Lord of the Rings 'industry' which adds more to Tolkien's legacy than detracts from it. I strongly recommend it to both long-standing lovers of the book as well as those coming fresh to the Lord of the Rings.
5 This is the greatest trilogy and set ever written.  The Master of Fantsy, J.R.R. Tolkien, showed us his story-telling talent in these books.  They deal with Bilbo's(the legendary hobbit from The Hobbit) nephew acquiring  the ring of Bilbo's and his quest to destroy it.  Men, Dwarves, Hobbits,  Elves, and Wizards team together in a last and final stand againg the evil  Sauron, in a tale that will captivate the reader for hours, and never leave  him.  Classic Good vs. Evil--but in the greatest form ever imagined.  Essential for any fantasy lover, great for anyone else.  I highly recommend  it! (as should have been obvious by now)
5 While not as good as Robert Jordans Wheel of time series, The Lord of the Rings is a wonderful story. I'm awarding 5 out of 5 stars with no second thoughts. Wonderful!
5 Riveting conclusion of epic proportions...Return of the King begins with the Gondor story line where The Two Towers leaves off. Sauron's eye is focused on the city and his forces are gathering for a final strike. Ringwraiths, men, ogres, orcs and trolls are on the move. In Gondor, Faramir struggles to gain the acceptance of his father, Denethor. The young hobbit, Pippin, swears fealty to Denethor on a whim and soon finds himself garbed as a soldier of Minus Tirith. As Denethor loses his grasp on reality, Pippin must decide whether to stay true to his oath or true to his conscious.Likewise, Merry has sworn his services to the King of Rohan. But the King, unlike Denethor, does not want his small vassal in harms way and decides to leave him behind. His plight is noticed by another who would also fight, despite being told to stay behind, and the two join up and follow together, a decision that just might mean the difference between victory and defeat in the final battle.Meanwhile, Sam and Frodo continue their desperate journey into Mordor. Frodo grows ever weaker under the weight of the Ring and the eye of the Dark Lord. Sam, for loyalty and love of his Master, gives up his portion of the rations and carries Frodo, at some points literally, towards the final goal. Soon, they realize that this mission will likely be the end of them, even if they succeed in destroying the ring.I absolutely love The Return of the King. The world is beautifully described, the emotions of love, fear and loyalty are expertly derived, and the story is exciting. The final scene at Mount Doom is one of the most exciting conclusions of any book I've ever read (though about 100 pages of wrap-up remain at that point).To be balanced, I must admit that the story gets a bit wordy (or a lot wordy, depending on your point of view). Also, I don't care for the poems and songs that the characters sometimes break into, though they are easy to skim past. Luckily, this final installment in the trilogy seems to go light on the poetry.Unlike others, I won't denounce the movie. I think it's an excellent way to enjoy the story, especially for those with neither the time nor the patience to tackle this classic story. I will say that folks who only see the movie will miss out on the hobbits' epic return to the Shire and the associated battle that the movie skipped.All in all, The Lord of the Rings is truly an epic fantasy, and for some, like me, it is the gateway to a lifelong love of the genre.
3 Yes, of course the book is marvelous, among the most remarkable ever written.This edition, however, is not as great as it should've been. The leather doesn't feel like real leather, the color should always be red (think red book of westmarch... what were they thinking.) and the thing is just too big to hold comfortably and sit and read.The print is nice, the maps are great, the slipcase thing is nice, but I think the 3-volume edition with the Alan Lee illustrations is superior... the books are red, like they should be, they're bound in VERY durable cloth bindings, the paper and printing is good, the illustrations are nice, and because it's in three volumes, it's comfortable to sit with and read. Plus it's less money.
5 Pure quality from the author of fantasy as we know it today. If you haven't already read them, do it.
5 Whereas other reviews have focused on Tolkien's excellent story, I want to recommend Alan Lee's fantastic illustrations. Lee was one of two Tolkien illustrators called by Peter Jackson for the making of the film. His brilliance shines through in the recreation of Rivendell and the warm feel of Hobbiton. As a life-long fan of the Lord of the Rings, I have never been disappointed by Lee's interpretation of a scene or character. His artistic skill hits the mark dead center every time on every concept. In fact, his is one artist of a few (if not the only one) who are officially recognized by Tolkien's estate as a bard of Middle Earth. Therefore, the illustrations in this beautiful edition of the best book of the 20th century are bound to appeal to you and inspire you as you read it. I heartily recommend it!
5 Well, where did you think I got my nick? As a lover of the great fantasy novels (the Alice books, Lewis' Narnia chronicles, et al), I come always, inevitably, back to The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion -- the triptych of fantasy, without which none of what followed would be possible. (Simply look at Terry Brooks' Sword of Shannara to see what I mean. It parallels Tolkien in so many ways, it would be plagiarism if it wasn't so obviously a homage.) In thinking about the Rings saga while working on this review, I find so many things that delight and enlighten -- Tolkien's wonderful, memorable characters, his inventive Elven and Dwarvish languages, not to mention his even more inventive use of the English lamguage, his impeccably mythic story...I could go on, and I think I will! Continuing in the mythic vein for a moment, think about such creatures as the deadly, horrific barrow-wights, unseen in the story save for one clutching arm; Tom Bombadil, full of jollity and song, yet somehow wistful and a little sad at the same time; the hrm-ing, hooming, completely delightful Ents, pining for their lost wives -- that is what I mean by impeccably mythic. They all sound like stories you heard a hundred times when you were a child, as familiar as King Arthur, as spooky as Jack running from the Giant, as full of life and light, and sadness and darkness, as every adventure Dorothy ever had in Oz. Somehow, Tolkien tapped directly into what critic Burt Hatlen called the &quot;myth-pool&quot; with the Rings saga; his words and wonders are as intimate to us, in the archetypal sense, as our own blood and nerves. As an example, look at two key moments in The Fellowship of the Ring, where Frodo is rendered unconscious, first at the lair of the barrow-wights, then again at the high hill where his company is accosted by the ring-wraiths. In both instances, Frodo is nearly slain, and falls forward, his sword broken beneath him, calling to mind Arthur, fallen in his final battle, Achilles at Troy, or even a Biblical martyr, though that may be stretching a point. When we learn later that the Elven-king who cut the Ring-hand from Sauron's arm also fell slain with his sword broken beneath him, we know that not only is Tolkien paying close attention to detail, he understands full well that certain myths have a habit of running in cycles, and what happened to one Ring-Bearer will almost certainly happen to the next one. This is but one example of Tolkien's amazing work, which has such breadth and scope that I cannot fully convey its perfection in this short space, much as I would like to try. I will only say that if you have not read Lord of the Rings, you must; if you have read it but did not enjoy it, then there is no sense of wonder in your heart -- and may Shelob and Gollum cast you into the Cracks of Doom. (Yeah, I know it sounds silly, but it was better than the Marsh of the Dead!) And, as a simple matter of curiosity, is there anyone out there anticipating the new movie version as much as I? (At least we know it can't be worse than Ralph Bakshi's!)  Remain in Light -- Phrodoe.
5 There are hardly any typos at all, which was my main concern with buying this.  Picky Reader recommends you buy it too.
5 The Two Towers is another amazing book in the Lord of the Rings Trilogy.  Be sure you have read the Hobbit and the Fellowship of the Ring before reading this book.  The only difference in this and the first is that the action heats up at the begining, right where the first left off.  There are parts with Marry and Pippen and the tree people (the Ents) that can we boring, but you won't be able to put it down.  The novel is filled with many battles, surprises, wit, and wisdom.  If you liked the Fellowship of the Ring, you'll love the Two Towers.
5 I read this long ago and had to get it.  I'm currently re-reading it - after having read the Hobbit which is really an introduction to The Lord of the Rings.  This is no child's fairy tale; it's well written with dialog and description at its best.  The struggle between good and evil is a universal subject which neer gets old.  The variety of characters just adds to the story.
5 I bought the paperback copy, but was unable to finish the book bec it's too big and heavy. Wanted to get the kindle edition, but i don't want to pay the hefty price. One day while browsing my wish list... Surprise.... Surprise... It just 9.99$. My waiting paid off and now I can enjoy one of my favorite movies of all time in its book form. Haven't really found any major problems in the kindle form but for some very minor typos ( et for eat ). No biggie... At least I don't have to carry the very huge book. I am enjoying the book very much...
5 J.R.R. Tolkien was indeed the greatest author of the 20th century.  The Lord of the Rings far surpasses any fantasy story or series written so far.  These books are a must read for anyone who reads fantasy and are the first books I would recommend for anyone new to reading the fantasy genre or to any young ones discovering the incredible world of books, whether it be paper or on eBook.  Way better than the movies and the audio books are great as well.
5 Reading it again at this moment. Can't stop. Lights out at two in the morning but eager to read on when I wake up. Well, five minutes just before leaving for work. Etc. You can't deny it: it holds you by the throat.  The  masterly thing of course is the combination of a true quest and fantasy.  It's a created world you love to crawl into. Like a hobbit in elfcloths you  are a invincible participant.
5 Although this review is for the leatherette edition, I have rated the book as a Tolkien novel.I owned a John Howe illustrated 3-1 version of LOTR about 5-6 years ago when I first read a newspaper article about the book. Between Alan Lee and John Howe, I prefer the latter's depictions of Middle Earth and its characters. Howe's illustrations are more detailed and they never fail to ignite some fantasy daydreaming wherelse Lee's illustrations (after being so familiar with Howe) just seem a mite childish.And because I loved my paperback one-volume John Howe-illustrated version, it gradually (as all paperbacks go) fell apart after 6 years of passing around and continuous readings. I decided to look for a new edition (preferably a hardbound one-volume edition with Howe's illustrations but there is apparently none in the US market, though UK seems to have some.)Before I elaborate on the leatherette edition that I now own, let me tell you about my experience with LOTR. Like I said, I first read of this book in a newspaper article and was curious as to whether the quote about the english literary population having been divided between those who have read it and those who have not, held up.Admittedly I did not jump with awe at the first few attempts of reading LOTR. It took me 1 1/2 years before I actually restarted again after a few tries to get through the first few chapters. This time I attacked it, I read it properly, looking at the appendices, and maps. And after awhile, the story just kept getting better and I was hooked. It was just incredible, I couldn't put down the book. I went through a reading marathon. I slept, ate and dreamnt the book for days and when it came to an end, I was actually disappointed. Really disappointed that it has come to an end.The movie to me was great because it helped visualized some of the scenes and plot that were lost to me when I was reading the book. If any, it helped make LOTR more meaningful and understandable. And if it were Jackson's intention to complement the book and not rival it, that the movie is a ranging success.As for the leatherette edition, I cannot fathom what all the negative reviews about its terrible terrible quality is about. The book is very nicely bound, the paper quality is indisputable and the text neatly aligned to the sides as it should be. The map at the back is very nice and clear. The only gripe I have is that the text colour (both red and black) tend to vary from pages to pages and I had only noticed this because I was reading the reviews and everyone kept complaining about its shortcomings. Otherwise, I did not find any badly-printed characters on its own, just whole pages of text with varying colours, some lighter or darker than others.I'd like to think it gives the book a little character and rawness which goes with the creamish paper and the imperfection of most ancient books.All in all, I am happy with what I have bought.
5 Tolkien obviously had different intentions when he sat down to write &quot;The Hobbit&quot; than when he began his opus, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; (LOTR).  The Hobbit is a fanciful fantasy that reads like an excellent children's story (for older kids to be sure).  &quot;The  Hobbit,&quot; however, does set the table for the engrossing and amazingly  influential LOTR.  I strongly recommend LOTR for older, first time readers.  Tolkien's prose is striking and wonderfully descriptive (without being too  wordy - at least through &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; and the  &quot;Two Towers&quot;).  The key to the success of this series, however,  lies in the development of the main characters.  Set in the context of a  fantastic and dangerous mission, in an incredibly intricate alternate  reality, the story is almost impossible to put down because you care about  what happens next to Frodo, Sam, Gandalf, and the like.  Ultimately, it is  a story of honor, sacrifice, and love.  A true modern classic.
2 Every time an edition *Lord of the Rings* comes out, everyone goes into a frenzy of adoration, marveling at how stunningly written and riveting the books are. When I was in Junior High the trilogy was reprinted to the ecstatic swoonings of reviewers and readers. So I borrowed *The Fellowship of the Ring* and...made it to page 50 before sheer boredom conked me out.Fast forward 35 years. Everyone is goo-goo-ga-ga over LOTR again--heck, they even made movies of it!--so I thought, with the benefit of age and experience, plus an enjoyment of fastasy novels, I should try Tolkien again.Long story short: I was just as bored this time. I powered through 398 pages in a span of 5 weeks, sometimes only making it through a paragraph at a time. At that point I realized that at my age it isn't worth spending the time reading something you don't enjoy, no matter how highly touted it is.The characters had no depth or quirks that made them seem real; the story plodded along, with all ends neatly tied up and none of the gray areas or tension that real life has. The only enchantment I found was matching the characters' names with their possible function as prescription drugs ("If you have high blood pressure, talk to your doctor about Elendil!"). In sum, I felt the books were really meant for children/young adults, correspondingly leaving out the very things (complexity, ambiguity, characters' interior lives) that would attract adult readers.Although LOTR fans will pee their pants with rage at this suggestion, I think possibly LOTR would be more entertaining if it could come out in a condensed single book, leaving out the parts that are repetitive and don't advance the plot. Until then, it's a must-read...in the same sense as you "must" trim your toenails every week and clean your oven regularly. It's frustrating, because the stories have so much potential, but they're so cluttered up and overtold they're literally overwhelming! So while I applaud Tolkien's imagination and creativity, I have to say that the stories themselves for me got lost in the details.
5 This is a story of good versus evil.  Choose right, in all you do: avoid &#34;the ring,&#34; as applied to everything.  God bless you.
5 This is a great book that we bought for our kids.  We wanted a nice hard copy version so that they would last and they all could read it.  Nice version and good value!
1 I read the hobbit when younger and thought it was ok (I have since attempted to re-read it and couldn't through it).  I tried to read the Lord of the Rings and was bored stiff.  I have since tried to read them, at  least 5 times, because so many people find them great.  I do not get why.  I find them dull, dry, and rather cartoonish. I know there are probably  going to be a lot of people offended by this review but that is perfectly  alright by me....not everyone thinks Tolkein is the 'genius' of the fantasy  genre.
5 Amazing stories.  Anyone who likes adventure and drama should read these novels.  Tolkien brings me back to my childhood in a way that no other author can.  Perhaps it is because that is when I first read him- but I do  no believe that is it.  There is magic in his story of Middle Earth and the  adventures that take place there.  Aside from establishing a genere,  Tolkien has created a masterpiece of literature that has been and is  continuing to enchant readers.
5 What is there not to like of J.R.R. Tokien books? It is lots of fun, plenty of adventure, action, battles, humor, hobbits, men, elves, dwarves, et., etc., etc.Book two of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy, &quot;The Two Towers&quot;, ends with Gandalf the Wizard and Pippin the hobbit traveling to Minas Tirith. Also Frodo the Ring-bearing hobbit and his faithful friend, Sam, are separated in the land of Mordor, Frodo in the hands of the dreadful orcs.Now we go into book three, &quot;The Return of the King&quot;. It's up to Sam now to save his master Frodo. It's a good thing he has the Ring of Doom with him. When Sam finally is able to free Frodo, they must continue their quest to destroy the Ring, before the evil Sauron uses it to his own purposes, to cover all the lands with his Darkness. But Frodo is starting to weaken with the weight and power of the Ring. Will he be able to complete his quest? Meanwhile, King Theoden and his Rohan forces, along with Merry the hobbit, travel to Minas Tirith to help King Denethor fight off Sauron's forces of Men and Orcs. And Aragorn the Ranger (or is he...?), Legolas the Elf, Gimli the Dwarf, and the Rangers decide to go to Minas Tirith... by the Paths of Dead!A truly great conclustion to such a terrific series. J.R.R. Tolkien certainly made these books so interesting and realistic. You must read the Appendixes at the end of the book, it tells about all of the histories of Men, Dwarves, Elves, Hobbits, and more. Also gives timelines of the 2nd Age, 3rd Age, and more.One of my most favorite characters is Legolas the Elf, one important reason is because he is an Elf. Somehow Elves have always fascinated and interested me, with their mysterious, quiet but strong ways. I love how he and Gimli the Dwarf are the best of friends and how they're always together and inseparable. I also love Pippin the Hobbit, he's so cheerful, kind, but always seems to always get into trouble! Also I think that Faramir the Prince is also a good character. Son of the King Denethor, in the eyes of his father is unworthy because he is compared with his brother, Boromir, who had been killed.I can't honestly say which of the three books in the trilogy is the best. I strongly recommend you read all of the books, including the prelude, &quot;The Hobbit&quot;. I think that the J.R.R. Tolkiens are mostly for teenager and adults, since younger kids probably would find it a little too complicated and boring for them. Have fun reading &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy! You'll find it loads of fun and keep you in page-turning excitement!
5 One of the most famous and popular fantasy series of all times. The basis for the wildly popular film series:&#34;The Lord of the Rings&#34;, and the standard that most works of fantasy are judged by.
5 I have really enjoyed reading all six Lord of the Ring books that are in this one volume. The story and characters are fascinating. I can't wait to rent the movies, now that I know the whole story.
3 This review is not meant to slight the genius--yes, genius--of J.R.R. Tolkien or his imaginary world.  Countless millions have found sustenance in this incredible tale.  Moreover, the trilogy practically spawned the entire genre of "fantasy" and inspired innumerable writers to their craft.  The debt we all owe to this trilogy is unpayable. However, as a read, the trilogy is a bit of a slog.  I labored through it first as an eleven year old and then as a 25 year old.  Both times I found it difficult to get through pages of elven songs, multi-layered histories, and a universe that was bigger that its author could control.With many readers and critics, I find the first book's 100 page romp with Tom Bombodil an awful diversion from the journey.  Anyone reading the first book (or the trilogy) would do well to simply bypass those 100 pages without the least cost to your understanding or pleasure.  The Bombodil misadventure foreshadows many lesser diversions and deviations from the story.Yes, its almost unthinkable but true: the trilogy could have been even richer had Tolkien been as good a writer as he was an inventor.  Another heresy: for storytelling the films (some of the best movies ever made) were actually better than the novels.When you survey the reviews here know this: a five-star rating is orthodox among Tolkien fans and fantasy fans.  And many of these devotees have read the trilogy multiple times: like the Bible it gets easier and more readable on later reads, because one becomes more learned and literate in the land of Middle Earth.If you're looking for a world with infinite depths of imagination, you have arrived at the right place.  If, however, you are also looking for a pleasurable read, you can do better elsewhere.  To get through this three part novel (let's be honest: it's a 1200 page novel, not a trilogy), one has to be willing to do a lot of work--it's more than Tolkien himself can carry.
2 Undoubtably one of the best works of literature ever written and on its own merits deserves 10 stars.That said, the praise from earlier purchasers/reviewers (2004, etc) of the leather binding no longer applies, as this is not bound in leather any longer.  It looks really close, but it is a thin paper imitation now.  I bought this book for my son for Christmas, and when it arrived it was shrink wrapped.  I did not want to remove this wrapping before Christmas; now I wish I had, because it is too late to return it and ask for a leather volume as advertised.  Too bad - does not speak well of the integrity of the publishers....By all means order this and enjoy it for the extraordinary tale, but do not expect that you are getting real leather for the price tag.
5 I bought this set for my son who recently decided he loved to read.  Great boxed set.  Large soft cover books.  He takes them to school and back without too much damage to them.They arrived when promised as well!
5 This book brings the masterpeice of the Lord of the Rings to a close.  Our charachters are put through such trial and hardship, and stick together through it all.  I don't feel that I can really write enough to express the full, rich, epic this book is.
5 This is by far the best edition of LOTR ever published.  I bought it off of Amazon, and it is just amazing!  I have never seen a book that looks better than this one!  You must buy it.
5 As always this is a classic, a most read. Physically the book is a hig cuality product and it will enrich your collection
5 I've waited a bit to get this tome.  I had the old Ballantine editions from the mid 60's, but my three kids pretty much took care of them.  Since I love Tolkien's work, I naturally bought myself this copy.  This way I had them all in one book.  I also bought the movies of the three books, and they're not bad.  I still love the books, though.
5 This trilogy is second to none. It envelops you and carries you away. I love all three books, they've entertained me greatly. =)
3 I just thought that this trilogy overly comsumed by words. it was a novel that could have been about three-hundred pages shorter in retrospect. I finished the book, out of determation and interest in it, but found that At times I didn't think I'd ever get through it... the movies were the big thing that made  interested me enough to finally reading it. Outside of four years of three of my best friends Raving almost daily, over their love of this book.  Although I do get into Fanasy, I just like more the ainti-hero Novels more. All in all, it was a good book, wordy yes, but I can't take anything away from it's statius as a classic.
5 This is the second book in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. This book continues the journey of the fellowship. Their task is to destroy the ring of power. Unfortunately, the fellowship is broken up. The hobbits, Frodo and Sam, continue on towards Mount Doom. The rest of the group race to save Merry and Pippin, who have been captured by Sauruman's troops.This book races through events and follows the two groups as the story unfolds. Where will the fellowship find help? Can Gollum be trusted? We are introduced to the people of Rowhan, Gondor and the wonderful Ents. We witness the first great battles of the war (at Isengard and Helm's Deep). We can feel the tension increase as the hobbits get closer to their goal. However, the closer they get, the harder and harder the road becomes. It is similar to a wave cresting right before crashing into the rocks.This book continues the wonderous tale of the ring. Tolkien's life long work on Middle Earth comes to fruition in these books. Tolkien's focus on the details that back up the story and myths of Middle Earth reaps tremendous rewards to the reader. It is a great read!
5 This CD set is fantastic. For qualifications, I have read the trilogy seven times (just started my eighth) over many years. I have listened to nearly every radio play, seen nearly every movie and watched many professional local plays related to it. This BBC production is certainly one of the best.If you like the recent Peter Jackson movie renditions of the trilogy, you will probably like this set as well. They are very similar. This set is more accurate, but it is somewhat understandable that the movie takes more literary license.Yes, like the movie, there are some things taken out (Tom Bombadil, for example). However, this should not be surprising. The unabridged audio version of the trilogy runs something like 55 hours. This set is less than 13 hours - less than 24% of the length! The movies are something like 9 hours, but the visual aspect helps fill in a lot of the details. Although the audio version allows some filling in, too, it obviously does it less so. There are some sound effects that may go unnoticed unless you know the story. This does not detract from the story, but encourages reading it again.One drawback is the dynamic range. Usually, a wide dynamic range like this recording is a good thing. However, when I am driving and listening, I often found myself adjusting the volume so that it was not too quiet or too loud. Sometimes this was a nuisance, but the quality of the audio more than made up for this &quot;deficiency&quot;.Another drawback was the number of tracks and their length. Some of them ranged from 2 minutes to 23 minutes averaging 6 tracks per CD. With it being so easy for a CD to have as many tracks as desired (although 20 is a comfortable maximum because of the displays on some CD players), there was no need for some of the tracks to be so short or so long. This was especially noticeable when the track would shift in the middle of a session or a track would have three or four sessions in one track. The main reason this was a nuisance for me was on my portable CD player. When I turn it off, it does not remember where it stopped (it does remember the track, but some other players do not). So, I would have to remember where I stopped and then fast-forward or rewind for up to 12 minutes.The production itself is excellent. The voices are clear, well articulated and expressive. Each character sounds nearly as well as I imagine they would -- they bring life to the sound waves. The sound editing is excellent. The instrumental music is sparse, but very good. The vocal music ranges from good to excellent and is mostly located at three-quarters of the set and the last CD or so.One test for me is whether the ending makes me cry! Now, I rarely cry at movies, plays, reading books or listening to them. In fact, only three movies have made me really cry (&quot;Greystoke: the Legend of Tarzan&quot;, &quot;Dances with Wolves&quot; and &quot;Beaches&quot;) and two books (one of the Sugar Creek Gang books and the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy). When my wife and I read the trilogy outloud together, the last paragraphs took ten to fifteen minutes to complete. This audio set is the same. It is so moving that it is very difficult to keep a stiff upper lip. Like Frodo, I failed. But all's well that ends better!
5 This book is as well crafted as any dwarf would please,upon its golden pages like Lothlorien leaves,A map in the front for all your travels,An index in the back for uneducated rabbles,Profound in heart as the words will be,remember the message; drive on for peace.
5 Just recently reread The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings. I admit, it is because The Hobbit is in theaters and I haven't read them in many, many years.  Even having seen the movies, the books really bring me back into an wonderful fantasy world.  Not an easy read, but well worth it, and I was able to draw on some bits from the movies for visuals, while getting the more complete story of the novel.  I'd recommend these books for anyone!While the ending can be a bit drawn out in Return of the King, it does wrap up and close the story nicely, giving far more information and detail than the movie provided.
5 I first read the Hobbit in 1963 and then the Lord of the Rings soon followed.  I beleive that all fantasy books are to be compared to this collection.  There are few if any that can even come close.  Even at 51 years of age I still enjoy rereading them and discussing them with family ( my son and daughter love them as much as I do) and friends.  I am sure if you once follow Bilbo and Frodo through Middle Earth you will want to go back again and again.  They are almost impossible to put down once you get started.  And when you do, they are on your mind until you pick them up again to find out what comes next.  The conflict between good and evil is an old plot,but this story will live with you and become part of your pleasent thoughts forever.IS THERE A BIT OF HOBBIT IN YOU?
1 This was my 1st purchase after the State started collecting tax through Amazon.com. However, Amazon.com is charging 8.57% instead of the state tax of 6.6%. Is this extra 2% going to profits? Why are you taking excessive tax Amazon? Please address this discrepancy immediately. Otherwise thousands of people will be overcharged starting today, Feb. 1, 2013.
5 I'm reading the Lord of the Rings for the first time, and this set is beautiful!  The price really seemed to be right, you get The Hobbit to match the others, and it seems like they put a lot of work into getting the text corrected.  Beautiful story, beautiful set of books.
5 'The Two Towers', by JRR Tolkien, tells of the continued adventures of the Fellowship after its breaking.  It traces Frodo and Sam's journey as they strive to come closer to Mordor, yet in the hard, barren lands, one must have a guide, mustn't they my precioussss?Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas trail after the Orcs who have taken Pippin and Merry captive, seeking to over take them and free the prisoners.  Many leagues they travel over the fields of Rohan, finding signs that are hopeful, as well as those that fill them with dread and doubt.  Yet unknown to them, Ugluk, leader of the Orc troop, has troubles in his ranks, for not only does he have fellow servants of Saruman the White with him, there are also emisaries of Sauron.  What will Aragorn and his companions find if and when they overtake the Orc host, and what of the strange forest of Fangorn, feared by so many in these untrusting days.  What secrets does its tangled boughs hold, and what of this mysterious white clad stanger that shows up once they are in the forest?RD Williams, author of 'The Lost Gate'
2 In the foreword he wrote to The Lord of the Rings in 1966, J.R.R. Tolkien stated that "I cordially dislike allegory in all its manifestations." He was responding to people who had seen in his work allusions to the Second World War and Britain's struggle against Nazi Germany. But Tolkien was being disingenuous, and those looking for allusions to contemporary conflicts were showing a lack of imagination and a deep ignorance about the kind of person Tolkien was and what his real concerns were.Tolkien was a devout, conservative Catholic and a medievalist; his mental world was not that of contemporary Europe, but of a Europe younger by several centuries at least. Reading his work in the light of this knowledge makes it clear that his work actually is an allusion to a real-world conflict ... but to a much older one. Indeed, the book has a kind of propagandistic and missionary intent, even if this is much better hidden than in the works of Tolkien's friend C.S. Lewis, where these intentions are glaringly obvious.Late in his life Tolkien visited Venice and said that this city was how he had imagined Gondor. And this is an important clue to what he was really on about: the conflict between the Christian Holy Alliance and the Muslim Ottoman Empire.Indeed, in many ways the author's intentions are made almost as glaringly obvious as Lewis' by the language. Orcs? Turks. (It is no accident that their weapons are scimitars, not swords.) Sauron? Sultan.The language of Mordor is crafted to sound like the mixture of Turkish and Persian that was spoken in the Ottoman court; an Oxford linguist, Tolkien knew what he was doing. "Ash nazg durbatulk, ash nazg gimbatul, Ash nazg thrakatulk agh burzum-ishi krimpatul." For those familiar with Persian or the Turkic languages, I believe the resemblance must be unmistakable. ("Nazgul" is even a girl's name in Farsi.)The Siege of Gondor is clearly the 1683 Battle of Vienna, and the arrival of Rohan that saves the day just as clearly the arrival of Jan Sobieski's Polish forces. The swarthy Southron forces that accompany the Orcs of Mordor are obviously the dark North African forces that made up part of the Ottoman military.Tolkien's work is far from being as innocent as it seems. In fact, to those who can read his code, it is perhaps the first blow in the new Crusade whose leaders have included J&ouml;rg Haider, George Bush and Dick Cheney, Geert Wilders, Ratko Mladic, and even Anders Breivik.
5 Best book ever written boy that's sure is saying alot, but who else could make up a world with a history, languages, an alphabet, hobbits and so on? J.R.R. Tolkien, the word genius doesn't even begin to describe what this man created.  That world in our heads, our little make believe world, Tolkien put it down on paper, those who have read it dream of living in Tolkien's middle earth.  How can I describe it, well I can't, yes there are dragons and dwarves and elves and so forth yet this is not dungeons and dragons and isin't aimed at children in perticular.  Let's just say that this book made all the other fantasy books out there seem so plain and boring.  I hate the term fantasy when it comes to describing Tolkien's works of art because they are beyond that level.The hobbit is the tale of a certain Bilbo Baggins who leads a sheltered life and despite his good sense, becomes one of Thorin Oakenshield's fourteen companions along with the wizard Gandalf, to set out on an adventure to recapture the lost dwarf kingdom of Erebor (The Lonely mountain).  That should be enough I think.The Lord of the rings is a six part story of events after those that happened in the Hobbit.  This is the book containing the great war of the ring, and sheds so much needed light on the history of some of the characters and events of middle earth.Take my word for it, I promise you that this will be the one book or collection, that you will take to your deserted islands, the one book that you will yearn to live in.  Tolkien was the greatest magician of all, and I thank him from the bottom of my heart.
5 This is not a review of the books themselves. Though I will state that they are epics that will be read hundreds of years from now as their story is timeless and breathtaking. Here I will comment on the actual boxed set and how great they are to be purchased like this.You get all three books plus the original "The Hobbit" that started the whole trilogy of "The Lord of the Rings". This is great because so many people do not realize that there is more to the story than just the three books the three movies came from. In fact, there is more than is in this boxed set. Having "The Hobbit" is an excellent idea and helps understand the trilogy so much more. Trust me, I've read them all. Without reading "The Hobbit" so much would have been left out of my understanding of the other three novels.This was an excellent price and having all the books in one item was perfect and so easy. I quickly purchased them and went on with my day. A few days later they showed up so I could give them to my daughter. She wanted to read them but didn't know which one to buy first: "The Fellowship of the Ring" or "The Hobbit". I solved that problem. Now it was up to her to read them which she did with relish.A great buy for anyone who wants a bigger picture of the story.
5 THE LORD OF THE RINGS is truly a classic trilogy novel. After reading THE HOBBIT, I wanted to know more and had to go and read TLOTR. I have to say that TLOTR was much better than THE HOBBIT! THE HOBBIT is an easier, more fun, and lighter story to read, so THE HOBBIT would be better for younger readers to enjoy. But THE LORD OF THE RINGS is more dark and there is a lot more adventure and action. Plus, it is longer. MUCH longer. Over 1,000 pages total.THE LORD OF THE RINGS is the story of Frodo Baggins, the hobbit who leaves the quiet, peaceful hobbit-life of the Shire and goes off on an incredible journey to destroy the One Ring that his cousin, Bilbo Baggins, had left behind when he disappeared. Frodo must take the Ring across Middle-earth and throw it into the Cracks of Doom. Along for the adventure are Frodo's hobbit friends, Merry, Pippin, and Sam. Gandalf the old, wise wizard guides the way, and the hobbits receive help from Gimli the Dwarf, Legolas the Elf, Boromir of Gondor, and a tall, mysterious stranger named Strider. If Frodo does not destroy the Ring, then the Dark Lord who created the eleven Rings, could get it back and have the power to rule all others.There are three parts to this trilogy: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, THE TWO TOWERS, and THE RETURN OF THE KING. There are six books in the three-part novel. The edition to this novel is pretty good. It contains all three LORD OF THE RINGS novels, and a whole lot more. On the covers, there are pictures from the film trilogy (THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING is in theaters now). Inside the book, you will find notes on the text from the publisher, a foreword to the second edition, and a prologue which has information about Hobbits, Middle-earth, etc. Also included in this edition are the complete appendices and an index. This one volume edition is a must have for all fans of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. It is a great travelling companion, too because instead of dragging along all three books, you can just take this one big one with you.J.R.R. Tolkien has written a fantasy masterpiece. It is a classic and one of the best written novels ever. THE LORD OF THE RINGS tops my list along with the HARRY POTTER series (by J.K. Rowling), as the greatest fantasy stories ever. This novel and book edition is highly recommended.
5 I love Lord of the Rings.  I like how there is so many characters and it kinda relates to reality.  I also like the adventures that the characters go through.  The information that the book gives you let your imagination go.  It the best book ever!
5 i had my reservations about this collection of books before i began reading them; i was afraid the &quot;fantasy&quot; category would be a let down. but tolkien's mastery of character development and completely enthralling and epic plot won me over within the first 100 pages. [and considering that's maybe a 12th of the series, that's impressive.] i became completely imersed in this book, and during the week it took me to read it [yes, I'm slow] i began speaking in the elevated diction Tolkien so eloquently uses. this book is such an amazing adventure [the first movie was awesome as well], any one who doesn't get a chance to read it is really missing out. the story lacks a deeper meaning, yes, but based on simply the story telling ability of the author, the Lord of the Rings is an unforgettable classic.
2 its hard to understand and you have to watch the movie before reading the book and i would recomend this one to maybe above 12
5 I have to start out by saying that this is my favorite book of all time. I've read it multiple times, I've studied it, I've written a paper about it, and I've read books about it. For some, this can be one of those life-changing books. The first time I read it, I was astounded, not simply at the story, but the incredible beauty of it. Tolkien started his long writing career by trying to create a mythology for his beloved adopted country of England. He created two languages, Sindarin and Quenya, and made up stories about the people who spoke them. The Lord of the Rings is the result of over 15 years of work and a demand for a sequel to his classic, The Hobbit. When you read the story, you can not only see the landscape and recognize it, but you believe that it's real. You feel like you've discovered some long-forgotten manuscript, written by a vanished race, something that must have existed.Many people ask me how they should go about reading The Lord of the Rings. My answer is simple. If you've read The Hobbit, great, if not, read that first. Then you can move on to the more difficult The Lord of the Rings. If, after that, you find that you want to know more, then you can read the true work of Tolkien's heart, The Silmarillion. Some people object to The Lord of the Rings, saying that it's too long, it's too dense, there are too many characters and songs, or that it's too religious. I say that these people are too closed-minded. Remove any expectations from your mind, and take it for what it is: a work of heroic fantasy, inspired by the legends of the ancient Norse and Anglo-Saxons. Accept the songs and poems as relics of a forgotten age. Allow yourself to become absorbed into the story, and it's an experience you can never forget.
5 After seeing the Hobbit, I had to re-read all 4 volumes from start to finish. I've been reading the Hobbit and the Lord of the rings since the early 70's and it is just a great piece of literature. Had to buy this as my daughter has my hard copy away at college.
5 Excellent reading for a basis of so much of the fantasy of our time. What a mind Tolkien possessed and used to express his imagination and education
5 I was introduced to J.R. Tolkien's work when i was a child watching "The Hobbit" animation. Tolkien takes you in his world filled with adventures,magic,myths and tales ,his talent for imagination is outstanding. The use of poetry was so captivating and brilliant .A must read for people of different ages.
4 This is a nice book I got one for myself after buying one for my son in law.  I guess it's a geek must have.
5 this will be a Christmas gift the delivery was quick and appearance is impressive very happy with this purchase and hoping the future son in law likes it
5 When I starting reading towers, a friend of mine told me that this was his favorite book out of the whole series.  I understood that, espcially the battle of helms deep and gandalf's return.  I really like the way Gandalf put Saruman in his place.  I think from now on Frodo needs start listening to sam, because his instinct about gollum was correct.
5 The story is just as beautiful as it was years ago when I read it for the first time.  It needs no further review.For those who are looking for an attractive, permanent edition, this is it.  The fifty Alan Lee paintings are gorgeous, and the more you look at them the more you realize how carefully Lee put them together to remain faithful to the vision and the detail of the text.  It's obvious he loved the books as much as the rest of us do.  A keeper.
5 What can be said about the greatest novel of the 20th Century...except that it is so long, that it's broken up into three volumes.  And it's so good, that it inspired a whole movement of fantasy writing.  I wish I had a story like this in my head, waiting to come out.
5 I am reading &#34;The Lord Of The Rings&#34; for the 14th time in my life! I always enjoy it and can't recommend this book highly enough!
5 The Return of the King picks up where The Two Towers left off. In this final installment our attention turns to the western part of Middle-earth as the Ring continues its journey toward Mount Doom and Aragorn and Theoden lead their armies toward Minas Tirith.I've read some reviews here that express disappointment with the lack of a final face-to-face conflict with Sauron. They ask &quot;How could he be so dumb?&quot; These people, I think, have missed the point. Just as I think the second book is about the acceptance of destiny, The Return of the King is about the arrogance of Evil. Sauron and his minions never believed they could be defeated. Gandalf said as much when he figured that Sauron couldn't even imagine so simple an assault could be his undoing. Also, I find Sauron more frightening in his non-corporeal form. If he made a physical appearance at the end it would have greatly diminished his ability to frighten.I find that the strange ending with Saruman works. It shows how the Shire can no longer be isolated from the affairs of the world. The Ring Quest dragged the Shire, kicking and screaming, into the Fourth Age all the while seasoning her future leaders for the tasks that lie ahead.The appendices included here are invaluable to anyone who either wants to read more about Middle-earth's past.
5 There are some books that change the genre that produces them, and there are others that are foundational to that genre, coming to define it. You can usually tell the latter by the number of times other authors repeat the same basic formula. For fantasy, there are really two such works: Robert E. Howard's "Conan" and J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings." The irony, of course, is that those who mimic such works rarely, if ever, rise to the level of the original-- in fantasy, the other great works of the genre are things like Ursula LeGuin's "The Earthsea Trilogy," which are built on different foundations.The genius of "The Lord of the Rings" isn't really characterization. The characters are mostly walking stereotypes and are clearly subordinate to the plot, which is the archetypal epic quest: dwarves are short and tough, elves old and wise, wizards with long beards and staves, etc. But it should be noted that "The Lord of the Rings" is what created many of these stereotypes, and so it can be forgiven for them in a way that other, derivative works cannot, even if we must acknowledge that Tolkien was not a master of creating characters or developing them through story. No, the genius of these novels is the world of Middle-Earth itself, complete with rich history, mythology, and languages. There is a visual sense to this world that is made all the richer by details such as the elven script and the long history that underlies the story. Middle-Earth is mythbuilding of the highest order, and if you want to understand the genre of fantasy, this is a must-read.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien's The Two Towers continues the delightful adventures of the now-divided Fellowship.  The story moves at a faster clip than the first book with action bouncing through the story of Pippin, Merry, Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn and a terrific sense of suspense crawling and creeping through the story of Frodo and Sam.  The emotional resonances among the characters are also much deeper in this volume, particularly in such aspects as the relationship between Sam and Frodo.  The two main reasons, though, for this readers' joy are the Ents and Gollum.  The ents are the most dazzling creation by the author of Middle Earth and Treebeard should live as one of the most memorable fantasy figures of all time.  And as for Gollum, I was pleased to discover how much I liked his prescence.  I found him a little trying in The Hobbit but here he works so very well.  A rollicking adventure-horror-fantasy.
5 This collection contains the most famous work of J.R.R. Tolkien -- The Lord of the Rings. When we read through the pages of these books, we discover a living world of wonder. We follow the fate of the Ring of Power, filled with evil, and one which could lead to the rule of darkness if it ever returns to its maker, the Dark Lord Sauron. Now some few people who really think they are so 'intellectually superior', or 'have more demanding taste', or whatever title of arrogance they try to give themselves, often dismiss this fascinating myth as 'children's stories', and that if one was to read a real novel, they would never return to such 'rubbish'. Well, I pity them, for they (like the Cynic in Hawthorne's 'The Great Carbuncle')must look at everything through dark spectacles, not allowing themselves to experience the beauty of this tale. Their preferences are theirs, and I am glad there is variety in this world. But when they mock those of different taste, it often displays their own ignorance. The Lord of the Rings is not just a story of magic and imaginary creatures. It is a tale of good and evil, and not just a 'Guy in White vs. Guy in Black' kind of story. It shows the subtlety of evil, how it can worm its way into even the hearts of the most honest person. It shows how good can strengthen a person, and how love can allow one to bear a multitude of burdens. I have read many novels (A Tale of Two Cities (Penguin Classics),Lord of the Flies (50th Anniversary Edition),The Scarlet Letter, andOn His Ownbeing some of the finer examples), and although good ones are compelling, none that I have read would make me turn away from Middle-Earth. It is not just a 'children's story' (though most children enjoy it), but an enthralling study in the nature of mankind, and the forces that shape him.Now, on to this particular presentation of these books! This boxed set by Houghton Mifflin is very nice. The design (with its beautiful cover illustrations by Alan Lee) and the layout of the books is fitting, and the size is convenient, and yet conveys a sense of expansiveness. This all adds to the experience of the legend, and I am grateful that such a fine edition has been released.Ryan RobledoAuthor of the Aelnathan:
5 Tolkien's LOTR is the Ur-epic of English literature; it cannot be compared to standards of greatness because it is itself that standard.  More than simply a rousing adventure story (altho' it is that), more than a masterpiece of prose and imagination (altho' it is these things), it recaptures  forgotten memories of lost times and places and explores the realms of fantastic wonder as well as the subtle paths of the heart.  A terrible beauty.  Twenty-five years after my first exposure to its pages, it still weaves a spell, revealing new truths and insights with the passing of the days.  A gift from the Valar to bring us Home over the Western Sea.
5 My goodness - I am really surprised by some of the criticism of this boxed set!! I have read through all the books twice and I never even noticed a typo! Not one! (I am sure there are some typos, but I failed to see them.)And I really like the movie photo covers! I like the connection it makes between the movies and books.I bought this boxed set of paperbacks to be my "reading copies" of LOTR. I find I can get more "comfortable" with a paperback as opposed to a big hardback. Since they are small, they are easy to stick in my pocket/purse and take with me. I did not purchase this boxed set anticipating fancy maps and artwork! (For that, I will purchase the more expensive hardback editions.)I think some of the reviewers had unrealistic expectations of this boxed set...With all that said, I read these books after seeing the movies. I can understand why fans were concerned that the movies would not do the books justice. The books are so descriptive, imaginative, and full of brilliant detail. But I think Peter Jackson did an awsome job with the movies.There is so "much" in these books, that you really must read them more than once to take it all in... I'll probably read them for the third time later this year.
5 "The Two Towers" is the second half of J. R. R. Tolkien's epic "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, and begins right where the previous book left off: the Fellowship has been sundered, with the death of Boromir, the escape of Frodo and Sam, the capture of Merry and Pippen, and the chase that ensues on the part of Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli. Like the other two installments in the series "The Two Towers" is split into two books, in this case it is Book Three and Book Four.Book Three alternates between the journey of Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli in their cross country race across forest and plain in order to rescue Merry and Pippen. Their pursuit takes them into Rohan, the province of King Theoden and his people, known as the Horse-Lords due to their skill and affinity with horses.Meanwhile Merry and Pippen are held captive by the terrible orcs as they race their way back to their master, the White Wizard Saruman, who has betrayed his calling and given in to his desire for the Ring. Now he wages war on Rohan, filling the court with his spies, and sends his orcs out on a mission to find the Ring before the Dark Lord himself does.The two stories conjoin when Merry and Pippen are able to escape into Fangorn Forest, where they fall into the company of Treebeard - a mighty Ent, a tree-like guardian of the forestlands who is not happy with Saruman's treatment of his land. Likewise, the three hunters also find their way into the forest, only to meet someone that they thought was lost to them...In Book Four we join up again with Frodo and Sam, who are making their lonely way toward the land of Mordor and the volcanic Mount Doom in order to destroy the Ruling One Ring. There the secretive figure that has been trailing them since Moria finally shows itself: it is the twisted creature Gollum, once a hobbit, who fell to the power of the Ring and nursed it for many years. Now Frodo employs him as their guide - despite the mistrust of Sam - to take them into the dangerous lands ahead.But they too have their fair share of danger: as always the agents of the Dark Lord are abroad, and even the "good guys" can pose a threat, considering the constant lure of the Ring - enter Faramir, Boromir's own brother, who takes the hobbits into his custody."The Two Towers" suffers like many 'middle' books do - it inevitably does not start anything, and it does not finish anything. But one must keep in mind that Tolkien hated the idea of his work being separated into three separate volumes; he intended them to be published in a single book. The publishers however had other plans, and since then we have been subject to authors who think their books are not proper books unless they are split into multiple volumes.But "The Two Towers" continues to expand and enlarge Tolkien's most wonderful creation - Middle-Earth itself. We are introduced to the dank and mysterious depths of Fangorn Forest and the plainlands of Rohan, based on the Nordic and Scandinavian culture that Tolkien was fascinated with. Just exploring these beautiful places is reason enough to read "The Two Towers".With the release of Peter Jackson's adaptation of the three books, it is always interesting to compare and contrast the two. Often the movies fall short in certain ways - often by reducing the nobility and goodness of several supporting characters, such as Faramir, Theoden and Treebeard, who need more pushing from the likes of Aragorn, Frodo and Gandalf to do the right thing rather than reach their own decisions. However, other times Jackson takes the opportunity to divulge further into little subplots and details that Tolkien only briefly touches on - the prime example being the relationship between Eowyn and Wormtongue. In Tolkien's words Wormtongue's lust is only briefly mentioned; but Jackson devotes a fascinating little sequence to it, with Wormtongue attempting to weaken Eowyn to his will.Either way, the movie is as must-see as the book is must-read, though if you have only seen the movie and decide that it's not worth reading the book, I strongly suggest otherwise. Although Jackson creates a near-perfect visual duplicate of Middle-Earth, the book contains details and information that the movie must skim over, or neglect completely. If you want to know where Shadowfax came from, or where Gandalf went after defeating the Balrog, or Shelob's origins, then you'll have to consult the book.
4 I'm not sure what I'm going to add by writing this review.  This story is one of the classics that everybody should read.  Apart from that, its the greatest story ever written in the fantasy genre.  If Tolkien wasn't the one who invented this genre then he is quite easily the most influential writer in it.  Period.The story is a continuation from the Hobbit.  Bilbo is still involved but the main character now is Frodo Baggins, Bilbo's relative.  Frodo is joined by several friends (including Gandalf) and sets off on a journey that is just slightly more important than Bilbo's saving the Dwarves ancestrol home: Frodo must save the world.Being a long story you may find yourself constantly looking back in the book to remember place names and characters.  Its worth it, however, as you can tell that Tolkien inserted each tiny detail with a maximum amount of care and precision.It has been said that Tolkien's intent was to create a &quot;mythological&quot; history for England.  I would say that he succeeded.
5 J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings (Ballantine, 1954)[originally posted 8May2000]The back cover blurb to The Tolkien Relation says of this trilogy that &#34;...critics are in violent disagreement over their value and even their meaning.&#34; In the twenty years since that printing of William Ready's slim volume, I think things have changed. It would be hard, I think, to find anyone who disputes that modern fantasy, as we know it today, had Tolkien as one of its main architects. Not its only one, to be sure, but time and again we see Tokienesque touches in fantasy-- and even mainstream-- novels, and rare is the fantasy novel that comes out these days that some critic doesn't compare to the work of the master. And while it goes without saying that the Lord of the Rings should be required reading for any fan of modern fantasy novels, the question remains: how are the books? After all, there are things from the past fifty years hailed as great works of literature during their time which have held up about as well as silicone breast implants. Remember Jacqueline Susann?Thankfully, Tolkien has lost none of his magic as the intervening years have gone by. Ready is right in saying that much of the magic of Tolkien's creation stems from the fact that humans play minor, although important, roles in the trilogy, which centers around the four hobbits and their various exploits during the War of the Ring. In short, because a full treatment of such an expansive and well-thought-out world is impossible in such a short space, Tolkien gives us a number of races, each of which is in some ways humanlike and in some ways not, and we have little problem seeing that each is a separate and distinct race. That alone is a feat few authors have successfully pulled off, because few are willing to do the incredible amount of background construction that Tolkien did.Thankfully, as well, the debate about the &#34;meaning&#34; of the trilogy has also fallen by the wayside. Sixties fans and critics hotly debated whether the ring itself was meant as an allegory for nuclear war, and even the pooh-poohing of this rather ludicrous idea by Tolkien himself didn't stop it; other interpretations, some as wild, some more plausible, surfaced as well. But that sort of thing seems to have gone the way of the great auk, save perhaps a few dissertations languishing on obscure library shelves, and what we are left with is simply an adventure tale, roughly fourteen hundred pages, that at the same time is intimate and on the grandest possible scale. Tolkien slides the perspective back and forth from the view of one character to a whole battlefield with the precision and skill of a master storyteller, and manipulates the reader so well that it's hard to imagine not tearing up during some of the larger and more desperate battles. It's also hard to imagine not suspending disbelief during one's time in middle earth, though perhaps those who wore &#34;Frodo Lives&#34; buttons and have translated the whole trilogy (and other works of literature) into Tolkien's made-up languages are taking it a bit more literally than it was intended.If any work of fantasy deserves the title of &#34;cracking good read,&#34; it's this one. Don't worry about the odd looks you'll get from fellow bus riders and the like. It's worth it.The Fellowship of the Ring ****The Two Towers **** 1/2The Return of the King **** 1/2
5 Tolkien is like the great father of modern fantasy fiction. His descriptions of elves, orcs and dwarves are the base for all fantasy fiction written since he was first published. This story is filled with adventure and gives the reader a sense that this world is in fact a real world that we could travel to.
5 This work is a monumental literary classic.  Tolkein's influence on the fantasy genre is obvious.  If you disagree, pick up and read almost any work of fantasy that has been published in the last 50 years.  I bet that you can find something there that resembles a part of Lord of the Rings.  I'm not trying to say that everyone out there writing fantasy today is just ripping Tolkein off, rather that he has served as an inspiration and a model for generations of writers.The Hobbit is aptly described as a prologue to LOTR.  Tolkein was writing for a younger crowd for the most part here, so the writing style is different than in LOTR.  The story chronicles the adventures of Bilbo Baggins, a homebody who is mostly concerned with enjoying the quiet life, and his unexpected adventure with twelve dwarves and Gandalf the Wizard on their quest to reclaim their &quot;kingdom under the Mountain&quot; and slay the evil dragon Smaug.  The essential plot point that connects the two stories is Bilbo's finding of a (seemingly) innocent ring and his encounter with the ring's former owner, the nasty creature Gollum.  The Hobbit is an enjoyable tale by itself, but it is not on the same level as LOTR, and it is not strictly essential reading to understand the plot of LOTR.  The story of the finding of the Ring is recounted briefly in the prologue to Fellowship of the Ring.The Fellowship of the Ring is the first section of the LOTR &quot;trilogy&quot; (Tolkein always considered it a single, long, novel instead).  In it, we find that the ring found by Bilbo and later inherited by his young cousin, Frodo, is not so innocent after all.  It is, rather, the One Ring of Power, created millenia ago by the evil Dark Lord Sauron and subsequently taken from him during his previous defeat, and lost for three thousand years before Bilbo found it.  Sauron is again rising to power, and he wants his ring back.  The Ring is both Sauron's great hope and his great peril, for if the Ring can be destroyed, Sauron too will be destroyed forever.  Problem is, the only place where the Ring can be destroyed is in the volcano Mount Doom, where it was originally made.  Mount Doom is in the heart of Suaron's realm of Mordor, so the quest to destroy it will be extremely dangerous.  Frodo undertakes the quest, accompanied by his faithful servant Samwise, his friends Merry and Pippin, the wizard Gandalf, the mysterious wanderer Strider, the proud warrior Boromir, the elf Legolas, and the dwarf Gimli.  Fellowship of the Ring follows the quest most of the distance to Mordor, and ends with the (mostly) involuntary splitting up of the Company.The Two Towers is two separate tales.  The first half of the book follows everyone except Frodo and Sam as they become involved in what is essentialy the opening phase of the great War of the Ring.  This War has been launched by Sauron in hopes of getting the Ring back.  Assisting Sauron is the evil wizard Saruman, once considered a great and wise wizard, but now a black traitor.  The second half of the book follows Frodo and Sam as they complete the journey to Mordor, with the help of an unlikely guide.Return of the King is divided into two parts, much like the first two books in the trilogy, but it falls more naturally into three parts.  The first part returns to the War of the Ring, in which a great battle is fought over the proud fortress of Minas Tirith.  The forces of good win the day (naturally), but not without sacrifice.  They realize, however, that if Frodo does not succeed in his quest, then all is lost.  Therefore, in an attempt to distract Sauron and make him think the Ring is somewhere other than with Frodo, they go on the offensive...  Next, we return to Frodo and Samwise, who have managed (barely) to get into Mordor undetected despite betrayal and temporary capture.  They must then make the hardest part of the whole journey - through the heart of Sauron's realm to Mount Doom.  Without betraying the climax, the quest succeeds, Sauron is destroyed, and everyone on the side of good lives happily ever after (or so it would seem).  Return of the King concludes with the aftermath - the return home of Frodo and his friends, and their discovery that victory is not without its price.Overall, there just aren't enough good things to say about this trilogy.  It's got everything - action, romance, dark danger, heroism, sacrifice, redemption.  Although there are a few parts where things slow down a little, this is more than redeemed in the action scenes.  If you love reading, you truly owe it to yourself to check this work out.  As literature goes, it's still a fairly young work, but someday I truly believe Tolkein's name will be right up there next to such names as Dumas, Tolstoy, Hugo, Melville and other giants of literature.
5 I am tired of all the fantasy books that are so dim in comparison to this masterpiece.  I am sick of annoying &quot;kudos&quot; given to other fantasy books that tout the newest fantasy book to be comparable to  Tolkien....and it NEVER is.  I have yet to find a fantsy book or series  that approahces Tolkien in style, intelligence, form and story.  Perhaps it  is becuase he was not, per se, just a writer - he let this come from within  out of his work as a linguist and other experiences in life.  To all the  book reviewers out there: stop comparing anything to Tolkien until someone  can REALLY write something that is as good as this series.  It gives  unnecessary praise to only passable literature and brings down the true  esprit that abounds in LOTR.
5 This story transformed forever the way I feel about reading. I first read it (after reading 'The Hobbit') about 20 years ago, and have read it eight or so times since then. Every autumn I have the urge to pick it up; like in  the famous Led Zeppelin song, I can hear it calling me... This is not a  book that you just read. You step out your front door, and the adventure  carries you away to places that become a part of you forever. But it's not  a fairy tale, in which the characters all live happily ever after, or a  dungeons and dragons fantasy with little depth or imagination. This a  story, in the most magnificent and perfect sense of the word, that moves  you in a fundamental way and changes your expectations of what a story  should be. And that's unfortunate, because like the characters in The Lord  of the Rings who learn that you can never really go back home, you will  learn that you can never find a story like this one again. But you can read  it again, and if you're like me you will dare to step out your front door  many more times, and follow the roads where they may take you.
2 Overall, I'd say this is a fair audio adaptation of the trilogy.  However, there are times when the action portrayed isn't adequately conveyed by what you are hearing.  Also, as another reviewer noted, the voices given to the characters are terrible at times.  For instance, they give Sam an annoying little boy's voice, and in one scene, for some reason, they give elves screechy fairy-folk voices, like they're supposed to be pixies or something.  Did they just misunderstand what elves are supposed to be in the Tolkein mythology?  Also, after seeing the movie, you will be disappointed when Gimli doesn't have a Scottish accent, and in general disappointed by the other voices.  Another problem is that you get cheesy sounding laser blast sound effects when Gandalf uses his power.  These things kind of ruined it for me.
1 This is not a critique of Tolkien's work; rather it is a condemnation of Houghton Mifflin's hardcover boxed set. Thirty years after first reading &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; I decided to read it again. Besides the engrossing and detailed story, I had a renewed interest in the technical aspects of Tolkien's craft and his use of the English language. I am not disappointed and I am enjoying the reading immensely.I bought the Hardcover Boxed edition published October, 1988, by Houghton Mifflin Co (Trd); ISBN: 0395489326 ;  because I wanted a high quality, permanent copy with good typesetting and larger print. When I received this particular edition I was shocked at the extremely poor quality of print and generally poor quality of every aspect of the presentation. In two of the volumes the maps are incorrectly bound so that they are impossible to unfold. It is not even possible to cut the map out of the book because important parts of the middle of it have been sewn up in the binding.But the damning point of this edition is the printed page. Every single page has both drop outs and extra ink everywhere. The printing weight varies from page to page, at times fading to a medium gray, at other times a dense bold face. I am not exaggerating when I proclaim that most paperbacks are printed more carefully and more clearly than this.Buy the books, read them and enjoy them. But benefit from my misfortune and stay far far away from this edition.
5 Attention readers, I found this ebook available via Bluefire Reader, it is the same edition with all 3 books and it is priced at $18.In this day and age there is no excuse to get such a well-known book as a digital file.Shame on you Amazon!RM
5 The Lord of the Rings is a blatant ripoff Terry Brooks' The Sword of Shannara.  The plot and characters, heroes as well as villains, parallel Terry Brooks's masterpiece with alarming consistency.
5 This is the defacto most epic tale ever.  Hard to find anything better.  I'll be reading this one every few years just because I love it so much
5 SPOILER FREE. What more can one call Tolkien's epic tale of middle earth. It is the most moving, fascinating, and inspirational book I have ever read. The characters are great. The cultures are very deep and imaginative. Certainly a great purchase and a great experience.
3 These books are fairly small and so is the print.  They are OK for my 20/20 vision, but if your eyes are not perfect, these books are not for you.
4 As a work of literature it is hard to argue that this must be one of the greatest books of the 20th century. A classic &quot;good will always triumph over evil&quot; tale that is exceedingly well thought through.The plot might be a little tricky to follow for youngeer readers, ( tip: keep a note pad to remember who everyone is) but the story is spellbinding.I gave it four stars because although the literature is worth five plus, the quality of this boxed set is woefully inadequate. The bindings will not last the first read and the print is way to small for such a large work. Frankly it's a piece of junk and not worth the moneyI had hoped that this would be a special addition to my library but instead i will give it to my 14 year old daughter in the hope that she will read it before it disintegrates.I will keep looking for something of higher quality for my bookshelves.
5 My copies had been lost, and I'm a Tolkien nut.  This replaces my old Ballentine set.  It's conveniently boxed, too.
5 I already have it in portuguese, but I decided to read again, but in english this time. That's why I bought this version and I am not disappointed.This version is very good. I mean, the quality of paper and cover are good. The story is the same, but the way they put into this version is nice.I recommend.Hail!
5 So in the age of technology imagine my surprise and excitement when my nephew thought this was a great gift.  Yeah!!!
5 Who doesn't like The Lord of the Rings? It's just a good book series and this puts all 3 books plus the Hobbit in one order.
5 How could I possibly fit every glorious thing there is about this series of books into 1000 words? Tolkien is a genius; there is no way to deny that. He has managed to create an entirely different world, every tree, every creature, every nuance of language, every folktale; everything is on these pages that might possibly exist in middle earth. That I believe is Tolkien's true genius, his ability to construct this world in his head and to let us visit it, completely and fully for four glorious books. However, maybe that is not the extent of his genius. Maybe not because Tolkien also tells a ripping good tale throughout these novels. The prelude with Bilbo being swept up by a band of dwarves and being sent against his will to battle a dragon takes about a night to read, despite the fact that it covers over 300 pages. And then you start the true trilogy, and the ring that Bilbo finds which seemed like a neat little trick in The Hobbit (it grants the wearer the benefit of invisibility) this ring is suddenly so much more than a very handy parlor trick. It is THE ring; crafted ages ago in elven halls with unspeakable power and unfightable draw. Men kill for it, dwarves kill for it, everyone would kill for it and suddenly you are swept off on another adventure with another unsuspecting hobbit that covers all of middle earth and includes the fate of the world...all over this little unassuming ring that must be destroyed. The journey you take in these books will not easily be forgotten, here I am getting chills thinking about the epic battles between good and evil that spring up like weeds around the path of this little ring and Frodo, the hobbit who is charged with destroying it. These books are just wonderous, I cannot say that enough.
5 In this , the second volume of Tolkein's classic trilogy , the pace of the action really picks up! After a modestly slow start in &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; , all of the major characters are in place and an action filled epic unfolds in a magical world best viewed in the marvelous images created by the author in one's own mind. Each reader has his own mental image of Frodo--of Gandalf--and of the despicable orcs.After the fall into the abyss of Gandalf the Grey with the Balrog  in &quot;The Fellowship&quot;, we see a new and awesomely powerful Gandalf the White emerge (an almost Biblical resurrection , to make a comparison).In this volume Treebeard the Ent is introduced , and the episodes of Merry and Pippin with the Ents are marvelously entertaining. The little folk , the Hobbits , show an unforseen inner strength that is one of the things I enjoy most in this tale.The strength of will and devotion of Samwise Gamgee to Frodo is heartwarming. The segement &quot;In Shelob's Lair&quot; is one of the more genuinely scary parts of the book.I probably shouldn't reveal too much more about what transpires in the story and spoil it for a first-time reader ; of the three volumes in the trilogy this is probably the most action filled and fun reading one , and is therefore my favorite.If you haven't read it yet--what are you waiting for?! Five stars don't do it justice!
4 The four LOTR books in one cheap boxset. Pefect to introduce Tolkien's masterpiece to everyone who is looking for quality and good price.
3 I would first like to say that it was a wonderful idea for the BBC to make a radio production out of LOTR, and to hire a cast of well-respected actors to get the job done. This collection earns a star for even coming into being. Unfortunately, the task of bringing out one of the greatest stories of our age carries high expectations with it, and judged by those expectations, the BBC Radio LOTR falls short.It's a joy to hear the whole story told with much less concern for time and compression than usual-- as 13 hours of total CD length suggest. The previous best LOTR effort in any medium, Ralph Bakshi's movie, stopped halfway through the story at 2 and a half hours, which any fan of LOTR knows is woefully inadequate. A great casting move was snatching Peter Woodthorpe, the voice of Gollum in Bakshi's film, to play the same role here. Woodthorpe is superior to Andy Serkis (Gollum in Peter Jackson's LOTR films)in his tortured characterization of the Ring's greatest slave. Elements of backstory are nicely woven into the tale, like Gollum's capture by Sauron's agents in Mordor. The sound production is also well done-- the listener gets a definite sense of what is going on in the foreground as opposed to the background, for example, and the strings in the score add a welcome mournful element to the progression of the story. The tale itself is of course excellent-- it's difficult to truly fail to be at all entertaining when your task is to retell the Lord of the Rings.But I have many criticisms to consider-- ones that make the BBC LOTR a 2 star effort beyond its foundations. For one, it may be 13 hours, but this is still spare compared with how long it takes to read the story aloud from the book. (over 100 hours as far as I can tell through experience) This is forgivable in a medium like film, which demands that people sit and pay attention for hours on end at one sitting, but is tough to excuse in a radio show that consists of one hour installments. Why not tell the whole thing, simply broken into more 'episodes'? I don't understand this aversion to doing it right-- Lord of the Rings has a large and rabid enough following that any effort to tell the story in more detail is one of the few sure successes in show business. This edition omits the Barrow Wights, Tom Bombadil, and a few other notable, important events for absolutely no good reason.The flow of the story also has problems. One of the greatest elements of the Lord of the Rings series is Tolkien's beautiful descriptive language. Every region of Middle Earth is brought to life in amazing fashion as you read. The makers of this edition inexplicably saw fit to keep text narrative to a minimum, and leave the description to stilted and awkward lines spouted by the characters. Example: "As I lie here, I realize that these orc arrows have paid me for my treachery." This is doubly bad, because one of the few weak points in the books is the dialogue, which can get heavy-handed and too grandiose. Therefore, the BBC has removed a great asset and saddled a weaker aspect of the story with even greater clumsiness.The dialogue is a problem in general. I expected more from these actors, who all seem to be overdoing their lines. Perhaps they feel out of place without cameras able to capture their mannerisms, but in any case they try to make up for the lack of visual element by overacting. Many of the lines, even simple back-and-forth between the characters, are read like grand and important pronouncements from a scroll. Although the times are dangerous and the task of destroying the Ring is the greatest of their age, I don't think Tolkien thought of these characters as heroic automatons cognizant of the fact that their every word is important for future generations. It would have been much more convincing and enjoyable if these actors had read the characters as real people doing the best they can under very tough circumstances. There is no sense of the pressure on them, of their longing for simple contentment, of real pain or joy that a listener could identify with. It's all sterile, booming proclamations-- like something out of the Iliad. Try to imagine any of these characters waking up with a hangover and wondering what's for breakfast: you won't be able to. Even the excellent Woodthorpe, who gave a measured performance in Bakshi's LOTR, hams up the snivelling and gibbering of Gollum a bit. No matter what fame LOTR has risen to, it is first and foremost a story--not every line has to be played like another piece of a grand and timeless composition.Gandalf is particularly disappointing. One of the most entertaining aspects of his character in the books is his world-weary and cranky edge. He is down to earth in a way that makes him the wisest of his Order and his other important colleagues, yet here he especially is prone to making every line a grave intonation, and to read as if he is a prophet of pity and doom. The listener is left to wonder: how did such a solemn and unapproachable sage befriend these ale-swilling and relaxed hobbits? Aside from these flaws, several of the minor voice characterizations are simply awful-- the orcs, for example, sound like groups of drunken English barflies, rather than the twisted and vicious psychopaths that they are.Diehard Tolkien fans will undoubtedly want this as a piece of their collection, but personally I hope someday we receive a better effort at a radio reading.
5 Admittedly, when I began this book (as a freshman in high school) I thought it was a bit too long.But a good friend of mine had repeatedly recommended it to me and finally insisted that I read it (after reading The Hobbit, of course). So I pushed on through it, because even though I wasn't quite used to the wordy style of Tolkien, I wanted to know what was going to happen next. I couldn't have made a better choice.The Fellowship of the Ring took me about two weeks, which makes me blush with shame to think about now that I can read it in about two days (if I am left relatively uninterrupted). Of course, I had foolishly not thought to grab copies of The Two Towers and The Return of the King at the same time, so I found myself making another trip to the library as soon as I could. A little put off by the cover illustration of Shelob - a giant spider - on the cover of The Two Towers, I was nevertheless determined to conquer my arachnophobia in the interest of the story. That one only took me one week or so, and then I promptly continued to The Return of the King. The last installment of the trilogy has always been my favorite, ever since that first read, and it was after I finished it that I fell in love with the story. Then I saw the Extended Editions of the films with the same friend who'd recommended the book to me and fell even more deeply in love, if that was possible. Now I, who had to ask my fellow Tolkienite what "FOTR" stood for, probably know more about the world of Middle-earth than she does. Many thanks to Tolkien for creating such a beautiful tale - my hope is to one day be a fraction as good a writer as he was.
5 In my line of work, I have to drive a lot from school to school with trips taking anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour and a half. These Nine Hours of adventure, hobbits, men, dwarves, elves and Tom Bombadil, (yes, Tom Bombadil!) is a great way to pass the time. Unlike the Unabridged Reading where the casual listener can get bogged down in the misings of the reader (a production which should be given justice in a situation where you can give it your full attention), this exciting performance with a great cast of voices and well done music is just what the traveling listener needs. Gandalf, Sam, Frodo and Aragorn's voices have to be my favorites. Gollum and Gimli are a bit overdone but to interesting effect but they are all leagues better than the BBC version. I bought that first figuring that a British version would be the golden standard but Gollum just sounded like a normal guy who occasionally slurped or sucked his words and Gandalf sounded like a real loser. The Gandalf here speaks with authority as does Aragorn. Sam has just the right touch of innocence and Frodo never lets the listener down. All the major events of the books with the exception of Galadriel being tempted by the Ring are very well presented. What a sight for sore eyes (or ears I should say) was it to hear Tom Bombadil's merry voice, a favorite of fans and readers who never quite made it into any production at all of the series. The battles are all satisfying as is the climax in Mount Doom and the skirmish with Shelob. I recommend it for journeys long and short.
5 Originally, I bought the movie tie-in box set and thought'that's all I need.' Boy, was I wrong! While surfing Amazon.com,I came across the Alan Lee illustrated box set. I was awestruck!It's printed on glossy paper and has easy to read type. Alan Lee's illustrations are superb: see THE PRANCING PONY come to life, or see Galadrial and her famous mirror. The watercolorsare beautiful.There are maps on the inside covers, and it comes with an indexso one can look up Shadowfax and find out who owns him--Theoden,not Gandalf! It's a lovely Lord--it sits handsomely next tomy illustrated Hobbit and illustrated Sillmarillion in my library.Best of all at Amazon.com it costs $59.99 including shipping.Everywhere else it's $80 plus tax. So do yourself a favorand buy this set today!ps. The glare is extremely minimal--I checked it out myself.
5 This is much better than The Minds Eye dramatization from just a few years previous, this is acted out a bit more; the American version sounded like really hammy overly-dramatic reading.
5 This is probably the best set of books that I have ever read.  JRR Tolkien is one of the best authors ever. It's just the way he can create a whole world on his own. It's just amazing.
5 As a student in Southern California we had the great fortune to take a literature class focused on the works written by J.R.R. Tolkien, The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings trilogy. The final assignment for the class is having to write a review concerning the books and movies on a website such as Amazon.com.I've read the books at least a half dozen times before, both when I was younger and again in the last decade.  I've seen the movies and found them just as enjoyable.  Truly, hands down the most moving and engaging story ever penned to paper.I definitely recommend the books for anyone who likes fiction and fantasy. A great series of books that should be picked up and read given the chance.  Tolkien's writing is the pinnacle of what fantasy stories should be, focusing not only on the tutelage things that we associate with fantasy stories now a days, such as sword and sorcery, but great battles, and fantastic fantasy races such as elves and orcs too. These stories have it all, from epic journeys, fantastic landscapes that Tolkien envisioned and the classic elements about good and evil, friendship, hardship, respect for nature, the value of community and the horrors of war.Overall the stories are a great read and just as fun as movies to watch.  Peter Jackson did a great job in transcribing the Lord of the Rings trilogy to film.  I just hope he does as good of a job with the Hobbit that he put in with the LotR trilogy.  Overall I would say both the books and the movies were really good and great way to spend my free time.  Again, I would definitely recommend them to anyone who likes such things.With that I would say that anyone who interested in the series, to check out the movies first and then read the books.  I've found that the movies allow a person to get a sense of the story and then picking up the books allows for more background and the expansive nature of Tolkien's work.  Plus if you enjoy the movies, then the size of the books doesn't seem as big of a daunting task that seems to put off a number of people.While the Lord of the Rings trilogy is quite popular, given the fact that the movie trilogy was made not to long ago, I have to say that the Hobbit is my favorite of the series written by Tolkien.  It's a great way to spend a lazy weekend or a long flight with nothing else to do.So, if you are looking at buying a set of these books then, I would totally endorse this edition.  The book set are a great buy and easy to take with you.  Plus the books in this edition are of a good quality with decent maps and few problems that I've seen in other editions.
5 Better than all the Rest!This is my absolute favorite Literature of all time.Lord of the Rings itself is stunning to say the least; nothing can compare to Tolkien's masterpiece series. As far as fantasy goes, I'm particularly a mermaid fanatic, but mermaids aside...the storytelling, the detail, the depth of The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings is a simple yet grand, epic and well told story. To me, this story, although fantasy, relates so much to real life itself.I had gotten this version boxed set at a thrift store for $4 bucks which was a steal, but when I moved it was somehow "lost", even under my watchful eye.
5 I watched the movies before I read the books so I had a preconceived vision of what the characters and landscapes looked like but I don't think this matters at all. It's always interesting to see how closely the screenplay matches the original novel. I think the most impressive aspect of TLOTR is the environment and civilisations that Tolkien has created. He was apparently an accomplished linguist and it show in his creation of the fantasy languages in the novel.The fact that this novel has a cult following not just with fantasy nerds but also many other subcultures shows it's attraction and perfection.
5 I got this for my daughter for Christmas and she loves all the books. She has seen all the movies and now the books.
5 I must admit, I've never been a great fan of Sci-Fi. Not a Trekkie, Star Wars was good but not great, but I was impressed with the &quot;Ender&quot; series from Orson Scott Card. With disclosures out of the way, I decided to read Tolkien for their classical value. I had never read The Hobbit or the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; (LoR) series growing up but with all the hype associated with the movie and few well placed recommendations, I opted to give it a lash. I'm thrilled I did. This is truly a novel of great breadth blending action, drama and romance. Don't be fooled into the believing the classical classification of sci-fi.In researching the history behind the books, I found LoR described as one of the best works of fiction by a multitude of reviewers while many went as far as to describe it as the book of the century. This reviewer can only describe LoR as a rapturously exciting adventure through the &quot;World of Middle-Earth.&quot; The story's foundation is built around the incessant battle of Good verus Evil but is much, much more than a match of wits. The lore associated with the characters brings to life classical heroic romance.The first book in the trilogy, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; picks up some decades after &quot;Hobbit&quot; left off and begins in much the same style: something of a children's tale. This tale is set in the Shire, the home of the hobbits. Frodo, the hero of our story, moves away from The Shire with his companions, Pippin, Merry and Sam thus marking the beginning of his journey through Middle-Earth. Its at this point (yes, this early in the multi-booked tome) that Tolkien brings us the sense and presence of danger which becomes ubiquitous throughout the tale. This, somehow, transforms the storyline from one of children's tale to serious drama (action and adventure)...it grasps the reader.As mentioned, the plot of LOR centers on the ever-present theme found in many of our great novels: good vs. evil. Concurrent with this theme, the reader will join Frodo on his quest to destroy the One Ring to prevent it from being returned to the Dark Lord Sauron of Mordor who, with the Ring, would have unlimited power.The idea of hope, strength and perserverance is wonderfully illustrated in LoR. Even in the most desperate circumstances, when surrounded by chaos and destruction, the characters never give up hope of surviving. This indeed is Tolkien's grasp on the reader. You actually want to &quot;help&quot; the characters in their battle against evil. This can only be described as inspiring.While complex to the point of intimidation, the reader is rewarded for his perserverance in traveling with the members of the Fellowship through the final page of this classical piece of history.This particular version of LOR is a four volume, boxed set containings &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; and the LOR series, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.&quot; Alan Lee adds masterful maps and illustrations intertwined throughout.What a treat! Don't miss out.
5 So many people have said so many great things about these books, but in this case they are not over reacting. These novels set the blueprint for so many fantasy novels it's beyond belief, making the mix of Wizards, Elves, Dwarfs and Orcs a staple of many a story from many an Author. These works still remain the original and the best though - with others paling in comparison. In fact, because of their excellence, I found many other fantasy books a bit flat and finding those books which are in the same genre but equally enjoyable was hard. However, after many years of trying, I'd recommend you save yourselves some time and start by following Tolkien's books with eitherPerdido Street StationorInto The Trees.
5 I read this series back in the 70s and was a big fan.  After so many years, and many viewings of the remarkable movies that were made by Peter Jackson, I felt it important to get back in touch with the original story.  I found that having all three books in one volume was helpful in getting the actual flow of the story back into perspective.
5 Great purchase J.R.R. Tolkien 4-Book Boxed Set: The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings...was  Mailed promptly in good condition good dealer highly recommended thanks
5 I had never read Tolkien before.  I started with The Hobbit, and just kept on going.  There are many layers.  I focused on Bilboa, and then Frodo.  The point of this on kindle is that you can hold the trilogy and read it from beginning to end.
5 Tolkien wrote wonderous books that are rarely ever matched in literature. The book has interesting characters with real personalities that go on wonderous adventures. These books are exceptonaly well written so do not  miss out. If you have not all ready, READ THESE BOOKS.
5 At the conclusion of &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; you are left in suspense and you are craving what's to come next. &quot;The Two Towers&quot; will get you over your suspense a little, but at the end of this second installment of &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; you'll be left in more suspense that you were at the conclusion of &quot;Fellowship.&quot;The first half of this book centers on Legolas, Gimli, and Aragorn as they come about a big point in the book that will leave you feeling very happy. Don't worry, I won't tell you what that thing is. The Fellowship still remains split up and some things that you wanted to know at the conclusion of the last book are revealed, as said above. That is as much as I'll tell you for this book because if I tell you anymore the book will be ruined for you.As in &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; J.R.R. Tolkien gives you luscious descriptions and phenomonal writing. He goes into some matters that were brought forth in the first book with such skill that only Tolkien could pull off. At the end of this book you will feel a craving to pick up &quot;The Return of the King&quot; right away.&quot;The Two Towers&quot; is the second book in &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; and the best of the first two volumes. Tolkien brings you into his beautiful world that you won't be able to get enough of. Before delving into this, be sure to read &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; first so you won't feel like you're reading material that makes no sense to you. I recommend this book to a fantasy fan or somebody that is looking for an adventurous, grand fantasy epic. Be sure to read this novel.Happy Reading!
5 Tolkien is my hero, and the reason I began writing in the first place.  I don't feel like I can write a review that will do him justice, nor do I think I need to - far wiser people than I have written reviews of the books themselves.  This is just a note for people who are thinking of buying this particular boxed set.The cover art is beautiful.  Fellowship is a panorama of Hobbiton.  The Two Towers is a picture of Gandalf and Saruman silhouetted in Orthanc.  The Return of the King is a group of riders, probably the Rohirrim.  Incidentally, in the back of RotK you get a sneak peek of Eowyn!  I was sorry when I first opened one that the map of Middle Earth wasn't in the front of the book...then I saw the huge fold-out map inside the back cover!This is the fourth LOTR boxed set my parents and I own between us (the 1968 version is falling apart, and the one I got for graduation got borrowed &amp; never returned) and I don't regret the money I spent on it.Indeed, my one regret about this set is that they didn't do The Hobbit to include.  They could easily have used a picture of Bilbo or the Lonely Mountain on the cover and issued a full set.  Still, there are some beautiful editions of The Hobbit out there and I'll pick one eventually to go with this lovely set.
5 The second part of the trilogy definitely picks up the pace.  The story continues with the epic adventures of the fellowship, only this time it splits into seperate but related subplots.  Sam and Frodo in one and the rest of the fellowship in the other.  It is more fast paced than the first with many heartpounding twists, turns, tragedies, and triumphs.  Gandalf is bigger than life.
5 I read the LOTR years ago and could never get my parents interested in the books. Of course they were busy working and didn't have as much time as they do now that they are retired. A few years ago I introduced my dad to the the world of Harry Potter and he loved the books. This year at Thanksgiving he asked if I still had my LOTR books because he thought he may have missed a really good story and I hadn't steered him wrong before. He's in for a treat. The LOTR is the mother and father of all these other world's that writers have invented and I know he will love them too.
3 I'd forgotten how boring the long passages could feel. Don't care to read the songs of dwarfs, elfs and hobbits...
5 I am sorry to have to write a slightly derogatory review, (not aimed at Tolkien's work, but to other reviewers) but I feel it must be done. I am not sure if some of you have actually read all the way through the LOTR. It seems obvious to me that several of you have not bothered to read Tolkien's forward, since if you would have, you would have noticed that he explicitly states that he intends NO connection between his book and WW2 or any other allegorical connection of the sort. I believe it is the reader's duty to keep the author's opinions in mind when dealing with his own work. Now to praise: From the crisp verdant hills of the West Farthing, to the fiery heights of Orodruin, the LOTR is a grand tale. Epic in scope, magic, and vision. Tolkien's literary style is on an adult level, contrary to the opinions of several other reviewers. His words carry feelings of lucidity, humor, weight, and knowledge all in one keep-you-on-the-edge-of-your-seat package.  Almost all fantasy authors today owe some aspect of their work to this, the greatest of Tolkien's work. I recommend that anyone remotely interested in fantasy read it. And by the way, O swarm of uninformed reviewers, the Lord of the Rings is one novel, consisting of six books. Most of you think it is a trilogy, even though Tolkien himself, in his apparently seldom-read foreword, said otherwise.
5 Obviously the story is a classic for a reason, so I won't go into details about it.  Instead I will just comment on the quality of this edition.  It is very very nice.  Hi quality.  Definite collector's item.
5 A classic that is still a masterpiece today. A must read for any fantasy reader.
5 Great story. Naturally well written. My granddaughter loves this series. She is an avid reader and like  J.R.R Tolkien writing
5 what more can be said about this magical masterpiece. I loved it when I was 14 and I loved it again at 38, I dragged my husband to the movie ( he hates anything fantasy/sci-fi) and at the end he proclaimed it 'The best Movie I have ever seen'. He was speechless. My children have been addicts since they could walk and not a nightmare in sight. Where are the Tolkien's of today ??
5 The Lord of the Rings audiobooks read by Rob Inglis are fascinating.  I listen to them over and over while driving and quilting.  Mr. Inglis is the perfect reader for J.R.R. Tolkien storytelling.  I am able to distinguish characters by the change in his tone and cadence.  A wonderful product I will enjoy for many years.  I also purchased The Hobbit, The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers; so you can see I am a fan!
5 While this may be a rather large book because it contains all three novels, I still love it. I recommend to anyone who is fans of Harry Potter and other similar novels, as well as The Hobbit (Also by Tolkien.) These novels are amazing to say the least!
5 One may be tempeted to question the purpose of reading these books in light of the fact that Peter Jackson has just recently graced the world with his towering exploration of them in visual format. The answer to those who would so question is what I have always said, even before the films were made. This book is, I believe, unsurpassed by any other work in human history aside from the Bible. It is impossible to really do the work credit with any sort of brevity, however, for the sake of the reader's patience I will comment on what I believe to be the most important points.Firstly, if it is of any interest to anyone, in a world full of writers who become immensely popular despite very poor writing, here is a genius. Tolkien's masterpiece is written in somewhat antiquated language, which tends to add to it's mistique and prowess rather than to distract the reader. With a mixture of glowing description, intelligently crafted dialogue, and a combination of genres from narrative, to poetry, to prophecy, The Lord of the Rings will not leave you bored if you are intelligent enough to appreciate the style. When I first read the book I found the descriptions to be somewhat tedious, cutting off the story as they did (I was 15), however, having now read the books four times I have an appetite for good writing, not just an urge to find out what happens next. The dialogue can be rather long as well, as in the chapter, "The Council of Elrond," where upwards of 20 characters speak, the majority of whom you have heard little or nothing about. However, I have come to enjoy that chapter much more as I have grown older because of its hinting at a much greater world than the one we are exposed to.Secondly, the tale is captivating. It is a story of increasing intensity as the reader progresses and he is drawn in so easily and so fully that he may come out of it half believing that this quest actually happened. You feel Sam's joy and being sent with Frodo; you feel the Hobbit's terror at the Barrow Downs; your hurts are healed with the Fellowship at Lothlorien; you are captivated by the mustering of the Rohirrim; you are petrified by Shelob; you are laughing at Merry and Pippin the whole way. The genius of Tolkien creates a complete empathy on the part of the reader for the characters. I would be interested to know how many other people are actually in tears at any point in the reading of this book. I am at several, I will admit.Lastly, and I believe, most importantly, it is necessary to uncover some of the timeless thematic elements of this masterpiece. Books like, Finding God in the Lord of the Rings, have failed to do this book justice in their exploration of such themes, unfortunately. I do not wish to comment on all such themes b/c to do so would take far too long. However, I will make bold to say that I believe the overarching theme of the book to be self-sacrifice. Ultimately, self-sacrifice amounts to love, as far as I can see it, b/c it is a giving of one's self in the interest of others w/o expecting any good for one's self to come out of it. Just think, Frodo had no hope of ever making it back from Mordor, but it didn't matter. He had a task to complete  for the saving of the rest of the world. Sam, Merry and Pippin went with Frodo, having no idea what they were going into, and not caring. It did not matter to them; all that mattered was that they could give of themselves to him. And finally, when Aragorn, Gandalf and Prince Imrahil marched with their armies to the black gates and had no hope whatsoever of victory, it was only with the hope that they might provide a lengthy enough distraction to enable two small Hobbits to make it to the Cracks of Doom without being discovered by the Enemy. I wish to comment on one other point before being finished b/c I believe that to those of the Christian Faith it should be encouraging. When Sam and Frodo are going with Gollum through Ithilien they come to the Cross-Roads and there is a statue of a king seated, however his head has been thrown down and there is a big ugly eye, the symbol of Sauron, where his head should be. As they walk there is suddenly a beam of light where the sun manages to search through the darkness, that blazes out upon the head of the king which is lying by the road. A vine of flowers has grown around his head and Sam says, "Look! The King has got a crown again." Such hope have we as well.I would make a passing remark about this edition. Though the size may make it somewhat difficult to read it lays open nicely so reading it in bed is quite nice if one likes to lay on one's stomach to read. The illustrations are very true to Tolkien's own vision as can be seen in, "Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator."
5 It's Tolkien! Nothing more need be said.
5 The Return of the King picks from exactly where the &#8216;The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers&#8216; ended. Gondor is at war with Sauran's army and their only hope is help from Th&eacute;oden - King of Rohan.Frodo baggins and Samwise continues their journey towards mountain Doom with Frodo getting more and more attached to the ring with each passing second. Golum becomes guide of Frodo and Samwise to lead them to mountain Doom.Will Frodo give up ring and destroy it? Will Golum lead them to mount Doom or has he has some other plans?But this is not the end of war for Hobbit&#8217;s because when they return to Shire &#8211; there they have to fight one more battle, the last battle to free Shire from the grips of dangerous enemy.At the end of the book &#8216;The Return Of King&#8217; you will find a huge appendix in which author has penned down the history of Middle-Earth along with kings and rulers.
