5 "Winston's War" is, as its name implies, the story of Winston Churchill's involvement in World War II.  Winston passed through a series of phases during the course of the War.  At the start of the book, he provides Britain's spirit and backbone to stand alone against the might of Germany.  With the invasion of Russia and the attack on Pearl Harbor, Churchill became the alliance maker.  In seemingly constant motion, he bounded from conference to battlefront to home front.  At the summit level, he strove to keep Roosevelt and Stalin working together and kept FDR from falling too much under Stalin's sway.  Through it all he, through the force of his personality, he maintained an influence for Britain as its war contribution decreased in relationship to that of its allies.Author Max Hastings brings out domestic political challenges that Churchill confronted when the fortunes of war were unkind to Britain.  He survived a motion of censure during 1942, something most have forgotten in the shadow of his towering heroic stature.  I found this book to be fascinating.  The talented writing and the captivating tale it tells will draw the interest of any World War II buff.
5 As I finished the last words on page 486, I yearned for more. Except for the acknowledgements, bibliography and such, there was no more.The excellent writer and detailed-obsessed military historian Max Hastings had brought us to the end of Churchill's reign as the war leader of the British Empire.You can measure Churchill, the man, by the thousands of books, movies, documentaries and other expositions about him.In Hastings, we find much that is new. As with many contemporary histories of WWII, more than a little comes from the once again closed Soviet archives. But much more comes from the diaries and unpublished letters of people, particularly the little people, the ones who in a democracy elect those who lead.Hastings leaves us in absolutely no doubt of Churchill's unique accomplishments - and his failures.For many months, the future of any vestige of democracy in Europe and perhaps the world rested on Churchill's shoulders. Through his oratory and pluck alone, Churchill encouraged  battered and, in fact, defeated Britain to rally itself and fight on, despite the fact that literally all its artillery, amour, small arms and military vehicles had been left on the battlefields of France. Churchill pleaded and cajoled to get Franklin Roosevelt into the European war, but Roosevelt basically wouldn't budge.For a while, it was Churchill, a few hundred brave pilots, a few thousand ground crew and radar plotters who kept Britain in the war.Hastings tracks the public opinion of the day. Churchill had long been a divisive character, long relegated to the back benches of Britain's ruling class for his outspoken opinions on the dangers of a rearmed and resurgent Germany. Neville Chamberlain had captured the support of the people who believed that giving Hitler what he wanted was the road to peace.It was not and the 66 year old Churchill, called a war monger by so many, was asked by the King to become Prime Minister.It is now widely agreed that Churchill was the only man who could have saved Britain.Hastings keeps his focus on Churchill as war leader, but lets us see how the world around him reacted to his larger-than-life presence. He irritated and frustrated his military leaders by his constant interference and demands for action now. He lifted the spirits of his people in his visits to the bombed out streets of London. He bestirred the Members of Parliament (and controlled them) with his wit and guile. Finally, he roused the world through oratory of a brilliance rarely seen.Churchill, as Hastings endlessly points out, was not perfect. Far from it. His military plans were more often than not entirely impractical and when he did succeed in getting his ideas acted upon, they often resulted in disaster. But strategically, Churchill was ahead of his generals who for the most part never rose to anything near Churchill's greatness.Hastings correctly believes that it was the military of the Soviets that defeated Germany and that Britain and the United States played a subordinate role militarily. No serious student of the period can disagree. It was the Soviets who broke the armies of the Germans and their allies. But Churchill believed he enjoyed some kind of personal relationship with Stalin, a delusion he persisted in almost to the end of the war.It is fascinating to read the letters and diaries of the average citizens, many, if not most, of whom revered Churchill the war leader, while reserved about Churchill the domestic leader. The letters of the committed leftists are chilling to read. Military men and Churchill's staff left behind copious memoirs, published and unpublished, about their impressions. Hastings draws upon all of this and more to produce a truly in-depth history of Churchill's six years as the most powerful leader in British history and one of the most remarkable men to have appeared in Western civilization.The pity is that history is no longer taught in American schools and what has replaced it has little relation to history. Thus the children of today will grow up with little idea of how close the freedom they abuse came so close to being snuffed out were it nor for Winston Churchill who roused the West to save itself.Next time, perhaps, we will not be so fortunate as to have a Churchill.Hastings makes it clear just how remarkable Churchill, as the war leader of his people, was.Jerry
5 A deeply engrossing, and most revealing, account of Churchill during Great Britain's toughest hours and years. Max Hastings has accomplished a brilliant task: painting a full portrait of a complex man, using all the colors of the human palette without favoring one over the other.For lay Churchillian fossil hunters--eager to crack open that one rock which will reveal the perfectly defined imprint of a long-extinct species of leader, Winston's War is the ideal tool for discovery. In page after page, Hastings gives us Churchill the humanist, the warrior, the worrier, the optimist, the depressed, the badgerer and and the beguiler. But most of all, Hastings reveals as few have before, Churchill's devotion to the Great Britain that once was and, in his vision, could be again, if only his plans were properly attended to by generals and allies whose actions were otherwise limited to the near horizon of self-interest.The same brush that defines Churchill with such clarity and vibrance does not neglect to flesh out other characters from that era -- Roosevelt and the American chiefs of staff, and Winston's own stable of generals and advisers receive equal amounts of critical paint, and not always in pleasing hues.Hastings is not all laud and champagne for Churchill; Winston's War gives us a churlish Winnie, a frustrated warfighter, a spoiled child, an unthinking master, a fretful husband, and bitter father. Through Hasting's sharply focused lens of research and discovery, we watch Churchill fall victim to the duplicity of perceived friends--Beaverbrook, for one, with all his smarminess and deceit--and to seek the embrace of the spitting cobra of Stalin in order to save Poland from the fangs of Soviet domination. Just as in a horror movie in which a hapless character is about to turn a corner to face a bloodthirsty monster the audience can already see, Hastings' portrayal of the Churchill/Stalin matchup will have you screaming, "Run, Winston, run!" and yet you will be unable to stop turning the pages, just as history could not be stopped or re-directed.But for all his foibles and failings--and there were many--the scales of judgment must, if Hastings has it right--and I believe he does--tip easily toward a near reverence for Churchill's place in history. He was not as much a man of his time, as he was the right man for his time. An anachronism from the very start of the war, Churchill nonetheless was able to poke, prod, cajole, inspire, and lead even when so many forces--social, political, and economic--were placed in his path. As Hastings puts it, "He was one of the greatest actors upon the stage of affairs whom the world has ever known ... He was the largest human being ever to occupy his office."
5 This author has been on somewhat of tear as of late, this his third World War II book published in the last seven years, (Armageddon and Retribution the other two), and a fourth volume just out. Winston's War also adds to the recent spate of books - Carlo D'Este's Warlord; Andrew Robert's Hitler and Churchill and Masters and Commanders, and Berthon and Potts', Warlords - "analyzing" Churchill's leadership role and his success/failure as Great Britain's Commander in Chief. Hastings' new book differs from these previous Churchill book specifically in its focus - this book is all Churchill and all WWII, and is another excellent addition to the history of both.First a brief note on Hastings' "writing style". The author has seemingly read everything available - first-hand accounts from diaries and letters, newspaper accounts, military archives and records, etc. - and combined all this research/data into a very compelling, insightful, extremely well written account. The author is also anything but subtle. In this book for instance, Henry "Chips" Cannon is described as the "consummate ass" and that Lord Gort, although personally courageous - "lacked brains" - this within the first 25 pages. The point here is that Hastings does not mince words and is never shy about voicing his educated opinion - including about Churchill.Winston's War picks up on May 10th, 1940, as Churchill assumed the premiership - "The Phony War" in Europe coming to an end with the Nazi Army mobilizing. Thus begins Churchill's heroic struggle to save his country and the world from Hitler's tyranny - and what a story it is. Hastings chronicles the dark yet heroic days of 1940-41 when Churchill and his countrymen stood alone; the partnership with Stalin and FDR after Barbarossa and Pearl Harbor; and as odd man out of The Big Three as events, Soviet man-power and American war production passed Churchill and his country by. And as Hastings painstakingly points out there was plenty of Churchillian good and bad - decisions and behavior - during these war years, for Winston packed a half dozen lifetimes worth of activity in these busy years, which in and of itself was all part of a very busy and active life.This book is by no means a hatchet-job or even to a lesser degree - revisionist history. The author makes it very clear that the same qualities that propelled Churchill through the crisis of the early years of WWII are the same that frustrated his military men and his allies throughout the war's later years - Churchill was always Churchill - and the world is a better place for that.There is a treasure trove of information here not to be missed - An excellent book and highly recommended.
4 Please disregard the review posted by the reviewer who appears to spend much of his time on Amazon "trashing" Max Hastings books. This is a fascinating study of Churchill, "warts and all." Highly recommended.
5 Probably the best account of Churchill's war leadership I've ever read. A superb blend of narrative and analysis that clearly addresses the great man's strengths and weaknesses but just as important details the military, strategic and economic constraints with which he had to wrestle. Put simply, continuing the war in 1940, or even embarking on it 1939, was one of the greatest gambles in history because the British state and its empire were simply overmatched by Germany in 1939 let alone when it was occupying most of western Europe. However, the British had some advantages and by and large Churchill was able to put them to good use. Where failures occurred it was because of the gap that existed between Churchill's overly romantic appreciation of British strength relative to the reality. But then it was this over appreciation that persuaded him to keep fighting and not come to an accomdation with Germany. Ultimately, Churchill's leadership was a considerable tour de force but then Britain's entire 200 year naval and imperial supremacy was a tour de force whose success depended on numerous factors other than the more traditional ones of land area and big battalions. Ultimately, Churchill's formula for success wasn't that different from that of the two Pitts or Lloyd George....naval supremacy and strong European or extra European allies.
5 This book is, indeed, a study of the finest years of Winston Churchill, as war leader of Great Britain.  It grew out of a comment made by Roy Jenkins in the course of writing his 2001 biography, which is arguably the best single-volume work of its kind.  As other reviewers have noted, the book also works as an unauthorised sequel to William Manchester's incomplete The Last Lion trilogy, which is the best biography of Churchill's life and times there is.  This is a focus on Churchill as war leader, not a study of the man per se.To sum up the theme of this book, Churchill got a lot of the little things wrong, but got the big thing - winning WWII - right.  As it turned out, he was also right about the post-war world and the threat of exchanging the Nazi empire for a Soviet one, but was powerless to arrest this on his own, and was powerless to convince Roosevelt and the US to assist.  In part, ths was due to his getting the little things wrong.From the fall of France, the Battle of Britain, North Africa, Italy, and D-Day, the big picture of WWII is laid out.  Greece was perhaps Churchill's last success of WWII, at least by some values of success.There is sorrow here also - the loss of Poland, the looming horrors of the Soviet Iron Curtain, all flowing from the fact that having allied with Stalin to defeat Hitler, the western allies were stuck with Stalin to the bitter, bitter end.  Without Stalin, there could be no battlefield victory for the west; with him, the victory was gall and wormwood.This is a superb volume, dealing with the role of Churchill in WWII, and the role he played in shaping the post-war world.  Although never stated in the book, it is clear that to the extent that the US and Britain today share a "special relationship" - and they do, and arguably stronger now than in 1945 - this should be seen as Churchill's true legacy, one myth he spent his life's work to turn to truth.  Hastings here shows the decline of Britain and her Empire over the course of the war years, the ebb and flow of popular support for Churchill and the war, the troublemakers in Cabinet - to rise above all this, as Churchill did, is probably the truest mark of a great man, save for his utter public lack of any resentment at the loss of office in 1945: his simple exit, without recrimination, shows his complete commitment to British democracy.The book does end in 1945: there is no coda dealing with Churchill's return to the Prime Ministership in later life, or his death nearly 20 years later, so do not expect that at the end.  This is simply a history of wartime Britain as Churchill made it: when his war ended, so did the story.  It is an excellent retelling of those dreadful years when the fate of the world hung in the balance, and Churchill's attempts to bring down Nazi Germany.
5 Winston's War is an astonishing feat--it chronicles the activities, thoughts, ideals, politics, relationships, and personality of a man through five long, complex years and does so without becoming boring or losing sight of some one of these parts of the man. The man is Winston Churchill and Max Hastings has done a remarkable job of describing Churchill's experience during World War II.Hastings follows Churchill through the war closely, especially during the tense first days of Churchill's premiership and through the American commitment to Europe in North Africa. I won't recapitulate the chronology here--it would bore those already familiar with World War II and just be so many unfamiliar names to those who aren't. The impression gained from this book is that through all five years Churchill was constantly on the go, moving between the headquarters of various generals, the ministries in London, and overseas meetings with his allies, Roosevelt and Stalin. The constant balancing act Churchill faced--as politician, PM, diplomat, strategist, and human being--would have destroyed a lesser man, and Hastings evokes the myriad demanding duties well.The book had two great strengths. The first was the attention Hastings gave to lesser-known operations. This must come with the territory, as Churchill was notoriously fond of derring do like commando raids and sabotage. But Churchill also pushed for, planned, and executed several large-scale but little-known missions during the war. There were, for instance, the "second Dunkirk" during late June of 1940, during which more British troops trapped in France were evacuated, and the disastrous invasion of the Aegean in 1943. Churchill's campaign into the Dodecanese, the Greek isles, meant to bring the Turks into the war on the Allied side but was ill-planned and even more ill-fated, reminding many of his botched Gallipoli campaign in the same sea during World War I. He also urged constantly the creation and supply of resistance groups in occupied Europe, the usefulness of which--in light of terrible German reprisals--is still debated. Hastings clearly illustrates the complexity of Allied planning, as numerous proposed or planned operations came to nothing.The book's second strength was Hastings's focus on Churchill the man. It is easy for historians to forget that their subjects got tired, sick, cranky, drunk, or jokey, but Hastings always keeps Churchill as human being in the foreground. He reminds us that, though Churchill is now an inspirational icon, he was an old man. He was moody. He kept odd hours. He was by turns abrupt and affectionate. His health was a constant worry. And he wasn't always popular--in fact, political enemies agitated constantly for his removal from the premiership during the last half of the war. Churchill's story is often one of frustration, especially after the Americans entered the war. Roosevelt, to whom Churchill gave enormous attention early on in the hopes of currying American favor, shunned and ignored Churchill more and more in favor of Stalin. Stalin, who knew Churchill hated the Soviets, was inscrutable but clearly enjoyed the favor he found with Roosevelt at Churchill's expense. Churchill was always the least of the Big Three and he knew it, and his frustration with Stalin and especially Roosevelt was pitiful.Winston's War, of course, is not solely about Winston, and Hastings does an excellent job of describing the personalities and relationships between the many figures--important or not--who interacted with Churchill. As I said, I won't bother with specifics of chronology here. The best thing I can say is to read Winston's War. Max Hastings has written an enormously detailed and engaging book on one of the most important figures in modern history.Highly recommended.
4 This book provides an interesting perpective on the stengths and foibles Winston Churchill possessed that made him one of the most important individuals in the Second World.  He was a person at the right place in the opportune moment to influence the course of world history. He was a mystery inside an inigma.
5 So many books have been written about Churchill, in particular about the wartime years, that another biography might be needless.  However, Max Hastings presents a wonderfully balanced portrait of the man, the politician and the statesman.  While in no way a revisionist history, Hastings has used distance and time to place Churchill's immense contribution in historial perspective.  It is fascinating to compare the Churchill revealed in the "War Diaries of Field Marshall Lord Alanbrooke" (from which Mr. Hastings quotes) with Hastings' own work.  Two brillant accounts, one immediate with short term judgements and Mr. Hastings's more measured and from a distance.Churchill's rhetoric and prose shaped the common view of the conduct of WWII.  Brave little Britain fighting alone.  "The Few, we will fight them on the beaches and never surrender." How Churchill's phrases captured and continue to color the imagination.  Much less widely recognized are Britain's problems during wartime.  In a sense disguised by Churchill's masterful language the strikes, the attitudes and the actions of the many Communist sympathizers and the often poor performance of Britain's own Army (especially in the war's early years) have tended to fade from popular viewpoint.  Mr. Hastings deals with the good, the bad and the downright ugly without flinching and without using criticism to deflect from what was an overall immense achievement.Whatever Churchill's failings(and he was human), Max Hastings points out without Winston Churchill at the head of government, Britain would have probably capitulated in 1940-41.  Churchill did not simply capture the British spirit, he to some extend, created it as this book makes clear.  Had Churchill not done so, the outcome could have been entirely different or, at least, more protracted and bloody without Britain as a base to launch the killer blow upon Nazi Germany.Initially, having read many Churchill biographies I was afraid this might be a revisionist history that so many authors are prone to write simply to sell their work. Max Hastings' book about this great man who occupied this pivotal moment is well balanced and researched.I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in this period of history.  I have read many books by Max Hastings and this is one of his best. I also recommend the "War Diaries of Field Marshall Lord Alanbrooke" to gain even further perspective on the effect an individual can have on history.Enjoy the read!
5 Winston Churchill was larger than life--a great man perhaps the greatest political leader the world has ever known.  Max Hastings, noted World War II chronicler, delves into the topic with all the determination and gusto displayed by his subject.Churchill emerges as a much more likable human being than his counterpart in the U.S., Franklin D. Roosevelt.  Although Churchill has his faults, notably his impulsiveness in military matters, his overall presence on the World War II stage ultimately supercedes them.  Churchill displayed strength of will and communicated this to the world.His was the voice the generation of the second world war always heard cajoling, pleading, defiant in the face of Nazi threats.Churchill emerged from the war exhausted and penniless rejected by the British people.  He lived to be 90, once again serving as prime minister after writing his history of World War II.This book is a worthy addition to the many which have been written about Winston Churchill.
5 Decades following his death, Winston S. Churchill (WSC) continues to fascinate historians and attract various pundits hoping to make a critical imprint on the landscape of modern moral relativism.  His detractors attempt to belittle his many accomplishments by framing them in the context of his many inconsistencies and, failing that, sometimes resort to ad hominem attacks ("alcoholic" being prominent amongst them).  Recently, at least three major military historians, John Keegan, Carlo D'Este and Max Hastings, have written focused biographies of WSC in his capacity as "warlord".  Keegan's book is essentially a monograph (interesting, nonetheless).  D'Este wrote a somewhat more encyclopaedic book (WSC's entire military career).  Hastings concentrates on WSC as British supreme commander during the years of the Second World War.  While all three books are good, Hastings' penetrating assessments and candid observations on the protagonist and those who enter his orbit make for more enjoyable reading.Hastings nominally begins his story in 1939, the year Great Britain joined France in declaring war on Hitler's Germany.  However, necessary historical context from pre-war years is also provided, allowing this book to be read independently of any other biography or study. Despite the book's apparently narrow focus, it can be read without background or understanding of the War, itself.Not too surprisingly to his more strident critics, WSC made many minor and several major errors in his capacity as wartime Prime Minister.  He had a penchant for "meddling" in military affairs, one shared with at least Stalin and Hitler.  In common with Hitler, WSC had actual front-line combat experience and, also in common with Hitler, demonstrated bravery in battle.  Despite first-hand experience with war and direct, personal knowledge of the consequences of leadership error, both men were fond of audacious and risky enterprises, often-times creating consternation in the ranks of their professional military consultants, sometimes with lamentable results.  Hastings unfavorably contrasts the British military with its German counterpart throughout the book, with the British falling far short of their adversaries in professionalism, skill, dedication, improvisation, equipment, strategy and battlefield tactics.  For that matter, Hastings made the same unfavorable comparison of American troops to the Germans in "Overlord", his history of the D-Day invasion.In order to understand the relatively dismal performance of the British Army (in particular), Hastings provides many examples of the incompetence and timidity of the major British commanders who repeatedly come up short in comparison to their North African theater adversary, Rommel and their foe in Italy, Kesselring.  However, even their American counterparts seemed to view them with dismissive attitudes.  On the British home front, morale was undermined by the seemingly interminable duration of the war, pro-Soviet attitudes of many workers (and their "betters" in the governing classes), residual exhaustion from the labors of the First World War and concerns regarding the post-war course of their nation.  Hastings repeatedly emphasizes that, almost single-handedly, WSC provided the leadership example required to sustain the war effort from its earliest years (when the situation seemed most hopeless) through its overly long finale, when the population seemed no longer able or interested in sustaining the effort.WSC is both lauded and attacked. His penchant for dramatic forays by small "elite" units (which proliferated under his leadership) were generally unsuccessful (1942 Dieppe raid, for example).  His emphasis on the Mediterranean theater was distracting from the major war effort.  His repeated solicitations to the Americans on behalf of various "pet projects" became distracting and then annoying.  Nonetheless, WSC had an over-arching and penetrating understanding of grand strategy and, in service to that understanding, was able to bury his antipathy to Communism recognizing that the contributions of the USSR were arch-critical to the defeat of the Nazi armies. Perhaps the most damning (from both the perspective of Roosevelt's U.S. and from Hastings, himself) was WSC's fealty to the concept of the British Empire.  Perceptions that many of Britain's military plans and perspectives were undertaken in service of post-war imperial ambitions soured relations between the Western powers, especially on the U.S. domestic front.From my perspective, Hastings makes his greatest contribution both in this book and in "Retribution" (the Pacific War) by clarifying many now controversial wartime actions such as the use of atomic weapons ("Retribution") and "area bombing" (both theaters of war).  WSC was personally conflicted and committed some of his thoughts to paper.  Still, he observed that, "Morale is a legitimate military target" and advocated bombing of German cities not only for that reason (in the early war years to prop up home-front morale) but to convince Stalin that the British were making a meaningful "second front" contribution.  Hastings also notes that contemporary technology did not allow "precision bombing" or anything even remotely approaching that concept.  Hence, to target factories and military installations, area bombing was necessary. In Hastings' words, "In addressing the history of the Second World War, it is necessary to recognise the huge moral compromises forced upon the nations fighting under the banner of democracy and freedom.  Britain, and subsequently America, strove for the triumph of these admirable principles wherever the could be secured-with sometimes embarrassing exceptions of the European overseas empires.  But again and again, hard things had to be done which breached faith with any definition of absolute good.  If this is true of politics at all times, it was especially so between 1939 and 1945...the moral and material price of destroying Hitler was high...". In "Retribution", Hastings commented that, "But in an imperfect world, it seems unrealistic to expect that any combatant in a war will grant adversaries conspicuously better treatment than his own people receive at their hands".  This all rings true and does much to undermine the "post-modern" moral relativism which is currently fashionable. Hastings also repeatedly emphasizes that the Hitler War was won largely due to the efforts and exertions of Stalin's USSR: the role of Lend Lease and the significance of the D-Day landing have been over-amplified with the passage of time.In summary, Hastings characterizes WSC as, "...one of the greatest actors upon the stage of affairs the world has ever known...If his leadership through the Second World War was imperfect, it is certain that no other British ruler in history has matched his direction of the nation in peril.."  Certainly, WSC was the greatest statesman of the modern era and his "grand vision" enabled the eventual defeat of Hitler, cementing as it did a roiled domestic constituency and contentious allies.  His "anachronistic delusions" (sometimes making him appear to FDR and others as a "traveler from an antique land") about the future of the British Empire were just that.  His magnificent accomplishments dwarf his strategic shortcomings and can only serve as an example to be emulated by any current or future leader with pretensions to greatness.
5 I thought I had reached the zenith of WWII books in the third volume of Manchester's biography of Churchill (written with Paul Reid). Perhaps I did, but Hastings's book is equally as good. First, the book is a pleasure to read, not just because it so often quotes Churchill's writings and speeches, but also because Hasting's style is often lyrical. It's always relevant and concise, but at times, he seems to have been infected with Churchill's facility to charm and inspire.Second, I found that the book answered a question I've been tacitly asking myself since I began reading about Churchill: Why were so many people (Eisenhower, Roosevelt, for examples) impatient with him, his energy, wit, and genius being what they were? The answer is that Churchill had a tendency to overwhelm--to overload those around him; he didn't know when to stop.Not that Hastings dislikes or unfairly criticizes his subject; indeed, the criticisms (often in war strategy) are well reasoned and seem to be justified. In Hasting's view, the criticisms are overwhelmed by Churchill's unique qualities--one man who altered the course of history.If you're interested the Second World War, Winston's War is a must read because it fills in gaps. It's a should read in providing a detailed overview of the war's critical years.
5 Excellent story. Best I've read from the Churchill viewpoint. Should be mandatory reading for WW2. What more can be said in five words.
4 Overall this is a fine book. It is especially fine in its perspective, seeing Churchill as he was, as his influence with the U.S. waned as the war effort turned favorable. Hast-ings is clear in depicting Churchill's flaws, his grandiosity, as well as his indomitable spirit, so singularly important in carrying Britain through the dark early years of the War. His judgment is that Churchill was a unique leader whose importance to his country's (if not its empire's) survival cannot be overstated. Withal, he shows Churchill as a human being, with all the imperfections and foibles of that condition.Secondary characters in the drama are also well drawn, and, indeed, there are a fair number of laughs in the narrative. Any reader who thinks Roosevelt and Churchill were bonded buddies will emerge from reading this book with a much clearer apprecia-tion of the fact that their relationship was driven by national interest, not truly by personal affection or even affinity.Perhaps most significantly for those who think they know their history, the sine qua non role of the Russia in defeating Nazism is well and convincingly told. Hastings does a marvelous job of limning the times and the circumstances as well as the headlines of the major events from 1939 through to the defeat of Germany in 1945.The author writes, mostly, with clarity and with energy. This reader, however, cannot understand how a manuscript can go through many readings before publication and still not be purged of the writer's mistakes or poor word choices. To be a writer, one much take care--exacting care. Most irritating, Hastings (and his many manuscript read-ers) seem to think that "imprecations" means "pleadings." It does not, nor does it have a particularly British meaning (I checked Samuel Johnson's 1755 dictionary). "Impreca-tions" means "curses." The word Hastings must have meant, whether he knows it or not, is "importunities." When a writer falls into such catachresis it undermines his authority.Likewise his frequent use of the rebarbative (both to me and to the Usage Panel of the American Heritage Dictionary) "enthuse." This is not a writerly word nor, clearly, an authoritative word. It's a word that those who are not sensitive to words use. Nor does Hastings know the difference between a restrictive and a nonrestrictive clause--to the detriment of his noted clarity. These may sound like small bore points but they detract from an otherwise outstanding piece of work. This reviewer thinks that both unfortunate and avoidable. The dictionary is the writer's dearest friend, especially in cases where he is absolutely certain of a given word's meaning.Oh, yes, Shangri La, now Camp David, is not in the Blue Ridge Mountains. It's in the Catoctin Mountains of Maryland.
4 Max Hastings, like many British historians, has only a superficial and somewhat distorted understanding of the United States and more specifically its attitude at the outbreak of WW2 and the adoption of a policy of American "neutrality." His well presented portrait of Churchill, strengths,warts and all, is authoritative when presenting Churchill in the European and British context but is marred by his failure to understand that not only was the United States reluctant to get involved in the war between the UK and Nazi Germany, but the American public was overwhelmingly against any involvement. Churchill's only strategy to win the war, as argued by Hastings, was to somehow get the US involved as an active belligerent ally since he recognized that Britain was incapable of defeating Germany on its own. The fact that the US eventually entered the war against Hitler is not proof that Churchill's strategy actually worked. Indeed, Churcill had absolutely nothing to do with the US's declaration of war against Nazi Germany. After the "dastardly' attack by the Japanese on Pearl Harbor on December 7th, 1941, FDR could only secure a declaration of war against the empire of Japan. In no way did or would Congress have given him such a declaration against Germany. It was only when Hitler, along with Italy some four days later, declared war against the US that FDR could secure a declaration of war against Germany and Italy. Absent Hitler's declaration, there was no way Congress would have declared war against Germany. Churchill had no hand in the US entrance into the war and it cannot be argued that his policy was a success. He could not have foreseen events as they unfolded. In a sense, he was lucky.
3 This book is very detailed with regards to Churchill's conduct during the war and does a good job illustrating the attitudes of the people and peers in England.  My only objection is the praise Sir Hastings heaps on Churchill.  The man was certainly great, but not flawless.  In this book, he is flawless.
4 Max Hastings seems to put out military history at a rate of a book a month but for this WWII biography of Winston Churchill he does rise above the normal WWII histories and provide an in-depth analysis of what Churchill was able to achieve especially during the darkest days of the war when Britain stood alone. What is also admirable in my opinion is that, unlike a lot of Churchill biographies, he is willing to paint Churchill in a negative light.  Not just some quirky genius but as someone who had identifiable shortcomings which in some circumstances caused unnecessary problems and hurt England's standing among the Big 3.If I can find one fault it is one that is common in Hasting's writing as well as in the writings of other British WWII historians. There is the idea in this work that the American's provided a mass of men and material but poor leadership. FDR is portrayed as a man of lesser intellect than Churchill and someone more naive about the Soviets. I will give Hastings his due for pointing out shortcomings in British leadership and among British troops.This is a very interesting book and I do recommend it to any student or WWII history buff.
5 I'm not sure if this title will be published in the US. I saw it in a bookstore in London and ended up ordering it from Amazon UK.  There is more written material about Churchill than any other public figure in the 20th century . Max Hastings has infused this account with particular insight on Churchill's relationships with his contemporaries and provides a very balanced perspective on his decisions both good and bad. I found his approach totally absorbing. As well researched, well written and entertaining as popular history gets. It is well worth ordering the UK edition unless you can confirm if this will be published in the US soon.Churchill's faults are not overlooked but his accomplishments are given full credit as well. He is presented here as the right man for the challenges faced by a Britain at war and who can really argue with that. Hastings reminds us that early in the war the forces of appeasement were very strong and Churchill's rhetoric did much to force an ultimate outcome that could not have been foreseen at the outset. Rich in anecdotes as well as evidence this book really gives the reader the sense that you are in the room during some of the historically significant discussions and moments that Churchill participated in during the war.Hastings concluding chapter and his summary of Churchill's place in history is required reading. It represents a valuable and balanced summary of his achievements and contributions.
5 Hasting's book on the World War II years of Winston Churchill points up the difference a leader can make in a crisis.  Churchill wasn't always correct in his decisions, but his leadership is unquestionable.  The book also points up the fact of self-serving egos that make up humanity, especially in civilian and military politics.  Finally, Hastings's shows how a certain amount of luck plays into a victory or a defeat.  Well researched and well written.
5 Of course, there are many books written about Churchill but this one very good. It seems fair, balanced and not in awe of the folklore that surrounds Winston. Highly recommended for history buffs and biography fans.
3 I enjoyed Max Hastings treatment of Churchill during the war, using it as a faux Vol 3 to Manchester's magisterial treatment.  But Hastings lacks Manchester's gift for providing a coherent narrative throughout the course of the book.  I was looking for the whole story and felt that Hastings was providing insights here and there through the course of these 5 critical years, assuming his writer was thoroughly familiar with primary plot points.  The portion of the book dealing with Churchill before the US entered the war was better written than the rest of the tome.  I walked away a bit disappointed.  But for readers very interested in Churchill, this book should probably be read.
5 I think Hastings has written a great book about Churchill during World War II. It provides an objective view of the war from Churchill's position, and does so by recognizing his faults and his greatness. I think Hastings succinctly provides great insight into the reasoning and influences driving many of war's strategic decisions and broad events, and does so in what I believe is a very readable book. I have enjoyed reading a book about World War II from the viewpoint of one of the three main Allied leaders that focuses on the strategic flow of the entire war (at least, after he became Prime Minister) and mentions the battles only in that context, rather than the other way around. I think it is helpful to understand battles, even major ones, in the overall context of the war, and I think this book does a good job with that. I wholeheartedly recommend this book.
5 Raymond E Feist is amazing, another great book in the amazing collection of books that are need to read classics
4 Very good but getting a bit far fetched and confusing even for Feist!! A lot of padding describing what cloths people are wearing.
3 Thirty-odd years ago Feist wrote a book called Magician, about the rise to power of a pair of young boys, Pug and Tomas.  There was then a few more volumes to create an excellent trilogy, and then a whole lot more storytelling.  Perhaps part of the problem Feist created for himself is that at the end of that trilogy both Pug and Tomas are powerful, well-nigh unbeatable heroes.  How do you maintain the challenge across another 25 novels?Sometimes its easy to lose track of the scope of what Feist has written here: he has covered 100+ years, multiple generations, various physical locales, and yet still keeps going, at least for another few novels yet.  What he has done is in one sense unparalled.At the Gates of Darkness is best viewed as part of a greater whole.  Yes, you can argue that Feist has one trick for a villlain, and that is reveal that they are a puppet for something even bigger and darker, but on the other hand he is pretty brutal with his characters too, not afraid to kill them off, either in battle or of old age, so for all that there is a view Feist writes "soft" stories, I have to disagree.  With all that given though, this entry in the saga is somewhere between pedestrian and segway: it's a light read, able to be knocked over in a few hours, and enjoyable enough, but not earthshattering, for all its teases us with a new view of demons.The star elf brothers Gulamendis and Loramendis get a lot of screen time, as does Amirantha and warrior-priest Sabreena.  All characters have interesting quirks, but are not quite as fully rounded as (say) Arutha, Jimmy the Hand, or even Erik von Darkmoor.  Still there is enough here to keep you reading.  In a few years time perhaps this book will seem better with some necessary set up for later volumes, or perhaps it will be revealed as a pointless digression from the main plot.  If you've read Feist before, get this: its not Feist's best work, but its still OK.  If you haven't read Feist, don't start here: go get Magician, read that, and keep going from there as it pleases you.
4 In this sequel to Rides A Dread Legion, Pug and the other members of the Conclave of Shadows find that their defeat of the Demon Lord Maarg bought them less time than they expected. An unholy alliance of necromancers and demons are seeking to open a rift, allowing demons into Midkemia, and the Conclave must put a stop to it, no matter what the cost.OK, well I must start out by admitting that I am a huge fan of Raymond Feist, and have been for years. I thought that this was a good book, very much in keeping with his Serpentwar and Darkwar sagas. There is a lot of action and adventure and mosters and magic, and some interesting plot twists.I agree, this isn't Mr. Feist's most original book, but I did like the previous books and I like this one! The end seems a bit tied up, which suggests that something different is going to happen in the next book (I hope).What can I say? I really did enjoy this book. I found it an exciting and enjoyable read, one set firmly in the Feist tradition. I think a lot of this book, and can't wait until the next book comes out![By the way, I am still hoping that the author writes a book or series of books set in the Hall of Worlds.]
4 Feist does a great job with this book. The only problem I find with it is that it is the lead up too something. So you feel like you're trying to get somewhere and it never materialise.
4 A very sad story. In fact a horrible story. But it happened. One of life's bad times. It left me feeling sick to the stomach. An impossible mission gone wrong, wrong, wrong. It stirred up a lot of emotions. Why do people take risks like this? Because they are alive, there is this impossible challenge. If you are into saturation diving this book is a must.
5 I read this book in its Dutch translation after a colleague recommended it to me. As an avid scuba diver, having PADI Advanced and some additional certificates, including the Deep Dive certificate, this book appealed to me. I read it during a Scuba trip in South Africa and finished it within days. It's a thriller, but it is also a true story. Much of it is revealed on the cover already, still you hope that all will have a happy ending. The author details a lot about the risks of scuba diving, but more importantly he details about why it is a risk. And why for the main characters it wasn't a risk, or at least perceived as such. Brilliant!As I like to read book in English when I have a chance, I ordered it in English again. And now it is my standard gift for every single friend of mine who got his Scuba Certificate. And all love it.
5 Just completed reading this book and Shadow Divers on my Kindle app.  There is no comparison in my mind, this book is much better.  The reason I say this is that this book about Dave Shaw is about serious divers who are masters of their craft; the attention to technical details regarding both open circuit and rebreather diving is amazing.  The book is full of great personalities in the deep sport diving community.  On the other hand, Shadow Divers is technically inaccurate and is describes diving in a way that is very different that the training and method driven diving described in Raising The Dead.  Raising The Dead is nearly a "how to" book on having the right mindset to be a successful technical diver, even if you never dive deeper than 60 meters; but Shadow Divers, on the other hand, borders on being a "how not to do it" book.  In Raising The Dead, the divers follow training procedures and have a full and detailed understanding of the science, physics and physiology of diving.  Shadow Divers seemingly have little understanding; and in fact blame everything on "narcosis" at depth, and seemingly have little understanding of oxygen toxicity or carbon dioxide effects on the breathing cycle.  There was considerable technical "errors" in the discussion of dive physics in Shadow Divers, and a diver without proper training would not know this.  However, Raising The Dead is exact and full of knowledge.  Raising The Dead is a must read book for all technical divers, it is absolutely fantastic!
5 It is inevitable that comparisons will always be made between great books within the same genre.  Such is the fate of Phillip Finch's "Raising The Dead".  This engaging book concerning the the rarefied world of deep diving will  forever be compared to the ever-popular "Shadow Divers" by Robert Kurson.  In both sagas the story unfolds at unimaginable depths where even the slightest mishap/mistake can and does cascade into a fatal event.Notwithstanding further comparisons, "Raising The Dead" is a about a diver (David Shaw) who in the span of only 5 years went from a "rank beginner(diver) to one of the most accomplished and ambitious divers" in the history of sports diving. The depths to which Shaw achieved (700 ft to 900 ft) were often record dives on a non rebreather apparatus; "more men have walked on the moon."In June 2004, during a cave dive at Bushman's Hole Shaw descended to an astounding depth of almost 900 feet.  What he inadvertently discovered was the body of a young cave diver lost to a diving mishap some 10 years earlier.  Though the author makes little note of the fact that Shaw is deeply religious and that Shaw had a previous dream envisioning that he would discover this body, Shaw felt that God has guided him to the body so that he can retrieve it for the still grieving parents of the young diver.  All this would be little known to the world except for the fact that the mainstream media picked up the story; a story in which the media (newspapers, magazines, radio, television and a video team) intended to document this Herculean effort to retrieve the body at the bottom of a 900 ft deep cave.  This is diving at the extreme!Unfortunately all does not go as planned and as a result, the media and the reader witnesses a tragedy in the making.  Phillip Finch documents this in a manner where the reader is aware of the inescapable tragedy but can't stop reading the next page, much like witnessing a train you know is going to crash but you can't stop looking at it.As is common with all great extreme adventure stories where human boundaries are tested, this story involves the elements of courage vs. calculated recklessness, altruistic goals vs. potentially deadly practicalities and perhaps foreseeable tragedy vs. almost averted tragedy (sadly, "what could have been").For those of us who are scuba divers, and even those of you who are not, this is certainly a book worthy of read.  Is it better than Shadow Divers?  You tell me.
5 This book was amazing.  I am not a diver although my husband is, and I was curious what kind of person would dive to the depths they describe.  These are not unintelligent men--if anything, they are extraordinarily brilliant.  Yet the compulsion that drives them is unfathomable.  I couldn't put this book down.  Whether you dive or not is beside the point; you will find this book beautifully written and continuously thrilling.
4 As a tech diver myself I found this a particularly good read, but I think any diver or any level would still find it a good read!
4 but, i enjoy reading about different types of water sports (i have a degenerative disease so the closest i'll get is my swimming pool) and the magnitude of emotion, care and courage of these divers is well presented.  we should all have this type of dedication!
5 This book was a great read.  I thought that there was the right time spent on the right things.  I highly recommend this book for those that are interested in diving.
4 Good book for a holiday read.  Takes the reader into life during the war living in London centred around an extended family.
4 I liked the story very much.  It was rather frustrating to be reading about one character and the very next sentence was about another character.  Other than that it was a very good story.  I would like to read the rest in the series, but don't know the names of the books or even if Amazon has them.
5 This book tugged at my heart. The family shares such warmth wit wh each othe.  and therefore passes that on to you.iwish the saga would never end
5 Each one of these books is a gem, all of them excellent and all of them well worth the time to read. I frankly could not put them down, and felt very sad when I finished the series. Definitely worth their price, and hopefully more will come from this author. She has now been added to my 'favourites'.
3 Would have been a better read if the story didn't change from one person to the next so quick. You read a paragraph and the next paragraph is about a different person. Sometimes you had to go back and reread to make sure you didn't miss anything. Another problem....sometimes sentances were totally left out? I would not recommend.
5 A good read.  I enjoy stories about the conflicts and challenges faced by previous generations of women. Especially World War II era.
4 haven't read it yet but it is my kind of book,so can't give an opinion yet, looks good,sounds good.thanks thanks
5 Jean and Vi are twins but they couldn't be any more different. Vi is a married with two spoiled children and lives in Wallasey. Jean lives in Liverpool with her family. When war breaks out cousins Luke and Charlie enlist and Jean's daughter Grace decides to train for a nurse and Vi's daughter Bella decides that she has to get married Alan,a man who Bella believes can raise her social status. On one night Grace meet Seb Atkins, Alan cousin.  A romance blooms under the threat of war, but in wartime not everyone will survive."Across the Mersey" is the first book in a great series. Ms. Grove give the reader great characters and a great storyline.  Any fan of wartime novels will love book Annie Groves books.
3 A pleasant read though at times it seemed a bitdisjointed with no obvious breaks between paragraphs, so at times one gets a bit confused as to just who is talking.  Too many jumps of characters without a break.  Not sure why this is as I am reading the 2nd in this series in book form, and find it easy and delightful.  In the end I think this is going to be a lovely family series set in Liverpool WW2.Just a pity about the way the fhis first book has been adapted. Otherwise a very good storyline.
5 This is the first book of a five-book series written about the Campion family in Liverpool beginning at the start of WWII.  Jean and Vi are twins.  Jean and her family live in what we here in the U.S. would term the "blue-collar" side of the Mersey River, closer to the docks, and Vi and hers live in Wallasey, on the other side of the Mersey, where the more professional/wealthier Liverpudlians live.  Vi is a snob and her children reflect her idea that she's better than her "lower-class" sister.  Jean is warm and loving and her children reflect their upbringing.  We get to know Jean and Vi and their husbands, their younger sister Fran, and all their children.  I personally loved Grace and Luke, Jean's two oldest, (Grace's story is prominently featured) but admit I was fascinated with Bella and Charlie, Vi's spoiled rotten two oldest (Bella's story is also prominently featured).  The overall story is melodramatic and at times simplistic, but Groves is a magical storyteller who makes you care about the characters and forge an emotional connection to them from page one.  Even though, as a writer, I kept seeing plot holes and convenient coincidences, as a reader, those flaws didn't matter and I thoroughly enjoyed the ride.  I've ordered all the books in the series and am looking forward to reading the rest.  The setting and background of WWII is very well done and felt authentic and real to me.  I also felt the facts were well-researched and presented.  Highly recommended to all lovers of British fiction and books with a background of WWII.
4 I enjoyed reading this book.  It was well crafted and the story moved in and out  with ease and yet was able to unravel to a nice conclusion.
5 I have read two books in this saga and have enjoyed every page of both.  I recommend it to those who want to relax with a good down to earth story.
3 This is the third book in a series of five about the Campion family during WWII.  I read volumes one and five as well as this one.  The author is good about bringing the reader up to date regarding events that took place is a previous book.  The Campion family contains very sympathetic characters, but Vi and her son Charlie had no redeeming qualities which made them somewhat unbelievable.  I also tired of finding out what every woman in the book was wearing every time she was mentioned, and how many cups of tea were served.  This is why I gave the book only three stars.  However, I was interested in finding out what happened to all of the characters when the war was finally over.  One of the strengths of this book (and the two others) was the way the author described how a war affects ordinary people.
5 Like all Annie Groves' books it saws a delight to read. Very well written & 100% accuracy. I plan on reading all her books now. Good read.
5 I have read all the books in this series and I wish there were more. I really enjoy reading these.
5 The long war is continuing for the Campions family, but now is it beginning to send them of different directions. Luke is being posted overseas.  Twins Sasha and Lou are starting to go in opposite directions.  Grace is in a hurry to finished her training and marry Seb. Cousin Bella may be going be in a direction that no one expected from a selfish young woman to a grown responsible woman.&#34;Heart of the Family&#34; is the third book in the &#34;Campions&#34;  series by Annie Grove and a winner! These is a great family to spend time with.  Ms. Groves is a writer with a great gift for story telling and should not be missed by any fan of war-time books.
5 Enjoyed every page of this book.  It was a down to earth story of good times and bad in a normal family living through the hardships of war.  Looking forward to reading No. 3 in the series.
4 Another well-written work by Sam Bourne filled with suspense and reads like an historical fiction novel.  I got the impression that the story was designed to create empathy for holocaust survivors and justify acts of revenge. The book offers evidence of atrocities inflicted on the Jews and their efforts to inflict revenge. They partially succeeded in Plan B but were thwarted with Plan A that would have killed millions of Germans.  Those who take revenge engage in similar despicable acts as the perpetrators of the original crime. The "eye for an eye" philosophy is archaic. Punishment administered under the rule of law is the only justice that can be accepted in any lawful society.  Although the author makes reference to this in reflective thought processes with his character, Tom Byrne, it is not in balance with the story.  I don't believe the author intended the story to justify acts of revenge that continue to this day, however the story tends to give that impression.
4 Sam Bourne is the literary pseudonym of Jonathan Freedland, an award-winning British journalist and broadcaster. His first Bourne novel, THE RIGHTEOUS MEN, is an international bestseller, and he has continued releasing outstanding historical fiction works under the Bourne name ever since. His latest effort, THE FINAL RECKONING, once again has its roots in Judaism. With Freedland being an expert on this topic --- having covered the Middle East struggle for over two decades and chairing a three-day dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians --- there is no more credible author than himself to deliver a voice to the Jewish people through his speculative and enthralling historical fiction.The novel opens with a tragedy. Seventy-seven-year-old Gerald Merton is wearing a bulky overcoat and approaching the United Nations main building. Security had received a tip earlier about an alleged terrorist attack, and a suspect was described with the same features as Merton. Felipe Tavares, a security guard who only sees Merton from behind, shouts a warning and then fires at the suspect, killing him instantly. When they discover that this was no terrorist but an elderly British citizen on a seemingly innocent visit, the UN fears an international incident. Henning Munchau, the primary legal counsel for the UN who is responsible for safety and security, hires an outsider to help smooth things over before the bad press can spread. Being able to brush this under the table is especially vital as the UN is preparing for a large meeting of all their international representatives the very same week.The person Munchau reaches out to is attorney Tom Byrne, whose star has fallen far in recent years and now offers his services to the highest bidder. He owes Munchau a favor and agrees to become the mouthpiece for the UN with Merton's family. Byrne flies to the UK to meet with Merton's sole surviving relative, his daughter Rebecca. Rebecca is at her father's home and is unwilling to accept a token apology from the UN, demanding a face-to-face meeting with the Secretary General himself.While there, Byrne picks up a notebook he mistakes for his own. He realizes the error, but is tempted to read it before returning it to Rebecca. Upon opening it, he is taken back to the early days of World War II in Eastern Europe. The notebook belonged to Rebecca's father, then known as Gershon Matzkin, and contains explicit details of his parents' murder/suicide and the apprehension of him and his sisters by the Nazis from their home in Kovno, Poland. As with many tragic stories from WWII, Matzkin is the sole survivor of the massacre that befalls all the Jewish residents of Kovno, and his sisters are slain.As Byrne researches more into the background of Matzkin, he finds a young man with Aryan features who is able to escape from enslavement in a concentration camp and becomes part of a fledgling Jewish resistance group that goes by the acronym DIN --- Dam Israel Nokeam --- literally translated as "The blood of Israel will take vengeance." DIN operated throughout Eastern Europe during WWII and was instrumental in battling the Nazis and later received assistance from both US and Soviet forces. Once WWII was over, DIN dedicated themselves to hunting down the thousands of criminals left over from the war who did not face judgment at the Nuremberg trials for war atrocities and crimes against humanity with their attempt to wipe the Jewish people off the face of the earth. Byrne, along with Rebecca, follows the evidence and hidden research of DIN and Merton's involvement. It turns out that there was a much larger plan to eliminate millions of Germans via contamination of the water systems and a secondary plan that would poison their bread. Byrne begins to realize that maybe Merton's visit to the UN was not so innocent after all. The big question to be answered is: Who was he after?On the US front, Detective First Grade Jay Sherrill is following up on the criminal investigation from a local standpoint and finds resistance at every turn. Eventually, the NYPD asks him to halt his investigation as the shooting occurred on UN soil and is technically outside of NYPD jurisdiction. Meanwhile, Byrne and Rebecca are sent on a wild goose chase throughout Europe to try to piece together the master revenge plans of DIN and the role Matzkin may have played in them. There appears to be groups that will do anything to stop them from revealing this information and a mysterious faction that is apparently willing to assist them in their quest. As things come to a head and the subject of Matzkin's final act of revenge or reckoning is identified, Byrne realizes he is caught in the middle of an international battle that is far more than he originally signed on for.Using plot twists that are reminiscent of the great British author Robert Goddard, THE FINAL RECKONING is fast-paced historical fiction at its finest. Bourne deftly uses his breadth of knowledge on the historical subtexts that form the foundation for this work of "fiction" and has once again created a winner of a novel that will thrill fans of the genre as well as history aficionados who will appreciate the real events and people that provided its inspiration. Bourne specifically references FORGED IN FURY, a 1971 book written by Michael Elkins, a former BBC correspondent to Jerusalem. It provides the fullest account of the actual DIN and their post-war activities that inspired Sam Bourne's extraordinary thriller.--- Reviewed by Ray Palen
3 A cop shoots an elderly man in the United Nations Plaza in New York, mistaking him for a terrorist. Lawyer Tom Byrne investigates the shooting and finds that the dead man, a naturalized Briton but originally a Jew from Lithuania, may not have been an innocent victim. Working alongside the Lithuanian's glamorous daughter (cue romance!), Byrne is soon on the trail of a 'cabal' that has been exacting revenge for the Holocaust since the late 1940s.Sam Bourne is often trumpeted as one of Dan Brown's biggest rivals, but I found myself getting echoes of Robert Ludlum, the 'grand-daddy' of the modern conspiracy thriller. Bourne is a better writer than Brown but not quite in Ludlum's league. THE FINAL RECKONING has an intriguing opening and a thrilling climax back in New York, but the central section in London sags with too much talk and not enough action (a common flaw in this genre). You want something involving Nazi-hunters to be quirky like THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL or to have the breathtaking pace of Spielberg's Indiana Jones movies.Daniel Silva remains the 'king' of the Jewish Vengeance thriller.[Reviewer is the author of SHAIKH-DOWN]
4 Writing as Sam Bourne British author Jonathan Freedland has crafted a chilling suspense novel based in large part on recent history.  It's a conspiracy thriller that segues between past and present.  The past includes terrifying descriptions of the horrors perpetrated by the Nazis, and the heroic efforts of the captured people simply to survive.We are made aware of the subject matter in the Prologue: "So forgive me if what you read here is harsh, if it haunts you the way it haunts me.  But there will be no exaggeration, no lies.  I may not tell everything, but what I will tell will be the truth."  It is, indeed, a difficult story to read at times; one that will surely not be  forgotten.Our protagonist is Tom Byrne, a lawyer who has become disillusioned, and will now work for anyone, the mafia included.  When an old friend at the U.N. asks him to take on a job he accepts - he's one of those guys who has nothing to lose.A man on the U.N. security staff has shot and killed a supposed suicide bomber - the man fit the description, dark overcoat, hat.  However, the victim was only an elderly man.  Byrne is dispatched to go to London and try to mollify the family.  That in itself could be a difficult task, but it becomes even more difficult when the man turns out not to be quite so innocent after all.With the man's daughter, Rebecca, Tom discovers a secret group that is joined in one mission  - to go throughout the world to find and kill the Nazis responsible for atrocities inflicted upon the Jews.  This part of the story is based upon the actual actions of Holocaust survivors.THE FINAL RECKONING is a powerful thriller with multiple twists and turns.  It is compulsive reading grounded in recent history.- Gail Cooke
3 This novel revolves around the death of an alleged hitman (who turns out to be a 70+ year old Holocaust survivor)outside the United Nations building in New York and the investigation and goings-on his death causes.Bourne writes with reasonable style, but the book, while full of interesting facts about the fate of the Lithuanian Jewish sector in the Holocaust and the subsequent retribution claimed on their Nazi persecutors by a group of the Jewish survivors after WW2, doesn't really grab you and draw you in.
5 Following a terrorist alert, septuagenarian Lithuanian Gerald Merton is visiting the United Nations when a security guard shoots and kills him believing the elderly man was a suicide bomber.  Henning Munchau asks former agency lawyer Tom Byrne to help with the expected media brouhaha.  Tom agrees.Tom journeys to London to offer the UN's condolences and apologies to the victim's grieving daughter Rebecca.  At the same time NYPD Detective Jay Sherrill leads the investigation.  The cop soon uncovers some links dating back to the end of WWII that ties the deceased to a Holocaust survivor group that Merton belonged to.  This aging unit wants secrets to remain concealed and killing a cop, a daughter and a lawyer is an acceptable practice.The Final Reckoning is a taut twisting thriller that grips the audience from the opening in New York, but especially hooks readers when the past hauntingly surfaces.  The cast is strong as each in their way (either through investigation or firsthand and secondhand nightmarish memories) brings forth the dark vivid picture of Europe when the horrors of the Final Solution became internationally known.  Sam Bourne provides a powerful "Never Forget" tale.Harriet Klausner
5 I enjoyed this story line. Have always been fascinated with WWII story lines. Especially the secretiveness of the underground movements involving routing the Nazi's. This book is very engaging. It revolves around the father who has a secret. I highly recommend and will continue to follow Sam Bourne.
4 Different kind of novel for me, but it had what I really like.  Action, wonderful characters and plenty of intrigue. Am looking forward to this authors new book. Excellent for me.
4 This is my favorite genre of book- interesting facts entwined in a thriller. This book has a plethora of holocaust facts and the story has a surprising twist at the end. A must read if you are interested in the holocaust or survivors of the holocaust.
5 Tom Byrne will work for anyone - but his latest assignment involves a hidden brotherhood and a world mission that has caused numerous deaths. Based on the true story of a group of Holocaust survivors that sought revenge for Nazi deeds, this provides a thriller packed with unexpected twists and turns, tension, and social issues surrounding World War II secrets and the Holocaust, and is a top pick for any general lending library strong in thrillers in historical novels.
5 This well-written novel is captivating from beginning to end.  Anyone who enjoys historical fiction or WWII fiction will thoroughly enjoy this novel.  It is extremely well-written and well researched.  The characters are well thought out and interesting surprises at the end.
4 The Righteous Men and The Last Testament were entertaining, but flawed. I gave them both three stars. The Last Testament was an improvment over The Righteous Men, and with "The Final Reckoning", Bourne finally gets almost everything it right. At first I got the impression it might be a ripoff of The Odessa File, and there are similarities but also big differences, and I recommend them both. While "The Final Reckoning" is not as great as "The Odessa File", Bourne, like Forsyth, mixes past and present, fact and fiction, into a fast paced thriller. Like in his previous books, there are still some parts where obvious things are explained, and the romance seems a bit tacked on. But this time, it's not enough to distract from the enjoyment of the novel.I recommend "The Final Reckoning" to fans of thrillers, and those interested in the Second World War and its aftermath (the same goes for The Odessa File, so if you haven't read that one, I recommend it too).
5 This is the first time I have read this author.  I found this story very exciting, especially due to the fact that it is based on some historical facts.  The reader might think he knows how the novel will end, but there are plenty of surprises and twists. The reader is thrown off balance.  I like books like that.  If you enjoy a good mystery where everything is not as it seems, then this book is for you.  If you are interested in a good modern mystery with a holocaust theme, you will certainly find the story fascinating.
4 I actually bought this book expecting it to be something else!I was at the airport generally wasting time when I got the impulse to buy a book for my flight.  I was looking for something interesting, not really heavy, but nevertheless a mystery and something that would take my mind off my work for the eight hour flight.  This book really met all of my expectations.The characters were well developed and realistic and the author intergrated them well into the plot of the book.The plot was totally believeable, especially for me being a baby boomer brought up in a time when the second world war was still a strong memory for most of my family.  The Nazi hunter subplot was interesting, intriguing and I undertand it was adapted from historical events.  The twists and turns were punctuated by the occasional hint of romance and the potential for a steamy liaison between the two main characters Tom and Rebecca.At times the plot and the rememberances of the jewish holocost pulled on my emotional heart strings.  This balanced the excitement of the mystery.  The final outcome was a twist and again quite believeable.This book fully satisfied my desire for an interesting and intriguing story.  I was not disapointed - It had more twists and loose ends than a bowl of my mother's spagetti.Rob CollinsAuthor of "Safety Management without the Mumbo Jumbo".
3 Good story about lesser known facts pertaining the Jewish slaughter during World War II  not previously depicted with any accuracy
4 Once I got into this book I could hardly put it down. It held my interest for the rest of the book. I would definitely recommend this book.
4 Truth and fiction merge in this thriller about survivors of the holocaust taking justice into their own hands, seeking out Nazis and murdering them.  It comes to light when the last survivor of DIN, the secret group of Jewish resistance fighters (yes, there were some) and concentration camp inmates after the war, travels to the UN in New York from London on his last mission and is shot by a security guard.Tom Byrne, a former UN attorney now in private practice, is retained to go to London, visit the victim's daughter, and attempt to smooth over any claim she might have.  Instead, he becomes both romantically involved with her and involved in a scheme that eventually has severe repercussions.Written based on actual people and events of the past, the novel provides emotional ups and downs almost equal in intensity to the horrors of "the final solution."  It concludes with a suspense that is equally gripping, with solid prose and excellent pacing, and is recommended.
2 No pics on the ebook! Not ok. I want more than just bare text. I trust the recipes are ok, but I want a better format than my Mom's recipe rolodex.
5 When I purchased this book, I was hoping that Ramsay would de-mistify some of the Indian cuisine that I had grown fond of. The book did not disappoint.There is an ingredients glossary at the start of the book. Most of the recipes are titled with English so that you can understand at a glance what the recipes are, with the exception of the more well-known dishes. And with most of those, Ramsay also gives an Indian name so that you can begin to learn the names of these dishes. The book is interspersed with colourful photos of Ramsay's culinary trip to India. There are full page photos of most of the dishes. With some recipes, Ramsay tweaks the recipe. I don't know how far off the original traditional recipes are, but knowing ethnic cooking, you must realize that each region, indeed, each cook uses slightly different recipes anyway. I rate this book a buy.
5 Traditionalists and purists of Indian food may scoff and sniff at this, but three-star Michelin chef Gordon Ramsay has put his immense talents to learning and translating the basics of Indian cookery whilst, at the same time, putting his own style and making the dishes easy for the home cook to prepare and enjoy.This book is a "spin off" to a British television series that saw Ramsay travel around India, learning from some of the country's top chefs and regular street-food cooks alike what real Indian food is. What people think of Indian food can often be a pale imitation of the real authentic dish or, as in many cases, the dishes one enjoys at home are not even known of in the country of their alleged birth.There is no standard Indian fare as each region has a wide-range of specialities, delicacies and signature dishes. Where commonality can be found there will still be regional influences based on practical and historical reasons.  Here Ramsay gets to learn about what makes many of these dishes tick, whether it be taste, visual appearance, nature of ingredients or even a cultural difference.Many cookery books featuring Indian food often manage to confuse the less-experienced reader by over-complicating matters or becoming intimidating through their desire to be authentic. Ramsay, whilst trying to keep the food true to its roots, acknowledges and accepts some practical differences - not everybody will have access to all of the cooking implements and fresh ingredients that would be desirable yet with a slight compromise and the use of ingredients that are increasingly-available in larger supermarkets around the world you will still get a dish that could be fit for a King, a Maharajah or a good family get together. With a little bit of effort one can enjoy a taste of India from your own kitchen.At times one might forget this is principally a recipe book due to the wonderful colourful photographs and light, free-flowing text. It is like having a quality informal travel guide with a lot of recipes and expert advice thrown in. Each recipe is well-presented with much background information, tips and tricks and, as one would expect, one does not need to be a professional chef to follow and understand the instructions.It would have been nice if more of the knowledge gained from his research could have been added to the book to add further "background impact" but then the book might have been a series of volumes and not so kitchen-friendly. Similar a version of the book with copies of the television series on a DVD or Blu-Ray disk would have been great, but licensing and technical issues involved with the television world still get in the way. If you get the chance to see the series or to buy a DVD/Blu-Ray copy you should do so for additional benefit.This reviewer, himself an avid eater of Indian foods, found quite a lot of interesting recipes to try in the future as well as a lot of information nuggets to file away.  This is not a classic reference book nor a classic recipe book but a jolly good hybrid. A sort of informal learning experience. This book really should be considered if you have enjoyed Indian food and wish to learn a little more about it and, hopefully, have an interest to try making some for yourself.The book's very reasonable price makes it a bargain - particularly when you know it will be heavily-discounted by many larger outlets due to the television series tie in, meaning that it is going to be affordable to even more people. For less than the price of couple of typical takeaway meals, you could get the knowledge to make your own in the future!
5 If you've ever been privileged to see his show "Gordon Ramsay's Great Escape" where he travels to India in search of true Indian cuisine you'll love this book because it takes what he learned there and gives us the recipes he learned there.  And if you didn't get to see his show, the book is worth it just for the Indian recipes inside.  Fantastic book!
2 After watching Ramsay's abrasive TV shows, where he cruelly confronts chefs and owners, I was pleased, then surprised, then amazed that his short journey to India was worthwhile as cooking instruction, as a travelogue, and even as a spiritual journey. I went to find my local Indian market, and started the very difficult task of shopping where the food is labeled in several languages. (It was worse even, than trying to buy at the Chinese market.) I had a higher proportion of failures than in any other cuisine, and Ramsay's book didn't help. He is a high-end cook, and he tends to "telegraph", omitting details he apparently feels should be obvious. I'm a beginning cook, and not all that much is obvious to me! Neither is it helpful, Ramsay, simply to tell readers to buy everything local and fresh. I can't buy any of the fish mentioned local or fresh or frozen.So, overall, if you have a lot of shelf space, already know something about Indian cooking, and enjoyed the TV series, go ahead, buy the book, and enjoy a few extra moments with Ramsay's experience.(Ingredients. Wikipedia has a comprehensive list of Indian ingredients, transliterated. It has been withdrawn (whatever that means), but the person who removed it still has a copy stored, if you click the history. It's extremely useful, and I couldn't easily find anything else equivalent on the Internet.)
4 It does what it claims. I really lost the weight that I had put by moving in southern Italy (good cuisine here!). The program is really well balanced and you will eat not just juices but also soups and salads.useful info:-you must own a juicer AND a blender-you will eat most of your time juices and smooties-it is quite expensive-I got really cold for doing this and I was really hungry-It is time consuming and you will go around for a week with your juice flaskshappy juicing
5 This book is informative and has great recipes that even my husband will drink.  We drink for health and to get enough fruits and veggies.
4 this book is a really good read.. and i did do the seven day launch but i wanted to throw up tasting some of the smoothies and juice.. yuck! the soup and salads were good though.. i lost a pound a day .. so seven lbs.. and it did shrink my stomach.. and change my lifestyle.. so i cant complain. but i do not use the juice and smoothies recipes in the book.. yuck!!!
5 If you have ever purchased any of Jason Vale's books, then you will not be disappointed with &#34;Juice Yourself Slim&#34;. It has great Juice recipes and you can sure benefit if you follow it right.
5 This book is easy to follow and the drinks actually taste good. I would recommend this book to anyone starting the juice process.
5 It's hard to believe people can be so wrong about a situation without really checking into the reality of it.  As a grandparent I was so upset about how they were treated as if they were part of the problem, when clearly they were great grandparents!
5 This book is so good and very sad it has made ne cry I hope people would read this I love her books
4 This book is hard to read, it is so sad what the little girl goes through and what the grandparents have to go through, you really feel for the characters. It is well written through and makes you want to keep reading to find out if the little girl goes home or gets adopted
5 Bought several books by this author for my daughter to read, she just loves them.  i have read some myself and really liked them to
5 Cathy Glass writes with such great descriptions that you can almost see the child. This story about Alice was sad and sweet. She makes you want to cuddle Alice and never let her go. You always have to know what is going to happen.
5 Great book ! Very aS that Alice was taken away but the ending of this book was great . I love Cathy Glass books
5 This story was heartbreaking, but HAPPY how things turned out. I couldn't wait to finish. What an amazing story. Cathy & her family are super for all they do. So happy for Lucy too. I'm about to read Part 3 now of Daddy's little Princess which came out today. Can't get enough of these stories!
5 This is a story of a little girl called AliceAlice is to be placed with Cathy and her family on the Friday but it did not workBefore she even came to Cathy her mum had taken her and hid her for a few day,Alice love her Nan grandpa and her mummy but she dont love her daddy and his new wifethis book will have you in tears, but Alice is a very brave girl and you will grow to love her as you read the bookfor the people that have fostered or foster you will feel for poor Alice as you for every child that you have had come in to care.The taken a child screaming from contact with the family home and trying to calm the child down, the meeting where you have shouting matches and waiting for the court to say what will happen
5 This book made me incredibly sad and I can honestly say it deserves a far higher rating than 5 stars.  Cathy gets right into the heart of the matter for each child she writes about.  She brings you into her home and her life to help you understand what both her natural family and the foster children are going through.I cannot believe that social services did not check out the child's circumstances more thoroughly before they removed her from a loving home. And then to read they were thinking of placing her with an abusive father. That is unfathomable!!!Cudos to Cathy for being such a prolific author and bringing these children into the light.  Hopefully in reading some of these stories, hearts will be opened and more fostering homes will open up.  It is just so sad that such homes are needed.
5 This book was an extremely good book.I would recommend everyone READ it.It tells the truth all about the foster care  situation.cissyypl
5 Cathy Glass is a highly gifted foster-carer and deserving author given voice by the power of E books.  She entered into foster-care before the basic guidelines were well established and people in place to perform them.  Gifted abundantly with motherly qualities and a heart overflowing with love, she undertook this highly troublesome case.  Though very sad, frustrating, emotionally draining and demanding of time & resources, Cathy Glass, again, consistently gives comfort to the child; makes her feel secure in her chaotic micro-world; endures the frustrations of a fractured social service bureaucracy; and perseveres with Love and optimism.  LOVE wins once again, and Cathy Glass makes a positive contribution in this young girls life, as well as the social service system."I Miss My Mummy" is a compelling story worthy of your read.
5 Excellent book and well written. This is he second or third book I have read by this author and I have loved them all so far.
4 Wonderful book. Heart wrenching story about a child &#34;stuck in the system&#34;. Even though the system may not always work correctly...the end result can be positive.
5 I enjoyed this pleasant heartfelt story. Sometimes I wanted to jump into the book and speak my mind, it was that engaging.
5 Cathy Glass is an amazing lady. It takes lots of patience and control to foster children and she seems to have it. It's very hard to believe what some parents do to their innocent children, it really makes me sad to read what happens to them in their young lives.
4 I picked this book because I like true stories that are family orientated. It was an excellent 4 stars reader. Makes you understand more of what goes on with fostered children. Had a very good ending!
5 Although this is probably not necessarily for intellectuals, I found it very moving and engaging.  I was certainly &#34;grabbed&#34; by this poignant story and grew to care about what happened to this child.  It was a fast read and I really was eager to &#34;see what happened.&#34;  I really liked this book!
5 I'm on my second Cathy Glass book now and I'm afraid I'm addicted. I enjoy reading about the hope in these children's lives and that there are adults who can make a difference. I think the kids on the cover though are really misleading as I picture them much differently in my head.
4 If you like this genre, then you will find this book is hard to put down.  The author/narrator has the patience of a saint.
4 A sad little story of what can go wrong with the foster care system in today's world.  This poor child, in spite of the loving ministrations of the author will no doubt grow up scarred for life.  At least eventually she got her life back.  An interesting read.
4 Nice character development and helpful in learning how we can misconstrue what the circumstances are behind social service's work.  A bit of a tear jerker.
5 This story was difficult to read because of the subject matter.  It was interesting just how a child can get lost in the system.  Speaking with people that have been through this themselves and the effect it had on their lives has been eye opening.  Children are our future we need to be love and protect them and fight for them when necessary.It was a good book.
3 I enjoyed reading it but thought she repeated hersel a lot with certain details.  It gave me insight on what Fostering should be for these children.
5 Be amazed , Be moved , Be Inspired....  Thanks for another moving glimpse into your life , Cathy Glass will keep you turning the pages of her books hoping and praying for a happy future for the children she has helped.
5 Another wonderful book from Cathy Glass and another tear jerker. I don't just admire Cathy but also her family, another must read.
4 this book is so heart wrenching  if you care about children at all it will be a hard read recommend
5 This was a very good book. It showed the care and love that a foster family gives to a child in their care. The child in this book was a delightful little girl and gave love for all but never gave up her love for and desire to live with her mother again.
4 I am a mother of twins that are 2years old. I would be beside myself if something ever happened to them. So this book was an definitely an important part of my life personally for l myself am a recovering drug addict. I am blessed to have a very good supporting family how understand my life. I am also a strong believer in the foster care services.
5 This book was awesome.  I couldn't put it down.  I couldn't wait to see how it would end, hoping the whole time it ended the way I wanted it to and the way that would have been right. Very happy with the ending!!!
5 In this story, you really see how slow government agencies can work.  You also see what one very devoted foster parent can do to reunite a child and Mother.
2 Again it isn't the story of Alice that I disliked it is the writing skill I find bothersome.  Too much superfulous detail about the writers schedule and time lines , Just give me the necessary info.  I don't have a lot of time to read so I skim when the details are too many.  Maybe that is why 2 books by this author became Kindle deals.  I think she would sell more books if she omitted some of the scheduling details.
5 I like books by Cathy Glass because she is an easy read and she doesn't go into too many of the horrific details like some similar books.  I usually find myself so involved in the stories of the children that she writes about that I just can't put the book down.
5 This author is one of my favorites because she tells the story in an interesting way, never ever boring! This book is captivating and heartbreaking. Worth the money!
5 I was fascinated with the way Cathy dealt with the foster children.  After reading I Miss Mummy, I read several other books by the author.  They were interesting too, but I Miss Mummy is one of her better books.
5 This was such a sad, but so amazingly wonderful read.  I was drawn to the whole story and couldn't stop reading.  I just wanted to know how it ended up for Alice.  I felt like I was involved in the heart of it all.  This is a must read.
5 Man, you just fall in love with little Alice and she takes a little place in your heart! This book tells of a questionable decision to take her into care and away from those who love and seem to take good care of her.
5 This Cathy Glass book is another good one and worth the read.  Buy these in bulk if possible because once you get started, you want to keep going.  My friend and I flew through about five or six of them in a few months.
5 Get your box of kleenex. You will need it for this great story that shows what can happen if a child is put in the system by mistake.Well written story that  will be hard to put down. Even the caregiver was amazing. If everyone was like this, it would really make a difference. Great read...
4 Sometimes the states do get it wrong but they did fine out they made a mistake and the little girl went home to where she needed to be. A child knows who loves them are not and in this case she got the on parent that really love her.
5 Excellent book. I could not put it down... highly recommend. You will not be disappointed. What happens when social services drop the ball .....
5 Another wonderful book by Cathy Glass. Alice you are blessed to have a grandma and grandpa who love you so much. Cathy, again a wonderful thing you do saving these kids from the system. You protect their rights and that is what is so important and forgotten by some care givers. Bless you for each one you have taken into your home and have helped. I just finished Lucy's story as well, and had tears dripping off my chin when you told her!!!!! Bless you for all you do Ms. Glass, and thank you so much for sharing!
4 Cathy Glass provides a worthwhile insight to foster care.  If all care givers were as understanding and well trained as she is, our children would be well-served.
4 I still just love the way Cathy writes. This was a great story,because I needed a break from the horrendous material.
4 This poor child!  What a way to start an early life  Bless her grandparents and her mother. I know this happens but it is sad to readThanks again CathyRose
5 This is a 5 star book -- the true story of a child in foster care by mistake.  It broke my heart.  I cried.  I recommend it because it's a good, genuine, well-written story and thank heaven it has a happy enough ending... this time.
5 As always CATHY Glass has helped another child.  She is a very warm and caring person.  She brings children into her home and treats them as if they were hers.  Too bad all carers were as good
5 I was kept on the edge of my seat waiting to see where Alice would end up going to live. She sounded like such an adorable child that everyone would love and you hate to see her being pushed around from place to place. Very easy reading. It's amazing what foster parents do for these children!
5 Arrived very fast from Amazon. I can always count on getting the latest books by Cathy Glass from Amazon.Great read.
4 A sweet, obviously well cared-for little girl winds up in protective care as an emergency.  The child's mother is reported to have a drug problem and the maternal grandparents are ruled out because they will be 70 by the time the child nears adulthood.  Her father and his wife are the default option.  The true account is written by the English foster carer.This is the second or third book I have read by this author, so I obviously like her and recommend the book.  Adapting to the never-ending demands of a system that seems at times designed for its own benefits, the fosterers and child struggle along.  It is comforting to know that there are warm caring people, who are well trained to care for children in crisis--at least in the British Isles.  It is less comforting to see the almost haphazard way social workers follow cases.
5 This book shows how the foster care system fails a young girl who was doing fine with her grandparents with access to her mother ( who was having domestic and addiction problems) The mother was keen to clean up her life  for her beloved daughter and the grandparents were doing well and loved having little Alice live with them. Eventually Alice was put into Cathy Glass' home as a foster child. No one could understand why Alice was taken from a loving home where she was well-cared for, but apparently the couple was deemed " too old." Alice was a pleasant , smart child who gained Cathy's and her family's affection, and eventually justice saw Alice back with her natural family. A very good memoir of when the system is over-zealous and makes an error in judgment.
3 I have read several Cathy Glass stories and they can be hard to read for the sadness of the stories of these children.  Thank God for folks like Cathy and other foster or care families.  Why do I read them if I find sadness?  To try to understand.  So far I am not doing too well at that but I have a new outlook on fostering.
3 Hhhhmmmm.  Didn't realize Breathless was a fantasy.  This style Koontz has been using as of late is very similiar to his Odd Thomas stories.  His words and narration and characters and events seem to be otherworldly or underwater and almost as if we are seeing everything through a light gauze or fog or a narcotic haze. Everything is very dreamlike and soft and as if seen from a distance and is like looking through a slow and blurry lens.  I do like some aspects of his narrative but a whole book like this gets to be tedious and...boring.  Of course, I did not think Breathless would be a fairy tale fantasy story which it is.  Koontz, nevertheless is an excellent writer with his own unique voice and I enjoy some of his writing and his style but the "otherworldlyness" starts to put me to sleep.  This story is not very well thought out.  Breathless seems to be more of a meditation of essays and thoughts than a compelling story, more of a dreamlike state than a story with immediatecy and punch.  In fact, this whole story is more of an expanded short story that was cobbled together for 300+ pages with a deadline approaching. Here less would have been more.  This story is just very FLAT and monochromatic with s sudden 100 yard dash to a hurried dis-jointed "wonderful" ending and the story strings hardly tie together very well.  I found the first third of the story to be a good beginning and then...it just goes downhill from there.This story is definitely not for everyone.  Especially if you are expecting something like Koontz's earlier and more stimulating stories.  This one ain't it. There also seems to be some science vs. religion thing going on like evolution vs creationism.  I think Dean is in the "intelligent design" camp and Darwin takes a beating.I give it a two and a half out of five and I may have over-rated it and I wouldn't recommend this to most readers.  Koontz is a very skilled writer, but despite his writing skills the story suffers.  It's Ok I read it, but I would not read it again and I'll be very cautious before I bother to read any of his newer stories.  I also couldn't find much suspense or thrills but it is somewhat provoking in it's own little fantasy way.  This appears to be his new style and maybe he is worn out from all the suspense and violence of his earlier works.SPOILERS: SPOILERS: SPOILERS:  The Henry character was completely bizarre needless and his only function seems to be for the author to vent about how evil the congress and government and Henry are.  His other function is for some mindless killing off of his twin brother and wife.  The Henry segments are just some filler or fodder which is the same with the Tom Bigger character who is Henry's opposite.  The scientist Lamar who is an emminent chaos theory expert explains the the two cutey-creatures are part of the order of chaos theory and goes on to explain that mathematically...it is impossible for evoltion to be true because not enough time exists for the generations of mutations to create for example...a horse.  And there is not enough fossils found in the fossil record to support said evolution.  So, according to that and chaos theory life forms can simply appear spontaneously all developed and speaking English.  It can only be spontaneous creation or intelligent design??? Oh!  And the human genome and the cutey-creatures are a perfect match.  Aaawww c'mon Dean.  This is all flimsy reasoning.  Especially when one considers that not just two new creatures suddenly appear but some 70,000 pairs suddenly appear worldwide at the same time and they not only understand English--they can also speak it.  I assume the ones in Japan speak Japanese and the ones in France speak French or maybe all of these 140,000 creatures are multi-lingual and probably read and write as well.  Or maybe translators are needed???Gggeeezzz,  what was he smoking?
3 Dean Koontz did an amazing job on the characters and overall story of this novel. He was able to create diverse backgrounds and stories of their lives in just a few hundred pages. This novel does have many twists and leaves you wanting to keep reading to get all your questions answered. However, most of the answers you don't get until the very end of the book and they almost seemed rushed and then it just ends. I had this feeling throughout the entire book that something big was going to happen, but then it was more of a letdown. Overall, it was a quick and interesting read, but not great.
4 This book is pretty good. It centers on how even though we can be from different worlds - we are all connected somehow. My only drawback was that it was too short. I would have like to have more details about the fluffy creatures.But oh well, cant have everything we want can we?!The book is basically about a man and his dog, A man and his wife, a veterinarian, an estranged twin, two creatures, the military involvement and how they all fit together in one world. Each chapter jumps to a different part of the story or group of people but it all comes together in the end in a surprising way. Overall the book was fun and interesting and suspenseful but I just wish it were longer.Still, it was worth the buy.
1 Dean Koontz is an awesome author. I have shelves FULL of his books. I've read about 20 of them so far. "Breathless" is a disappointment. Very little action at all. No big climax or "big reveal" at the end. It pains me to write a bad review for my absolute favorite author on the planet, but...honesty is the best policy. Skip this book. Sorry Mr. Koontz.
2 Hard to believe this is the same author who wrote Strangers and Watchers. I wish Koontz would hold himself to a higher standard and not publish such a flimsy work. Characters are underdeveloped, and plot line fizzles out at the end.
3 The introduction of a brand new species of animal changes not only the people who discover them, but the world. I enjoyed this book, as I do all Dean Koontz books but I would have like to see an ending that had more detail for the reason of the new animals and how the world was going to change.
1 I will keep this short,  but had to put my two cents in.I have been a fan of Dean's since I first read Watchers years ago.I don't know what has happened to him of late, but his recent bookshave totally sucked! I have noticed he has incorporated religiousbackward thinking in his latest novels, and I have, until now, turneda blind eye to the whole Christian / regilious propaganda garbage, butwith this last one I fear he has gone off the deep end, and I have todraw the line.Evolution is not a theory, but a scientific fact...it has happened, andis happening all around us as we speak...Creationist thinking is a farce,and there is NO evidence to prove it, so cut the crap, Dean.I will no longer purchase a book from this cucko who has obviously joinedthe " born again" nut cases that are directing our nation back into thedark ages and is turning our country into the most ignorant western nationin the world.I have always given his books as gift to my friends, and I truly apolize tothem for doing so....you can bet it will not happen again. From now on Iwill be gifting the likes of Lincoln Child, Douglas Preston and Steven Alten.
4 If you enjoyedOne Door Away from HeavenorThe Taking, you will probably enjoy this slower paced Koontz novel. If however, his novels like "The Husband," "The Good Guy" or "Intensity" and "Relentless" are your favorite Koontz novels, you will most likely hate this one.This contains the standard Koontz themes:Good is stronger than evilInnocence is its own rewardDogs are always good - even sometimes the heroesThere is something Good that is powerful out thereThe government is screwed upLike "One Door Away from Heaven" and "The Taking" as well as many of Koontz's books, the ending is really an "open ending." The book isn't an end in and of itself, but a new beginning into a potential future.Perhaps the best part of the book was the careful way in which Koontz involved probability analysis and chaos theory into the novel. However his development of evil (and the resolution) seemed almost to be a side story to the actual storyline.I give it four stars because I enjoyed the possibilities which were addressed - the whole "what if?" questions I found myself dealing with once the story was done.
1 I've been enjoying Dean Koontz since the 60's when he, along with Steven King, burst onto the Science Fiction - Fantasy scene. So innovative, such skillful young writers, and so productive under their own names and several pen names were they, that some critics postulated that they were in fact a single pseudonymous wunderkind! Over the years, we've learned to recognize their differences, and despite career highs and lows we all have our favorite. Mine has always been Koontz - but with gradually growing reservations.Koontz greatest weakness has been the inability to end a book book with a real, slam-bang climax. We've become used to completing 400 pages of high speed, high energy story telling with half a dozen tepid paragraphs of: "but it all got better, and everyone went home". "Breathless" definitely exhibits that failure, in aces! Whether alien encounter or divine intervention - and that is not clearly resolved - this story ends with total wet blanket.Over the years, Koontz's stories have started to include greater and greater intrusions of his own right wing philosophies. From boringly repetitive descriptions of both protagonists and villains military-style arsenals, and GlennBeckian rants on societal decline, he has moved on to government tyranny, weird fundamentalist biblical "science", and conspiracy theory explanations of the most innocuous groups and institutions (see his fevered "history" of that most harmless rural social organization The Grange, in "The Dead Town"). Again, all of these elements are present in "Breathless", but by now they have ceased to by boring, but easily skipped, asides and have become an essential, unavoidable part of the story. In addition, while Koontz has commonly been noted for strong female characters, active in the story line, in "Breathless" the main female character is weak and compliant. There is also a new strain of misogyny which, while usually placed in the mouth, or the mind, of a villain is expressed with a kind of glee that leaves the reader repelled.Despite all of this, I have continued to read Koontz and derive enough pleasure from his inventive story telling, and stylish writing - until "Breathless". This book is summed up in my review title - a tragic mess. All of his faults come to a combinatorial climax, in the service of a totally silly premise, a disordered presentation, and some of the worst writing he has ever published. It is hard to decide whether to liken the writing in this book to a cruel lampoon of Koontz, or to the plagiaristic effort of a sad, teenage fanboy. Take you choice, either way it's that bad.In "Breathless", one can see Dean Koontz, not as a rival of Steven King, but instead as King-created character, a tragi-comic loser, condemned by his own hubris.
1 That felt like a book that someone would write if they were high on something. Cool pictures, but no logical connection, no plot, and sucky ending. That reminded me very much of The Taking, which was the only other disappointing book by Mr Koontz that I had a displeasure to read. I am a huge DK fun, and I actually save each book (actually audiobook) for a long boring drive. His books normally keep me awake and make the time fly. Unfortunately, Breathless was anything but. It was putting me to sleep.If you are a huge DK fan, you have to read it just because. The writing is still good, and the book has some entertainment value. Just don't expect to be blown away.
3 Just finished...what a richly textured story woven of over-lapping, intricate subplots; a race up a tall mountain promising a cumination of a really good drop-off-a-cliff ending...Must of run out of steam because the three inch drop off that cliff wouldn't have even stubbed a toe....sigh!
1 What happened to the final 1/3 of this book? Did anyone read this literary vomit before it was sent to press? I feel like Dean Koontz just stole $10 from me...I have absolutely no idea what this book was about.. It started out with potential, but went nowhere.. The inaccurate "science", the absurd ideals and so much left unsaid did not make me BREATHLESS... This should have been called POINTLESS
3 Short. Depthless. Boring. Snoring. Grandious. Creationist.While I have a deep respect for Koontz and his style, I would propose that this is his weakest work yet. His trade mark ability for words and mileu and characterization are present, but there is no horror. In fact where is it. It reads like a novella or short story with vignettes.  The novel chugs along well, and unfortunately like his latest works, the story and characters come crashing together so forcibly and rushed that any sense of thrill and horror is lost. I debate if it would've been better as a short story with characters of little ties together.
4 Other reviewers have given adequate plot synopsis for the book, so without rehashing the plot, I wish to add only a couple of points. (I do have to acknowledge that I have only read 17 of DK's books at this point in time, so my perspective does not encompass a comprehensive knowledge of his writing.)First, at this time of our recession and other bleak stories on the evening news, comes a story that will lift us out of our doldrums and help us have a better perspective on life. This novel does that.Second, I know many readers love the dramatic style of some of DK's novels (Phantoms, for instance, the "horror" genre--but for me, I'm sorry, I'd only give Phantoms a 3 star rating.). Myself, I love the gentler, more uplifting side of Koontz. I loved Watchers, From the Corner of His Eye, One Door Away From Heaven, and The Darkest Evening of the Year. OK, OK, I admit I also really enjoyed Lightning, and the Odd Thomas, series, too. I digress, sorry...Anyway, I agree with other reviewers about the wonderful character development, the wonderful way DK has brought dogs/animals into the story. And you have to admit that it is nothing short of amazing the way DK handles the numerous characters and plots without leaving you confused, but still managing to keep the reader interested and wanting more. ALL without giving away the denouement!By the way, I am sometimes pleasantly surprised by little twists some authors use to excite the reader--but I was shocked! Shocked and surprised, I tell you--without revealing what--the initial scene with Henry/Jim/Nora. OMG! But WOW, it was a great scene for the book!Dean, thank you for this wonderful story. Please, please, please, keep writing your suspenseful, uplifting, shocking, intriguing, page-turning, wonderful books. I am so happy to have them to read.SP.
3 I love Koontz, have almost everything he has written, and this starts out being a great book, people to know and remember and all doing such things that leave you wanting more, then its almost as if the author was just done, and finished everything up quick, and really with no real conclusion to all the building up of the different people and their situations or their story just ending abruptly after all the build up. Some people you didnt even need to get to know anything about since they were all of a sudden just done! Not to mention sometimes you are not sure how some of the characters got together, what they are doing together, if they are related or how they know one another, nor is it  explained at all. Sometimes it is the last time you hear about them.  I loved the beginning, couldn't put it down, but was very disappointed in the end, not his best work that is for sure. I think he could have added another 100 pages to finish all the things he started, and it would have been great. God knows he has written the 600+ page books before, and we have read them!!
4 I read this book in 2 days, it was an easy read, I was going to take it on my cruise, but it didn't last long enough.  Like other reviewers mentioned, there is a lot left to be known from the story, you feel like you don't know enough about the "event" but all in all, I found it beautiful to read (I learned a lot of new words, lol), and the "event" seemed to change misery to joy and looked to me like it eradicated evil.....I like that idea and found joy in reading the book.
5 I love Mr. Koontz's books and am not disappointed by this newest one.  I only wish they were longer and came more often!  We were on vacation and had to make a special trip to a bookstore to get it, 'cause I couldn't wait till I was home to read it!This book takes place in rural Colorado, mostly, but also coastal California, as the author takes us through a few days in the lives of several people.  Some strange event has happened, and animals have acted in an unusually calm and beautiful manner, which is noted by a vet (our heronine) treating a bunch of seriously abused Golden Retrievers (and, as an aside, I appreciate that Koontz doesn't miss an opportunity to bring into a story the beauty and goodness of these dogs).  Meanwhile, our hero, Grady, and his dog (an Irish wolfhound) have found some very unusual creatures playing in the yard.  He calls the vet and the two of them are amazed and charmed as they realize that these are apparently unique creatures.  The vet emails some other vets, what will happen?  Meanwhile, we also meet a sad burned out bum living in a cave on the beach in California.  The same event that struck the retrievers strikes him.  He feels compelled to travel up the coast.  As he goes, his history unfolds to us.  There are two other characters who I believe are there simply to demonstrate free will.  We can all chose good or evil, no matter what opportunities we are given.This is a well written, lovely book.  In the few days since it has come out, my entire family read it, one by one, while we were travelling.  Lots of interesting discussions have been generated:  free will vs determinism, the treatment of dogs/puppy mills, and many other subjects.  And we all agree that the only bad thing about reading one of Mr. Koontz's books is that we have to, now, wait for the next one!
1 I have been an ardent fan of Dean Kootz for many years and own everyone of his novels. The last few years I continued to purchase his books but to be honest they lack his typical luster."Breathless" has a very choppy plot, disconnected participants, and overall was a huge disappointment. I have always admired Dean's style and delivery but the last few years that has turned into consistent disappointment.It almost seems like something is out of wack... Dean ... good luck to you in the future and I hope whatever creative obstacles you are encountering are removed so that you can provide your audience once again with books that not only capture their imagination but compel the reader to follow your publication schedule just waiting for the next great read.Anne Marie
3 Read anyone of the reviews for indepth information.To me this seemed like a great short story that was about ten times longer than it ought to have been.I got to the end and thought to myself... ok so what? The action/drama/tension that makes a good story just wasnt there, nor did it raise any questions that I'm still pondering or that are keeping me up at night...I was left just thinking to myself: Huh....
2 Dean Koontz's book "Watchers" has been a favorite of mine since I was in high school, and I've always waited for him to produce something of the same caliber. Unfortunately, I've always been disappointed, and this book is not different at all. Seriously, it's like he sat down to write this book, got about halfway through it, and realized his deadline was in twenty minutes and threw some crap together and submitted it. It's really awful. The first forty chapters or so (they're short, don't worry) seem to be building up into this amazing science fiction book in Dean's favorite fashion, concurrent stories of multiple characters - Grady and Merlin stumbing across something in the woods, Henry killing his twin brother and his wife in an attempt to assume their identity, the homeless man with the scarred face... it all seems to be going somewhere and then it just doesn't. It just stops!! I can't explain the change at all, suffice to say they get in the car to go somewhere, one mystery is solved in like two sentences, then they drive to a freakin bar with Puzzle and Riddle... I won't ruin it for someone who hasn't read it, suffice to say, the end is a total rip off. I can't even believe he'd actually submit something like this! Dean, come on man. You're better than this.
2 The book just builds block after block of story coming up to a big event, and then end. If you're not paying attention the ending will pass you by, and you won't even notice. I think this might have been one of his "rainy day" filler books. Just something he finished years ago, and pulled it out of his files for a fast buck. He could have done better.
4 I have read so many of his books, this is in my top 5, great ending and wonderfully exciting story.
1 I listened to this book via library download.  When this book ended, I immediately checked to see if I missed downloading the whole thing since it just simply stopped with NO ENDING.  Upon checking, sure enough, I had listened to the whole book.  So then I checked to see if it was continued in a next book.  Nothing that I could find indicated it was a series.  What a horrible thing to do to a book that was on an interesting storyline.  Dean, Dean, what were you thinking?????  I hated it because it was the cruelest thing ever....it was like reallying getting into a book on tape and the tape breaks or you find tapes missing.  How frustrating.  To think this was ON PURPOSE is unbelievable.  Too bad....
4 While this is not the best of Koontz work I enjoyed it and read it in one day.  I liked the main characters and the way their stories unfolded.  The mystery and discover was uplifting.  I did find the additional story lines unnecessary - they could have been pulled out for a much tighter story - or leave one tangent in.  I read several reviews regarding the ending, I did not find it as unsatisfactory.  The end was not perfect but I enjoyed the suspense all the way through.
5 First, let me say this is the first Dean Koontz novel I've had the pleasure of reading. It was given to me as a Christmas gift this year, because of my love and respect for Irish Wolfhounds. Having had the honor of owning one for 12 years, I am always looking for tales about them. When I started reading Breathless I couldn't put it down and finished it within 24 hours. It involves the lives of several characters, one of which is the wolfhound. The reader is introduced to the best of mankind, and also the most evil among us. Koontz spins this story with genius and took me on a mysterious adventure that lasted through the last page. It not only touched my heart, but at times made my blood run cold. I especially loved the Tom Bigger character and his surprise ending. I'm now looking forward to reading more by this author. I highly recommend Breathless.
2 Koontz, the master weaver of thrill and hard science, has left me confused and disappointed. A piece of work that could have been superb was incomplete and failed to explore deep concepts and theories in any satisfactory manner. This piece seems like an abridged rough cut. The parallel story lines don't work. The more fantastical concepts are poorly developed. Characters are shallow. Story lines from a specific previous work, False Memory, are woven in with no purpose. I feel like Koontz jammed together a bunch of his favorite concepts, failed to develop and connect them, and left us all waiting to exhale. The oracle predicts a rewrite and new title for this one in the future.
1 This book is garbage.  If you bought a copy, or received it as a gift, just save yourself the time and stick hot pokers in your eyes now, rather than read this and then be forced to do it to distract yourself from the pain of having done so.Mr. Koontz sometimes writes good mysteries and seems to have an uncanny way of portraying a point of view from inside the heads of his savage murderers in a very convincing way.  In fact I would wager that Koontz's villains are probably more entertaining to read about than real murderers would be. I've enjoyed many of his books before, partly for that reason, but more so for the plausible yet surprising way his plots unfold, and his ability to create mystery and suspense without the "Dan Brown" method of making you wait three chapters for "the thing they saw astonished them!" lurking around a corner.This book, though, is a huge disappointment.  First of all, there are disparate characters who spend the whole book acting separately, although some are drawn together in the last 50 pages in ridiculously unlikely ways.  There is "What's going to happen next?" suspense, but since the characters are wandering through the book in subplots that are only woven together randomly in the very last pages, it's impossible to enjoy it.  Also, his characters often act in terribly implausible ways.  One heroic character "just knows" it's time to go help someone he has never met, and gets magical assistance from coyotes along the hundreds of miles he walks. One of the villains has an "experience," the nature of which is never explained, which scares him,but not enough to go straight.  Another villain goes slowly insane (out of guilt?...we never learn) after committing a murder he'd been plotting for years.  How disappointing...these are not believable players in the story and their unpredictability spoils the surprises when we see them walk randomly into each others' lives.  Worst of all, though is Koontz's awful, and scientifically bogus, attempt to preach to us about evolution.  This seems to be the gist of the book, unless it's the one summarized by the ending, which is revealed below (spoiler alert!).  No, on second thought, READ THIS SPOILER so you won't be tempted to read the actual book.The book centers around two very intelligent and lovable monkey-like creatures, who in Koontz's speculative fiction, have appeared on the earth spontaneously.  One of his characters, portrayed as an heroic genius mathematician/physicist, spends several pages preaching that evolution is false.  Early in the novel Koontz builds this character's credibility by having him count cards in Vegas and win thousands, but then give the money to needy strangers.  Of course he wanders randomly into the protagonists' lives, and of course there's a remarkable coincidence when he does.  Of course he refuses to cooperate with the evil powers of the central government (for whom he works).  Pretty one-dimensional.  In fact, as I recall not a single one of the characters actually displays any growth during the story.Anyway, our hero mathematician takes time out of the not-so-gripping story to make imbecilic and pedantic statements trashing evolution, such as"They say, here are the fossils of the horse in various stages of its evolution.  But they're onlyassuming the fossils are related.  These fossils may more likely be of different species, insteadof stages of the same one.  They prove nothing....The assumption that those fossils are arrangedin the correct order...can't be supported with evidence.  Neither carbon dating, nor any methodof fixing the period of a fossil, is precise enough to support that arranged order...Darwinianevolution simply offends me as a mathematician, as it does virtually every mathematician who'sever seriously thought about it."There are so many false arguments in this ridiculous train of thought, it's hard to know where to start.  First of all, the simplest evidence of all supports the idea that the simpler forms of the horse precede the more complex ones.  The simple fossils are found at strata of rock UNDER the more complex ones.  They are accompanied by other simple forms, with their more complex forms found above them.  There are many other methods of determining the age of a stratum of rock, and one of them ISN'T carbon dating.  Carbon dating is useful for objects a few thousand years old (such as the bogus religious relic, the Turin Shroud), not hundreds of thousands, millions, or billions.  A reference to carbon dating in this discussion is proof positive that Koontz hasn't actually thought about the science, or had the decency to do even the most superficial research.  A 5-minute phone call would have set him straight.There are hundreds of other methods, but one in particular merits mention, because anyone can understand it: the "tree ring" method.  Suppose you used the wood of old furniture as a calendar.  When a growing season is sunny and long, the trees all grow thicker rings.  The opposite when it's overcast and cold.  The rings of a recent tree will have many seasons in common with a tree cut 25 years ago, and another cut 50 years ago, etc.  Sometimes there will be three or four thick rings in a row, sometimes they alternate, and the pattern becomes a fingerprint which goes back hundreds of years.  Wood from objects of known age can be used to date wood of unknown age, because the tree ring pattern will overlap.  Makes sense, right?  This tree ring pattern actually allows us to date ALL wood that is thick enough, back several thousand years.  Now it's not too hard to see how that analogy applies to the sedimentary layers of oceans, dry lakebeds, and then core samples from all the strata.  Not just the thickness, but also the chemical composition of the strata correlate to many known events in the geologic record, like the meteor that struck 65 million years ago and rendered the dinosaurs extinct (it left a layer of iridium all over the earth).  There are  many more.  And they may not be precise to the millisecond, but they are very precise with regard to the order in which the strata were lain down.  The order is very precise.And guess what?  In no case has paleontology ever found a simple fossil in a stratum of rock earlier than a more complex form of the same animal.  Never, not even once.  No messy exceptions to explain.  Now I don't think this alone will convince you to accept Darwinian evolution, but it must make one thing absolutely crystal clear: there is plentiful fossil evidence to support the concept.  Anyone who says there isn't is either ignorant, or knows about the evidence and is a contemptible liar.  I doubt the author is completely ignorant.Of course, Lamar, the mathematician, doesn't have a better explanation, he just lets us assume that God created all the animals.  His views aren't consistent with the fiercest fundamentalists, though, as he goes on to describe the earth as billions of years old in another erroneous argument that there hasn't been enough time in the history of the universe to evolve genes as complex as a worm's.  Still more proof that Koontz is not rigorous; current evolutionary biology theory indicates that a genome as complex as the human one mutates fast enough to change every DNA base pair it contains every 1.1 million years or so.  Given the infinite power of natural selection to weed out the detrimental genes and reinforce the advantageous genes, and one has to be amazed at how slowly more complex forms arise from simpler ones.  Bottom line: there's been time on earth to evolve humans, or any other form of life on earth, several thousand times over.  Saying otherwise is either...well, you get the idea.Back to the super-monkeys...we never learn where they come from (they just appear out of the thin air);  why they're here (but their appearances change people, but only some of them); Koontz imagines their genome is decoded in mere hours (using today's best technology, it would take months to years), they start talking with 20 pages left in the book (and they speak in a very wise way, like they are supposed to be teaching us things), but worst of all, their DNA matches humans' exactly.  This last offense to all rational thought absolutely shatters Koontz's credibility on any scientific topic.  Not that I trusted him to get any of it right in the first place, but ladies and gentlemen, if two genomes are a perfect match then they are from the same species.  Koontz really proves he is a cretin of science with this naive twist of fiction.  Saying two different species have the same genome is like saying that two colors of light have the same wavelength, or that two samples of the same element have different atomic numbers.  It is so far from possible that it's dishonest to imply that it COULD be possible by having one of your characters speak it in a book.  Shame on you, Dean.In one of the worst endings I have ever read, Koontz fails to explain the appearance of tens of thousands of these mystical super monkeys all over planet earth.  We're left assuming that they are some supernatural intervention, sent to save us from ourselves.  The closing line, a response to the  question about the super-monkeys' purpose on earth, is: "Wherever they're going, they're taking the world with them.  And I know beyond doubt that wherever they want us to be, that's where we'll belong."  I literally laughed out loud at the absurdity of that drivel.  It instantly made me think of the line from the movie Buckaroo Banzai, among Peter Weller's more brilliant deadpans, "No matter where you go, there you are."  There we are indeed where we belong after reading your latest effort, Mr. Koontz.  We're knee deep in it.
4 I'm a long-time Dean Koontz fan who has read almost all of his books.  However, I go into every new novel knowing that some are going to be definite misses for me--for example, I didn't really like either his most recent book,77 Shadow Streetor the one I read prior to that,Relentless: A Novel.In contrast, as I started the first pages of BREATHLESS, I was immediately drawn into the story. Koontz opens the novel in rural Colorado, where custom furniture maker Grady Adams lives alone with his Irish wolfhound, Merlin.  Just as Grady and Merlin having the beginnings of what might be an extraordinary experience, the scene shifts to veterinarian Cammy Rivers, who is dealing with an odd situation herself.  Koontz continues to introduce viewers to the ensemble cast in this manner, a similar technique to what he used in one of his earlier novels--my favorite,Strangers.  The plot of BREATHLESS is somewhat akin to STRANGERS as well:  gradually, the characters are revealed to meet with an incredible event that the government (in this case, updated to Homeland Security) wants to hide from the public.I thoroughly enjoyed this book, finishing it in just a few days.  So why only 4 stars?  Unfortunately, although the majority of the story captivated me, I was fairly disappointed in the ending.  It almost seemed that Koontz had lost steam and/or that scenes had actually been deleted, as the finale was so abrupt, and several key plot elements were left unexplained.  (Without giving any major spoilers away, readers never meet "the senator" who is referred to repeatedly throughout the book, and the reasons for the supposed upcoming societal collapse are never explained.)  Koontz's failure to address these issues in his conclusion did detract from what otherwise would have been a 5-star read for me, but I would still recommend this book to fans of the author's work.
4 First koontz book that wasn't from the Odd Thomas series .  I liked it  Pretty suspenseful  and will definitely read more from him.  He is a unique read for sure.
5 Excellent book , great characters , lots of subjective plot points that the reader can decipher for himself . I've always liked Koontz's darker books and this was very good . His last two , to me , have been his best in a long while .
5 I was shocked at all the bad reviews of this book.  I have read every book that Dean Koontz has written, and I this one did not disappoint me. Maybe people are upset with his interesting look at evolution. I liked the way the plot lines came together. The new creatures were fascinating and I couldn't wait to learn more about them. I expect something different from Koontz and this certainly was different, but that is why I will continue to read any book he writes.
3 In Dean Koontz' latest thriller BREATHLESS opens with four story lines. Grady Adams is alone on his secluded house where he makes furniture. One day, he sees to strange creatures that are unlike anything he has ever seen. Dr. Camilla Rivers is a vet that witnesses a remarkable transformation in a pack of abused dogs. Dr. Lamar Woodsley is a master of chaos theory and probability, and loves using his skills at the black jack tables. Henry is traveling to visit his long lost twin brother, with hidden motives behind his visit.Koontz follows each of these stories in quick, short chapters. Eventually all will merge together in the most unexpected ways. The usual great writing is there by Koontz, as are the flowery descriptions and the kindly animals.After finishing the novel, and I had to wait until it was over, I have to say I didn't really like it. I take that back, Koontz's easy writing style makes it easy to enjoy the book while you're reading it, but after finishing, I believe the point and purpose of the novel doesn't work. The entire novel points to the end, and the end just doesn't really pay off for me. Even if fans of Koontz don't love this novel, there's nothing really to hate like you get in a bad James Patterson novel. Koontz has a really big premise for the novel that I don't want to spoil, but the time devoted to it really is a letdown.
2 First, let me say I have read all of Mr. Koontz's books. I want to be fair so I will give him two stars. The introduction and characters were ok. The resolution was maybe not so ok. I was interested until the beginning of the merging of characters began, primarily because that merge was not compelling enough to hold my interest. I'm not sure I even liked the book and am still trying to decide. It wasn't his worst work (I will award that to "The Taking") but when I look back at books like "Watchers" and "The Bad Place" which were absolutely riveting, it is difficult not to compare earlier works with new.When an artist delivers a superb painting and it is heralded by all as a masterpiece, isn't it difficult to transform that genius into the next work of art?  So, I will give Mr. Koontz the artistic critique...great start, brush strokes somewhat sloppy and design could use some improvement.Keep it up. As I said, I am a faithful reader.
5 One of Koontz's best. Highly recommended if you're a Koontzphile like me and cannot get enough of his brilliant writing.
4 Breathless is not your typical Dean Koontz novel. While the familiar, brilliant writing style, which pulls the reader into the story, is present, missing is the darkness that puts a fine edge to it all. Overall, the book comes off as warm and fuzzy. I kept expecting the mood to take a sudden turn toward the macabre, -- various despicable characters sprinkled throughout the tale held promise -- but as I neared the final pages the realization that it wasn't going to happen left me a little disappointed. The protagonists of the story, Grady Adams and Cammy Rivers, were rather passive throughout the book, which could have been a product of the rather nebulous identity of the antagonist, a government agency bent on containing information about a new species of angelic, fuzzy animal that sort of popped into existence. At the same time - I'm not sure if the two government programs were connected - another faction within the current regime, had set into action a series of events aimed at turning the country into a state of chaos. So the real heroes could have been the fuzzy creatures that sort of inadvertently triumphed over the evil governments of the world.With the book, Mr. Koontz touches on topics of physics, takes on Darwinism and ends up offering hope for mankind. What more could one ask for? It is a fun read.- Bob Avey, author of the Detective Elliot series
4 In BREATHLESS, Dean Koontz shows his fans why he is such a brilliant storyteller. His imagination moves even the stoic naysayer, and his exploration of the paranormal is a literary event in itself in this tale that weaves together many seemingly unrelated stories of terror, hardship and agony.BREATHLESS begins in rural Colorado with an unassuming character named Grady Adams and his dog, Merlin. An enormous Irish wolfhound, Merlin established superiority in his domain by his size alone, notwithstanding his gentle nature. Today, the man and his canine friend stroll at the edge of Grady's property into the nearby woods. Both suddenly halt, thunderstruck by the sight directly ahead. They witness two white furry animals the size of medium dogs but agile as large cats. Playful, the two allow man and dog to approach, then turn away and head to the forest.Adams and his longtime friend and neighbor, Cammy Rivers, are enchanted with Merlin's new-found playmates as the white creatures now make Grady's place their home. But sinister events shake up the fragile status quo when outside influences assert a nasty presence.Rivers, who is a veterinarian, also has her own tale when she is called to treat a kennel of abused golden retrievers. The dogs, catatonic when brought in by a rescue group, will be a challenge to heal. However, when Cammy arrives, an event has occurred that cannot be explained by medicine. The dogs stand as one unit as if listening to a common, emerging sound, no longer timid and completely socialized. In addition, their eyes glow with a bright topaz inner light, and this inexplicable event may just spell certain doom for the small town.Koontz writes a third story also set in Colorado, that of rural resident James Carlyle, wife Nora, and identical twin brother Henry Rouvroy. Henry, a Harvard-educated savant, arrives at Jim's farm, bent on executing a plan he has long developed. Country poems, Jim's haiku verses in particular, foreshadow the agony his twin brings to the humble farm.A scenario in Las Vegas introduces Dr. Lamar Woolsey, a scientist studying chaos. Taking small bets to major wins at the Vegas tables, this card shark gifts his winnings to others, puzzling the pit bosses. A conference in Denver forces him to leave Vegas, but along the way his attentions are quickly diverted to a U.S. government project that just may have something to do with the strange occurrences in the once quiet Colorado town.Koontz then takes us a little more west to California for the starting point of Tom Bigger's story. Bigger is a homeless man, his face horribly disfigured and living on the beach in sheltered caves. When a great blue heron nearly five feet tall brushes past him, he sees the event as a sign for his future and sets out walking with his backpack on a journey east to a future unknown.Readers will long to discover the common thread that winds through these seemingly disparate stories. Although it appears unlikely at first, Koontz is able to satisfy his audience by presenting a believable connection that brings all these stories together for an enjoyable --- and plausible --- conclusion. BREATHLESS is a modern story, one of relationships gone wrong and ones made right, the possibility of government interference in a citizen's life, struggles for acceptance and ultimate wonder at the unexplainable. Koontz truly leaves his reader breathless by book's end.--- Reviewed by Judy Gigstad
3 I love Mr. Koontz's writing--it captures and keeps you involved.However, I did not care for his glib conclusions dismissing evolution as impossible on a simple math formula with a priori stats. It did peak my interest as I hadn't run across this particular objection to evolution. I've looked it up online and ran into this quote that sums it up sans going into details (provided further in the article):"I get a little angry when people seem to be implying that evolution is casually refutable and was refuted (by a professor of electrical engineering?) decades ago. Do they really think that two decades of bright, dedicated biologists would stick to a theory that this kind of argument could refute?" --Jim Meritt[...]
1 It was like waiting in a 3 hour line for a ride that lasts 30 seconds.  The build up was boring and the climax was like 5 pages long.  The middle of the book could have been whittled down and the end needed more explanation.  I feel gypped.
4 Let's get this out first: if you've never read Dean Koontz before, do NOT start with this book! His other novels are incredibly detailed stories of suspense that really draw you in. This story seemed to be more of a relaxing visit with a favorite relative rather than the thrill rides we're used to.It all starts out a little overwhelming at times as you are introduced to several characters that gradually develop into their own plot lines that seems completely independent of each other. Hang on though, as it all makes sense toward the end. By the end, I mean the VERY end (next to last chapter). It seems like an intertwined short story collection, which is a unique way to present the book. I found myself truly interested as certain parts played out, though the end result of the "twins" storyline was a huge letdown. It was the best of the whole book, and then just fizzled out in the end.I would give this story 3 1/2 stars if possible. It's definitely not Koontz's best work (or even in his Top 10), but it's still better than many of the other novels out there. If you're an established reader, you're going to find this a much more laid-back book than say "Intensity" or "Odd Thomas". If you're new to Dean, put this one aside for a bit and come back to it later.
3 It all started out so well.  A compelling setup, interesting characters.  When I reached the point where the alien creatures were finally described, I was (almost) "breathless."  I wanted to meet them, watch them, touch them.  This was Dean Koontz's writing at its best.  Then, about 2/3 of the way through the book, Mr. Koontz apparently remembered that he had somewhere else to be.  The plot became raggedy, sometimes without much relevance to the rest of the story.  The conclusion seemed rushed, as if he lost interest in his story and just wanted it to end.  I was genuinely disappointed.I gave this 3 stars instead of 2 simply because of the marvelously-depicted alien creatures.  Without that enjoyable interlude, the book would not be worth reading.
3 I am a HUGE Dean Koontz fan. I eagerly anticipate his every new release. But I have to say, "Breathless" was not one of my favorites. In fact, I'm pretty sure it would rank close to the bottom of his books for me.The weird thing is, it has all of the elements of a great Koontz story: Interesting protagonists (human and canine), a creative/unusual premise, snappy dialogue, suspense and intrigue - it just never all came together.It was like each element fell just a little short of the mark, leaving the whole ... unsatisfying.The interesting protagonists felt largely unexplored. The the creative premise needed more exposition. The snappy dialogue too often felt forced. The suspense and intrigue built up to an abrupt and unsatisfactory denouement.This is the only negative review I've ever given for a Dean Koontz novel. It breaks my heart to do it. But "Breathless" was just not up to par for what I have come to expect as a Koontz fan of more than 20 years.
5 Again a novel that shines light on the innermost workings of the human mind.  Thought provoking and disturbing, the hope shines brightly through.
5 If you're looking for charming, witty, scary, and startling, you'll enjoy BREATHLESS by Dean Koontz. You'll meet creatures and characters so real you can smell their breaths. But wait! If you don't like fantasies that lift your heart (and remind you to breath), you might not like it. Since others have included helpful summaries of the story and have expressed (more beautifully than I could) at least some of the reasons this is a great little book, I have nothing more to add - except a 5-star vote.
1 Dean Koontz books from Dragon Tears, to Mr. Murder, Dark Rivers of the heart were great. The last decent book he wrote that was readable was Intensity. This book was horrible. The publishing company should never have allowed that book to print. Mr. koontz needs to take a nice long vacation, stop pumping out the silly, make no sense books and get his thoughts in order. Go back to basics Mr. Koontz and reread your earlier works and then reread Breathless (that is if you ever read it in the first place), and see the difference. Iam sorry to say you have lost yet another loyal reader.
2 The first Dean Koontz book I read was Watchers and I fell in love with his style, the characters, and was an instant fan.  I read Twilight Eyes and that cemented my admiration.  "Stephen King with a heart" is the way I described him.  The next books I read were always disappointments.  If the meat of the book was good the ending seemed rushed or lacking. And Vice Versa.  Recently I have tried again hoping things had changed and he had recaptured his old magic.  I read Your Heart Belongs to Me and it was ho hum.  But when I saw all the hype for Breathless I decided to give him one more chance.  After all - it was about unusual animals and of course Einstein in Watchers was the whole show. So - - - - - - I made the purchase, read the book and I give up.  I kept waiting for it to get good and to me it never did, the ending was incomplete, so I'm done trying. I value my time too much to waste it trying to recapture something that no longer exists.I'm sorry if anyone thinks I am too hard on Mr. Koontz.  Obviously he writes better than I do.  It is just my opinion and that doesn't make how I feel right or wrong - just my perception.
1 I love Dean Koontz but this novel bored me out of my mind, it's fiction, Dean, not brain technology!! Glad I got it from the library and hadn't bought it.  Good luck on the next one, Charmaine
5 No one (to the best of my knowledge anyway) writes a book about mysterious supernatural events as good as Dean Koontz. His books are so well-written and believable you almost begin to think there must be some element of reality in what he wrote and you wonder if he has experienced such events at any point in his personal life or lives of people he knows.
1 What a waste of such a promising tale. At the end I was like "What about Henry?  What about the shady lawyer?" and on and on. Way more questons than answers, it was like he ran out of time, or interest. Usually Koontz weaves all these rich characters lives together and they intersect at the end and you see where everything connects, sort of like in the movie Crash.  Here, most of the people were pointless.  The whole book felt...pointless and I was annoyed and frustrated.  I have to add too that Koontz's almost palpable disdain for sexuality in every book gets a little much at times.  All of the "good" or righteous characters not only abstain from sex, they abhor it.  Any love relationships that take place he always makes sure that the characters have a pure, true, "untainted" love and makes sure to say it.  Any sexuality at all is for only the bad guys.  It is 100% negative, rape, incest and so on.  It is really disturbing.  And my last gripe?  We get it Dean, dogs are great. The greatest thing ever. WAYYYYYYY better than people. MOVE ON.  I have to say, after spending the last 15 years voraciously reading his work, the last few years have been so disappointing, I think this will be my last Koontz book.
3 Recluse Grady Adams and his Irish wolfhound Merlin spot two white, unidentifiable animals while on a walk one afternoon. That evening, the two animals make their presence known and Grady calls his good friend, veterinarian Camillia Rivers. Camillia is fascinated by the animals, who show distinct human characteristics, but can find no record of such species. When she calls two former colleagues, she puts in motion a series of events that could lead to the destruction of the two friendly animals. Homeland Security shows up, declaring the two could be a threat to national security, and Grady and Camillia fear for their safety, unaware more animals of like nature have appeared across the globe and strange things are happening around them.This standalone is hard to classify as to genre, enveloping a bit of most into its content. The plot moves along at a fast pace, offering suspenseful scenarios and a mystical feel. Koontz's usual characters are evident: man, woman and dog, each involved in a suspenseful plot, and all well developed and essential to the story.
1 I'm a Koontz fan from way back.  He's my favorite author and has been for years.  I love Odd Thomas.  I love the "regular" books.  The only books I haven't read are the Frankenstein ones.I don't mind that the books are formulaic; in fact, I like that about them.  I know I can count on a good, exciting read.  I like his style.  I like his politics.  I like his world view.  I even enjoy the ever-present dogs.  And so on.But this is poorly-written excuse for a novel was a huge and unexpected disappointment.  There are way too many pointless, similarly-named characters to keep track of, who bear little or no relation to the other characters or to the "plot" (what there is of it).At one point, when we get introduced half-way through the book to yet another character (Bigger, I think it was), I said, no, Dean, don't do this to us!  Not ANOTHER one!  I already couldn't keep the ones that were there straight.  And what characters we can keep track of we don't much care about.About 2/3 of the way through, I realized this book was not going to become coherent and was not going to deliver anything.  Approaching the end, I knew that the ending couldn't possibly manage to tie this mish-mash together, and it did not.  In fact, it was practically unintelligible. I couldn't wait to finish the book so I could get on Amazon and see what the rating was.  Not low enough, in my view.I have never reviewed a Koontz book before, and indeed, I've always been grateful that he exists to enrich my life with his writings, and would have given most of them five stars if I had reviewed them.  But I've got to write this review, to warn any new Koontz reader NOT to start with this book, and to suggest any die-hard reader, like myself, check it out from the library, because it isn't worthy of a permanent home on your bookshelf.And to beg Koontz - please.  Take more care next time.  This isn't worthy of having your name on it.
5 My daughter enjoys Dean Koontz books. They are full of imagination & suspense. She has a large collection of Dean Koontz books.
4 When I was 1/4 through "Breathless," I was already prepared to give it no more than 2 or 3 stars. The novel has what felt to me like a very slow start -- both in plot and in character development. Each chapter is narrated from a different character POV, and the chapters are very short. I would just get into a character and suddenly have to switch again. That gets disorienting, to say the least.But the farther I read, the more Koontz pulled me in. Halfway through, I realized that I was having trouble putting the book down because I wanted to find out (1) the mystery of what these strange creatures were and (2) how Koontz planned to tie all of the apparently unconnected storylines together. And in the last 50 pages, Koontz brings them all together in a brilliant climax that astonished me, delighted me, and made me cry.So. For starting off too slowly and not getting into the characters fast enough, Breathless does not get 5 stars. But it does get 4 stars for giving me a read that appeals to the childlike sense of wonder so many of us struggle to retain.
4 I have read many of Koontz's books.  I enjoy his plotting, storyline and his eloquent way with words.  This book provided me about 8 hours of entertainment.  It was a page turner.  And it fizzeled out at the very end.  This really had the potential of delivering a 'today's issues' lesson.  I was disappointed and confused with the ending but it was still worth the read.
2 This started out as an interesting read. Inexplicable but loving smart and fuzzy critters are always a big grab for me. All of the sudden I  was 90% of the way through the book by my Kindle's figuring and I realized that Koontz was going to have to tie a LOT of loose threads up in the last ten percent. Weeelll, he did, but in a very cheap shot and unsatisfying way. I have read several Koontz books and have enjoyed them (particularly on the Kindle where I can read his books and then erase them without having to send a paperback to the dump), but even by my unexacting standards for this genre, the book was a serious letdown.
1 This book is just the latest example (and by far the worst) of his continued decline as a writer. Plot? What plot? Just as jumbled mess. Character development? What character development? He uses  bits and pieces of many past characters and seems to be ordering from an old Chinese restaurant menu: 2 from column A, 3 from column B, etc. And now comes his whacko creationist jag. I put up with his conservative sensibilities in the past because they weren't very intrusive and the books were just too compelling to quibble about. I'm sure conservatives make the same adjustments for compelling books with liberal authors. But this creationism stuff really is too much. The real villeins in this book are Charles Darwin, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Sigmund Freud. I half expected at one point he was going to throw Henry David Thoreau in there until I realized that that pesky transcendentalist was a tax resister which would have made him OK in the Koontz world view. I really think Glenn Beck could have made a more compelling case - yes, the book really is that bad!
3 The book was good not great, entertaining but not engaging.Koontz is the master of descriptive setting, but so often here he seems to go overboard as if the sleepy California town, dew-laden and gleaming with coppery light that dazzles like melting pennies dipped in golden fire, is more the point than an actual story.There is a story and the characters are OK but nothing comparable to Koontz's normally flawless character development. The way everything comes together at the end feels heavily and hastily shoved into place by the author so he can make a point about evolution theory.
2 There are too many tails and too many tales in this book. First, the tails. There's Merlin, the Irish wolfhound that is amazingly perceptive, typical of the dogs in Dean Koontz's books. Then there are Puzzle and Riddle, fantastic dogs/cats/hominids/transformers who bounce around and have really ethereal eyes. Puzzle and Riddle are cute and playful. But are they nice?  And where, exactly, did they come from?Next, there are the tales. Henry Rouvroy murders his twin and his twin's wife.  He seems to have no soul. But he does have two million in cash. He is pursued by, well, we don't know what, in the house where the murder victims lived. There are thirty hand grenades... One of the grenades ends up in the refrigerator. Go figure.Another tale is that of Dr. Lamar Woolsey, a genius mathematician and chaos theory expert who has figured out how to win in Vegas. Oh, and he gives much of his take away to good people whom he meets in the casino.Further muddying the water is Liddon Wallace, a heartless lawyer (redundant?). Wallace hires Rudy Neems, the greens keeper from hell. Wallace does not want Neems to cut grass and rake leaves. Neems encounters Tom Bigger, whose face was shockingly disfigured by a self-inflicted beating. You heard right.  Oh, Tom is six foot five, homeless, and finds solace in tequila and sinsemilla.  And it seems he's got a gang of coyotes protecting him.I have really only touched the surface of the motley crew that fills this book. Lurking in the shadows are the big bad feds: helicopters, black-clad goons, and all... I kept expecting someone named Kitchen Sink to pop up.I have read several of Koontz's books. This ranks at the bottom of the list. There are still the Koontz trademarks: clever prose, joyful dogs, and a conviction that there is a spiritual good that transcends earthly evil. But this book was just too "chaotic" and the ending was way too rushed and contrived.
1 I've been a fan of Mr. Koontz ever since his books 'Watchers' and 'Strangers' enthralled me so that I read them each in one sitting.  The plot and subplots of this book gripped me, but they didn't go anywhere.  I kept turning pages waiting for resolution but it never happened.  I'd not be surprised to read that Koontz had a ghost writer for this one.  He had a good plot idea but seems to have gotten bored in the development.  I'm only sorry that I pre-ordered the book, because it's not one that I'll read again.  Next time, I'll take his book out of the library first and see if it's one I'll want to add to my shelves.
2 One afternoon, Grady Adams and his Irish setter are on a walk through the woods when they come across a pair of unusual animals.  Later, Grady contacts his friend Cammy, a veterinarian who has herself witnessed some strange phenomena.  Together, the two will try to understand the implications of these new animals, as the government moves in to take them away.The opening scene is one of the most compelling Koontz has crafted in years; the prose is brisk and sharp, he puts you right there with Grady.  If the novel had stuck with Grady and Cammy, this would be a compelling read.  Unfortunately, BREATHLESS is an overly-ambitious novel, one that doesn't have the depth to fulfill its goals.  I lost count of how many central characters we have, some of them introduced in the last 150 pages, and some of them dropped with no explanation.  None of them (Grady and Cammy included) have any real depth.  We get everyone from a gambling mathematician to a sociopath, and none of them feel real or relatable.  The psychopath fits the exact profile of every Koontz villain from the mid-90s on; he contains every cliched trait of serial killers, and yet none of the humanity that makes such characters truly terrifying.  He's a cartoon, almost, a caricature, as are all the characters here, big and small, human and canine and what-have-you.  This is one of Koontz's "message" novels--the government is bad, animals are good, and former Army Rangers who turn to secluded lives in the wilderness automatically have hearts of gold--and deals not with plot, not with character, not with anything that used to make a Koontz novel worthwhile; it deals with goal, message, spiritual motivation.  Nothing is at stake here, because we don't care about these people.  We don't even care about the plot-twist; while interesting, it comes way too late (the last 50 pages) to be of any importance, and isn't at all fleshed out enough to be believable.Still, BREATHLESS is suspenseful; I actually finished it, which is more than I can say for a few of Koontz's recent efforts.  Admittedly, I only read it because it was given to me as a Christmas gift; while I treasure Koontz older works--say, up to the first ODD THOMAS--and consider Koontz one of my favorite writers, I really have no interest in reading his newer novels.  They are all flat, driven by some desire he has to deliver a message to his readers.  It's a shame, because he is genuinely one of the most talented suspense writers out there, who used to endow his writing with so much poignancy and craft, I could read the same novel twice in a row and not get bored.  Today, his novels read almost like parodies, and BREATHLESS, while not the worst of the bunch--at least none of the animals turn into literal angels, only metaphoric ones--is representative of this drastic decline.  Any Koontz novel that uses the phrase "oscillating butt whistle" in a half-serious manner is almost a travesty.  I will stick to his older novels--WATCHERS, STRANGERS, WINTER MOON, etc.--that deal with similar themes and ideas as BREATHLESS; back then, Koontz was willing to put story and plot development first, and message second.  It was more effective and far more entertaining.
3 It wasn't as bad as I'd expected or feared, but I can'r consider it a masterpiece. It could easily have been shortened to a novella and still regain all of the main ingredients. And it wasn't too cute or dog-ish, which I'd certainly expected.But let me start off by saying, I'm not religious, I do believe in more than meets the eye, but I can't really believe that evolution is wrong. Maybe there are some holes here and there, but I think that there's enough proof to back up, that evolution is, indeed, fact. I'm not saying we know it all, as it is clear that there are tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of things yet to be discovered.Overall the book entertained me and I was never really bored with it - except, maybe, for the Henry parts, I really didn't find them interesting or particularly well-written. They didn't seem to belong in this story - and no, don't say that I didn't "get it", it's entirely possible to get it and still don't think that it fits.I really liked the story of Tom Bigger the best, would have loved to read a whole novel about him.Also, why does it seem, in all his later books, that unless a couple is married, people are asexual? That really isn't realistic. He has no qualms writing about violence, but sex is a no-no.My main gripe with the book is, that it seemed really juvenile. I have read children's books with better plots and better characterization. Plus, there really seemed to be a lot of filler just to meet some length-requirements.Which brings me to: The Darkest Evening... is 354 pages long, Your Heart.. is 337 pages, Frankenstein 3 352, Relentless 356 and Breathless 337....what, is Koontz now under contractual obligations to write between 335 and 360 pages? Just semes weird.Anyway, it kept me going, but it's definitely not a masterpiece, I'll reserve that praise to Under The Dome ;)Oh, maybe koontz should just shift gears entirely and start writing religious fiction. There's a big market for that.
1 I'm a big fan of Koontz. Since picking up "Phantoms" when I was 12 years old, I've been a faithful reader. I've been through the highs and lows over the years, always grabbing up his novels as soon as they appear. Of course there have been novels I didn't care for over the years (From the Corner of His Eye) to page turners I couldn't put down (Odd Thomas), but even when Koontz put out a book I didn't care for, I could still appreciate the author's writing style, or the characters he's created, in short there was always something positive to be found tucked inside the pages. Until now."Breathless" is simply head-scratchingly boring. There is truly nothing to recommend about this novel. The characters are bland, the mystery is simply goofy and side stories seem tacked on for filler (really..what is the point of introducing the wealthy lawyer, who takes up a few chapters only to never be seen again?) The story doesn't flow like a Dean Koontz story as elements to the tale seem crowbared in, so many square pegs pounded into round holes.The basic premise about a country vet and former Army ranger befriending two unusual animals discovered in the Colorado woods was too corny for words. I know Koontz can sometimes layer on the schmaltz a bit thick now and again...but several parts of this novel made me cringe at just how cheezy it was getting. The whole scene when Puzzle and Riddle are preparing to go to bed or eating jalapeno peppers is just....awful. Koontz shoehorns in a couple killers here or their impact on the story is minimal, and as stated above just feels like so much filler.The only positive I can say about "Breathless" is that it's a quick read. I finished the thing in a day and half, so it didn't take up too much of my time...but I really expected much more from this author.
1 I read every Dean Koontz Book I can get my hands on. I have enjoyed all of them, And while some are better than others this one was just a big let down.Dean Koontz built great characters that at the end of the book didn't have anyhting to do with what was going on. My advice to anyone who is a Koontz fan: "Skip this book".
2 When this man is so talented why would he release a book like Breathless? It doesn't have any of the character charm, exceptional dialogue, or exciting plot of his previous books. Sorry but the book is not worth your time or money.
1 This was one of the worst Koontz books I have ever read! There are about 5 stories going on at the same time, of which none are particularly interesting. Even if there were interesting nuggets here and there, the continuity of any of the stories is broken up by the introduction of a seemingly random chapter involving events that seem to have nothing to do with the main plot (if there was one).Somehow in the end, everything tied together, in a very sloppy and nonsensical kind of way. Perhaps Koontz had bigger plans for this book, but decided to abort to meet somekind of publisher's deadline. Either way, I wish I hadn't wasted any time or money on this book.
3 I have been looking forward to this book ever since I saw the release date, about six months.  I finally get my hands on a copy and I start to read it.  THEN I realize that this isn't going to be one of his suspense/thriller/horror novels, but one of his 'fluffy fiction' novels.  Which I totally hate.  But I figured, I waited so long for it, I might as well give it a try.  I must say, I really got into it.  I was really interested in how he was going to wrap all the characters together, I was really getting into the little 'creatures', Puzzle and Riddle.  But then it just ended.  Just stopped.  There was no kind of resolution, it was a completely open ending.  Which makes me wonder if this is just the beginning of a series.  I would really like to read more about the world after Puzzle and Riddle.  I want to know what happens with Tom Bigger.  I have a LOT of unanswered questions.  That is why I gave it 3 stars.Additionally, what was the point of all the brand name dropping?  Do we really care what brand shirt, slacks, socks, shoes, and watch anybody was wearing?  Is DK trying to get a handout?
5 i dont know how he does it  but dean koontz has the gift of writing not only eliquent prose but also suspenseful wonderment.  he never disappoints.
3 I am a huge Dean Koontz fan and also absolutely love and adore Irish Wolfhounds, so this book should have me giving it five stars just on love alone. However, the book is incredibly disjointed and seems to recycle some of the "wonderment" of a few of his other books.Mr. Koontz usually develops compelling characters. Grady and his wolfhound Merlin are interesting, but you don't find out what really makes the man tick or get a sense of the dog's deep abiding nobility. InWatchers, as Koontz develops the story you find out why Travis Cornell is the man he is and why the heroine, Nora Devon, is the woman she is and why she is able to become the strong, independent character ready to protect her family. The dog's personality is well fleshed out. In Breathless, Koontz doesn't fully develop Grady, Merlin (the wolfhound) or the veternarian, Cammy Rivers. One of the most developed characters is Harold, but you still lack the why as to why he killed his twin.Two of the most interesting characters are Puzzle and Riddle. The ending though leaves an incomplete sense about their presence. The question of why the goldens became happy and the farm animals looked into the mist for 15 minutes is never really fully answered. The various subplots don't gel towards the end either. Koontz introduces several characters and quite frankly at the end of the book you have to ask "why" were they even in the book.And to go back to one of my great loves--the Irish Wolfhound, Merlin's character development was also a bit of a disappointment. Wolfhounds are one of the quirkiest dogs around. They have an unique view of life and although Merlin was presented well, his character could have had more depth. I believe I read in an interview that Mr. Koontz does like the wolfhound, not as much as golden retrievers, but the dog is up there in his affections. Not sure he has ever owned one after reading the book. For instance Merlin obeys Grady the way a golden would obey a human.  I can't think of one wolfhound I have had or have known that is as obedient as Merlin is in the book. When you ask them to do something their 'obedience' sometimes is rather interesting.So I give the book three stars for the wolfhound, the limited character development of Grady, and for the mystery of Puzzle and Riddle which quite frankly will leave you puzzled and riddled!
4 OK, Dean, lose the dog.  A dog does not have to appear in every novel.  I am a dog lover too and I have lost a few.  Sad.  Didn't like it.  But, I haven't dwelled upon it my whole life.  So, at least for a few more novels, lose the dog.Now for the novel.Life.  Spontaneous.  From out of nowhere.  From out of everywhere.  Does life evolve or was it a spontaneous action from an unknowable and unexplainable source."Breathless" take you on an adventure of life as we don't know of it.  Something beautiful, yet unexplainable.  Something from somewhere, nowhere or everywhere.  And when THAT life reveals itself to OTHER life, interesting things can happen.The plot was interesting and tramples upon an exotic and controversial topic. Is evolution a mathematical impossibility?  And, if so, where did it come from?In the case of "Breathless", this new life is beautiful and mesmerizing.  Is it dangerous?  Or is it salvation?If you are interested in LIFE --- this Koontz poser might just leave you ... uh ... breathless.Not his best work --- but a strange new departure for Koontz.  Either he is exploring new literary territory or he needs a new psychiatrist.Maybe both.Worth the read .... but, don't expect too much in the end.Densel MyersYukon, Oklahoma
1 This really pains me to say but I am done with Koontz.  The last few books of his I have read have just been so boring.  This one was rushed, boring, out there, with no glue to keep it together.  It was several mini stories that give you the hope of something much bigger than is actually delivered.  It was if he gave up on it half way through.  The man, a dog, and a ghost thing is getting OLD.  I'm done wasting money on him.  Sorry Koontz I am breaking up with you.  I know it hurts us both, but it's for the better good.
2 I have read better Dean Koontz than this one and yet it is so filled with promise at the beginningDean Koontz made at pact with the reader and let us down. He went off in many directions None of which were relevant to his first storyline what could have been a creation story drifts into serial killers doppelg&auml;ngers and all sorts of other useless material. The unusual animals get lost in all the rubbish. He doesn't come back to it. He doesn't come back to them in a serious way until the end of the book where he says. One of the most beautiful lines: breathless then breathing.
5 I've read a half dozen from Koontz and aside from the conclusion of 'Odd Thomas', this is by far my favorite. The more I study fiction, reading and notating dozens of books, the more my craft appears dull compared to the translucent eyes of his newest creatures.I tip my hat to anyone who can so thoroughly communicate worldview without cramming it down my throat, but rather, preventing sleep and food until I finish the thing.'Breathless' reveals a truth that reality obscures.
2 I love Dean Koontz's books and was excited to find 'Breathless' at the library. But this one, well, let's just say I didn't "get it." Maybe my brain is addled by all the chick lit I've been reading, but I thought the ending was weak and anticlimactic. As always, Koontz' imagery was brilliant, but the plot flopped. Oh well, can't win 'em all, I guess.
5 a typically great Koontz story. a really good purchase. not to give away the storyline, you will not be disappointed. I,personally, was glad to see him use a different dog other than a Golden.
3 Love his books but this one was more like a fairy tale from outer space,But it had a earthly ending.
3 It really didnt leave me Breathless at all!  Took too long to get to the point.  Too many charahters coming together. Too disparate.
2 I just finished this book and "C. Brown's" review is dead-on. I bought the audio version of it (as I have a daily long commute), and as I listened to it, I was captivated by these 2 creatures, and couldn't wait to see what happens in the next chapter, etc... however, by the time I got to the end of the book I was like "wtf"??? it seemed to me there were a ton of questions in my mind that went  unanswered! I don't know what happened, but somewhere along the line this fast moving freight train derailed and crashed & burned.
1 I am a huge fan of Dean Koontz because he writes with such passion and you are always being forced to turn the pages to find out what happened next. Compared to every other book of his I've read, this is flat and dull. It just gets good at the end and then it's all over; I felt like I had just started it. I wanted to learn more about Puzzle and Riddle and the influence they were going to have over the world and the future.There were too many side stories that really didn't have any reason to be there; yes they all coincided, but it felt like fluff.I hate to criticize Dean Koontz because he is usually amazing and I am addicted to his books, but I felt completely let down by this one.
5 Koontz' latest book "Breathless" is--to no one's surprise--infused with large doses of suspense.  But this book offers not just suspense, but also a sense of wonder.The characters are diverse and for the most part likeable.Koontz is a modern day master who never dsappoints.  He weaves a tale with assurance and skill.  Some people may call his ending abrupt.  I think he chose to end the story in such a way as to make the readers ponder for themselves the implications presented in this tale...Also recommended for the Holidays:Christmas Gifts, Christmas Voices: A Holiday Novel of Hope and HealingA heartbreaking story that ulitmately leaves you feeling good...
4 Koontz is renowned for writing unique stories and this is one of them.  The two beings around which the main story progresses, Puzzle and Riddle, are exactly that.  Their nature and origin begins as a mystery that drives the plot along.  The story is told through several vignettes that don't appear to be related but have a wonderful synchronism to them.  We are introduced to a handful of classically Koontz characters, that is to say, very unique.  The vagrant on a mission, the chaos theory expert, a homicidal psychopath, the works.  The book is quite suspenseful, ending just about every chapter on some sort of cliff hanger and switching to another parallel event, leaving us always itching to get back to the one we were just on.  Of course, guessing the origin of Puzzle and Riddle was always in the back of my head but I was joyously surprised that none of my theories were correct.  The book is full of imagination and takes the road less travelled.  No cookie-cutter revelations here.  As with all great literature, Koontz may step on some toes here with some of his ideas, but that is as it should be.  Several reviewers have complained that Merlin, one of the main character's dogs, plays too prominent a role.  I found Merlin to be well characterized for anyone who knows and likes dogs while not being overplayed into the story.  As usual, Koontz hits the right notes with his human characters as well.  Some are likable, others not.  Some are abominable, deliciously abominable.  I refer here to those murderous characters who are so ill-suited to the real world as to be darkly comical.  They provide a good deal of the more humorous moments in the book which I always like about Koontz' writings.  The author's philosophy seems to shine through and offer an uplifting viewpoint that serves to encourage us all.  Moving between the stories sets a good pace that keeps you coming back for more.  I recommend Breathless for those looking for something a little different.  I really enjoyed this book.  Koontz offers a message of hope in a time of change.
2 My first clue to this book's potential trouble was the lack of reviews from respected literary sources. Despite that, I was ready for "Breathless" to break the trend of formulaic books that Koontz has put out over the past few years. From "The Husband" to "The Good Guy" to "Relentless," it has seemed we were getting different variations of the same story. This, I thought, might break that mold.It breaks the mold, all right. It dives deeply into the chaos theory that some of Koontz's characters defend. "Breathless" starts with the same feel as "The Taking," showing mysterious events and creating a palpable sense of intrigue. We meet Grady Adams and his dog, Merlin, as they start spotting some inexplicable white creatures in the woods. Through the eyes of Camilia Rivers, we see horses and even goats start acting in odd ways. And we meet a coldhearted killer named Henry Rouvroy, who is more than he seems. We are introduced to others, as well, and the book begins to feel more like a series of short stories than a cohesive unit. Nevertheless, I kept waiting for things to swing around, to sprint into action.With thirty pages left, though, I was still wondering when this chaos theory would gel into something like a full-length novel. The plot threads that at first seemed to be winding toward something deep, instead meandered, tangled, and knotted. The characters' goals and motives remained nebulous through most of the story, and Koontz tacked on a preachy section, as has become his routine of late.Koontz is an undisputed master of narrative. I like his ideas, his questions, his searching. His dialogue is great. But these pieces must fit together to make a great novel, and this doesn't seem to happen here.Once again, I am left feeling cheated by the genius that I know Koontz possesses. Please, Mr. Koontz, for the sake of readers who love your writing, give us a story that is wildly imaginative yet cohesive, full of ideas and symbolism without being pedantic. I see the beauty in the chaos, and now I'm begging for you to unwrap it in a truly novel form.
4 Fun to imagine the "animals."  Kept me reading to find out how it could end.  Good, but not his best.
5 "In the stillness of a golden September afternoon, deep in the wilderness of the Rockies, a solitary craftsman, Grady Adams, and his magnificent Irish wolfhound Merlin step from shadow into light...and into an encounter with enchantment. That night, through the trees, under the moon, a pair of singular animals will watch Grady's isolated home, waiting to make their approach."Dean Koontz doesn't just entertain with written words, he writes novels of great importance, entreating us to be aware of the madness in our world and rise above it. BREATHLESS is a wonderful story about the power of good and light in a world full of darkness. Characters are presented with the opportunity to accept something so amazingly pure, it will change their lives forever. Some characters grasp that opportunity, which leads to healing and restoration. Some resist, despite the miraculous existence of the event in the first place, and their lives remain in the dark. It's interesting to consider the justification given by the characters that refuse to accept the peace-breathing event in the story.No one is better than Koontz at infusing stories with animals, and in many cases these animals play significant roles. BREATHLESS is one of these stories. Animal lovers will take great joy in recognizing the importance the animals have in this story.This is a novel that could have easily been twice the length and still retain reader interest and enjoyment. There are multiple plot threads that leave you wondering as you're reading how Koontz will be able to bring them all together. This leads me to my only complaint about the book--I didn't want it to end. The ending was certainly no disappointment, and it didn't feel too short; I just wanted the story to keep going."In a novel that is at once wholly of our time and timeless, fearless and funny, Dean Koontz takes readers into the moment between one turn of the world and the next, across the border between knowing and mystery."Life is indeed a mystery. And a mystery we are unlikely to ever solve. But there are clues that will help us have a more peaceful life which we'll see if we simply take a moment and open our eyes. Koontz tells us about a few of these clues: hope, perseverance, selflessness... while at the same time telling us a story that takes us out of the everyday and entertains.
3 Though I like happy endings, the whole premise of this story fell flat for me.I have been a fan of Dean Koontz for two decades, but I have avoided his books like the plague lately because he switched to first person point of view, and I hate reading first person fiction. When I flipped through this book and saw it was in third person, I thought it was worth it to give him another try. Despite the rather over-the-top flowery description, which got sappy at times, I thought it could still be a great thriller.Turns out there were tons of flowery descriptions, but very little thriller. There is a main bad guy that seems to have little to do with the main characters except near the end, and then it was a head-scratching sort of scene and anti-climactic. The two main characters seem to have a bit of chemistry but Mr. Koontz never really capitalizes on it. Then there are the creatures. I love creatures, or icky bugs, as I call them, but in this case, they are cute, cuddly and seem to support religious spontaneous creation, while the story takes a big dig at the impossibility of evolution. I wasn't sure if this was political, a religious bent, or just a plot device.Whatever the case, though the story was easy to read, I found myself having to slog through some very flowery sappy and "wondrous" descriptions, a total dismissal of evolution, and a rather bland story that at least to me, never went out with a bang.I would only recommend this to Koontz fans and even then, I'd think twice about it.
2 Not one of Dean's better works, Breathless starts out written very well with a suspenseful story promised, then with about 20 pages left Dean dives in to anti-science, right wing Christian lunacy and ruins the whole story.The story starts with a number of people having magical, life-changing experiences which the author does not describe, tossing in some human monsters randomly so that good can defeat evil, then eventually we discover that the miracle was the spontaneous generation of life forms that are warm fuzzy creatures that look nothing like humans and yet which have 100% the same DNA as humans.The author's utter lack of scientific understanding of even the basics of genetics screams out from the page toward the end of the book, as does his utter lack of understanding about even the basics of the directly-observed fact of evolution. Dean trots out all the usual Creationist Christian straw men and stupid arguments that Creationist cultists do to try to pretend that they have gods, expressing his Creationist belief that the evolution of species is some how the same as the origins of life, not understanding what natural selection does or what it means, and leaping on to the Christanic Creationist cult lunacy of "scientists say it all happens by chance."And Dean's dismal cult-driven stupidity is fully evident in the book when he calls anyone who employs science an "evolutionist," the only thing lacking from the usual dimwitted Christianic Republican dimbulbs out there is Koonts does not capitalize the word "evolutionists," likely because his editor fixed it for him.To suggest that the book is rewarding along the way and then dives in to the Creationist Christian toilet would be an understatement.2 stars since the first 90% of the book is well written, thyen it looks like Bill O'Reilly or Pat Robertson or some other cult savage finished the book for him.
1 The beginning of the story was really good. Elements of intrigue, suspense, and mystery. But, when the two mystery creatures became known, the story took a nosedive quickly towards corniness. If Koontz had kept the two creatures shrouded in mystery, I think the story would have been much better, keeping the reader engaged. Needless to say, I should have tried harder to stay with the book. But, after the mystery creatures were no longer a mystery, I felt as if I was reading a children's novel about two furry muppets.
5 Had I depended on the content of the negative Amazon reviews of "Breathless," I would have no doubt not read the book. I'm glad that I ignored those who didn't like the book. I enjoyed the pacing, and the way Koontz ends each chapter with a cliffhanger, or foreshadowing event. I'm not a big fan of novels, but I eagerly await anything written by Koontz, and he has never let me down. Every book is a worthwhile read, and Breathless is no exception. I would advise reading this book yourself, and not depending on the views of those who read this book and just didn't get it. I did, and I'm glad that I read it, it was quite an entertaining read.
2 Come on - what a stupid finish. I actually liked reading most of the book - the writing and the characters were interesting. But it doesn't make up for the ridiculous ending. The book either needed to be longer with the characters and plot lines more fleshed out, or tossed in the trash bin at the publishers. What was his point anyway??
4 As with some other reviewers, I am not sure what to say.  The plot and storyline really captured my attention and kept me hooked.  Once I was finished with the book however, there were some "What in the world???" moments. The characters were very good, but in hindsight, not very well fleshed out : Tell me more about Grady's background. The whole Henry/Jim/Nora thing was confusing.  What happened to Liddon?  Tell me more about Tom's background to better explain why he is the way he is.  What exactly made Tom, Liddon and Henry think Armegeddon was coming?  No one else did.All in all, I would recommend the book to other Koontz fans. Just be ready to fill in the character/plot gaps on your own after you've finished.
3 I just love Koontz books and always get excited to read the next one.  The beginning is great...lots of interesting characters and multiple story lines.  In fact, so much action and mystery going on at once, you have to pay attention to keep it straight.  Grady, a loner with an Irish wolfhound, feels a world change coming and suddenly finds adorable humanoid aliens living in his house.  His neighbor and wife are murdered by the neighbor's sociopathic identical twin, who is "haunted" by his victims and believes the end of the world is coming.  A homeless alcoholic embarks on an unnamed journey.  How do they all tie together?  Well, they don't really until about the last quarter of the book.  You get hooked on the various stories...how will it all fit together? Of course, the evil government descends and Grady, the newbies and friends must escape. All of this rambles through "scientific" explanations to an ambiguous ending.  Was the crazy guy right after all? A bit too unresolved, leaving you with "is that it?"  Overall, a B- read.
2 I will not go into the storyline of this book because it's already been covered but let me begin by saying that Koontz is one of those writers who can capture your attention in a few words.  I was so hopeful I was going to like this book because he definitely drew me in ... for some of it.There are several storylines and each is intriguing and I did become involved with the characters but the integration of it was poor and the story itself was just ridiculous.  He just couldn't pull it off.I will say that there were definite scary moments where I couldn't put the book down, I was driven to finish but the coming together of all the characters, the point of the book ... just awful.
2 Dean Koontz's "Breathless" is the story of numerous individuals that and their lives, a veterinarian, a cabinet maker, a hideous homeless man, a psychotic murderer and several others. Koontz develops their lives making me yearn for what the connection is. When two mysterious creatures appear to Grady (the cabinet maker), he invites Camilla (the veterinarian), it made me wonder what the importance of the others were. It takes to the end of the story for it all to connect, but once the mystery was gone, it opened more questions, mainly what was the point. I enjoyed the buildup but it should have been more.
1 Title says it all. When I was about 20 pages from the end, I was like "how the heck can this be OVER in 20 pages?". Well, I will tell you how...you unceremoniously CHOP off the story with trite conclusions...and drop a few developing characters and storylines.But I know what happend...his publisher called and said "DUDE, we just got a 300k advance for another ODD THOMAS story!...and Dean responds "woah...time to wrap this book up before dinner!"I was really really let down by this book. I will view his books more carefully before thinking of buying the next one...
3 I really loved this book for the first 3/4.  It was wonderful and magical and Koontz at his best.  I got so caught up in the lives of the characters and desperately wanted things to turn out all right for all of them, especially the new fuzzy critters.  The ending just kinda wrapped everything up in a very few pages instead of fleshing out the ending of everybody/everything.  It wasn't a warm, satisfying ending at all.  It left me wanting a lot more by way of explanation and details.  Surely Koontz didn't use up his imagination; surely he could have spent another 20 or so pages giving us a more complete warm, fuzzy ending.
5 Dean Koontz never disappoints me!  I will have to admit that it is difficult to limit my reading time or to change my schedule to  permit more time.  His books are interesting, unique and the climax when everything is explained finally lets you take a deep breath and smile.  BREATHLESS is a terrific read, has done it again. Read it!
5 After being a military sniper, Grady Adams lives in an isolated part of the Rockies where he works as a craftssman.  One day in the forest he sees a strange light and knows musingly nothing will be the same.  Grady observes two white creatures playing and knows they sense his nearness somehow.  Frightened by what he has seen, he and his Irish Wolfhound Merlin race home.At the same time on a horse farm, veterinarian Dr. Camilla Rivers is shook by what she sees.  All the horses seem in some sort of trance as if they sense something big is coming.Grady calls Cammy to come over to his house to look at something strange.  The two creatures he saw in the woods make themselves at home in his cabin as Grady is entranced by them as they seem beautiful, pristine and pure.  Cammy arrives and knows they are a different species.  They name the pair Puzzle and Riddle.  However Homeland Security learns of the existence of the due and come to confiscate them in order to test them.  Conny and Grady refuse to allow the rendition of the odd pair, but remain unsure how to prevent it.Animal lovers will especially relish Dean Koontz's latest thriller that insists evil must be dealt with and can come in various forms; just because something new and different is found does not make them malevolent.  Instead something familiar can be the wicked and those with ethics will step up to prevent the heinous from inheriting the earth.  The creatures slowly reveal who they are to their adopted human pets, which makes Grady and Cammy even more resolute to keep them safe.  With plenty of mysteries at the core of the exciting story line, Dean Koontz is at his best with this thought provoking thriller as the monstrosities are not always obvious.Harriet Klausner
2 I got into this book and couldn't wait to find out what happened.  Where did the creatures come from?  What was their purpose?A lot of time building up the hype, and then a flat fizzle at the end.  The most perfunctory explanation for what they were and why they were here.  I found myself wondering "what the heck happened?" at the end because after spending so much time developing the plot, everything just ended suddenly.It's as if Tolstoy were to rewrite War and Peace and then instead of resolving the different plots just tacked on "and then the war ended and everyone lived happily ever after."
4 This is the first book I have read by this author.  I absolutely loved it.  I'm glad I didn't read the reviews here first since they gave away too much information about the story.  Sad that people do that.
4 I am a voracious reader, but mostly with other mystery writers.  I have seen Dean Koontz books but never read one as I was busy with other authors.  This is my first Koontz book, a gift at Christmas, and won't be my last.  He captured me in the first couple of chapters and I was entranced throughout the book.  With only about 25 pages remaining, I couldn't imagine how all the mysteries would be resolved.  Agreeing with some other reviews, I would have preferred a more developed ending to match the intrigue of the rest of the book, but I am satisfied with the story line and climax.I will definitely read many more Dean Koontz books.  If this is one of his lesser efforts, as some have said, I'm in for some great reading as I tackle the ones others rave about.  Can't wait.  Quite honestly, I feel badly for those who passed on reading "Breathless" just because of the personal bias of a few other readers.  Read it and decide for yourself.
2 I happened to pick this up at my local library last week. I don't get people who buy books like this brand new what is the point. So I was not too far into the book when I realized that this book was not really going anywhere. I checked the Amazon reviews which indicated my opnion was in the majority that this book was not one of Koontz's best. Please note that if you liked this book don't comment on how great it was and how stupid I am for not liking it. I reviewed Koontz's Your Heart Belongs To Me and someone had to insult me for my review. I'm not telling anyone to not like this book simply giving my opinion of it after reading it. The reason I say this is because for some people its not enough they like a book they have to argue with people who don't like it. Anyway I have been reading Koontz for 20 yars and I would say I am a fan. However he tends to keep using the same themes over and over. Having amoral psychos who are out to destroy the whole world. Loner heroes who have screwed up childhoods. And of course the dogs in every story. This one even had a dog on the cover. That aside my biggest problem was there was no real conflict in this book. And without conflict you don't have much of a story. It seemed to be more of a morality tale. Which is fine if dont right but it just seeemed heavy handed. I know Kontz is a religious man and I am as well. But there seems to be a general tone in his books that we are all headed to hell if we do not repent. The book ending kind of leaves things hanging and seemed tacked on. This isn't a horror book or a thriller so if you are a huge Koontz fan read it if you are looking for a good story than don't.
1 I used to know a lot of folks who would buy every Dean Koontz book that came out.  Many of them now say that they don't read his books anymore.  I may soon join their ranks.He apparently had a poor childhood, and he and his wife decided not to have children.  A few years back they finally got a dog, and it has enriched his life.  Congratulations to him.  Unfortunately, it has greatly hurt his writing.Instead of writing excellent horror novels, he has been producing poor dog novels.  This present book-about hyperintelligent dogs that are popping into existence-is just plain bad.Koontz may have lost yet another reader.
2 Mostly, the book was kind of out there meaningless. I finished it but I had force myself. It really made no sense. I would not recommend it. Not a novel of suspense.
2 I've read many a review on this title, and I'm forced to agree with their statements.This is what it promises - a fast-paced, jumpy, suspenseful novel. You get thrown into situation after situation with plotline after unrelated plotline. You turn pages frantically as each narrator switches into the next, desperately wondering what in God's name is going to bring them all together and play this out.Then, something strange happens. You get more intruiged, and more frantically rip through the pages. Maybe he'll give something away in the next chapter. No? Maybe the next. Okay, come on - it's got to be coming soon.The buildup is huge. You get set up for something truly monumental, and nearing the end you practically shake with excitement. He's going to do it! He's going to give away just what the hell this novel's all about!Then... What? Did Koontz just get tired of writing this? Did any agent, editor or proofreader not catch this? Seriously, a five year old would be sitting on their haunches, begging the sky for an answer as to what was going through Dean's head when he came up with that ending. I won't ruin it, as you should probably experience it from beginning to end to get what I mean, but what a disappointment.Aside from all of that, Koontz's opinions - and yes, the scientific material presented as fact are opinions, and easily disproved at that by any evolutionary theorist worth his salt - are horribly skewed. He chooses to preach his new beliefs instead of actually making you think, and it comes off as hokey and undercooked.All in all, stay away from this if you're a serious Koontz reader. I have enjoyed a lot of his other series heartily, and really have a thing for the Odd Thomas series. However, this could have finally turned me off once and for all his writing, which makes me a tad sad. Had this been more well done, I think it could have been great.But at the end, you still shake your head and ask yourself: "Really?"
3 It's been some time since I'd last read a novel by Dean Koontz.  And as for previous work by him, this novel was written in the usual Koontz fashion.  The novel follows multiple characters, the upright moral ones, the seedy ones with struggling consciences, the deranged antagonist impeding on the protagonists' trail, and the various other characters that add flavor to the plot of the story.  Even though the story has its formulaic tendencies, it does have entertainment value and offers an optimistic view of the future of humankind.The story builds up to centrally focus on the existence of two exceptional beings--such as to suggest that humanity is on the brink of a new era.  The novel deals with this concept in a skilled manner--though way too late.  The first half of the book seems a bit trivial, to the point of bringing me to near boredom.  The storyline of the deranged antagonists, one a twin brother with grotesque intentions and the other a demented wanderer--doesn't seem to really add anything to the story.  It wasn't until I was over halfway through the book that the there was edge and suspense to keep me reading.  I was left wishing that the book could have developed more of the storyline dealing with the veterinarian Cammy and her friend Grady, who ultimately befriend and protect the beings, who we learn a little too late, are the central characters in the story.Despite the shortcomings of the book, late development and frivolous storylines, the last quarter of the book makes worthwhile reading.  There's a sense of enlightenment with the characters, which would have been more profound, had the storyline been developed much more sooner in the book.  And the storyline didn't tend to grab me till near the end.  I couldn't say I would recommend this book at its full price but perhaps it would be a good read at a bargain price.
5 I haven't read many books by Dean Koontz, maybe 3 or 4 and they were all several years ago. I chose this book because I wanted a Koontz book, liked the cover and knew nothing else about it. It was pleasantly surprising to me. Being unprepared for the plot, it kept me anxiously turning the pages. The book presented interesting questions, gave a few insights that I hadn't really considered and had a satisfying ending. This is going to be one of my favorite books.
5 Dean Koontz, who frequently offers us novels that incorporate the supernatural - the possibility of a nature that people do not yet understand - has created a post-modernistic magical symphony in Breathless.More than half a dozen finely drawn and interesting characters people the tale, like a collection of different finely tuned instruments in an orchestra. Each person is presented separately, intriguingly, and then in the final part of the novel most are merged together in a moving and lively crescendo.There is the seemingly peaceful furniture maker Grady Adams and his dog Merlin. Grady has a hidden past. There is Camillia Rivers, a dedicated veterinarian with a tragic past of her own. She recues two dozen dogs that are in a state of shock because of dehydration, malnutrition, maltreatment and disease at a puppy mill. After being saved and at her kennel, the dogs suddenly stand, as if they are listening to a distant message, one that humans cannot hear. Then, after moments of stupor, they become healthy, as if they were never mistreated.There are the two strange animals, if we dare call them that. They come to Grady Adam's house and made it their home. The two seem to change before his eyes and do things that no animal can do.There is also Henry Rouvoy, who embezzled millions of dollars, who kills his twin brother and his wife so that he can assume his brother's identity. Although dead, the couple seems to continue to inhabit their home, as in Edgar Allan Poe's Tell Tale Heart.Dr. Lamar Woolsey also appears. He is a brilliant mathematician who can count cards, who wins big at casinos and hands his winnings to needy folk. Liddon Wallace, a lawyer, is also present. Wallace wants Rudy Neems to kill his wife by burning her. Wallace agrees that Neems can rape her repeatedly before the murder. Tom Bigger is also introduced. He robs people with an empty gun because he does not want to hurt anyone; that is, anyone but himself. His face is hideously disfigured because of beatings. He is searching for something or someone.There are more characters in this magical symphony, each adding his and her own notes, including the sweet tones of Josef Yurashalmi and his desire to do gemilut chesed and the discordant sounds of Paul Jardine, the villain from Homeland Security.Readers will enjoy hearing how these characters encounter and interact with one another.
1 Once upon a time there was a boy and a girl (and a dog), then something unexplainable happened, and all of a sudden the end.There, I just saved you a good portion of your life.  Now you don't have to read this book like I did.  I gave it one star out of the goodness of my heart.  Sheesh . . .
1 I have read many books from this author. I have come to expect a quick easy read and accept them for what they are. This book was a complete waste of time. To read more than a few pages is a mistake.If you had some junior high kids read some books from Koontz then take their best shot at writing in the same style this is what I would expect. No wait, I guess I would expect better.Koontz, you get D- on this one!
3 I'll always read Dean Koontz, no matter what he writes because along with WATCHERS and STRANGERS and many others, Koontz has written some of my all time favorite books.  Unfortunately BREATHLESS isn't one of them - however since so much of it is interesting and enjoyable I gave it 3 stars but if you are not a Koontz fan, I certainly don't recommend this book to you.  While most of the Koontz elements are present, I found the conclusion of the book very unsatisfying. As another reviewer mentioned, it seemed as though the author suddenly remembered he had to be somewhere so he just decided to end the book right there and then. This seems to be a trend among so many authors lately since so many other books I've read lately also suddenly seem to just up and end.  Nevertheless, the premise for this novel was so good and the writing so professional, that I still enjoyed it but how great it could have been with a real finish!
1 Guess you get what you pay. This was a bargain book, the deal was $8.00, all part of marketing strategy, based upon Koontz's previous books. TOO many diffenent plots, I thought that a well crafted novel would pull all of the loose ends together. Not so with BREATHLESS. I have exhaled. I have inhaled. I am NOT a fan of Breathless.Koontz was trying to stay with his old formula of a man with a secret life, generally in the military. As per usual, the hermitlike fella is trying to forget his para military past in special ops, or what not. HE always saves the fine little lady.  Koontz was trying to do a Steven King, with his paranormal schtick. He failed. He was trying to do James Patterson with a  hired killer plot. He was trying to be Michael Crichton with a science based "NEW SPECIES". HE FAILED on all points.I told my husband as I was reading that this was such a great book, all these various stories had to come together. THEY DID NOT! IT was a mess of jumbled plots, which did NOT mesh.  It was as if someone had shredded three or four novels. THEN, cut and pasted them together into this mess. I will never pre-order a book again. Live and learn.
5 In the Colorado Rockies, Grady Adams and his Irish wolfhound, Merlin, have just discovered two creatures unlike anything they've ever seen before. As they welcome these mysterious animals into their home, they soon discover that their arrival coincides with a wondrous event that will forever change their lives and millions of other all over the world.Dean Koontz never seems ceases to astonish me with the amount of tricks up his sleeve. Each installment in his illustrious career is unique and otherworldly, with Breathless being no exception. In recent offerings Koontz has come under fire, unfairly so in my opinion, for not being the same guy who once scared us around every turn with evil characters and harrowing plots. Lately, dogs have become main characters more than usual, and for whatever reason a lot of fans and critics alike have not looked kindly upon his change of style. In a bold and effective move, Koontz sticks it to the doubters and transforms familiar elements in a way we never imagined.Not only is Man's Best Friend featured in Breathless, but in this story animals play a bigger role than most of, if not all, Koontz's previous works.  However, fans who feel like they have been missing out will be pleased to know that this is one of the most suspenseful novels Koontz has written in a while, with a fast paced plot laced with just the right amount of dread, wonder, and redemption. We're even treated to some frightening and disturbing scenes that will have many readers looking under their beds and in their closets long after reading. Once again Koontz`s prose and dialogue are delivered at the highest level as we follow several storylines to a powerful conclusion.In the end we are left with a poignant glimpse into the beauty of nature and the mystery of life and the wonder that connects them.  I love what Koontz has done of late, and I particularly love what he's given us here. Breathless is certainly a different kind of animal, but one that is well worth your time.
1 This is a poem from an accomplished poet.One never knows what the future holds, and Koontz opens tat world.
2 I have read nearly every Koontz book ever written, and I have to say this one was a real let-down.  It started great, with solid characters who (I thought) would all have something in common, or at least end up together.  I had high hopes: two enigmatic animals showed up, proving to be almost human, but no explanation was ever given for their presence, even though they had a profound affect on events and other creatures.At a certain point in the book, it was like Mr. Koontz just ran out of ideas, or else his publisher called and told him to wrap it up in 24 hours.  As a result, some of the characters met strange and early ends.This book is certainly not in the same league with "Watchers".
1 Once upon a time masterpiece after masterpiece writer Koontz brings out yet another very average tale. In fact you'd be hard pressed to name a worse one altough there are unfortunatley quite a few really bad novels by "modern era Koontz" competing for that title.What has happened to the Dean Koontz who created some of the best thrillers ever written such asIntensity,Night Chills,Mr. Murder,Watchersand other classics? Go back and pick up one of those old books, basically if you're buying novels published around they years they were first were released and not reprints you're looking for ones where Dean on the back cover is almost bald.  His standard of writing has gone down since he bought a wig, hair transplants, or who knows what but it looks a bit ridiculous and isn't fooling anyone, since he put on the wig, he's come up with maybe one or two good books. In fact I wouldn't be suprised if the real Koontz retired and sold his name to some other writer who just isn't anywhere near his standard? Or if it is him, has he just lost the ability to write great novels? Got too much pressure from publishers to churn out too many books a year? Suffered from writers' block for a decade or two?  Who knows, give Breathless a miss or at the very least borrow it from your local library before paying money for it.Basic plots of Breathless (and there isn't just one, the book is basically a heap of short stories with paper thin tying together at the end if Dean bothers to at all which he doesn't with a few) are - Social hermit and his dog spot some strange creatures in the woods and find out intruders are messing around inside and outside their house.  A vet who is only a vet for the love of animals is coming across bizarre behaviour from animals brought to her clinic (of course Golden Retrievers, Dean is obsessed with these things and includes them in every book written in the modern Koontz era) and others animals she goes to visit. The most interesting one but story that goes nowhere, a man visits his twin brother and wife with a suitcase full of stolen money and a head full of psychopathic fantasies involving abducting women.  A homeless self face mutilating man gets the urge to move on even though he doesn't know where he's going.  A serial killer who only kills attractive women is approached by his lawyer to do a job.  A mathematician is on a winning streak in a number of casinos.  Sounds interesting, well Koontz never develops any of these storylines to contain any great substance.  Throw in an extremist religious propaganda speech about how evolution is wrong and just a lot of uneducated mindless waffling on, Golden Retrievers ridiculously used as examples of size differences between male and female animals in a conversation when more obvious animals would have been used.  Unnecessary flashbacks of abuse of characters in their childhood that serve no purpose in the plot and a heap of other things, that as I say you'd be breathless if you named each and every one, contribute to Breathless ranking up there with not only the worst ever Koontz novel, but worst ever novel by any author of all time!
2 Yikes!  What a mess.  This has to be the worst Dean Koontz novel of the last 25 years.  I won't bother with a synopsis here - it's all on the Amazon page and in other reviews.  What's wrong here?  Just about everything. This (very) short novel has absolutely zero character development, makes several horribly incorrect statements about evolution, evolutionary theory and the data underlying them, and gets the entire science of chaos theory (more properly referred to as non-linear dynamics) so completely and dumfoundingly wrong as to actually be not only impossible but frankly laughable.  Yes, I know it's only science fiction  (or supposed to be science fiction) but the science has to be at least plausible and arguable.  In this book Koontz's is neither.  Further, there is a complete absence of the trademark wry humor that marks his best works including the Odd Thomas series, Fear Nothing and TickTock.  And then there's the dog. Yes, we all know Koontz loves dogs.  But, uh... enough already.  There are other holes in the plot large enough to drive a 747 through, and much left un-explained.The good?  The concept is interesting.  But the execution is horrible.J.M. Tepper
5 Dean Koontz is my favorite author and so I am always excited when he comes out with a new novel. Granted, I probably love his older stuff the best, Watchers and Lightning are my two favorite novels ever, however, this one was superb! Koontz has a way with words so that I am always able to picture exactly what he is writing about and Breathless was no different. I felt like I could see Puzzle and Riddle right in front of me. Also, I am a huge dog lover so always like how he incorporates the animals into his stories. You definitely feel for his characters - whether you love 'em or hate 'em!!
5 Mostly I love Koontz and this one is sort of weak at the end.  I think he didn't complete the story.  He just said enough is enough.
5 I'm writing this in my kitchen while the turkey's in the oven and my family's snug in their beds.  Tomorrow is Thanksgiving. I finished reading Breathless last night but this is the first free moment I've had to put down my thoughts.  There's a smile on my face because even thinking about the ending causes that reaction in me.  Once again Dean Koontz has managed to tell a riveting story with redemptive qualities and the ability to leave the reader feeling better about herself and the world in general.I immediately liked Grady Adams and his Irish Wolfhound, Merlin, and Camellia Rivers their veterinarian friend whom Grady called when he discovered the miracle in the woods, two mysterious and beautiful creatures he and Cammy later named Riddle and Puzzle.  Where did the creatures come from?  Why are they here?  I cringed when Cammy contacted other animal experts because I knew what was coming.  How many times have we read stories or seen films in which any creature deemed 'not of this earth' was dissected by scientists because, let's face it, if they're different from us they're automatically a threat to national security. Better safe than sorry.At first I wasn't optimistic about how the secondary characters, a lost soul by the name of Tom Bigger, a miscreant by the name of Henry Rouvroy, and an utterly delightful character by the name of Lamar Woolsey, would figure into the story line.  But master craftsman Koontz brought it all together in a very satisfactory way in the end.Readers, this is an enchanting story that will make you smile and make you remember that mankind is indeed wonderful, even if we don't act like it sometimes!  :o)
1 Really love this author.  I think I have read everything he has written.  This one is a true disappointment.  You think it is really going places and then it just falls flat.
3 I have read this before several times and as with before I enjoyed this book. It's interesting and perhaps indicates a potential for us all someday.
5 I've been reading Koontz since I was a little girl.  I stopped picking him up a long time ago on a regular basis, but discovered his Odd series, and fell back in love.  After reading this, I came back to rate it, and was surprised at the bad ratings.Koontz, on the surface, writes horror novels.  But really, he writes novels about hope, and about the amazing things that people can do. (and the bad things)  This is one such story, and it is different from what he usually writes.Perhaps it is just the coincidental timing for me, because lately, I've been feeling down about the world.  Flick on the news, read the newspaper, and all that you feel is that the people in a position of power are on the take.This novel reminded me that there is beauty in the world, in the every day lives that we lead, and that there is a chance for something extraordinary...for hope...if we can trust in something bigger than ourselves.So, safe to say, I loved it.
5 Dean Koontz is the most original author writing today.  And trying to put this book into any genre is impossible -- it is truly sui generis.  But on top of that, 'Breathless' is simply a wonderful book, tightly plotted, witty, intelligent, down to earth, frightening, and lovable all at once.  Try finding those qualities rolled into any other book.But, how, how did he have the courage to publish it?In this book Koontz is like some swaggering hero of old, setting out to do battle against the cultural elites.  Especially the intellectual elites, like the graduates of Harvard.  And the governmental officials who know better than anybody else and have the armed forces at their beck and call to make sure you agree.  The schools awash in lessons on self-esteem instead of morals.  The man who calls his boat 'Therapy', then tortures a helpless child.And did I mention his characters?  Because who else manages to create characters you really care about, not to mention flawed characters like a homeless man who will, mysteriously, find redemption.Every thread in this book comes together to form a magical tapestry.
2 Grady Adams sees a couple of strange creatures in the mountains near his Colorado home while out walking his dog, Merlin.  The creatures are unlike anything he's ever seen - about the size of mid-size dogs but nimble as cats, and possessing the most beautiful fur coat he's ever seen.  A veterinarian friend, Cammy, doesn't know what they are either.  Soon they realize they're not the only ones interested in these unusual animals.  Meanwhile, a mountain-poet neighbor, Jim, receives a visit from his long estranged twin brother who kills him, intending to assume his life.This book seems to be an adjective-heavy blend of many other stories.  There were shades of Michael Crichton'sSphere, and the efforts to save the creatures reminded me ofE.T.(although not as exciting).  There were also allusions to Poe's Tell-Tale Heart and even Freddy Krueger.  The strong, silent, reclusive, troubled hero Grady bears a strong similarity to Tom Clancy'sJohn Kelly/Clarkor maybe a hermit-version of Clive Cussler'sDirk Pitt, while the vulnerable and emotionally damaged Cammy is pretty much a stock female character.  Other characters feel like they're lifted directly from the slime-ball of the week in the many nauseating crime dramas that have proliferated on television.  Oh, and then there's the genius chaos-theoretician (who uses his talents to cheat casinos and gives the money to desperate and down-on-their-luck folks) - I think we've seen that character a few times.  And perhaps only slightly more annoying is that Koontz liberally adds characters and subplots as the story progresses - err, stumbles along - and nearly all are flat and add little to the story (the dog's only role seems to just be a warm-furry).  The weird Zen-like ending only loosely ties things together.  And did I mention he uses way too many adjectives?Years ago I used to love books by Dean Koontz, and I read maybe a dozen or so.  I always appreciated that some of his books were free of smut and trash (not all, unfortunately) and this one was pretty clean.  But I'm afraid I just don't enjoy reading this kind of book like I used to - while it's minimally interesting it's shallow and not very satisfying.  I won't be looking for a sequel.
3 What a great start...interesting and compelling characters, multiple story arcs that seem to be inter-related and careening towards one another, scary government bad guys, and of course supernatural animals! These are all the trademarks of a successful Dean Koontz's story, and the reasons I have enjoyed his stories since I was a teenager. I started my affinity for Koontz novels with Watchers, which has some of the best animal characters I have ever read. This is close second, as Koontz again captures the innocence and intelligence of our animal friends (even supernatural ones).But right when you start to get really excited about the story, it seems to come to an abrupt and ill-conceived ending. Questions and story lines are haphazardly tied up, with no real creativity and no movement forward of the story or characters. I wanted a confrontation between good and evil; I wanted a mystery resolved; I wanted a good ending - and Mr. Koontz doesn't deliver on any of them.I'd taken a break from his writing for close to a decade, with only recently having read his last `animal' story, "The Darkest Evening of the Year" (which I enjoyed). I thought I'd give him another chance. I guess I can scratch that idea.
2 I've always liked Koontz. Many of his books likeMr. MurderandOdd Thomasblew me away with his imagination, plotting, tension and characterizations.  This one is just not one of his better ones. In fact, it's a disappointmentHere's the upsides and mostly downsides for me in this one:- A lot of characters with a hodge-podge of story lines.Most of the character's (including the non-human ones) still display Koontz's knack for giving them some realistic depth, but in this case there's so many of them all with different story lines, that it's just not done as well. In fact, all the different hodge-podge story lines and characters tales never really get told completely, nor do they get tied together in any meaningful way.- As much as I love animals, and his ability to make them characters, I'm tired of him turning out books lately that focus so much on critters with super intuition or special powers.- I appreciate that he's trying to find premises with hope and inspiration, but found the "mystical, new-agey" premise and action of this one tired. It was almost like he used a recipe of "I'll throw in lots of strange, mysterious things occurring" and the solution will be that "they're strange, mysterious, mystical happenings"Bottom Line: Koontz obviously knows how to write, it's what kept me reading through to the end despite not being as engaged in the story.  But, I wish he'd find his way back to writing the crisp, well-connected stories with great characters that made so many of his books the "I can't put it down" type.  This one's a disappoinment.  I'd definitely go for a different one if this is your first Koontz read.
3 I read this book and Darkest Evening of the Year just a few weeks apart from each other and felt they both had the same downfall. Dean Koontz spends so much time developing his characters and the story that he seems to run out of steam when it comes time to wrap things up. The ending came across as very anticlimatic to me with too many loose ends.
1 I have read every book written by Dean Koontz (or written under his many pseudonyms), but lately I've been disappointed with his books, Breathless being my most recent disappointment.You have the usual Koontz characters of a dog, a strong female, and a killer who enjoys killing.  Breathless also throws in a whole cast of other characters that do not do much to move the story along.  The story, such as it is, has to do with the appearance of strange creatures, Puzzle and Riddle, and attempts at trying to uncover what they are, where they came from, what do they mean?The book jumps from many subplots brought about by the seemingly endless cast of characters: a vet, a furniture maker, a farmer and his wife, a killer-for-hire, a vagrant on a mission, yet another murderer involved with the government, an FBI agent... the list goes on and on and subsequently so does the story in an agonizingly slow pace and chopped up into micro-chapters. Koontz then throws in some evolution pseudo-science to help confuse things even more. All of this only serves to make the story all the more too difficult to follow, were it worth following.  You know, that in the end, all of these characters will somehow all be connected and when you are finally "rewarded", the result is very disappointing and anti-climatic...so much for a reward.I came away with the feeling that Koontz wrote this book more out of a contractual commitment than a need to tell a real story or make some point.  Needless to say I am very disappointed.
3 I have probably 20 Koontz books and other then the "Odd" series I always finished, learned something and enjoyed them.  This is the first one that I could not get through the first 20 pages. Is he just writing to sell books based on his pass successes?  You decide.
5 You know a book is good when you forget to eat. You know it's great when you forget to sleep. When you temporarily lose sight of all around you, you know that it is another masterpiece written by Dean Koontz."Breathless", Koontz's newest adventure is a much too brief glimpse into the lives of several strangers, linked by an invisible thread much greater than themselves. Grady Adams--a powerful and private man--and Camilla Rivers--a deeply damaged healer--are thrust into the epicenter of a changing world when faced with a decision to blindly follow authorities or stand up for what they believe is right.As a somewhat jaded member of humanity, I find myself a bit cynical and am not often shocked by what I find between the pages of my preferred escape mechanism...books. This is not true of the pieces written by Koontz; with dazzling imagery, the characters become real as their intensity--and often times innocence--soar off the pages. Offering his readers an overhead view of life in his world, "Breathless" is without a doubt his best.
5 the great thing about Koontz is that evan after being a fan for years,  and having read 30-40 novels? he surprises. He is more versatile than many authors and this book adds a new layer to his body of work. Breathless is full of suspense, there's plenty of levity, poetic verse, poignant cultural commentary, but in this book&#8212;a bit more so than any of his others&#8212;there is also art. Breathless (especially the last 10%) leaves it up to the reader to interpret, ponder, make connections, etc. If you prefer more literal  works with distinct resolutions, this wont be for you. But if you're a fan of Koontz, or love works of wonder, tension etc, i can't recommend it enough.
5 I wrote this review right after reading this book, and was then really surprized to see so many negative reviews. Maybe they don't understand a writer of this level. Anyway, I think long-addicted Koontz readers will like this one a lot - I did. Dean pulls out all the stops and goes back to some of the quirky successful formulas before Odd Thomas. Ambitiously balancing six or so unrelated plots at once, he builds interest and suspense in each separately, and at 80 percent though the book, we begin to think there is no way he can tie it all together. Way! Not only Way, but  the beginning of a seventh and most quirky, most marvelous plot of all - I am talking a whole new species of creature inserted into our materialistic world from somewhere else and bringing a message -" the future is the only way to eternity, and things are going to turn out all right, if we just do what we should"- quirky?As often, Koontz has underlying messages: 1) Man did not descend from monkeys, 2) Governments are still terrified by anything new, 3) While governments think they control, man is really controlled by something or Someone beyond our known universe. So can the new creatures with the message save our planet? - I expect (and hope for) a sequel to find out more about this.
4 I started reading both James Patterson and Dean Koontz about three years ago.  I just loved James Patterson, then and now all his books are the same.  Dean Koontz on the other hand continues to change his characters and style within this time frame (maybe even before then).  I just love his writing.  This book made my toes curl at every turn.  The characters all came together at the end.  Yes, maybe not a tight as a leather glove, but if it was that tight we would have seen it coming amile away.  I do wish that it hadn't ended so quickly.  The only part of Deans books that seem to have a weakness (for me...maybe not for you) are the endings.  You really do need to have a open mind to accept them.  BUT I love how he gets to the end.  I love his discriptions.  I loved the "short story" styles of the different characters in this book.How you view this book or why you are reading it may influence how you feel about it.  If you are reading to merely be entertained, and you aren't fact checking every phrase or statement you probably will like this book, if that isn't you..pass this one up.  I can see if you are a lover of evolution or the choas theory how my statements might drive you nuts.  I am not a expert at either and wouldn't depend on this novel to be my text on them, but the streching of the facts or truth works for me here in this novel.I also love how Dean includes animals into his novels.  I think writing in such a way has allowed a new world to open up to him.  I have enjoyed it, and wouldn't mind if he continues expanding his writing in such a way.  Maybe Odd Thomas will get a new companion...Lassie.
2 This book seems like a badly executed effort to promote a "divine plan" worldview. In the story, beautiful new creatures pop out of nowhere in an act of divine creation. Ultimately, it becomes clear that their arrival heralds a new era where things happen as they should, implicitly following a divine plan.In case you miss where things are going, Koontz uses such techniques as a mathematician "debunking" evolution using a nonsense argument, and repetitious narrative saying such-and-such knew that wherever they were was the right place to be. Yeah, we get it - after taking a vacation for a couple of millennia, the Christian deity is back on the case!The religious plot wouldn't be a big problem if the book were well executed. However, there is no climax, no sense of satisfaction at the end. It's as if Koontz thought that making the divine intervention aspect clear was all the satisfaction anyone needed.
1 Lately it seems that either Dean Koontz is resting on his laurels, or he's getting into a mystical mode and taking us along with him as he seeks the meaning of life.  This plot is disjointed and the back and forth character progression is not my favorite style of story telling.  Some of the information is too scientific and actually pretty boring; way beyond my small mind to comprehend, even if I was interested. Most people buy a fiction book to be entertained, but this is more like a non-fiction book with no real plot or cohesiveness.  It's quite fragmented and the relationship between the various characters isn't revealed until the very end of the book.  I was disappointed when I know this author has more to offer than this.  His last few books have been an experience in coasting.  If he has writers block or is seeking religion, maybe he should take some time off and come up with some fresh ideas.  It's not that I don't like a happy ending, but I'm glad I got this from the library and didn't pay for it!  Come on, Dean, you can do better.
1 I've read many of his books and this one is very disappointing.  The ending came so suddenly I had to reread it to make sure I didn't miss something.  How do cute furry creatures save the world from itself?  Did Henry really kill Jim or was it Henry all along, or was Henry just nuts?  Too many characters that he tried to tie together in the end.  The Marcus Pipps explanation was way too short.I agree with the other reviewers that said it seemed like he got sick of the book and just ended it.  Enough with the dogs already!  His last several books seem to leave you with unanswered questions in the end.  Glad I get them at the library and didn't pay for them.  I hope he goes back to the Odd Thomas series soon.
5 I hate reviews that simply re-cap the story. This is a great story. It grabs hold of you, and keeps you thinking when you aren't reading it.I admire Dean Koontz for writing this. I'm sure he knew it would not please everyone.I was concerned about how he would weave it all together, but was quite pleased with the ending.
5 I loved this book.  It reminded me of the earlier Koontz books like The Watchers and Lightening - before his books became cruel and gory.  The different plots flowed together and ended wonderfully.  Koontz is a talented writer in both style and idea.  Absolutely great.  I have been turned off by his latest books (wonder if someone else wrote them).  This brings me back into the fold.Please Dean - write another one like this!
3 I am a huge Koontz fan; however, this book really fails to deliver. The ending was so very weak and very disappointing.
5 This book was bought for my father-in-law. He loves to read! I am sure that he enjoyed it very much!
5 I read the reviews while I was reading the book. Some loved it, many hated it and I realized why. When we read a story, we typically have an idea of how we want something to end and with a minimum criteria required for satisfaction. Also, many reviews were based on personal beliefs. Personally, I loved it. I didn't think the ending was rushed and I was satisfied with the conclusions. Also, I "got" it and there was something to "get". For those who needed something obvious, they weren't going to get it. For those who needed everything explained, they weren't going to get that either but once again, that requirement is influenced by personal beliefs. Do we really need to have everything spelled out? This was a wonderful book and it was also funny which was unexpected. All in all, a great read and at the very end, I smiled.
5 A great book. Wish this would really happen. Would make the world a better place. Dean Koontz is a wonderful writer!
1 I have read a lot Of Dean Koontz' books, starting with Fear Nothing and Seize the Night.  While my enjoyment has varied from 'good book' to 'WOW!', I had never been disappointed in one until I read Breathless.  The plot to me is beyond contrived and simply does not track.  The story line is stilted and just is a poor read.  I will still buy Dean Koontz books - one bad apple in the bunch doesn't mean the rest are not great, but I would avoid this one like the plaque.
3 Choosing isolation in the Colorado Rockies, craftsman Grady Adamsencounters a pair of beautiful furred animals that challengeeverything he and a local veterinarian understand about the naturalworld, a discovery for which they are targeted by government forces.There's no mistaking the writing style and talent of Dean Koontz. Itis both articulate and literate. That being said, I found this to be aless than satisfying effort. I found the sub-plots to have littleconnection, if any, to the main storyline. I was hoping there would bea more solid connection. This is one of those novels that had a heckof a lot of potential but seemed to cut everything short. Yes it couldof used more depth. The ending came to quick that left you with morequestions than answers.
1 I couldn't stand the way this book jumped around.  I couldn't really get into the story due to the fact that each chapter switched to a new character.  I also felt that this was way to much like a sci-fi novel.  The plot was unbelievable.  I couldn't continue on. I recycled the book after the vet came over to see the "playful pets with the huge illuminated eyes".  Get Real!
2 This book gets off to a good start. There are some interesting, though somewhat formulaic plotlines woven throughout, and some of the characters start off as intriguing. Then the book begins to spiral downward ever so slowly, and the author becomes positively self indulgent.Clearly, the author has some very strong opinions with respect to governmental agencies, defense attorneys, elected officials, and so on. The author makes his rants part of the story but, somehow, it feels like...well...rants by a survivalist or far right wing ideologue of some kind.Still, the story does have some steam. It revolves around two strange, white furred creatures that come to earth and are discovered by a reclusive man who lives with his Irish wolfhound in rural Colorado. So, this does grip the reader's imagination. After all, what are they? What do they want? Why are they here? Unfortunately, the reader will never really know.Add to this the fact that that the characters, while initially intriguing, seem to be one dimensional. They are either god's angels on earth or the devil's spawn. There is no in between. Thematically, the book seems to be about good and evil, but it never really finds its groove.Still, none of these shortcomings are what eventually torpedoes the book. It is the race to the finish line and the unsatisfying end to the story that does it in. A reader may endure some of the shortcomings along the way to the finish line but will feel decidedly cheated by the rushed feel of the ending and the lack of some rhyme or reason as to why some characters were included in the first place. The book has an almost nonsensical ending that is decidedly unsatisfying.I am a fan of the author, so I was quite disappointed and let down by the turn the book took, as I know that the author is capable of delivering more than he did. In the final analysis, I did not like the book.
5 I had to write a review when I saw all of the negative reviews this book has gotten.  I LOVED this book.  I read Dean Koontz years ago, Strangers and Lightning among my favorites.  With the exception of the Odd Thomas books I have been very unimpressed with his recent fare, an avid reader I was unable to finish the last book I tried to read- The Face. I loved this book and feel like it was more like the older things Koontz wrote, give it a chance- I think you will like it.
2 ,  ,  ,  ,  what happened at the end???  I sorta, knewthat we were in trouble, when, with 80 pages left togo,  ,  ,  ,all, all, all, of these loose ends were stilldangling out there in the nether-world!!  A master-magician would have a tough time putting togethera cohesive, blended ending!!  Too bad, I really likedthe first half, or so!!
3 Breathless is a quirky sort of novel, a blend of genres and not easy to define. It has a basic theme, that of light versus darkness, good versus evil. The plot centers upon the discovery of a pair of intelligent animals heretofore unknown to science. There is a collection of characters and subplots, including a murder, a serial killer stalking his victim, an ostensible haunting, and governmental malfeasance. Each of the many characters is burdened with a sense of despair,but it is difficult to feel drawn to any of them.  As the various plot lines play out, miracles of a sort occur, all of which seem to be linked to the strange new animals. The theory of evolution comes under fire, and although creationism does not rear its head, the mystery surrounding their appearance is left unresolved.Breathless raises some interesting questions. But readers who like their stories wrapped up neatly at the end will likely become frustrated with this one.
5 I have enjoyed Koontz' books in the past, but got a little tired of the horror genre, and hadn't really read any of his books in a long time. But something about this book appealed to me from the reviews, so I gave it a try. Glad I did! It is a marvelous, uplifting, magical, exquisitely written book of hope for the human race. Themes of compassion for animals and all who are considered "others", personal and global redemption, madness and fear, the power of awe, the healing power of joy, are all explored here in unique vignettes that somehow all tie together by the end. It's a quick read, and one that will make your heart smile inside. A truly special book.
5 Loved the book.  Fast paced and lots of fun to read.  Hard to put down. My favorite author does it again!
3 Each chapter of this book is written from a central character's point of view.  If you are familiar with Koontz books, you are familiar with this style.  The confusion came because I found the chapters much shorter than usual.  Whether this is because I read quickly or not, I'm not sure.  As soon I was starting to understand and get a grasp on a character and their potential role in the novel, their chapter was over and it was on to the next person.  There also seemed to be a few erroneous characters that never seemed to totally tie into the story, but I'm going to re-read the book, to see if I am being overly critical regarding their roles.  I only had about 50 pages left of the book before I was really interested in it, and the ending left much to be desired.  Definitely not as good as Relentless, and does not hold up to any of his older works.  Hopefully the next book will be better...
3 Been a Koontz fan for a long time, but his stories have changed over time.  Breathless could hardly be labeled a thriller, or even suspense.  I like his characters, but this one left me kind of disappointed.  I enjoy when he adds the dogs to his stories, tho.
3 ENJOYED THE BOOK BECAUSE A VERY EASY READ.  NOT ONE OF HIS BEST WORKS BUT ENTERTAINING ENOUGH.
3 Plot/Storyline: 2 StarsAs much as I love Dean Koontz' work, he took an original, interesting idea here and convoluted it abysmally. There were simply way too many plot threads present. Even though he attempted to draw them together in the end, many just had no real relevance.Each thread, while peopled with interesting characters, still brings nothing to the main plot. I believe that Koontz was attempting to contrast good and evil here, but it appeared more like he was trying to use this book as a dumping ground for some of his unused character and plot ideas.The main plot thread featuring the two creatures should have had more follow through and explanation.Character Development: 2 StarsI think if you have never read a Koontz book, you will enjoy the characters. However, having read every one of his previous novels, I found his characters to be overdone, cookie-cutter copies from his earlier works.We have the woman who was abused as a child (not sexually, because that's a bit much for Koontz to ever handle, regardless of how much more common it is in real life), who nevertheless has a heart of gold, even though it's hard for her to trust people. We have the guy she does trust because he is such a...well...trustworthy guy. We have the smart, intuitive dog, a given for Koontz. We have the evil sociopath. We have the giant, ugly guy who looks scary, but also has a great heart to remind us not to judge based on appearances.Judging solely from this novel, the characters are two-dimensional and shallow.Writing Style: 5 StarsThe writing style was of Koontz' usual quality. In other words, it was excellent. Koontz' masterful handling of the language could keep a reader enthralled with his grocery list, were he to decide to publish it.Editing/Formatting: 5 StarsBoth were of professional quality.Rating: PG-13 for Adult Situations
2 This is the oddest novel I've ever read (actually heard via audible). I kept skipping the parts where they talked about the vet and Grady and of course the "beautiful creatures with the strange eyes" because it was "yawn".I LOVED the tales revolving around Tom the bum, Henry the psycho, and Dr. Lamar who gave away money.  Now THOSE characters had, well character!It's odd how Koontz can create really interesting bad guys and side kicks but the heroes tend to leave one flat.The end was a true waste: of Koontz' talent and our time.
1 As a veteran Koontz reader of approximately 57 books,I have to rate this book at the bottom.It is a nice children's tale for the holidays, but never gets anywhere.i'm very disappointed.
1 I will say at the outset that I had high hopes for this 'novel'.  I had read some of Dean Koontz earlier work and enjoyed it.  The spiel on the back cover more than tickled my interest.  However, at the utset the book comes across as rambling.  You never really get to know the characters and there is a subplot that just seems to go nowhere.  I felt no suspense what so ever.  The central idea is that these bizarre new creatures are found and they have some effect on people.  Key questions like where do they come from, what are there purpose, why are governments interested in them are never answered.  Certain plot devices like an overbearing government response seem heavy handed and clumsy.I also don't believe it constitutes a novel.  It struck me moreso as a Novella.  Sure its a couple of hundred pages, but the font size and line spacing is quite large.  I got the feeling that it should not have been called 'Breathless: A Novel of Suspense,, but rather 'Breathless: My Obligation to My Publishers'.I tossed up on giving the book two stars because it had promise, but in the end that hint of promise only heightens my disappointment.
3 I am an avid reader of any Dean Koontz books I can find and lay my hands on.  Rarely am I ever disappointed with any of his stories although. a few of them have left me feeling a bit incomplete.  Breathless is one of those book even though I thoroughly enjoyed it.  I loved the 2 new animals that came to be in this book but I didn't really understand what the off shoots were for a homeless man in California or a wealthy man in Seattle or a twin brother taking his brother's life in Colorado.  They were good leads, but there didn't seem to be enough about them to have entered them in this particular story.  I would have loved to see more about the lives of Puzzle and Riddle, the 2 new animals that seemed to be the best of us and could overcome evil.  Still, with all I felt left out or added unecessarily, I still loved this book.Mikki McBride
5 I admit that I'm a die-hard Koontz fan, so perhaps I am predisposed to react favorably to this story. Being a fan was immaterial with this one.Having little time to read lately, even though I own the book, I borrowed the audio book from the library so that I could listen to the book on my long commute to work. I fully intended to listen to the entire book on audio within a matter of days. As soon as I was hooked I knew that listening to the audio was just going to take too darn long. I was impatient to find out what would happen next.Breathless centers around a set of random stories and random characters that are as diverse as any could possibly be. It all starts with a spiritually wounded Grady Adams and his Irish Wolfhound Merlin encountering a pair of furry animals that are unlike any that Grady has ever seen. He introduces them to his veterinarian friend, Cammy Rivers. They share wonder over these new animal friends. Meanwhile, we see other stories emerge within the first chapters: an identical twin travels cross-country to kill his twin brother so that he can assume his life then encounters his own version of the Tell Tale Heart; a disfigured man who has hidden himself from others and drugged and drank himself into oblivion begins a quest with an uncertain end; a middle-aged gambler with a broken heart and an intellect that allows him to count cards and win against multiple card decks, yet he gives all of his winnings away to deserving people he meets along the way. Early in the story you begin to question what one story has to do with the other. Eventually, in true Koontz style, the stories pull together and return to the focal point, the two pure animals that come to Grady out of the forest.As I turned the last few pages and it all started to make sense and the magical took place, I drew a long sigh. A deeper understanding took hold. Koontz doesn't spoon feed us meaning, we must gain an understanding on our own at the end. Fans of Kootz's mystical stories (likeLightningorSole Survivor) will find enchantment and meaning within the pages of Breathless. This is a story that will stay with me for some time.
5 This was a really good book!  It was well written, I read it every chance I had!!!  I was sorry I read it so fast but enjoyed it enough to re-read it. It has a little bit of everything that makes up a great mystery.
4 Dean Koontz has created another novel that deals with creatures that appear otherworldly in Breathless.You'll follow a number of characters before they all connect in the last few chapters.They are: Grady Adams and his wolfhound, Merlin. These two live near the woods and are the first to discover the mystical beings.Henry Rouvroy who visits his twin brother on a farm. Henry is a bit unstable.Then you meet the veterinarian, the drunkard and Homeland Security all rushing headlong after these creatures.Like most of his books, Koontz delivers a twisted tale of good verses evil. While the current trajectory of planet earth is heading toward anarchy and chaos, these new beings may be exactly what Someone had in mind to return us to utopia.But, of course, Koontz leaves the discover of meaning and "the moral of the story" up to each reader.This book felt similar to his earlier book, Watchers. And I was confused as to why there were so many separate storylines happening. But you will discover what Koontz was trying to teach the reader through each plot line.Is it possible to have the next step in human evolution without evolution?
3 This was a great story muddied by too many points of view. There were several different plot lines that weaved in and out of each other. While the end attempted to justify the different character perspectives, the story could have been better told with only two characters sharing their perspective. The concept was original and the story was well written, but Koontz had me wondering about more often than enjoying his unique story.
3 Dean Koontz is an amazing stylist when it comes to writing novels.  I enjoy the way he puts words together and the energy of his pacing.  When it comes to dialogue, he's got a definite ear for the way people speak.  He's been in the writing business for a long time, and his passion is always clear.  Primarily, he's known for his thrillers lately, but those readers also embrace his "feel good" novels.For these kinds of books, Koontz usually plays his characters as innocents caught up in a macabre web involving criminals and heavy-handed bureaucrats with sinister agendas.  That's what Koontz was going for it in his latest book, Breathless, but somewhere along the way he dropped the ball with this one.Oh, there are innocents aplenty.  The book opens with Grady Adams, a small time furniture maker living life at a slow pace with his wonder dog, Merlin.  I actually thought the opening was very reminiscent to the opening pages of an earlier Koontz book, Watchers.  Even the creepy noises and things that happened out in the forest seemed to echo that book.Then there is Camille Rivers, the local veterinarian who has basically pledged her life to the protection of animals.  Other than her medical practice, Cammie seems to have no life.  Sadly, that really comes across in these pages as well.The two main characters, our heroes, seemed to be shadows of Koontz's normal characters.  They never quite came to life for me in the novel.  There were bits and flashes that were really done well, but the book just bounced around too much for them to take hold.  I really believed Grady was going to be our go-to guy for this novel, but it was like he got edged out by Cammie, who ultimately didn't do much at all.I can't say that this is a suspense novel in the truest sense.  There was no chase, no sense of impending doom, no ticking clock.  Curiosity propelled me through the pages more than anything else.  I wanted to find out more about Puzzle and Riddle, two amazing animals that showed up in the pages.  Unfortunately, that didn't turn out as well as I'd have liked either.  Koontz raised a lot of questions with his story, which is what writers are supposed to do, but he never got around to answering them.Another semi-hero character is a casino-gambling mathematician who is an expert in chaos theory.  We ended up getting more page coverage of his gambling in casinos than in his insight into the mysterious animals.  It was like he was dropped in at the right moment to explain everything to our heroes, who didn't really have a clue.  And he was tied to our heroes by the thinnest threat woven out of left field.Then there was a villain, a bad guy that didn't have anything to do it Puzzle and Riddle at all.  I read through several pages of him worrying that the brother he had murdered had come back for revenge.  That concept never went anywhere either.Rounding out the cast is a homeless guy named Tom who never meets anyone else in the book.  I didn't understand that subplot at all.  I know it was supposed to tie into the arrival of the mysterious creatures and the fact that the world as we knew it evidently changed, but I just didn't feel like much had changed by the end of the book.I think the concept had a lot of promise.  The whole idea of how things and creatures are created was deep, but Koontz only skims the surface of what might actually have taken place if these events had occurred.  I wanted more.  I think most readers will.
1 Dean Koontz has always been my favorite author and in most cases has never failed to disappoint; however, this book was a disappointment. I am glad that I got it from the library instead of buying it, because I would have wasted my money.  It could have been so much better. Mr Koontz took so many characters with so  many stories and then tried to jam them together at the end to make some sense of the story.  The book needed to flesh out the characters more.  I would have liked to hear more about the characters' past lives. The ending was so anticlimatic that it left me frustrated.  This was such a good premise that the author did not carry out.  Puzzle and Riddle were such good character's that they needed more storyline.  I like to care about the character's when I finish a book but I could care less about anyone in the book.  I really, really, really wanted to like this book, but I don't recommend this book to anyone.
2 I like Koontz books because they tend to be light, as in the opposite of dark. They make me feel good. The good guys win. The bad guys (usually) fail. Don't get me wrong, I also enjoy dark books (John Connolly) but its nice to read a book where not everyone is a murderous bloodthirsty killer (even the good guys) (Dexter, Lee Child's Jack Reacher).But what I have a problem with Koontz books is his tendency of late to slant towards a rightwing Fox News version of reality with a cast of characters that are one dimensional, stereotypical villains and heroes. For example:Lately, murderous bloodthirsty villains have been university graduates that eat and drink 'high end' food. ie, your typical liberal bottled water drinking arugula eating elites. Whereas the heroes have been salt of the earth meat and potatoes eating heartland folks who work with their hands. I notice that Koontz doesn't mention that Harvard has an excellent veterinary program. I guess Cammy, the troubled woman heroine veterinarian in "Breathless" must of sprang from the ether, a fully qualified vet.Again, in this novel, the evil elected government officials are deliberately trying to destroy their own society (you know, the one that pays their salary and pensions)It seems in his latest novels, Koontz only knows about elected officials who are out to destroy the world so they can remake it in their image. He's never heard of the many that work 10 or 12 hour days only to be harassed day and night by his constituents and the press who believe they have the right to poke in every nook and corner of his/her life.Only those characters who know and love god are decent people. You won't find paedophile priests in a newer Dean Koontz novel. You won't find a duplicitous hypocritical bible thumper in a later Dean Koontz novel.The sad fact is, Koontz's characters are simple, one dimensional cookie cutter characters, each cut out from the same dough. The damaged woman. The damaged man. At least one has a dog that is so spectacularly special it picks up its own poop, wraps it up and puts it in the garbage.WARNING: PLOT GIVEAWAYIn this particular novel Koontz demolishes the theory of evolution through math. Life, apparently is simply too complex, DNA, is too complex to have formed in the amount of time that it has. DNA in even lower forms of life has too many nucleotides to have been created by chance or evolution in the six billion years since the earth started. Since the simplest forms have 250,000 nucleotides, the small changes could not have been made in time. It has to have been god. It is made very clear in the dialogue. Except, of course, that it simply isn't true.Mutations, when the happen, happen to small and large structures that make up DNA. After all, down syndrome results in a person with an extra chromosome, which itself contains between 500 and 40,000 genes.But this isn't my problem with this book. My problem is this book, and his others have become far too simplistic, almost as if he had developed a main plot that he simply plugs in new characters, then rolls a dice to come up with random situations to flesh out the book. Each book is very much like the last, each character interchangeable with the characters in the last.His characters have become a joke in their simplicity. Especially the villains. They are simplistic to the point of absurdity.In the end, I find myself wondering if Koontz is lobotomizing his books in an attempt to write to a certain audience, the Fox News viewers, viewers who watch Glenn Beck. People who don't care about depth of character, shades of grey or seeing the world for how it really is, but people who only want to see what they want to see. They don't want anything to change, they don't really want to understand things, they only want their world view to be authenticated, simply and quickly.They want their heroes to be god fearing, meat and potato eating, work with their hands type people. They are so good they never stray, they never have a bad thought, they don't leave brown stains in their underwear. These people are just so gosh darned good that they aren't even human. They are like nobody on earth.The people Koontz is writing too don't want to read or know about people who are conflicted, they don't want to know that most people are more than just black or white, that the terms left or right wing don't really encompass the majority of Americans, that some people who call themselves liberal own guns, that some church people believe a woman shouldn't have to die in childbirth, or bear her rapist child. They don't want to have to deal with any complicated problems or ethical dilemmas.In other words, what I liked about Dean Koontz's books was that every once and a while they were simple and easy to read and they left me feeling good. But they have become too simple. They have become simple to the point of WWII propaganda. Even worse, simple to the point of Fox News simple.Now thats simple. One dimensional. Propaganda.Of course, you don't have to read it. I probably won't again.
2 I've been a long-time Koontz fan, two of my all-time favorite books being "Intensity" and "Dark Rivers of the Heart." I always reach for the next Koontz book hoping to be yanked away into another mysterious recess of his amazing storyteller mind.Breathless was not it, at least the second half of it.Beware spoiler in the rest of this review!No, I can't any better else I would be the one selling books by the millions. Breathless starts off with breathless mystery, intrigue and horror, then slowly declines into a Disney story. This story has been done before, the '80's blockbuster movie called E.T. No, its not an exact takeoff, but enough so that the similarities were annoying: Alien creatures all cute and cuddly find human friends before Evil Government Agents try to take them away for study.Dean, if you read this, don't worry, I'll keep buying your books. I love your characters. I love that you always have a dog in your stories, and I love your imagination. I'm still ticked off that you sold out the Odd Thomas character, but oh well.
4 I have almost all of Dean Koontz books as I enjoy his writing. I have noticed his plots have lost the edge and tension of the past, perhaps, in part, because animals have become a dominent feature. Breathless had me from the beginning. I found it was a very satisfying read, although I feel he lost momentum toward the end. I felt almost as if he suddenly ran out of steam and felt the ending was more an afterthought than an actual conclusion. I give this book a 4. I would dearly love to again see the intensity return to his writing.
1 I'll make this short, but hopefully helpful to anyone thinking of purchasing "Breathless": DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK.I'm not a Koontz hater; In fact I used to be a huge fan and I've bought nearly all of his books.  Even the similarity of his plots from book to book did not bother me all that much.  However, as others have pointed out, he's been slipping lately... which brings me to BREATHLESS.It left me breathless, all right.  I was flabbergasted.  This has got to be the worst book Dean Koontz has ever written.  The plot is childish, the characters are cardboard, and there are too many unresolved storylines.  Plus, it feels "wrapped up" in a hurry, as if Koontz was simply tired of writing, and he knows that no matter what garbage he puts out, people will buy it.But the WORST thing about the book is that -- as another reviewer wrote -- it's a thinly disguised propaganda piece on creationism.  Look, Mr. Koontz: There's a reason why evolution is taught in public schools and is endorsed by almost all scientists: Because there are facts to back it up.  The whole of science backs it up (read Richard Dawkin's recent book, THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH).  You see, Dean, we don't believe in things because they are pretty, or fun, or make us feel good... we go where the evidence leads.  If you have evidence for creationism, then by all means document it and publish it in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, don't preach it in a novel.  But there are no intelligent design articles published in those places precisely because there IS NO evidence for ID.Even for a Dean Koontz fan such as myself, this is simply too much BS to swallow even in fiction.  I'm tired of helping Dean Koontz stay rich writing crappy spiritual parables.  Do yourself a favor and DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK.  Don't waste your hard-earned money.
4 This is going to be a hard review to write:I think that if you close your eyes and take 1 case of fratricide, 1 homeless man's return to kith and kin, 1 corporate dropout furniture maker, 1 damaged Vet, a wolfhound named Merlin and the department of Homeland Security and put them in a blender with a couple of cute furry "something or others" this book will fall out.It is well written, well paced, interesting and kept me up reading for a couple of nights.  Other than that I'm not sure what in heck it is - but I liked it!  bg
1 This story had potential to be something good.  But Dean never really tied things together in any coherent manner.  He had some good characters and an interesting setting.  Throw in some math-physics-chaos theory, some troubled characters and an evil character, some cute mysterious animals, and it could have been an interesting story.  But he never really put the characters or the story together.  Nothing really related, and I think the chaos theory idea was just a cheap maneuver to cover his inability or unwillingness to really develop the story.  Call it chaos or mysticism, or hope, but that's a think cover for the fact that it's a poorly-rendered book (aka `crap').  He started with a potentially good story, but I think his mortgage came due, so he did a quick finish to get the check.  I think I hear him laughing all the way to the bank on this one.  Don't buy the book--if you must, check it out from the library.  There won't be a waiting list on this one.C'mon Dean....you can do better than this.
1 This is a tedious, boring, ridiculous waste of money.  It makes no sense and it goes nowhere.  When you finally reach the end - not soon enough! - you feel that the author got bored as well and decided to just hurry up and finish.
4 I am a huge dean Koontz fan and I can honestly say that I am not disappointed with this one. Many people are giving this book less then mediocre reviews and I cannot see why. At a little over 300 pages this book is an easy and quick read. I wouldn't say that $20 dollars is a great price, but if you find this one at a used book store then definitely pick this one up.
1 I LOVE Koontz, and absolutely hate giving him a bad review, but this book just isn't worth 5 stars. What happened to the ending?  I agree with the reviewers that said the ending seemed chopped or incomplete.  A whole lot of buildup of supense, and then.............nothing!!
3 I'd place this somewhere in the middle--not one of my favorite Koontz's, but I don't hate it.  The likeable qualities are the dozens of kooky Koontz characters, some amazing animals, and that sense of wonder he always creates.  The non-likeable qualities?  All the characters are invariably really good or unbelievably evil (especially the bad, bad government types who are never good).  Of course, there is a wise dog surely modeled after Koontz's own.  There's a believable protagonist couple who attempt to make sense of the sudden appearance of a new species with human-like intelligence.  I loved all the set up of the new species and the hypothesizing about their origin.  What I really didn't like was the abrupt, tacked on ending that totally left me unsatisfied.Patricia RockwellAuthor of "Sounds of Murder"
1 This incredibly disorganized and unconvincing novel won't kill Dean Koontz's successful writing career. But it might sound the death knell for his status as an A-lister. This could be the one that finally drives away his remaining fans still clinging on from his 1980s horror days and even his middle period (circa the Chris Snow novels) and leaves Koontz as a must-read only among his religious and political sympathizers - and of course the golden retriever crowd.There's almost nothing about it that worked. The human characters were uninteresting and mostly lacked humor. The only exception to that was one newcomer to the book's Colorado setting who experienced some trademark Koontz dark humor shocks. This character's story never went anywhere or linked up with what little overall plot there is, but that's all to the good here. The other major human characters mostly don't interact with each other either, except for the predictable single sensitive male and his female counterpart.I specified human characters because of course there is a canine one as well, plus two of what I can only think of as Ewoks. They're soft and cuddly and have big soulful eyes. That's how we know they're good! I do wonder that a man of Koontz's age, experience, and religious sensibilities loses all ability for rational thought when it comes to animals - real or imaginary.I found the pacing of the book extremely annoying. Koontz switches point of view every thousand words or so, which is bad enough as it keeps the reader from ever really settling into a scene. He amplifies this problem by starting a new chapter every time. This relatively short novel had 72 chapters. That's a lot of white space. I would have found it less distracting if he'd for instance kept the chapters to 18 with four sections in each, separated by a blank line is as common.I had the feeling that either Koontz or the publisher structured the novel the way they did in order to make the finished product seem longer than it is. If Koontz is having trouble writing two novels a year, there's no shame in that. That's a heck of a pace for a novelist to keep up year after year. Maybe he should get together with his editor and restructure his schedule, so that instead of his having to deliver a novel every six months he has whatever time he needs - even if that means he only puts out a book every nine months or once a year.In any case, I think he'd better take a good hard look at why he's writing. It can't be for the money, so he must still feel he has important things to offer. If so, I'd like to hear some of them - assuming they pertain to the human condition as opposed to the retriever, wolfhound, or Ewok one. The proper study of man is mankind, Dean. I thinkThe Good Guywas the single one of his recent novels that really worked, because it had something true to say about evil and amorality. More Good Guy, fewer cute animals.
2 Movie makers don't use all the scenes they shoot - some scenes wind up on the cutting room floor - later someone sweeps up all these scenes and puts them in a box.  Writers have a "junk box" with little vignettes - story fragments - that they have come up with over time that may become pieces of a larger story some day.  Koontz has put together such a quilt, made up of almost a dozen scraps from his cutting-room floor junk box, stitched loosely together with no real conclusion, other than "Lo, an unexplained miracle has occurred."And I am particularly offended by one of his character's attacks on evolutionary science and support of the pseudoscience of intelligent design creationism.  While some parts of the book are charming, the anti-science tenor toward the end makes this book almost more "anti-science fiction" than science fiction.  I was disappointed.
1 I've read nearly every single book that Dean Koontz has ever wrote and loved just about all of them. This one however falls bad for me. It is just as bad as ice bound by him. This book really seemed nothing like him, the writing style even seemed different. The diaglogue, poor characters, awfully connected and seemingly pointless characters left me scratching my head the entire time. I had to force myself to finish it. Not a very good book at all. Which is very very rare for Dean Koontz, but he's made it up with countless other books. Try any Odd Thomas or Christopher Snow book by him.
3 I will start off by stating that I am an avid reader of Dean Koontz. He has a peculiar descriptive style of storytelling that some don't catch on to. I love his writing. With that said...This book disappointed me. It seemed way too short of a novel for this many characters intertwining and developing the way they did. It had an aftertaste of being rushed and underdeveloped. When I reached the third part of the book and looked at about 20 pages left in the story, I thought for sure this would be a part I of II story. Not to be. This entire storyline wrapped up like a 30 second sound bite. It was almost as if a deadline had not been met and the publisher needed it NOW!!! Hugely disappointing to have a novel of this much promise finish in that manner.All in all, there is just way too much going on in this novel. And then to have an author just wrap it up in the fashion Dean Koontz did is extremely disappointing!
2 I agree with most reviews! The book kept me turning the pages only to discover a letdown of story & ending! I do not recommend you wasting your money on this one! I love Koontz! He's usually fabulous but not in this case!
2 Bought this audio version as it interested my husband, a rare reader.  We were thoroughly turned off... way too many words and poor excuse for a plot.  I particularly disliked the sadism which colored a lot of the anticipation Koontz builds.  One of his poorest efforts.  Don't recommend you waste your time on this book.
5 In reading the reviews, I'm shocked that no one gets the message of this extraordinary book.  First, as in most of Mr. Koontz's novels, there is a stark contrast between good and evil.  Some say that it is too stark, too raw, but perhaps it is all too realistic.The experience of the average citizen is very different from that of a police officer, investigaor, prison guard, or prosecuting attorney.  Evil exists and Mr. Koontz looks directly into its icy heart.But great good also exists  -  true compassion, self-giving, sincere faith.  And this is the realm that the author likes to concentrate on while creating the conflicts that give his books such power, dynamism, and suspense.  But Breathless goes a step beyond, a leap beyond, really, in introducing a theological construct of striking originality.  What if an astonishing proof were given to humankind that a benevolent Being did indeed exist?  It's a proposition so intriguing that its effects would be nearly limitless, perhaps ushering in a new age of light.  To watch Mr. Koontz create the characters and weave the events of such a strikingly original story is to watch imaginative genius.Priests and clergymen, of which I am one, are endlessly trying to convey the fathomless love and beauty of the Creator and his constant efforts to draw us to him.  The author accomplishes this with such creativeness and subtlity that I am indeed breathless.
5 I can't believe all the negative reviews this novel is getting. Koontz created some of the cutest, most inspiring creatures I've ever encountered in fiction. I fell in love with them and only wish I had a couple like Puzzle and Riddle in my life. This is a novel of hope that begs a sequel.
2 Koontz writes a nifty series of tales, none of which seem to connect with one another ... until the deus ex machina at the end.  Koontz finally trots out the tired old chestnut that "proves" statistically that life could not exist without intelligent design.  Or something.  The dude doesn't grasp emergence, buys into the notion of irreducible complexity,, and really ought to read something like &lt;[...]/>.  Read it for fun, but be well aware that it is intellectually bankrupt.
3 I love Dean Koontz. His writing is usually amazingly riveting, and his word descriptions  give me a clear idea  of the characters and their surroundings. I can SEE what he writes. But this story lacked the usual punch, and his use of repetitious phrases became annoying. I also disliked the choppy sentence structure and th  abrupt chapter endings. A cool idea, but not up to his usual standard of breathless expectation/dread/delight at every turn of the page.
5 My only wish is that this book could of been longer or part of a series so I could read more. This was a very intriguing read. A book that makes you contemplate life.  A+
4 Breathless is a great ride for Koontz Fans and animal lovers of all kinds. The only thing is, you begin to worry because you get to within the last several pages of the book and the main conflict is still very much unresolved. "Is this going to be a cliffhanger that leads to another book?" you think.I won't give any spoilers, but as some of Koontz's books do, it has somewhat of a Deus ex Machina ending where complex problems and unresolved suspense are quickly and simply wrapped up at the very last moment with few lasting consequences.But that's a minor criticism. Considering I finished the book in one sitting and several hours later, I wondered where the time went, I think that qualifies it as a good and engrossing story. Definitely worth buying.
5 I don't really understand the other reviews, but I've read everything available by Koontz and I can't recall when I've been so involved.Great characters, fine subplots that all come full-circle, and the requisite dog...well, I had trouble putting it down. Indeed, too much time was taken with character development, and the final resolution came too fast, but these were characters I really enjoyed. The subplot involving Henry was the most intriguing; couldn't wait to find out what happened next. Too bad others didn't enjoy it as much as I did, but I'm glad to have it in my collection.  This is a foray into fantasy, a milieu Mr. Koontz hasn't tackled yet. I'm impressed.
1 Dean Koontz is an enigma of a writer. Some of his books have unforgettable plots, characters, and mystery. A few miss one or more of those. "Breathless" lacks all three. As usual, he starts to create a mystery but quickly falls back into colorful description of scenery, people and moods. Count how often he uses color related words such as copper, gold, silver, blue, etc etc etc to describe the sky, the grass, the road, the twilight, a meadow, yadda yadda, yadda. Koontz must get royalties from Crayola.Once again, he uses a dog as a featured star but this dog lacks the charisma and talent of his dogs in some of his great past novels (i.e.-Watchers). This dog, an Irish Wolfhound and his master seem bewildered about the happenings around them. Mainly, the appearance of two unusual creatures which Koontz describes endlessly without ever creating a true vision for the reader.Then, he throws in a lunatic, a card counter, a vet, a killer and various supporting characters who come and go and never create a real sense of being.Endless dialog about chaos theory, man's fear of new evolution and plot lines that wander to and fro without a worthy climax and you have a total mess.I read every Koontz book and often buy them. I am glad I did not buy this novel because it bored the heck out of me when confusion and boredom reigned.His last book "Relentless" was much better and he has written lots of great stuff but this is not worthy of this fine writer. If this were the first Koontz book I ever read, I would probably dismiss him as a confused writer unable to create interest. It's not. So let's hope for better work next time and let's hope that young Koontz readers check out his past stuff and dismiss "Breathless" as an ugly hiccup in his writing career.
3 Dean Koontz has been my favorite living author for more than 20 years.  Rarely has he disappointed me, but unfortunately, this is one of those times.  His writing technique is as good as ever.  He places each wonderful sentence into marvelous paragraphs and onto each carefully crafted page, but then he binds them all together into a sermononic book which cannot fail to disappoint.  His concept is original (and who else can say that about fiction today?), but still manages to disappoint.  This would have made an acceptable short story, or maybe even a novella, but since Dean has decided to write two novels a year, they fail more often than I would like to remember.If you're a Koontz lover as I, you may enjoy this novel, but I think you'll come away with a nagging feeling that you've missed something.  The novel should have either been twice as long to finish fleshing out both the plot and the characters (the homicidal manic had no place in the story as written) or have cut it back to maybe 15,000 words.  Either way the story would not have been as disappointing.
5 Excellent story produced by Dean Koontz as expected. Great story line and I especially like the way it all comes together age conclusion. Can't wait for the next Koontz book!
3 BREATHLESS by Dean Koontz is the story of the appearance of two "new" creatures, first viewed by Grady Adams in the Colorado mountains. What are they? Where do they come from? And why are they here? These are the questions that drive the novel. Unfortunately, these questions are only partially answered in the hurried conclusion of the book.I am a BIG Koontz fan, having read him since back in the seventies. He is a brilliant writer and parts of this novel are so well written, they do, in fact, leave you breathless, especially the scenes involving Grady, his dog Merlin, veterinarian Cammy Rivers, and the creatures she names Puzzle and Riddle. However, this is a multiple viewpoint tale, and the reader spends time with many other characters, including a man seeking out his twin brother, a man intent on winning money and giving it away, a lawyer hiring a hit man to kill his wife, and several others. Unfortunately, none of these characters were as interesting as Cammy and Grady and I found myself bored as I read their scenes, counting the pages until I got back to the main characters.Of course, all these characters are tied in to the main story line by the end - sort of -- but the pacing was distorted, derailing the usual Koontz thrill ride. Even the book cover contributed to this awkward pacing. The cover stated "Wonders still exist in the world. But not if Homeland Security has anything to do with it." This promises a suspenseful chase type of a novel, but Homeland Security doesn't enter the story until almost two-thirds of the way through, and the "chase" is almost non-existent.I feel this is one of Koontz's weaker novels, but a weaker Koontz is still much better than fifty percent of the books I read.
5 Breathless by Dean Koontz is a stunningly beautiful story that stresses the divisions we find in our world between light and dark, beauty and ugliness, and redemption and damnation.  While Koontz is not a stranger to using animals in his stories, Breathless stands everything else on its head.Grady Adams is a simple man; a carpenter/craftsman who manages to provide for himself and his Irish Wolf-hound, Merlin, while working out of a converted barn.  Living a relatively isolated life in the mountains of Colorado is perfect for Grady.  One day, while exploring Grady stumbles onto two creatures unlike any he has ever seen.  At first, he is unable to approach them before they flee.  Over a few days though, he gains their trust and, the story is on. In time Homeland Security and the Army become forces that Grady and his friends must deal with.  Let's just say the story is captivating and once you're hooked you won't regret picking up the book.I hate to use the phrase "typical Koontz" when discussing any of his works because that implies every story is the same.  One thing is for sure that over the years Koontz's books have been anything but typical.  I know this is a clich&eacute; but most of his recent books seem to open to the reader like you peel an onion.  One layer after the other is revealed until the climax is reached. You may even tear up a long the way.Breathless is a great story packed with suspense, great character development, and fantastic descriptions.Long time readers appreciate Koontz's ability to tell a good story and also touch the reader in a special way.  Many of his stories are spiritual without being spiritual.  That makes no sense at all, except it is true, at least for this reader.Once again Dean Koontz has written a wonderful story.  I highly recommend.Peace always.
1 Wow.  Is this really a book written by the successful Dean Koontz? I have this weird rule that if I start a book, I have to finish it.  I need to change that rule I think because this one was torture.  It truly is horrible.  The characters are uninteresting at best.  The end is horrific (which is probably the only reason it can be found under Horror in your bookstore).  The only possible way you might find bits and pieces of this book interesting is if youre a HUUUGE dog lover.  I personally am not, but Dean Koontz apparantly is because the dog is the only character in this book with any personality and since he can't talk it doesn't really do much for me.  Ugh...i'm so angry that such a proven great writer gets away with writing something this bad and makes alot of money doing it. I think he even realized how bad this book was which explains the rushed ending.  I'm gonna move on to another author for now till this book is long gone in my memory bank.
3 Curious about Dean Koontz's latest paperback, I picked this up and read it rather quickly. It is classic Dean Koontz with a couple of good guys and lots of bad guys. Not sure how to describe the plot other than to say that some new creatures show up in the world and somehow make the world a better place. Kind of like society winning the "goodness" lottery or something. Smooth writing, interesting people, fanciful but glorious purpose, and demonstration of justice do not make up for what is essentially an average book and an odd retelling of E.T.Players: The bad brother who killed his own brother and sister-in-law goes nuts as the book progresses. The ugly hitchhiking dude actually improves and becomes a better person. The evil government people realize they are over-reacting, and the man who hires his wife and son to be killed...not sure what happens to him. He sees something that he can't stop thinking about. The brilliant scientist philanthropist, after giving away lots of money, has some perceptive insights into the new creatures. The ex-assassin and veterinarian (a victim of abuse who ended up killing her own step-father) are the wise ones who embrace the wonder and goodness of the creatures.All these things come together to make for a fun, easy to read book. The writing is smooth and the stories are interesting to a point. You will hate the ones you should hate and like the ones you should like. You will especially like the dog and the creatures, and the positive tone of the book comes shining through by the end.But the evil is dark and disturbing and we are not real sure what happens to all the people presented. Somehow the puzzle pieces don't all seem to form a picture and by the end, the reader has a hard time being emotionally connected to the events. Almost as though the writer had a lots of good stories to tell but never quite developed any of them. Recommended for Koontz enthusiasts and anyone wishing for a better world through the discovery of new creatures.
4 I have enjoyed Koontz transition to a more hopeful outlook. And I like dogs (having recently lost my companion of 17-1/2 years) so I enjoy the dog aspect of his latest works.Many people have given away all the plot lines which seems a shame to me so I won't dwell on that aspect.It seemed to me that the final merging of the plot lines was a bit haphazard. Riddle and Puzzle were tantalizing and enjoyable but did not seem very realistic. The concept that evolution might not actually have happened and instead there is spontaneous creation periodically is novel, but does not really seem very plausible to me.The evil twin's self-imposed punishments seemed a bit unlikely. An instant dissociative reaction (split personality) seems so very improbable.But with all that, I basically enjoyed the book. I like Koontz style of writing. Like others I wish more had been done with the relationship of the vet and the former army sniper. This latter former sniper career seemed to be a set up for some action, but just effervesced.
5 Dean Koontz can write a scary book!  This is more a book of WONDER!Definitely action packed, yet this story goes beyond to give you something amazing to consider:perhaps evolution isn't how things work... maybe nature simply fills a need.It took my breath away!
5 Dean Koonze delivers another novel of great suspense and insight.  I'm sure all of his fans will enjoy his newest achievement.  As a long-time follower of his, I hope this garners some new fans.
1 I love Dean Koontz books. He keeps me in suspense from beginning to end.  He inspires my imagination by his descriptions.
5 I can't believe so many people gave this book a bad review! Yes, it is a little OUT THERE...literally...but it is so neat, sweet, and hopeful. I know, you don't associate those words with Koontz, but come on, can't he stretch his muse a bit? I really enjoyed this novel, and YES there is enough blood and guts for those of us who enjoy that aspect of Koontz novels. And those little fuzzy things? I want one of those! Not the way the military wants them. I just want to SEE and CUDDLE one.
5 A feel good read.  Dean Koontz does this type of book very, very well.  No horrid monsters except for the unscrupulous Government people so don't expect nightmares from this one.  It does have it's suspense, however.
3 The only other Koontz book I've read is WATCHERS. This one could have been it's twin or at least cousin. I read it and it was mildly entertaining, but I was really disappointed that the two were so similar. I liked WATCHERS better.
1 I have read EVERY Dean Koontz book and was looking forward to reading this one.  When it arrived I rushed to read it with anticipation.As soon as you start getting into the character Grady and his dog, it switches to another character and another without rhyme or reason.  There is a hodgepodge of characters with no relation to each other or to whatever story he is trying to tell.  This book has so many characters that none of them are fleshed out.  They are short stories with no rhyme or reason for being.  They are page wasters.Bleh.There are these supposed new creatures whose sole value seems to be in being cute peanut butter eaters.  There is nothing that I saw in the story that would suggest that these creatures are worthy of the sudden intensity or emotion that two of the characters show.  Why are they special?  What do they do?  How did they get here?  Where did they come from (Koontz implies from the future)?  What are they in relation to us?  What is the POINT of these creatures?I wanted more about who and what these creatures were.  The books ends, telling us that mystery will be left to unfold . . . but why bring it up if you cannot flesh out the creatures more.Finally, Koontz has so many short stories in the book that the ending makes no sense.  The book just ends.  It is as if he said "okay I am tired of this."The best thing about the book is that I got it cheap for $9 on Amazon.  Very disappointing.  Very disappointing indeed.  Bleh.
2 If this is just the first book in a series I would rate it much higher.  Dean is a reliable great storyteller.  However, this novel ends at what seems to be just the beginning of the story.  All the great character and story development seems to be for naught if this is the only book.  I was reading this on my Kindle and thought something was wrong - that the next chapter wasn't loading.  But I was actually at the end of the book.  I will hold off on being completely disappointed until I see if a sequel is underway. His official website says nothing about a sequel though.
1 So ... we basically have 2 furry creatures whose arrival on earth seems magical.  The creatures themselves are cute and cuddly and bring out the best in people.  Their arrival makes animals happy.Then the government gets involved, and we wonder where the creatures came from and what it all means.  One of the characters thinks that they are evidence that this is how new creatures appear on earth, because evolution is mathematically impossible.A short chase ensues between our heroes and the government.Then we discover that the creatures have magically appeared all over, and it somehow portends wonderful things for the world.And then the story ends.Really, that's about it.Along the way we get more of Koontz's dog worship.  We get characters are are either completely evil or completely pure.  We get an argument against evolution.  We get a dig against science and technology.All of this I could put up with if there was some payoff, some twist ending that made you go "wow!".Nope.  The creatures are magical and good and somehow this is a wondrous thing for the world.Blah.I can't see my self buying another Koontz book after the mess that was this one.  His books have become too preachy and religious.  The dog-worship is annoying.  The books are short.  The last Odd-Thomas was a half-book ripoff.I counted 39 of Koontz's books on my book shelf.  This will not make number 40.  If I have to, I'll go check his future books out from the library, then buy it if I feel it's worthy of my collection.As for Breathless, I decided to dig it out of my trash can.  It's going to Half-Price books.I might as well get something out of it.
4 I thoroughly enjoy most of Dean Koontz books & I loved parts of this book. However a lot of other reviewers are right in that it doesn't resolve everything & it just drops off into nowhere. The end is too short for a book of this length & all of the characters involved in it. The animals are wonderful & when it ended I cried a little & said, "Please, God, let something like this happen to our messed up, mixed up world."
5 great book
1 This is the first Dean Koontz mystery I've read.  I think it'll be my last.  The  sample on my Kindle was very engaging.  But the book is a mess.  Far too many unrelated characters, a  plot that is 'saved'  by invoking intelligent design, sappy ending, philosophical ramblings that make little sense and go on and on.  It failed to hold my interest after the first third.  Don't buy it based on the Kindle sample--that's by far the best part of the book.
4 It's been awhile since I've read a Dean  Koontz story.  I've almost always enjoyed everything he's written.  Breathless was no exception.  It's a fast, fun read!
2 Was going to go into a detailed review on Dean's latest but I don't have time.  Like a sucker I bought this at full price at Barnes & Noble and was completely disappointed in it.  Suffice it to say he has apparently succumb to writing just to get a buck without caring about the quality of his book.  If you want to waste money for God's sake at least wait until it is clearance at half-price books for a $1.00.  Can't this guy for once come up with some new type of heroes and villains?  This book was pathetic and when I finished it I could here a echoing voice in my mind saying "CHUMP!"
3 Dean Koontz' "Breathless" is difficult to categorize.  Science Fiction, maybe.  Fantasy/Sci-Fi?  Maybe.Grady Adams and his dog Merlin live in rural Colorado.  One day they come in contact with two beings of a species that they've never seen before.  The beings are amazing, wonderful, both animal and human like.  Grady phones Merlin's vet, Dr. Camilla Rivers, and invites her to his home, knowing she may be able to identify the beings. Dr. Rivers, intrigued by Grady's promise she will find something amazing, agrees to the visit. She has recently seen some strange incidents involving dogs she helped rescue from a puppy mill and horses and other farm animals owned by one of her other clients.Meanwhile, Grady's neighbors, Jim and Nora Carlyle, receive an unexpected visit from Jim's twin brother,  Henry Rouvroy, whom Jim has not seen in many years. Henry is not a nice person.  He experiences some strange, hardly wonderful, incidents at his brother's place.Miles away, Tom Bigger, an alcoholic vagrant, witnesses something miraculous and is compelled to return to his childhood home, even if it means he must walk for days.In Las Vegas, Dr. Lamar Woolsey stops to gamble on his way to Denver for a conference, but never makes it. Instead, he is ordered by a high powered government agency for which he sometimes works to board a government transport to rural Colorado.Near Seattle, attorney Liddon Wallace hires a former client to murder his wife and son in California.Dr. Rivers' well-meaning consultation about Grady's beings with two colleagues brings the worst of the federal government to Colorado.Grady's beings are charming, delightful creations. Each of the characters has an interesting story, and by the end of the book Koontz connects all of them in some way to the beings Grady and Merlin meet. But the connections are, in cases, a bit too loose and unfinished to make them truly satisfying. Subplots could be tightened and connected more strongly to the mystery presented in the main plot. The book seems to both wander too far afield at times. It might enhance the plot if more focus and resolution were included, particularly in sections dealing with Liddon Wallace. The book seems not quit whole in many ways, as if it isn't quite finished. Unsatisfying."Breathless" confronts  scientific and government rigidity and over reaction. The book has little patience for science presented as dogma. But that theme, too, might be better served if a bit more resolution or expansion of what happens after the climax were included.Several statement made by some of the characters are well worth thinking about, however.  For example: "When a scientist tells you that 'the science i settled' in regard to any subject," Lamar said, "he's ceased to be a scientist, and he's become an evangelist for one cult or another. The entire history of science is that nothing in science is ever settled. New discoveries are continuously made, and they upend old certainties."I enjoyed reading this book, but I wanted more.  Three and a half stars.
5 Another wonderful book by Dean Koontz.  He is my favorite author and never disappoints.  Most of the bad reviews here seem to be because he didn't wrap the story up with a neat little bow.  I like books that make me think so I was very pleased.  At the moment Cammy sends the pictures out I knew that she was making a terrible mistake and she soon knew it too.  No telling what would have happened to Puzzle and Riddle if the other of their kind weren't making themselves known elsewhere and the truth couldn't be hidden.
2 This was a well-written book that was bizarre and rushed at the end, never explaining itself. And that's the biggest issue. Some weird creatures unlike any other appear out of nowhere and talk bringing messages as if they're angels. Kinda bizarre and could have benefited from an additional 200 pages or from not wasting 300 pages building suspense only to wrap things up without explanation in the final 10 pages. I love Dean Koontz but this one was far from his best work. The concept was intriguing but to leave readers so confused is simply unacceptable.
1 I have always enjoyed a good Dean Koontz novel.  I had great hopes for this one but was left disappointed.  There was potential for a good story here but the novel comes up short.  Compelling characters with real potential for saga...  the story didn't come together until the final pages of the book.  Even then they came together loosely.  Perhaps the author hurried through trying to meet a deadline?  I'm not sure.  The book needed a few hundred more pages to really develop a riviting plot.  I found myself frustrated and confused because I was more than two thirds done and I wasn't even sure what the plot really entailed.  It didn't leave me Breathless, that is for certain.
3 This is the first DK book I managed to read all of in a single day. It was a hard cover, with big type, short chapters, and lots and lots of white space  which probably factored in. It was an interesting, though strange story that kept my attention right up until I finished it. If only it had an end!A hundred more pages or so might've made it better. If nothing more, he could've tied up some loose ends (for example, the lawyer/new client? point of including them at all!?), answered some questions --if you read the book you know what I mean here, there are several left unanswered and not in a "it leaves you to draw your own conclusion" kind of way, but more a "WTF?! Why did you waste time with this?" fashion--  and provided a better tie-in for the characters who's storyline intertwined.It felt like it just ended. Bam, done. And that's disappointing because he could have made this a really endearing story along the lines ofFrom the Corner of His Eye.I'm still a fan. And although I can't yet bring myself to read any of the Odd series, I'm sure I'll be readingRelentless: A Novelas soon as my pre-order paperback arrives.
3 This book was an ok read.  I liked the inclusion of the string theorist and what not.  So basically 2 little mutant creatures come out of the forest, start running around causing havoc.  For some reason DHS seems to think they are a threat, and the come in big numbers and start throwing their weight around.. I though the story was pretty pointless and could have been far better.  What the hell was with these little bear/dog/cat creatures? huh? really couldn't he make them threatening or something? really give DHS a reason to show up!  Overall the story was quite crummy although the idea was well intentioned.  I gave the book 3 stars for its vague sense of creativity and simply because I made it through it.  It was not as boring as it sounds.. While this was not good... Velocity was worse..The ending was shotty too! very hippy-esque and kumbayaishIf you are going to read it, definately dont buy it.. pick it up from the library.
1 As usual, no spoilers.When talking to authors I know, I hear frequently of that moment when several seemingly unrelated ideas come together.  They become a "perfect storm" of sorts, and often lead to an amazing novel.Unfortunately, BREATHLESS, by Dean Koontz, doesn't meld separate ideas into a perfect storm.  The result is more like...a perfect train wreck.Let me state, for the record, that I actually enjoy some the stories that Koontz writes.  I can appreciate the transition he made into straight-forward thrillers that he has published recently (VELOCITY, THE GOOD GUY, THE HUSBAND).  Personally, I enjoyed ODD THOMAS.  Are they the best novels?  No.  Do they serve a purpose in my reading schedule?  Definitely.  Every now-and-again I need light reading.  Dean Koontz usually can usually fill that role.But BREATHLESS?  Man.  It was just bad.Surely you can hear the built-in marketing campaign that comes with the title of the novel?  The new Dean Koontz novel will leave you...BREATHLESS!  How I wish that were true.  Bored?  Check.  Bewildered (in the bad way)?  Check.  Disappointed?  Double-check.  Breathless?  Not even close...unless you count the aftermath of my screaming in frustration at having to finish this book.BREATHLESS starts out fine...good even.  We are introduced to a few characters that are decent, and that are put in interesting situations.  The main inciting event deals with Grady Adams, an ex-military type, and his dog, Merlin (it's a Dean Koontz novel, of course the PoV has a dog), as they discover a pair of unexplainable animals in the field by their (Adams' and his dog's) home.  I don't want to go into it too much, because the mystery behind these animals is the driving force of the story--well, what little of it there is.  We also are introduced to Camillia Rivers, a local veterinarian with a dark past (are there any other kind in a Koontz novel?), who also gets involved with these two mystery animals.  For the mandatory Dean Koontz creepy character, we get Henry.  His opening chapters were great.  All of this stays entertaining for approximately 100 pages.And then we meander.  Endlessly.The pasts of the characters, rather than actually adding to the story, are just there as filler.  They don't actually influence anything.  Being paper-thin would be an improvement over what we get here.  As we move along, we are introduced to more characters that serve no purpose in the story, and whose resolutions are solved with Deus Ex Machina.  On character in particular, Tom Bigger, reminded me instantly of the characters I hated in Stephen King's THE STAND.  You know, the ones that wander endlessly.  Doing nothing.Kind of like the last two-thirds of this novel I am reviewing.The realization I came to upon finishing the novel, is that this was just a conglomerate of unrelated novellas and short stories that are forced together through contrived, thin plot threads.  Henry's story meets with that of Grady and Camilla for a whole paragraph.  Tom's never meets that of the main characters (his resolution is the Deus Ex).  It was infuriating, to say the least.The writing?  It was your typical Dean Koontz.  If you like his writing style, then you will like the writing style of BREATHLESS.  The book itself will probably only be enjoyed by the most die-hard Koontz fans, and even then it's no sure-thing.BREATHLESS just isn't good.  The idea is marginally interesting.  The characters are worse than paper-thin.  The cohesion between plot-threads is absurd where it even exists at all.  The ending is anti-climatic and rushed.  This should have been a novel to grab new readers, but instead it will push them away.The good news?  I only paid $8 for the hardback due to the ridiculous Amazon vs. Walmart price war (huzzah!).  And no, it still wasn't worth it (booooooo!).  Also, this isn't typical of Dean Koontz.  BREATHLESS is an aberration.  I fully expect a new novel shortly that will get him back on-track.  At least I hope this will be the case.  I need my simple novels after reading guys like the awesome Erikson.That said, don't read BREATHLESS.  It just isn't worth it.  Be grateful I read it for you.Content:  There's nothing here that would offend a reader...well, except for the book itself...
2 I didn't have high hopes for this book after reading some of the reviews here on Amazon. If you listened to them, you'd think this was the worst book Koontz ever written. I don't think that it is his worst, but it is far from his best. If you want to read his worst, check out Your Heart Belongs To Me.Breathless didn't leave me breathless as much as I wanted it to, which is not at all. There are some interesting characters here with interesting plots that have little or no relation to each other until the end, where they are weaved together poorly.Breathless felt like it wanted to be a book of short stories, stories that Koontz had left lying around, stuck them together and voila: Breathless. This would be a 5-star effort as a book of short stories, but as a novel, it falls flat. I love Koontz and I'd wish he'd release a book of short stories again. Strange Highways is a great piece of work.
1 I have read everthing this author has written. His early works were teriffic, his last efforts have fallen short. Instead of releasing 2 books per year, perhaps one well written novel would be an idea. Breathless, was a such a disappointment. I read this book in a aftrenoon! The double spacing in the recent books, has not gone unnoticed. I am thinking perhaps Dean should leave the Horror story genre and just write books about dogs. This seems to be were his passion has gone. I will have to seriously consider whether or not to purchase his next book.
1 Oh Boy, did I ever waste my money. Afterwords, I read a lot of the reviews, I should have read them before I bought the book. Like others, I'll never read another of his "Things" I noticed a few positive five star reviews. Those people were smoking something, and it wasn't good.  This may easily have been the worst book ever written.
4 I used to avoid Koontz since I find them quite scary, but either I am getting braver or he is toningdown the terror.  Will try a few more to see.  Loved all the Odd Thomas ones though.
3 Out walking his dog one day, Colorado recluse Grady Adams sees a pair of animals that are unlike anything he's ever seen anywhere before.  Meanwhile, elsewhere in rural Colorado, veterinarian Cammy Rivers has noted some strange behavior in the animals she's treating.  In other narrative threads we are introduced to a chaos theorist with a Robin Hood complex and a "monster in the making."  There's a lot going on, and not just in Colorado.  Things are going down in California, Washington, and Nevada.  The questions are:  How do all these disparate stories come together?  And, what is the deal with these super-adorable mystery mammals?  Good questions all.Koontz has been doing his thing for decades now.  And yet, his prose is still notably not good.  That said, this novel was a bit less self-indulgent than much of what we've seen in recent years.  I wasn't completely taken with how he brought everything together in the end, but getting there was awfully entertaining.
4 Delightful read about how the world might evolve. Cammi, a vet, makes a house call at a neighbor's and is introduced to some intriguing creatures.
2 Usually if there's some part of a book I don't really like I try to not let it overshadow the entire book but this story was SO INCREDIBLY anticlimactic I could not believe I had invested the time in the entire book for such a let down. Horrible ending. This is one of those books with multiple story lines that overlap, but their links were weak and some made no sense at all. I don't think I have ever been more put out by an ending than this story. The explanations for strange phenomenons were definitely lacking. Not satisfying at all. UGH! Don't invest your time or energy in this one.
1 First of all: UGSynopsis: This book is a 300+ pointless meander to the authors page long 'evidence' that evolution isn't correct.Essentially two creatures appear is a rural woods, theology ensues.For most the first part of the we see random characters engage in boring actions that ultimately have little to do with the 'plot' predictably for seemingly unrelated characters their backstories are linked, but these are no Lost plotlines. The characters in this book have no substance, their histories exist merely to link them to each other.Even worse some character arcs are totally redundant (unless I missed some deep symbolism which is always possible) Tom Bigger is introduced halfway through the novel, with the only purpose to prevent a murder commited by two other characters also only introduced later in the novel (and seemingly totally unrelated to the plot about the mysterious creatures)The author also spends too much time on The Senator, whose story arc consists of killing his twin brother, being responsible for the death of a sniper in the past then blowing himself to smithereens with grenades after going (or becoming more) insane. While The Senator is related to the main protanganists there is little point to the amount of page-time he gets.The scenes of the novel meander, as the characters don't have goals. We have little tension as we don't really know the point and certainly don't care about the mystery creatures except to find out WTF they are (I still didn't care for them after either)The evolution thingThe novel has a few poor pokes at the theory of evolution throughout, namely suggesting that the theory hasn't had the widespread impact on layman of other theories (whose fault is that the Theory's or the layman?), and a jab about the complexity of the mystery creatures eyes (for those who don't know the complexity of the eye organ is held up as evidence for creationism as eyes are too complex to evolve)but the true awesomeness (awesomeness in terms of making me laugh at the lameness) a 'genius' chaos theory experts tries to discredit the theory of evolution claiming its mathmatically impossible.His points.There are not enough moments in history to lead to life - apparently the age of the universe is 20 billion years, and the earth even younger (10,000 years perhaps).In truth no-one really knows just how many moments you would need for life to develop, and this isn't an argument either way because of this.The fossil record is bung, and so is carbon dating. They aren't and it isn'tThe genius character also speaks for the author having a rant about scientists who think their theories are established, considering that knowledge is also in a state of updating and in a certain length of time all theories are overturned.Too bad he didn't point out the same thing happens to belief systems over time, and also that just becuase a theory is completely revamped, doesn't mean its totally innaccurate in its current form, thats the nature of science. The piecemeal improvement of knowledge.I probably shouldn't have read this book so soon after Dawkin's The Greatest Show on Earth.In fact I probably shouldn't have read this book at all.
2 There are plenty of problems with this book. I hadn't read a Koontz book before I started this and I hadn't heard anything about it so after reading the back and knowing the author had a decent following I thought I would check it out.SPOILERS**Alright let's get this out of the way first, at least the ending wasn't freaking aliens. That's basically the only thing that redeems it though. But the problems start with the character Henry. Henry is easily the most interesting sub plot in the whole book and his story never develops. It begins he kills his brother and sister-in-law and "takes over his life". But he never leaves the house after that other than to go to his car and nothing that surprising happens in his story. When it ends with him actually pretending to be Jim and not knowing it the reader does not have a mind blown feeling because nothing that profound happens before then. That's the first major problem.The second major problem is that of the sub plot of Tom. Tom's story is actually decently interesting but in all honesty his character and therefore all characters actually linked to his story are entirely unnecessary. His whole purpose in the main plot is to reveal that the creatures appear out of thin air but this could be revealed in many different ways that would not require Tom. Without Tom you also no longer need the woman he saves, her son, her husband that hires a hit-man to kill them, the hit-man himself, Tom's parents, or the Jewish couple that try to help Tom find his family.The third and most important problem is that the main story is just not all that exciting. Each time I found myself coming back to the story following Grady, Cammy, and the two creatures I knew it was going to be just another chapter claiming how "amazing" they were. When it starts they are interesting but after a while it starts to drone on.End Spoilers**In conclusion most of the story seems unnecessary while parts that would be interesting seem like they were taken out or forcibly made shorter. The book overall felt like it was missing a good few chapters especially towards the end because it missed its target when trying to make profound statements. Overall the book wasn't terrible and I don't completely regret reading it but it may keep me from reading more Dean Koontz novels in the near future. I hope however his other books have more of a point to make.
5 KOONTZ'S BOOKS GRAB YOU BY THE BALLS AND SQUEEZES UNTIL YOU CRY ......PLEASE GIVE ME MORE....YES I REALLY LIKED THIS BOOK.
4 Wow!  The reviews for this have not been great.  A lot of people hated this book!  All of Koontz's normal strengths are represented in this novel.  Great characters and great storytelling.  Now, a lot of people say that the stories in this book don't connect.  I disagree I think they do.The main story centers around Grady Adams who is walking his dog Merlin out in the woods and comes across something that he has never seen before.  After examining the animals more closely he comes to the conclusion that no one has.  He calls his friend and Veterinarian Camilia Rivers and she agrees that these animals have never been seen by a human before.  Another story, which is very suspenseful, deals with a man named Henry Rouvroy who has just committed murder and is now being stalked by someone or something.  Several events make him question his own sanity and ask himself if he is being stalked by the dead.You have about six or seven stories going on but make sure and pay attention to the fact that the characters show up in multiple stories.  It is great collection of stories that all do connect at the end.  Is this Koontz's best novel?  No... but it is still a great novel.  Don't miss out on this book.Grade: A-
4 I enjoy Dean Koontz, but I'm the first to admit his most recent work isn't for everybody.  BREATHLESS is a fine case in point.BREATHLESS is ostensibly a SF novel about an alien visitation.  But the plot really just serves an excuse for Koontz to express his views about a whole range of social and philosophical issues: evolution, the Department of Homeland Security, urban elitism, secular nihilism, and so forth.  The end result is entertaining -- for while Koontz is ultimately a moralistic writer, he also happens to be a highly intelligent and imaginative one.Whether you like BREATHLESS depends on what you're looking for.  Readers seeking a tightly written storyline will no doubt be disappointed.  This novel meanders a lot, and is dragged down by a number of pointless subplots.  Koontz follows a stream-of-consciouness approach to plotting these days, and that approach's shortcomings are painfully evident here.Still, I really enjoyed BREATHLESS.  It contains a lot of great little moments, and there are individual scenes that are exciting, touching and even brilliantly written.  If Koontz has structured the plot better, BREATHLESS could have been a great novel, instead of a highly uneven one.So while BREATHLESS is far from perfect, fans who enjoy Koontz's new writing style (and philosophy of life) should enjoy what he serves up here.  It's one of Koontz's better books of recent years.Three and a half stars.
3 "Breathless" is a joyful, heart warming book that is perfect for the holidays.  It is a fine piece in what i call the second age of Koontz.  I began reading Dean Koontz and Stephen King when they both arrived on the scene many decades ago and watched as they were often compared for their ability to induce fear, stimulate chills, and make us hear bumps-in-the-night.  Although both have naturally undergone tremendous growth as they have matured, Koontz especially seems to have entered a second age where he has abandoned the scare-your-pants-off horror and the depravities of society for a more mellow, otherworldly spiritualism where animals, especially dogs, play significant roles in human lives and mankind's stability.He now writes more stories and plots about hope and inspiration, about goodness flourishing and defeating the forces of evil and darkness.  Some longtime readers have had difficulty embracing the new Koontz and his sense of wonderment and his morality plays where goodness and integrity always defeat absolute evil.  Yet, Koontz remains a sterling wordsmith who can turn a phrase into a mind picture or select the right word to make an image real to the reader.  He remains adept at evoking emotions and manipulating the reader's conscience and interest.In "Breathless", Grady Adams and his wonderful Irish wolfhound, Merlin, make an incredible discovery of a life form that will conceivably change the future of the world.  After confiding in his friend, Camilla Rivers, a local vet, they find themselves pawns as all the force of the US government through Homeland Security have them imprisoned in their own home while implicitly suggesting these awe-inspiring discoveries may be subjected to vivisection and governmental cover-up.  This is where the real suspense begins as they search for ways to rescue their discoveries and share them with the world.There are 3 separate subplots that unfold in a back and forth rendering in "Breathess" that sometimes disturbs the pacing and continuity of the main action; furthermore, although all the threads ultimately intersect in a hurried ending, some are only tangentially related to the main plot.  Some of this subtext seems mere reinforcement for the good vs. evil conflict in Koontz' universe.This is a difficult book to evaluate for this reader.  It is well written and certainly heart fulfilling in the end.  However, it feels more like an extended short story or novella.  The pacing is uneven and many of the myriad characters in the novel are only shallowly fleshed for the reader.  Many questions about motivation, strange occurences with the minor characters, and the existence of these new life forms are disappointingly unexplained.  Yet all in all, if you are Koontz fan or just a reader looking for an uplifting story for the holidays, I recommend "Breathless."
5 The story is what I expected from Dean Koontz's recent writings. His recent work is not as dark as his mid-years  work, and that may appeal to those who think some of his work is too disturbing.  I love Dean Koontz books, and I think he can do no wrong when he puts words to paper.  As in most of his books, there are multiple stories that work together, good vs. evil, a dog, great characters, and a storyline that is a little weird.My favorite quote was about the character Grady's dog Merlin.  "The yard was Merlin's newspaper."
2 It's difficult to describe a book that wants to be something bigger than it is and fails miserably. The overreaching theme throughout the book is evolution; some may think it's about good guys and bad guys, but those are just subplots for the larger issue.The reason that Koontz fails is that he spends about a page summing up what the entire book is about: that the evolution of any species simply can't occur in the time spans proposed by biologists. He makes a very good argument from the point of view of a character, a mathematician, and even makes it clear that they aren't talking about creationism either. If you choose to find the answer by the reading the book, the answer can be heard in the form of a thud. That is the sound of the author dropping the ball like a lead weight.He marries together about 6 different plots, with so many coincidences that Dickens must be rolling over in his grave. I can say without being dishonest that I found myself turning the pages to see where all this was leading, which unfortunately wasn't anywhere exciting.The ending was typical Koontz, with the male lead becoming more than just friends with the female lead (whom I thought might turn out to be the first main lesbian character in one of his books, but that'd be too much too ask). And of course, there is the perfunctory dog. A staple in most of his books now. Anyone who hasn't figured out that Koontz is a California conservative hasn't been paying attention to the evolution of *his* books.Now Koontz is a very good writer and he can staple together a sentence like few people can. He can ratchet up the tension and make you believe the impossible. That didn't happen with Breathless.He does take a good swipe at the old trope, "the science is settled," that you hear so often lately about global warming. Here he's referring to evolution. His argument against that type of thinking, that science is never truly settled, was refreshing to read especially in this day and age when the mainstream media spends copious amounts of time convincing us the science is settled on this and that. Until a new study comes out.I hope he writes a sequel if only to explore this spartan story even more: did the creatures come from a parallel universe? an alternate reality? how did they come to have the same genome as humans? And if he does I hope he leaves the dog in the kennel. He really needs to get a cat.
1 The book started out interesting, but there were too many characters.  And then...  What happened to the end of it?  I feel like he just quit typing right as things were starting to come together.  I kept checking to see if I had accidentally skipped a couple chapters.Very disappointing.
1 Plot- "something new" is discovered in a remote, woody location, somewhere in the US. Two lonely, unprepared characters get together to tackle the brand new discovery which soon threatens to split through their fingers...Comments- a book that's difficult to qualify. Not fully horror, fantastic, science-fiction or social depiction... A mix of all that. It's got good points: an original idea, edging on crypto-zoology. Action is precise and clearly focused on depicting the discovery and its interaction with the characters. Mystery's preserved until deep into the story... but it's got weak points too: except the two "heroes", supporting characters are too stereotyped to be credible or attaching. Because of its slow pace, there comes a time when one starts wondering when the plot will start moving further -if at all! There are moments when one starts sensing that something mysterious will happen, expecting a twist, but when that happens, the twist ends up missing... Frustrating.Conclusion- basically, it's not a bad read but "Breathless" quickly becomes boring as the plot takes too long to evolve. Also, many a reader will be frustrated as, by trying to touch upon too many subjects at once, the book quickly loses much of its strength and focus.
5 I love Dean Koontz stories - of all kinds including Odd Thomas. This book puts a different prespective on the whole of creation. This is something I had never thought too deeply about but, now I wonder?? I have tried to tell other people that Koontz is not all horror but it surprises me how close minded some people are. If you are open minded this puts a new light on the whole thing. Very good story.
3 I've been a Koontz fan for a good 10-15 years, and I'll always be a fan. But sadly, it seems that with the demand for him to churn out more and more books, he's lost some creativity, as well as the ability to conclude a story well.I've noticed a lot of character name repeats from one book to another (example: in one book a human is named Tessa, in another book a dog is named Tessa, characters in multiple books with the last name "Booker"). Now I can appreciate if Koontz just has favorite names that he enjoys resurrecting, but from the reader's perspective, it comes across like "Seriously? He couldn't have thought up a new name?"There's also the all-too-predictable storyline of someone who's a cop, ex-cop, or ex-military being one of the protagonists. OK. I can live with that. The female protag's are always the same. Strong, independent, 99.9% of the time coming from some tragic background that they had to overcome. They're also always both single, which ensures romantic/sexual scenes, or at least tension. Too bad the real world isn't as full of 30-40 year old, independent, resourceful, good-looking single people.The dialogue is always the same, especially among the inevitable male/female protagonists. They're always witty. No one's ever of average intelligence, or of a reticent nature. Conversations are always rapid-fire, intelligent, full of speculation and flowery vocabulary. No one takes more than a few minutes to overcome shock or horror. When something in the storyline leaves us aghast, somehow the characters just need to exchange a few brilliant quips and the story moves right along, leaving little time for reflection or musing. Or contrary-wise, the characters will launch into 3-page-long introspectives that still leave no time for reflection or musing.This book, "Breathless" follows all the aforementioned rules. It also repeats another of Koontz's favorite characters (a good-natured, intelligent dog), though I was glad to see he strayed from the usual Laborador/Golden Retriever and went with one of my favorite breeds, an Irish wolfhound. There was also a strong echo from "Watchers" (about a genetically enhanced, super-intelligent dog who can communicate with people), in the characters of Puzzle and Riddle (evolutionary-enhanced, super-intelligent creatures who can communicate with people). Honestly, I much preferred them in their more mysterious forms presented early on. Once they started talking...it was just too corny to enjoy them after that.I also sensed what others have mentioned - that the multiple storylines were held out too long, and wrapped up far too hastily. When I realized that I had very little book left to read, and the climax hadn't happened yet, I knew it was going to be like this. You can't wrap up half a dozen individual storylines in a few pages. Well, you can, but it's messy and confusing. And we never get an explanation for what happens between Tom coming to his parent's home (where it's obvious his parents aren't living) and then suddenly he's sitting with his parents outside a retirement home. What?All in all, it's a typical Koontz book. Enjoyable for passing the time, fun characters, great suspense and mystery early on, lots of page-turning wonderment. But it's very predictable in some ways, some questions are never answered, and it's all wrapped up too quickly and hastily.
4 I really enjoyed this book!Towards the ending it became clear that no clear solution would be offered but in it's stead theGood vs evil theme were further explored!The remark that &#34; should we ever kill one of them, that would be the end of us&#34; really hit home.I would have preferred a better and neater ending but I loved the story nonetheless.WaAr
5 I think Mr Koontz has really written a winner. I was thrilled and engrossed from start to finish. I do so love his work....he never disappoints.
1 Breathless is a fragmented multi-story that is just plain silly almost any way you look at it.  Dean's way with words can keep you in it for a while, but there just isn't a payoff here.I long considered reading fiction to be a luxury I could not afford, with too much important non-fiction out there to ever allow for it.  But then I read Dean's book "Intensity," and it blew me away.  I became a Koontz fan because of that book, and made it a point to buy a pretty big stack of his early works all in hardback.The Bad Place will blow your mind! Watchers, Hideaway, Sole Survivor and Cold Fire are all great!I have at least 15 of his early works yet to read.Dean's got 3 challenges before him:1.  Shut the hell up about Golden Retrievers!2.  Stop blatantly recycling his stuff.3.  Let go of the Deus Ex crutch.Dean Koontz, like Stephen King, has a huge, loyal following that will habitually buy whatever he publishes, and he's coasting along now because of that.The Taking, The Good Guy, The Husband, Velocity and now Breathless are all barely mediocre books that simply should not have been written. I am sure that if he was a fledgling writer these manuscripts would have been rejected.Dean, take a vacation.  Take a year off from writing. Travel, get a hobby, do something else for a while.  We'll be here when you get back.
1 What are you doing,Dean? Have you run out of plots and story lines? How many books now have had the same basic idea? And,then,of course,there's dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs,saintly dogs,purer than humans dogs,God-sent dogs,dogs,dogs,dogs. C'mon,Dean! Cut it Out with the Dogs already! They're Really becoming Annoying now! Can you write a book Without even the mention of a dog in it anymore?? They're even on the Dust Jacket Covers now! This is the first book of yours in over 40 years that I didn't buy right off the shelf-for once,I wised up and checked a copy out from the library,and I'm glad I did-if I would've wasted 20 dollars or more on yet Another Dean Koontz "Dog Book",I would have been Royally upset. Come back to us,Dean! We've grown up and gotten old reading your great books! Bring back the Dean Koontz that could make you afraid of the dark! The Dean Koontz who kept us awake all night,not wanting(or able)to put your book down! Love your dogs all you want-but keep them Out of your books and write us a thriller that'll knock our socks off like you used to do!!
5 A page-turning suspense novel that unites the many threads in the final pages.  The &#34;McGuffin&#34; could use a more reasonable explanation (you'll know it when you see it) but overall the effect is quote engrossing.  As is often common with Koontz stories, you'll gallop through the book.
1 Dean Koontz is one of the most successful writers in todays fiction market--and one of the most uneven in terms of presentation.  BREATHLESS is a readable book that pulled me in, but ultimately it did not satisfy me for a number of reasons.First, the subplots, though engaging at first, have very little to do with the ending.  The various plot threads involving ancillary characters come together so quickly at the end that one then realizes that many of the chapters devoted to these characters were unnecessary.  The sense of suspense is therefore completely deflated at the end as the reader feels cheated at having waded through so much prose.And therein lies another major fault with this book.  Even when we focus on the main characters, the ending is so abrupt that the reader gets no closure on a plot that has dragged on for over three hundred pages.  Once a writer gets you to care about his characters, he has an obligation to let you know how the protagonists feel about the events they have lived through.  As in most Koontz novels, it doesn't happen here either.There is, of course, the characteristic repetition of phrases and ideas one finds in most of Koontz's fiction.  He refers endlessly to the moon-frosted meadows, and his descriptions of the landscape become absolutely tedious.By far the biggest problem is that the plot resolution hinges on Koontz injecting what appears to be the narrator's own philosophical (and quite ludicrous) beliefs into the plot in order to explain the mysterious going-ons throughout the book.  His science is so inaccurate that I almost quit the book with forty pages to go.Koontz has great ideas and is capable of giving us a tighter narrative with a tougher prose style.  This book could have been told as a novella or very long short story, but as usual, Koontz novels keep rolling off the assembly line.  He could write much better fiction if he took a deep breath and decided to put some meat on the bone.
4 This is the second Dean Koontz book that I've read.While reading it, I was impressed by how much better his writing has gotten over the years. Koontz really has become better at his craft: his writing incorporates more of a poetic sensibility, he carefully draws parallels between scenes, and he's not afraid of incorporating dark humor and satire.I was particularly impressed by the development of the character Henry Rouvroy. I like the way that Henry's story begins so innocently, then ever so gradually turns deeply sinister. For example, (spoiler warnings if you haven't read it) Henry looks forward to seeing his twin brother, James, but he frets that James might not be as interested in seeing him. (Side note: "Henry James" is, of course, the famous writer of the psychological thriller, _The Turn of the Screw._) In the beginning Henry's looking forward to seeing his twin seems genuine and heartfelt. But this gradually turns evil, and we see Henry's mind become exposed as an extremely dark, psychotic entity. As a psychopath, Henry sees only evil intent in the most innocent things and intentions. Unlike the universe of the heroes of the book, which expands delightfully, Henry's universe contracts to a farmhouse that he's ruthlessly taken over, and is a dead end.Koontz lampoons Rouvroy well, calling into question his so-called intellectualism and "cultured" tastes. I particularly liked the use of the alliterative words "rectal recital" that Henry gives upon waking from his nap, the nap that was induced by Henry's rotted mind having become so overwhelmed by the singular genius of his favorite intellectuals of the modern age. (One of whom is "the Madonna that is Ciccone"!) I'm not sure why Bertolt Brecht made the list of Henry's favorites. Guess only Koontz knows why...But Henry isn't the only one who gets lampooned: Jim and Nora's life on the homestead, however wholesome, is still a bit too perfect. For example, I think of the scene in which Nora advises Henry to ride one of the horses along with Jim to a certain spot in the area because "the world is never so right as it seems then." (Gack! Did she really say that?)Koontz also evokes the horror master Poe in the scenes where Henry is apparently not alone in the house and hears the "rap-rap-rapping" out of the "meter" of his dead (?) brother poet-farmer James in the attic. Just who else, if anyone, is in the house? Is Henry schizophrenic, and is he playing the dual role of his evil self and his good twin James?I guess I differ from some of the reviewers here because I like the way that not everything is spelled out in the story, the way that some things are left in shadows.I do, however, believe that the story lines for Henry and the evil lawyer (Liddon Wallace) were played out.Possibly the ending felt rushed for some readers. It didn't bother me so much because there are some damn fine sentences within these covers.Again, this book was a pleasant surprise for me, and I'll likely be checking out some of Koontz's other, more recent work.
2 Let me begin this review by saying that Dean Koontz has written some of my favorite books-Pantoms, Lightening, Watchers, etc.  A few of his more recent novels have delved into the pretentious a bit.  Lots of lovely words strung together, with no real story to go along with them.Breathless has a little bit of that.  Cammy Rivers is a vet haunted by a vicious past.  Grady Adams is a war vet haunted by the loss of his best friend.  These two characters remind me a bit of the central characters from Watchers.  One night they are greeted by a mysterious pair of...animals?  Along the way we get glimpses of a homeless man with a good heart, a lawyer with an evil one, and a man driven insane by a grave mistake.  BUT, what we aren't given is a compelling story.I go back to Watchers.  Koontz wove a strong story about a genetically altered golden retriever on the run from...something else.  He meets a kind man, and together they meet a lonely woman, and the three of them embark on a journey.  But there is a story there, there is a reason for their journey.  You root for the characters in that book, you want them to succeed, to fall in love and to triumph over evil.Breathless gives us small glimpses of a wonderful story, but the glimpses are just too small to elevate this book above 'just ok.'  The end could have been powerful, but it just seemed to stop.  Do Grady and Cammy fall in love?  What is the deal with the mysterious pair of animals?  Are they animals?  Too many questions left unanswered, and too many seams to tie up.I was disappointed.
2 As many say, book had potential but ended way too abruptly. It was like they literally shaved this book in half and then published it.By all means, if you are looking for a disappointment, look no further.
2 While it is true that I read this book in 3 days and that Dean Koontz may be "America's #1 author of thrillers" it doesn't change the fact that "Breathless" failed to take my breath away, in fact, it left me incredibly upset and disappointed in Mr. Koontz.It's hard to believe that Koontz could pen some of my favorite novels like "The Taking", "The Face", the "Odd Thomas" series (although the last one was a huge let-down) and the Frankenstein novels, and yet turn around and write his latest novel that was monotonous, boring, and incredibly uninspiring.Something has happened to Koontz in the last few years and it defiantly has been for the worse. While his previous novels moved at breakneck speeds, contained a good measure of character development, plot twists and a mix of both violence and action, nearly all of his books from the last 3 years have continued their long and boring descent into lackluster stories. Since "The Husband" (A novel that had great premise but, surprisingly at the time, fell flat on its face with over-wrought exposition and a strange menagerie of unbelievable characters and wholly weak ending) Koontz focus has shifted. No longer are we grabbed and taken through sometimes dark ("The Taking") and sometimes humorous ("Life Expectancy") great works of fiction, but rather we are subjected to long passages of exposition, and Koontz's failing ability to craft a suspense/thriller/horror novel into a book that tries to find beauty in everything.Unfortunately, "Breathless" stands (so far) as Koontz's weakest novel yet. And it's a shame really, because I was excited at the prospect of a new book by "one of the most important novelists writing today." Sure, he may be important (nearly all of his books from the last 6 or 7 years have made it to the New York Times Bestseller list) but it doesn't change the fact that if keeps churning out "suspense" novels so lackluster and depressing in scope, he's going to lose a good percentage of his fan base.There was so many things wrong with "Breathless" that its hard to pin-point the exact things. First were the characters. Koontz has always had a great talent with different people throughout his novels. But not now. Not one single person (Henry, Cammy, Tom Bigger, Lamar, Rudy) was believable or even easy to relate to. And half of those characters really shouldn't have even had any page time as they were utterly pointless. There is a story that made little to no sense. Side stories that had nothing to do with the actual bulk of the novel, far too many "bad" guys with the EXACT same problems, a plot twist that I figured out within the first 50 pages, and a conclusion that was so anti-climactic and boring that I was actually rather upset I had wasted any money whatsoever on this novel.I suppose even a 2 star rating is rather high for such a disappointing novel, but I have to give Koontz credit for the way he was able to bring everything to a close (even if it was a lame ending).So, yes, I am glad I read this book (as it adds to my ever growing library of Koontz) but I only recommend it for that reason alone. Otherwise, stay away from this one.
5 A very sad story.  An excellent book to read about this girl's horrific upbringing. A true story.  A must read..Highly recommended.
5 This book was very well written and kept me wanting to read more to find out what happened , but it is very sad and disturbing the things this little girl went through. My heart goes out to her. Worth reading but it is not a light hearted book
5 This book was a great story on how she grew up & found true love, through hardship & hatred. She seems to have become a wonderful lady.
5 Marias story is a heart wrenching page-turner based on a woman who has faced the dark side of life and experienced a traumatic childhood, surviving physical, mental and  sexual abuse. She tells this story from a matter of fact viewpoint. I can only hope that for her an  her child she can overcome her horrid past and live for  brighter tomorrow. I admire her courage and  honesty for bringing this story and how she dealt with it into the world.
5 A difficult read, but one you can't put down.  It is amazing that she survived such abuse and neglect.  I have already downloaded her second book to my Kindle.
5 This was such a sad story. This book made me appreciate my life a little more. The author wrote in such a way that kept me interest (enough to read the book in 2 days) from start to finish. I could also really imagine what she went through. I think the book was written in such a descriptive way I had an easy time imagining what the people in her life looked like, smelled like&#8230; what the houses looked like where she lived, what she may have felt&#8230; looked&#8230;  Hard to believe some children have to grow up like this.It was a good read&#8230; but very sad so be prepared.
5 It's not a bad but the author repeats the same lines a lot as o if you don't bookmark it feels weird. The author`s language was more like s teenage book! Not bad though!
3 Kept my interest but a bit repetitive at time.  It would have been nice to have the ending last a bit longer, but it was good.
4 Truly inspired that a person so abused and used for whatever sick purpose can pull themselves or of the depths of disparate. Gives one hope that you can deal with whatever life throws your way
3 I was very disappointed in this book. As another reviewer said, I thought there would be more about her life as a prostitute, but instead the first half of the book was a one sided "woah is me" tale of her early childhood. The writing was simple, and littered with "that was the happiest time of my life" (there were 4 of those) and "I couldn't understand why...".I think the story has potential, and although the writing wasn't painful, I did find myself skipping page after page to get to something worthwhile.
5 It must have taken tremendous courage for Mari Lander to tell her story.  Heartbreaking story, but she did an excellent job making it easy to follow.  I would love to be able to hand out a proper punishment  to her father!!!
4 Hard to believe that parents would put a child through something like this. Makes you  almost sick to your stomach.
5 This is a terrifying story.Maria's father is a full blown psychopath with free reign over his daughter and son.He uses and abuses his children throughout their childhoods, the authorities do next to nothing to help.It is frightening to see how a manipulative sociopath can fool 'the system' to the detriment of the children.It must have been so difficult to write, I hope there is a sequel. A happy one. The book did end on a bit of a sad note though. Maria, in my opinion, still had no skills regarding choosing a suitable life partner. And that's a real shame.
3 I found the story very so-so. I thought the story would be more about the girl actually working the streets, but that part was very short. It mainly dealt with her life before and during the "experience". And maybe it is because I don't know this kind of life, but I can't see how this girl could keep going back. I'd rather have no family than a bad one.I would definitely pass this book.
4 This is an excellent story and a good read. How could someone do this to a little girl. Be prepared to be shocked. A very good book.
5 Great read  ! With that being said it's a hard read . The author writers a raw story pulling  no punches . It pulls you in keeps you reading all night .
5 I have read this whole series and cannot wait for the final one to be published.  Am a fan of dragon stories and this one from the original ones with Nevin are just brilliant and consuming.
5 Very fast service. This was a birthday gift for my daughter and I was hoping it would come fast because her birthday was only about 1 1/2 weeks away.Thanks for the great service.
5 I've read, re-read (and collected) every single book in this amazing series, and I shall read them again too. Not once does Katherine Kerr slip in her chosen style of writing; every turn of phrase, every nuance of the way her characters think and speak remain consistent.  She weaves ancient history with fiction into an absolutely credible almost alternate world with characters who hold true through their many and varied incarnations and her research into the intricacies of belief in 'white' and 'dark' magic and reincarnation is very thorough and well explained.Even when she needs to 'recap' something explained in a previous book for someone who's a new reader, it's never repetitive.Now I have all the books and the author says that the Silver Mage will be the last in the series, I feel quite bereft ... oh, please, Katherine, write more!
5 I absolutely love this series. I own a kindle and to be able to read them with such ease just makes my day. She is a great writer.
5 The island of Haen Marn has been located off the coast of Albe for years.  Its inhabitants have been waiting for it to move through the dimensional barrier once again and into the world of Deverry and the Westfolks.  This happens as Angmar's eldest son Enj gives the ruined trumpet to the dragon Rori who gives it to a powerful dweomor user.  Valanrdorio appeals to the spirit of the Lady of the North upon Earth to fix it which she does.  Enj blows it and the island returns home.Their world is a different place than the one Argmar left.  Her husband Jori is a dragon who secures the inhabitants' lands to make sure the Horsekin don't lay seige to the populated towns in their religious zeal to convert everyone to the cult of the goddess Alshandra.  Jori isn't sure he wants to be turned into a human and since the Horsekin plan to invade, the rulers can use an ally like him in his dragon form.  People are fleeing their homes because they are not safe from Horsekin raids. The islanders wonder what will become of them in this new world with its war strategies, new alliances and the threat of the Horsekin invading their lands.The third Silver Wyrm tale has many more subplots than written above as almost every character has something going on, which can overwhelm the reader with switching perspectives.  Laz the thief is the most fascinating of the vast cast as he landed on the island to escape punishment for stealing magical gems.  He has one chance left to make amends by righting wrongs and eliminating much of the bad karma he caused over several lifetimes.  His chance for redemption depends on the choices he makes; readers will wonder which way he goes as Jori and the people of Haen Marn return home in THE SHADOW ISLE. Katherine Kerr has written a great epic fantasy.Harriet Klausner
5 Katherine Kerr has done a superb job in evoking Galic lifestyles and mores.  This latest entry in the history of Deverry stands up to all previous entries.  I would recommend the series to anyone interested in fantasy.
5 It's said that J.R.R. Tolkien invented an entirely new genre, "Sword and Sorcery," by creatingThe Lord of the Rings. Some readers will insist that Tolkien's work, and Katharine Kerr's, falls under the rubric of "High Fantasy," but the difference between the two genres seems, to this reviewer, to be equivalent to the difference between purple and violet.More relevantly, fully 30% of all fiction books published today fall into the genre, whatever name we give it. In truth, Tolkien breathed life back into the old Northern European myths about Elves and Dwarves and Trolls. The good Professor, an Oxford Don whose specialty was Philology, would be proud of Ms. Kerr, who puts her own fascinating and lively spin on the old myths.The prolific Katharine Kerr taps into the ancient Celtic traditions to create the world of Annwn (literally meaning "Nowhere" in Welsh), an incredibly detailed, incredibly graphic land of the imagination filled with lost mountains, far valleys, and towns and villages whose denizens, most unknowingly, exist in a world filled with "Dweomer.""Dwimmer," meaning "magic" or "sorcery," is an ancient English word, probably derived from the original Brythonic language spoken by the Celtic Britons in pre-Roman times. Likewise, "cwm" or "coombe," meaning "valley," appears only on Great British maps, the first variant being Welsh and the other Old English. "Weird" is a modern English word which means "bizarre," but it derives from the earlier word "weirding," a term applied to occultists who were supposedly able to alter fate.Kerr's representational humans are descendants of European Continental Celts (Gauls), an historic people made up of numerous tribes who were decimated and dominated by the Roman legions commanded by Julius Caesar, circa 50 B.C. According to Kerr's mythology, the tribe living in the invented Gaulish Kingdom Devetia Riga was magically transported to Annwn, where they established the Kingdom of Deverry.In keeping with ancient Celtic beliefs, Kerr crafts her epic in the form of an Eternal Knot. Theoretically, every tale she tells is the beginning, the middle, and the ending of the story, so that beginning the series withThe Bristling Wood, book number three, should bring you right up to THE SHADOW ISLE. However, given the numerous storylines and recurring characters in different incarnations that have developed over the course of fourteen novels so far, it's far easier to read the books in sequence (and you're advised to ignore the separate cycles, which do not really stand alone). THE SHADOW ISLE is the fourteenth book in Kerr's fifteen book Deverry series, and is book three of "The Silver Wyrm Cycle," the fourth and concluding cycle in the saga.The Deverry books concern the life stories of Jill, the heroine of the saga. What Jill does not know is that her life is inextricably bound up with that of the Dweomermaster Nevyn. Long ago, Nevyn was once Galrion, a Prince of the Realm, but youthful impetuosity led to his exile, and more importantly, to the deaths of several innocent people including his royal fiancee, the Princess Brangwen, Jill's preincarnation.Brangwen's tragic death caused Nevyn to take a rash vow---to live until he had undone all the wrong he'd caused. Kerr tells the long tale of Brangwen and Galrion in what amounts to a series of short novelettes-within-the-Deverry-novels. Along the way, Kerr fleshes out her colorful, lively universe, which is populated not only by the Deverrians, but by Elves and Dwarves, among many other beings.THE SHADOW ISLE begins with an interesting turn. Haen Marn, the Shadow Isle of the title is a dweomer island, occupied by dwarves. It has, to this point, played a minor role in the saga, but in this eponymous book, Kerr gives it it's due.Haen Marn vanished from Annwn when the Horsekin raids began some sixty years ago, rematerializing in the very earthly country of medieval Alba. For those of us who are not Celticists, Alba (or Alban) is the ancient Celtic name for Scotland. The Albans seem entirely nonplussed by the appearance of the dweomer island, assuming it came from Cymru (Wales) because of the language its odd inhabitants speak. For the denizens of Haen Marn, Alba seems Deverry-like, but they are bewildered by the cult of the sheep worshippers---at least that's their assumption about the Holy Lamb of God. Kerr, like all authors, can't resist the obligatory inside jokes that propel all storytelling. The hoped-for return of Haen Marn to Annwn may well be the first sign that peace is returning, in what has become essentially a world war.The Elves, after a thousand year long nomadic existence, are beginning to settle in towns, and there is talk of returning to their ancient cities if only the Horsekin raids can be stopped.In Deverry, things are taking dark turns. Although the Deverrians and their allies manage to defeat the invading Horsekin in set battles, their victories have not blunted the Horsekin appetite for raiding, pillaging, slaughter and slavetaking.Neb and Branna continue to study dweomer, though Neb is fixated on his past life as Nevyn. Considering himself the world's greatest dweomermaster returned, he begins to condescend to his teachers, and in his attempt to recover all of Nevyn's vast knowledge, he takes steps that may or may not lead him away from the Light.If you haven't read Katharine Kerr's "Deverry" books, you will find that very, very unlike Tolkien's Middle Earth, Annwn is rather tumbledown and casually violent. The stink of horse manure fills the air of the towns, roadside inns crawl with lice, ale, the universal drink, is dipped from open barrels (flies and all), drunken men with swords go to war over herds of pigs and cows or an inflated sense of ego disguised as honor, rape and robbery are commonplace, illegitimate children, though scorned, are ubiquitous, and the Deverrian tongue is replete with curses, most of which cannot be reprinted here. Kerr seems to delight in coming up with more and more outrageous expletive phraseology, my favorite of which is, "By the scaly underside of a dragon's ... !"J.R.R. Tolkien wrote like the restrained University Don he was. Middle Earth has the vertical intellectual airiness of the dreaming spires of Oxford. Kerr writes like the Rust Belt native that she is. Working-class Deverry spills horizontally off the pages in an entertaining flood, which is why it took fifteen full novels to tell the tale.The individual plotlines of the Deverry storylines are straightforward rather than rococo, with just a few curves here and there. There's not a lot of mystery here, not a lot of unanswered questions, and any resolution of suspense tends to be pretty much what you'd predict. In the end, the reader has to keep track of more than enough incarnations and karmic twists that the addition of diversionary plot elements within the stories themselves probably would have had the average reader screaming.THE SHADOW ISLE is very much a "transitional" book. Nothing begins or ends here, despite the idea of some readers that THE SHADOW ISLE would end the series. Rather, it's a bridge to the concluding book of the Deverry Saga,The Silver Mage.Although THE SHADOW ISLE isn't able to stand alone, the quality of Kerr's writing continues to reach the same high standards it has evolved toward over the twenty years it took her to write the series.
5 This book features Jeremy, Carson Ryder's psychotic brother, escaping from the insane asylum and leading police (and Carson) on a dangerous chase. Many of the secrets in the "Ryder" family are revealed and Carson learns more about his big brother. He also learns about himself and what he's capable of. Jeremy comes across as a more likable character here. I thoroughly enjoyed reading more in depth about how Carson and Jeremy came to be who they are and why their relationship is as it is. The possibility of their future cat-and-mouse relationship (with Jeremy as the cat) is hinted at and something I look forward to seeing developed.
5 Mobile, Alabama police detective Carson Ryder and his partner Harry Nautilus work a special detail that investigates homicides with possible psychiatric motives, i.e. serial killers.  He is surprised and confused when he is immediately summoned to New York City, with no time to pack or make other arrangements for his trip, and no explanation.  When he arrives, he quickly learns that his friend and colleague Evangeline Prowse was the victim of a brutal murder, and before her death requested Carson personally investigate the crime.Dr. Prowse was the director of a mental institution in Alabama that housed many violently insane criminals, included Carson's brother, Jeremy Ridgecliff.  Carson had gone to great lengths to conceal the fact that he is Jeremy's brother, including changing his name and erasing a lot of his family history, including the extremely violent death of his abusive father, killed by Jeremy.  Very few people knew his secret, and Dr. Prowse and Harry were two of them.Carson was not warmly welcomed by the NYPD, who suspect his is nothing more than a hick detective, and treated him accordingly.  Carson soon discovers he has a huge secret to keep: the suspected killer of Dr. Prowse is Jeremy, and he seems to be tormenting the citizens of New York.As the investigation continues, the NYPD detectives warm up to Carson, slowly, but begin to trust him and his advice.  However, when NY detective and Caron's new love interest Alice Folger goes missing, presumably taken by Jeremy, Carson has to protect Jeremy to keep Alice alive.  He soon discovers a way to contact Jeremy to learn more than he could have imagined: Jeremy is not guilty of killing Dr. Prowse, nor did he kill the many people he was accused of killing many years ago.  Instead, it was another man, a former police officer who investigated the death of Carson's and Jeremy's father, and now he is hunting Alice.This is a great story by Jack Kerley.  Although it is his fifth completed book featuring Carson Ryder, it is only the fourth published.  It tells a great story, and sets the stage for the possibility of Carson moving to New York City.  Carson is a wonderfully developed character, with uncertainty, charm, secrets to keep, and very likeable.  In this book Jeremy takes a different turn, not guilty of the killing of the many people he was accused of killing, disgusted by murder, not able to stomach it.  However, in at least one of the previous novels, Jeremy took great pleasure in causing Carson pain, seemingly in conflict to who he was in this book.  That said, Jack Kerley has become one of my favorite authors in this genre and I look forward to reading his Carson Ryder series for many years.
4 Blood Brother, by J.A. Kerley, is a pretty decent book. It's the story of an Alabama policeman who's asked to fly to New York to help with the murder of a psychiatrist from his state. She isn't your average psychiatrist either. She ran the state's asylum for the criminally insane.It turns out that it's actually the policeman's brother (and patient at the asylum) who's involved in the murder (and a number of other particularly gross murders that occur in the book). The NYPD naturally isn't that bothered if they catch dead or alive. Carson Ryder, the cop, isn't so keen on the dead idea, so tries to catch his brother before the police do. The Alabaman then sets off to do just that.On the face of it, the book is daft. Who's ever heard of a genius mass murderer being related to a bright cop for example? But that having been said, the pace of the story helps you forget its' basic daftness.If you can accept the basic silliness of the story, you'll enjoy this book.
2 Carson Ryder is summoned to New York because Dr. Evangeline Prowse has been murdered and there was a very mysterious videotape left at the scene simply insisting that he be allowed to help the NYPD. So Ryder hightails it to the Big Apple only to find out that not only is Vangie dead, but his brother Jeremy is also missing or missing from the Institute that Dr. Prowse was the head of back in Mobile for all of the dangerous "crazies" and that he had apparently come to New York with Dr. Prowse. Things continue to disintegrate but Carson, ever resourceful manages to utilize his "special skills" and help NYPD.Ok, I realize this book was supposed to be a thriller but it was like watching the most cheesy, campy and cliched horror movie in the world and laughing out loud when the girl runs upstairs or falls because you always know what is coming. There is a complete suspension of reality in this book, which I found absurd, and just outright annoying. No one would ever be just considered an expert because of a psych degree or welcomed onto a case because of a weird video left at a crime scene, questioned maybe, asked to help with an entire investigation, no. This entire novel was an exercise in futility because it was too many take offs on other much more successful (good) books and I just wonder if anything could have been done to put this poor thing out of it's misery.
5 This is another one of JA Kerley's great thriller/crime novels. The characters become friends to the reader and you truly worry about where the author might take them or put them at risk.
4 Carson Ryder is back and he is in pursuit of his most dangerous adversary yet - his own brother.Alabama homicide detective, Carson Ryder has been summoned to New York. An old friend has been viciously murdered and only Ryder has the skill and insight to solve the crime. As Ryder investigates, his worst fears are realised as he discovers that his brother has escaped from the mental institution that has kept him secreted away for almost decade. As the investigation gathers momentum, the threat of danger escalates and Ryder has to battle the clock to solve the crime, save the girl, and catch an escaped lunatic. This book is a feast for fans of the thriller.Blood Brother, the fifth of the Carson Ryder novels, is a thriller by the numbers--you have a damsel in distress, a main character with a dark past, and a few intriguing, if somewhat predictable, twists. J.A. Kerley, the author, combines elements of Silence of the Lambs with the fear factor of the Kay Scarpetta novels written by Patricia Cornwell. If Kerley's book has one flaw, it is that New York never really comes alive in the pages of this book. The setting could be anywhere and if you are going to set a novel in somewhere like New York City you should at the very least allude to the atmosphere or grandeur inherent in such a celebrated city.Blood Brother is an easy read and offers its readers thrills and chills in equal measure. It is a must read for anyone who likes the Hannibal books, although the characterisation is not up to Thomas Harris' standard. But for those of you who just want a quick holiday read that won't tax the old brain cells too much, this is the book for you.So sit back and relax as Carson Ryder steps into action once more. Expect grisly murders and killer twists - enjoy!
2 Where to start?Lets begin with what Blood Brother is not: Blood Brother is not Silence of the Lambs, despite trying so hard I'm surprised there wasn't a copyright lawsuit.The plot of course, tries to be twisty but is somewhat predictable, most of it is given away in the blurb, and if anyone is genuinely surprised by any development in this book (I mean surprised as in "I didn't expect that" NOT "I didn't expect this to be so BAD") I would be amused to hear from them.The protaganist of this piece is identicle to Claurice Starling (Hello Claurice) which is unfortunate given that he is supposed to be a dude. After the first half of the book apologising to the local cops whose jurisiction he has entered Ryder suddenly smacks around a colleague for being sexist, and starts telling guys to PULL IT TOGETHER his raw manlyness shown with CAPITAL LETTERS.About the only thing of worth in this book is the relationship between the brothers (if you haven't clicked the detective and the villian are brothers) which doesn't get much page-time and is quickly soured but the absolute disgusting treatment of mental illness in this book.Now, I'm very much used to serial killer thrillers misusing mental illness and psychopathology to pen a good tale. Perhaps because he fails to write a good story, Kerley's representation of schizophrenia verges on Nazism, and the final scene of the story leaves acceptable suspension of disbelief about 5 leagues behind.The worst thing about Blood Brother is while reading it, one can't help but be aware of what the book is trying to be, it's trying to be politcally relevant. it's trying to be psychological, its trying to have a compelling (probably hoping for a reusable) main character, and in case you haven't been paying attention to this review Blood Brother fails on all counts.Rant over.
4 I like this author. I finsd the relationship between the brothers very interesting. It was well paced and made me want to read more of the series
4 Scandinavian mysteries have a certain cool charm, something that draws the reader in and does not let go. "The Ice Princess", by Camilla Lackberg, a novel set in Fj&auml;llbacka, a small town on the coast, is no exception.One cold day, a retired fisherman is going to have a look at the house he had been caring for in the owner's absence. He is shocked to discover the owner, beautiful art gallery owner, Alexandra Wijkner, dead in the bathtub of frozen water. The first person he encounters on the street when he runs out for help, is Erica Falck, the victim's childhood friend, a writer who came back to Fj&auml;llbacka to sort out the household after her parents' tragic death. After reporting Alex's death to the police, Erica finds herself emotionally drawn to the case and her persistence leads to the solution of the crime and many striking discoveries. Also, the young detective, Patrik Hedstrom, is Erica's and Alex's school friend, who always had a sweet spot for Erica... So, there is also an element of romance."The Ice Princess" is the first of the "Patrik Hedstrom" series. I am very curious how he does as a star detective in the later books, because here, although nice, he is still a bit boyish and nave (although intelligent, empathetic and sensitive, very desirable traits in a detective). I think that advertising this novel as similar to the Larsson and Mankell novels was unfair (aside from the fact, that the Millennium and the Wallander series have nothing in common but the setting and a wide social background). "the Ice Princess" is more of a classic mystery set in a close, remote community, with its charms and limitations. The characters are drawn with bold lines, there is a lot of black-and-white, and the social background concentrates more on the relationships between the inhabitants of the area. Not so many nuances and complications. More like theatre. Nevertheless, it is a good novel, I read it with pleasure and I will continue reading the series. I liked Erica and I understand that she will appear in the next novels, so I want to see, how she develops as well. There is already a TV show made in Sweden from the series( 2007). It is a pity that the translation was so late...
4 Taut, well-written Scandanavian noir. Writer Erica is back in her small home town, to clean out her recently deceased parents' house, when her childhood best friend is found dead (in a graphic and visually arresting manner). Having been, in the past, close with that family, Erica becomes involved with the investigation, and gradually dark secrets from all levels of the town are revealed. This was really well done, with excellent characterizations, and a solid plot that kept tightening. It was really good, and I am definitely looking forward to her next title that will be released, The Preacher.This was no The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, in that it was not a high-speed techno thriller, but it was a carefully paced Christie-esque mystery, with that atmospheric Swedish flavor. I liked it much more than Karin Fossum's Down By The Water, which, while dealing with the same subject, managed to be much more offputting and depressing.
3 I wrote this review for my blog, Little Miss Reader: http://little-missreader.blogspot.dk/This book was okay, I really liked the pages that was set from the killer's point of view (at least I guess it is from the killer's POV). They were so poetic and beautiful.I did not guess who the killer was, before it was revealed - and I cannot figure out whether that is a good or a bad thing. But the book kept surprising me, there was always another detail revealed.The relationship that evolved between the main character Erica Falck, and the other main character Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m was cute, sweet and quick. All through out the book I was looking forward to reading about them and their relationship!I felt bad for Anna and her kids, her husband is a complete douchebag! And she should just leave him!When it comes to the crime itself, I think it was interesting, a woman found in a bathroom, it looks to be suicide (but of course it is not), and then the investigation gets going and love is in the air!Since I got the entire series as a Christmas present from my boyfriend's family, I will continue to read them and see the movies/series (I know there is some sort of screenplay of the books!)This book gets a 3 heart rating since it is a bit meh, but I still enjoyed it!
4 Living in Europe, I always wanted to read her but the other day, looking through Kindle mysteries, I decided why not read her. Well, I certainly wasn't disappointed! Not revealing much, I was certainly in suspense for a long time. If you've never read any of her books, I think this one is a must. Will plan to read others written by her, but not sure if I'll follow it chronologically.
3 So many good Swedish crime writers these days and here was a new one:  Camilla L&auml;ckberg. I looked forward to a good read.  Yes, I liked The Ice Princess; yet as the story unfolded, I went from anticipation to mild disappointment. Still I continued to the end, largely because I'm such a fan of Swedish crime fiction.The plot is a good one, and the twists and turns keep the reader interested.  The character of the first murder victim never came alive for me.  She is presented as elusive and private.  Well, she slipped right past me.  I don't know anyone like this in life, yet she was the object of several long-term passions and her murder, and its aftermath drive the plot.Patrick Hedstr&ouml;m, the police investigator is an appealing character and the incipient romance between him and the main narrator is well played. The depiction of the police investigative team was lively and human.  Mellborg, the chief investigator and preening [...], jumps off the page. Minor characters are sharply drawn. I was not so fond of the main narrator, Erika Falck, a struggling Weight Watcher, and the improbable reason she has for involving herself in the investigation. Other characters too had weak motivations.The prose style was overblown, with very little color.  The dialogue was wooden at times. You can't blame everything on the translator, Steven T. Murray, who did such a masterful job of translating Stieg Larssson's Millennium Trilogy. You can't blame the translator either for an idyllic presentation of a Swedish coastal town. Or for the story's slow, and sometimes repetitive pace.The horrific secret  that drives the plot was glossed over too quickly for my taste. What? That's it? Isn't anybody going to react to one of the central facts?A good read, all in all nonetheless.  I look forward to the translation of L&auml;ckberg's other novels which are bestsellers in Sweden.
5 Imagine that you had a very best friend back in grade school, and that the two of you were as close as sisters.  Imagine that one day, your friend became distant, and then, finally, the friendship just ends with no real explanation.  One day you have a friend, then soon you don't, and then the ex-friend and family move away.  Maybe you would always wonder what happened.Now imagine that 25 years later, you are visiting your home town, and a distraught townsman runs into you in the street saying that someone has to see what is in this house -- and what do you find?  Your old friend, an apparent suicide.Through a sequence of events, you end up writing an article as a sort of long obituary, to please her family.  Slowly, you and the police realize that this wasn't suicide.All of that information is given to us in perfect manner in the first few chapters.  The author does a wonderful job at introducing side characters, red herrings, and a wonderful group of characters, both fine and flawed.I must say, I did not see the end coming.  I loved it!  I hope many more of the author's works find their way to English!
4 This is the first in yet another Swedish crime series, and I liked it a lot. The characters -- particularly that of the female protagonist, Erica Falck, come alive, and engage one's emotions as well as one's intellectual interest. The setting, a small summer resort on Sweden's west coast, is lovingly evoked. The solving of the murder, which depends on finding out about the life and personality of the vicitm, is engrossing. My one problem is with the prose, which is as some other reviewers note a bit leaden. For me, that was a much less serious problem than for some others: the characters, the setting, and the humor sparkle through. Also, I prefer to blame it on translation.
2 The description of the book makes it sound like it would be the type of book that I would like, but I couldn't finish this one. I did not find the characters to be interesting or appealing; I didn't want to find read what happened next.
4 Erica Falck, a biographer, has left Stockholm and returned to her home town, though she hasn't decided for how long. Her parents have died and she's cleaning out their home, her brother-in-law is pressuring her to sell the place, and her childhood friend has just committed suicide. Erica is under a heavy load, feeling herself at a crossroad. So it's a pleasant surprise when she reconnects with another friend from her childhood, police detective Patrik Hedstrom, who's looking into the suicide.This series of books features the relationship of writer Falck and detective Hedstrom, and in this debut we see them getting to know each other as adults. There are quite a few characters, and I had to take notes, though I don't mind that. I thought the premise was very good and the characters interesting. The characters were not, however, deep or intriguing. The pace was dull at times. At nearly 400 pages, it could have benefited from an editor's touch. We got lots of detail about people's actions, but I didn't feel we ever got any deeper into their psyches, even the two major characters, Patrik and Erica. Late in the book when Erica finds out various truths and secrets, she tells us she's &#34;so angry&#34;, but that's as deep as it goes. Hmm. I am hoping that the next books in the series will be more revelatory. The ending of several story threads felt rushed, and some weren't addressed at all. I guess that's partly to be continued in the second book, but it still felt unsatisfying.The book is good enough and the characters interesting enough, though, that I will read the next in the series. I also look forward to seeing how author Lackberg grows as a writer. I enjoyed the bits where Erica thinks about her writing career, and I think this is a promising debut.The books in the series, in order, are: The Ice Princess. The Preacher, The Stonecutter, The Gallows Bird, The Hidden Child, The Drowning, The Lost Boy.
4 It was a good plot, but a bit too much on the &#34;Kiss, Kiss, hug, hug.&#34; Brutal murders and soap opera don't co-exist well.
2 This book was recommended to me. I love the writers from Sweden/Norway/Iceland.I prefer more of a /police procedural. This book read like more of a novel. Too easy to figure out.I will not be reading any more books by this author.
1 I agree with the complaints about cliches, cardboard characters and repetition.  What amazed me most was Erica's being able to enter the house where the body was found.  Surely Swedish police secure the crime scene!  But wait--there's more--that house is used for the funeral reception!  No sign of SOCOs, who are an important part of any investigation.  Thus the novel is unbelievable almost immediately.Did anyone edit this book?I bought this on my Kindle based on rave press reviews and awards.  I feel cheated.
5 The Ice Princess made me wonder all the way through how the story could all be brought together.  The structure is complex but provides a surprise ending that is so right.  Many surprise endings seem to suddenly come from the author at the end.  This one we are prepared for but certainly not aware of any other time in the novel.  A somewhat dark but suitable background.  A great read.
3 Fjallbacka, Sweden is an idyllic fishing village. Rich city folk pay tons of money for summer homes here. People that live there rarely want to leave. All is not as it seems though. Small towns can hold big secrets. You know the saying, "Two people can share a secret -- if one of them is dead." Someone has taken that to heart.Erica Falck returns to her hometown to settle her parents' estate after their death in a car accident. She didn't expect to find the frozen corpse of her childhood best friend. Despite all signs pointing to suicide, Erica feels like Alex wouldn't and didn't kill herself.Patrick Hedstrom is the officer assigned to the case. Hobbled by an incompetent supervisor, he tries to uncover why someone would kill, and in Fjallbacka. With ingenuity and some prompts from Erica, he works slowly but surely to solve the mystery.The mystery is complicated by the fact that in a small town like Fjallbacka everyone seemingly knows each others business. Can there be any secrets worth killing for? Who would have such a secret? Why murder now? Horrific deeds come to life despite the best efforts of several people including the murderer to keep them hidden.There was lots of extraneous info in this book. The characters constantly repeating each others ideas or withholding information from each other. There are several sections showing either Erica's or Patrick's angst regarding the other. The multiple viewpoints, one of which isn't revealed until later in the book, can be very distracting.Overall, the book was well done. The main characters were pretty well done and had pretty clearly defined personalities. The plot was suspenseful and had several interesting twists. It's a great beach read that keeps you interested but is low maintenance. I look forward to reading the rest of the series.** This review was based on a book provided by the publisher.**
4 Set in the small fishing community of Fj&auml;llbacka, the finding of the body of Alex Wijkner partially frozen in the bath with her wrists slashed is the start of a series of events that threatens to uncover dark secrets that some residents would prefer stayed buried.Alex's childhood friend, authoress Erica Falck is one of the first at the scene of the apparent suicide and she with Policeman Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m (another childhood friend) find themselves working together as they look into the death of their former school friend. The budding relationship between these two, tentative and unsure of each other, is central to the storyline and whilst quite nicely done, at times had chicklit overtones.After struggling with the first few chapters, I really liked it. A 'slow-burner' rather than a 'page-turner' that flowed well and kept me reading to the end. The small town community with its twitching curtains was well depicted and the characters interested me. There seemed to be quite a lot of side threads where additional characters were introduced with quite lengthy background detail only to then vanish from the pages which I found quite strange, but on the whole an enjoyable read and I'll certainly be reading the second book in the series The Preacher.
3 A bit slow starting off but it does pick up.  I found the story sufficiently engrossing to read the next in the series.  I did enjoy the story but felt a little let down by the ending.  In reality a 3.5 star rating is more accurate.
5 I was delighted to discover this book, and a new-to-me Scandinavian crime writer to add to the list.The character of writer, Erica Falck was well drawn and the closed, oppressive community of the village she returns to when her parents die is shown very clearly. Erica discovers the dead body of her childhood friend Alex, and at first it seems possible that she has committed suicide. Erica, to overcome her writers' block, begins a memoir about her mysterious friend and starts to unravel the secrets of their past.When she meets Patrik Hedstrom, local police detective, they begin to work together to discover the truth.I enjoyed the book immensely and shall look forward to many more by this new young writer.
4 The story starts with an apparent suicide but after that the story slowly develops and becomes more complex with the final explanation being quite a twist but logically developed.Although a murder mystery there are considerable sub plots and in depth descriptions of the characters and locations unfortunately although I liked the story I thought that the characters were one dimensional and I had trouble relating to them I am not sure why but perhaps they are sometimes over described for example ("Elna' double chins quivered with excitement, and Erica thought she looked like a fat little sparrow. Her woollen coat was shades of green and covered her from her shoulders to her feet") it carries on in this vein for a while but I have copied this extract to show the style of writing. It is a book to be read slowly to make the most of it, some reviewers have said that they have scan read it so that they read only the main plot, if you want to do this it is not worth getting as the main plot would only make a short story. My only criticism with the plot is that the police seem so inept and finding a couple of the main clues which should have been obvious are left to the main female character Erica, an author who is writing a book about the events as they happen, to find.
4 The Stone Cutter was first recommended and I loved that so decided to try more from this author.  Excellent read.  Is it something in the water up there in Scandinavia?  They are producing outstanding mysteries/thrillers.
3 Val McDermid raves, it's #1 in Sweden, etc ... I found it really disappointing.First, the positives:Fun to read the Swedish detail, and the opening is very good.  The dead woman is a strong and intriguing character, and the crime at the heart of the novel is good.  A lot of the secondary characters are interesting and well written.The negatives:The main character and the main detective are not very interesting or appealing.  American mystery and suspense fans will be surprised to find that many secrets are kept from the reader.  On several occasions, an important clue is discovered by one of our leads but we wait a long time to find out what it is.  As in, &#34;She looked at the piece of paper and realized this changed everything about case&#34; (I'm paraphrasing here), and then we wait 50 pp to find out what it is.  I found this extremely annoying.  The discussion questions at the end of the book compare the author to Agatha Christie, but this is not a fairly clued puzzle mystery of that type.In short:  I read to the end and some parts of the book were good, so I gave it three stars.  But I cannot understand why it is so highly praised, and I won't read another one by this author.Finally, I was puzzled by this paragraph:&#34;Snow must have just fallen over the city; the grass was still white.  In Stockholm, it only took a day or two for snow to turn into a dirty-grey slush.  She placed her mittens on a park bench and then sat down on them as protection under her seat.  Urinary tract infections were nothing to play around with; that was the last thing she needed right now.&#34;Does this make sense to anyone else?  Can you really get a UTI from sitting on a Swedish park bench?
3 Stieg Larsson first introduced me to the wonder of Scandinavian murder mystery writers, and my horizons were further expanded by reading some Henning Mankell and Jo Nesbo.  I've become such a fan of these writers, that I immediately snapped this book up when I saw it, hoping for more of the same.  Larsson isn't the world's best writer in that his prose can be clunky, but he excels at lighting a fuse and then dropping bombs on his readers.  Mankell's work can be just as pulse-pounding, but his prose is more polished.  Nesbo writes with great skill about the psychology of his main character.  Unfortunatly for Lackberg, she doesn't quite live up to these standards.  Still, as I read, I couldn't help feeling that maybe she was on to something and that, with time and polish, her work could become just as compelling.One of the major problems in this novel, in my opinion, is an excess of minor plot threads.  The main murder plot was an interesting one, and I was engrossed in unraveling the entire story behind the murder.  I also thought the back story of the alcoholic painter (whose name escapes me) was interesting.  There was some potential to the plot with Erica's sister, Anna, but it felt tacked on to me.  I had the impression that the author wanted to insert an important issue into her plot, but I just didn't feel it was fully developed.  I think that the fact that it has nothing to do whatsoever with the main murder plot also gave me the feeling that it had been tacked on.Related to this is Lackberg's choice to tell the story from shifting perspectives.  I don't mind books with shifting narratives, but I don't like it when an author makes the choice not to write from an omniscient point of view, but then feels the need to tell the story from a minor character's point of view for a section or two, simply to make sure that their side is aired.  To me, this feels clumsy and unnecessary.  If an author chooses to take a limited perspective, then the reader should sometimes be left without a perfect understanding of the motivations of tertiary characters.  If it's really important to the narrative, the author should use that character throughout the book, rather than just in a passage or two simply to better explain one minor plot thread.  This may just be a pet peeve of mine but, at any rate, I feel this device always detracts from the narrative.As for her characters, I felt that they were uneven.  Erica was the most well-developed, likely because she is the major character.  Erica has some warts, which I liked.  She didn't alienate me with her perfection; rather, I found that I was often able to identify with her insecurities.  However, I couldn't help but feel that she was exploiting the victim's family at times, and this bothered me.  It made her seem a bit underhanded, which really didn't enhance her character.I was quite fond of Patrik who was, for me, Lackberg's most endearing character.  I was especially amused by the parallels between his body insecurities and those of Erica as they began their romance, which I thought was sweet.  Patrik was a bit bumbling, but I also thought he was resourceful and intelligent, and I found the manner in which he hands his boss to be pretty clever, though I did think the boss was overdone and frankly ridiculous.What really does the novel a disservice, in my opinion, is the extraneous detail.  Lackberg has an interesting concept here, and her execution is pretty good.  The problem lies in the sense that the reader has to wade through a lot of unnecessary information in order to get to the plot.  I like literary mysteries, but the authors of this particular genre need to be cautious not to bog the reader down with so many secondary plots that they end up skimming so that they can get back to the real meat of the story.  I think that, with time, experience, and editing, Lackberg could become a very well-rounded author.
4 This is the third book I have read by Lackberg featuring Patrik Hedstrom and look forward to more.The part I found unreal was  a 10 year old in the 8th grade and developed enough to get pregnant.  The usual age for 8th graders is 13 and  14 and would have been more believable for the storyline
5 I read alot of Scandanavian mystery authors, and i thought Lackberg's first book in this series was excellent, so much so that I have already purchased all the rest that have been translated.  While I haven't read the Dragon Tattoo books, I have read all the Harry Hole Nesbo books, all the Inspector Erlendur Indridason books, all the Johann Theorin Oland books, and all of the Yrsa Sigardsdottir books.  I think all those authors are great writers, and I put Lackberg right up there in their league.  I thought the characters were very engaging and well drawn, and the mystery plot pulled me in right from the first page.  I also thought, quite to the contrary of other reviewers, that her plot device of always holding back on the key information worked very well.  I have also now finished the second book in the series, and thought that one was even better.  Highly recommended.
5 I found this story  very exciting. I had a hard time putting it down. I felt sorry for many of the characters and grew to admire others. Well written.
4 I also find it annoying when one of the characters finds some revealing secret then Lackberg decides that you need to wait a few pages to know about it. But it was an enjoying read nonetheless, there are many skeletons in the closets of Fj&auml;llbacka. Recommended.
4 No special effects or science fiction - just great story telling.  Rounded, credible characters & an intriguing plot.Thrilled to have discovered this author.
3 I enjoyed this book.  It was not great.  It was good as in maybe 3.5 stars.  Amazon does not let us use half stars though.  I liked Patrick and Erica, who were children together and get back together to solve the murder of her former best friend, Alex. There are many suspects, perhaps too many. Also, some characters were well delineated whereas others were cookie cutter variety.  I could have used fewer characters and a more penetrating look at those who remained. The pace is somewhat leisurely which most people are not looking for in a thriller or mystery.  Perhaps fewer characters and fewer twists would solve this problem.  I am not sure I will read another book by her. I think the central problem is that this book could not make up its mind which genre it wanted to be in so tried to blend romance with thriller-mystery.  It is rare to find a writer who can blend those genres well.  Most don't.  I think if you are in the mood for a romantic suspense novel, you may like this book.  If you want a pell mell thriller, you probably won't.
2 Disappointed in the ending. Left hanging about what was going to happen to other people whose story was also being told. The book was not finished.
5 So many lies, so much harm. A brilliant writer and a wonderful mystery full of the human condition. No good comes from silence when it covers a crime. I will read all of her books.
4 Enjoyed this book by Camilla Lackberg who's been toted as a the new Steig Larrson.  Having read all of his novels, I was pleased with &#34;The Ice Princess&#34; but not enthralled as I was with Larrson's books.  I have purchased the second novel by this author, unread at this point, and look forward to reading it.  The novel is well written with a variety of characters.  Give it a try and let others know what you think.
5 Read Ice Princess and loved it.  I have primarily bought only US mystery writer books and have recently discovered several international authors.  I will definitely read her other books.This book was easy to read and follow.  I didn't find the characters scattered as indicated in another review.  Her descriptions of the characters was so real, I could feel their frustration and pain.  Good book
3 Very easy reading - a little difficult to pick the ending.  Think everyone would enjoy it - I'm now looking to buy the 3rd
4 First Line: Eilert Berg was not a happy man.After the death of her parents, biographer Erica Falck finds herself back in her hometown of Fj&auml;llbacka, Sweden. Simultaneously trying to go through her parents' things and finish work on her fifth book, Erica is finding both tasks distasteful. When her childhood friend is found with her wrists slashed in a frozen bath, Erica begins writing a memoir about her beautiful but remote friend in which she intends to answer questions about their lost friendship.While Falck is conducting her own investigation, local detective Patrik Hedstrom is following his own leads on the woman's death. It is only when Erica and Patrik begin working together that the truth begins to emerge about the small town's past.This is a mystery for those who are character-driven readers. Erica not only writes, grieves for her parents and her lost friendship with the deceased Alex, she has to deal with her younger sister and her grasping husband. Patrik is not only investigating the death of Erica's childhood friend, he has to cope with the boss from hell. Erica and Patrik are attracted to each other, and it's a romance that's well done: enough detail to make romance lovers' toes curl a bit without turning off those who prefer their whodunits with guns and no roses.L&auml;ckberg's interest in people and motivation is clear in The Ice Princess. She also shows a great deal of skill in meting out details to keep the suspense percolating. I can't help but feel that, although she's got two great characters in Erica and Patrik, L&auml;ckberg has the most fun with Patrik's boss, Bertil Mellberg:"What she considered his most repulsive feature, however, was the atrocious comb-over he had constructed to hide his bald pate. He had let the remaining strands of hair grow out-- his employees could only guess how long they must be-- and then he wound the hair round atop his head in an arrangement that most resembled an abandoned crow's nest."What's scary about Mellberg is that, although his characterization borders on buffoonery, L&auml;ckberg doesn't put a foot wrong because I swear I once worked with his twin!Mellberg aside, I truly enjoyed reading this book. L&auml;ckberg is a very visual writer; Scandinavian furniture makers, interior designers and food magazines are mentioned that were totally unknown to me, but I wasn't bothered. That's what an Internet connection and search engines are for. Looking up some of the unfamiliar names helped me see with L&auml;ckberg's eyes and educated me, all at the same time. For those readers who don't care about such things, they are very easily ignored.I deduced what had happened to Alex as a child, but that didn't take away any enjoyment of this book. Good pacing and story combined with excellent characters and motivations to make for a very pleasurable read. I am now looking for the rest of the books in this series because I just have to know about the further adventures of Erica and Patrik.
3 This was a thoroughly enjoyable mystery novel, the protagonists are likable and there are certainly a few good twists to the mystery. It was compelling enough that I was looking forward to picking it up and reading each night but it wasn't earth shattering or brilliant. Just a good solid read that I enjoyed in kind of the same way I enjoy watching Law & Order even though it's formulaic. I will definitely read the next book in the series.
4 I haven't finished the book, although I liked it so far.One thing I can't figure out. Around page 75, the heroinesneaks into the murdered girl Alex's house at night andsearches through her things. She hides in a closet while anotherindividual comes in and searches also. As far as I can tell, this isthe same house in which the murder of Alex took place- and the policealready know it was a murder. Why haven't they put up yellow tape and posted a guardat the crime scene ? The police chief wanted to go over the place "by the millimeter",but anything he finds will be suspect if all these unsupervised people have beenrummaging around.Another thing: In the big love scene between Erica and Patrick( who is middle aged and out of shape), the author claims they made love five times in one night with increasing pleasure each time. Enough already !
3 Erica Falck has returned to her hometown of Fjallbacka, Sweden. While walking up the hill to the Hakebacken School, Erica hears her name being called. It is Eilert Berg. The only thing Erica hears from Eilert is the words..."She is dead". Erica goes into the house to fine her friend, Alexandra Wijkner lying in the bath tub encased in frozen water with her wrist sliced open. Erica does not believe that Alex would take her own life. She does some investigation and what she uncovers about Alex will have her questioning just how well she really knew Alex.When I first opened this book and started reading, I was memorized. The opening scene came fast and furious. After the first scene, I was left reading this book at a slow pace. While I did find this book interesting, I just wished that it kept up the fast pace as the beginning. It seemed like the storyline was a bit lopsided. Thee story focused a lot on Erica and her background, than I got to slowly learn about Alex and why she was killed and finally I got to meet the killer but briefly on and off through out this book at the beginning of each chapter and than finally at the reveal in the last half of the book. Overall, there was some glimmer of greatness in this book. I do plan to give author, Camilla Lackberg another try in the future. The Ice Princess did shimmer!
3 It is a well thought out crime, but I felt there were too many unrelated sub-plots going on that took attention away from the main storyline.The author could of been more descriptive and in depth about the scenery and characters. Despite those few hiccups I enjoyed the mystery and stayed up all night to find out who did what to whom and when.AVP-UK
4 I'd originally started by listening to this book via audiotape, but I have to admit that after a while I grew so impatient with the narration that I couldn't help but want to get the physical book. It's not because the narrator was flat, but that the book was so darn good that I couldn't help but want to read it RIGHTNOW to find out what happened.This is the type of work that people will either become entirely engrossed in or be so bored that they'll find themselves counting ceiling tiles. It's very much a character driven book in that the mystery itself isn't entirely the driving force here. There's never a true sense of dread or danger, at least not from the murderer. What dread we do see Erica experience is entirely from the people around her in her day-to-day life. The murder is important and is the impetus for a lot of events, but by large the main point of the novel is to show Erica's life and what motivates her. The death of Erica's old friend Alex is almost incidental at times.That's why I think that a lot of people looking for a more traditional mystery or thriller will probably find themselves a little bored, at least if they're also the type who isn't into works such as this. I remember this getting fairly heavily compared to Stieg Larsson's books, but I can't tell you if it's an apt comparison or not.Overall this really was a great read and while there were a few rough spots here and there, I sped through this fairly quickly. The narration for the audiobook was very well done and I may go back to it at some point. (I do want to note that there is a radio version for the BBC that is very, very heavily abridged. I found a snippet of it, but it seems to pretty much remove a lot of the personal drama, which is the main focus of the book as a whole.)
4 The Ice Princess by Camila Lackberg is the first book in her Patrik Hedstrom series capitalizing on the popularity of Scandinavian noir. Erica Falck has returned to her hometown of Fjallbacka, Sweden to deal with the estate of her parents, leaving behind an unsuccessful career and unfulfilled dreams in the big city. Shortly after her return, she discovers the body of her childhood best friend, Alex, frozen in the bathtub, apparently dead by suicide. The two women hadn't spoken in years, but Erica is still driven to discover, at first, why Alex, who seemed to have a perfect life, would kill herself, and later to find the identity of Alex's murderer. Sparks fly between Erica and police detective Patrik, and the two bond over the investigation. The case brings up long buried secrets of the community, including secrets about Erica's own childhood. Lackberg's writing pulls the reader into the story through detailed scenes and creating great tension. She leaves the impression that everyone in this small town is hiding secrets, making Sweden seem very dark and mysterious, the perfect home for noir. The story was compelling and will keep readers guessing. Patrik is a strong lead for future books in the series, and I look forward to reading them!
5 This book does not have the slow intro like some books, where the characters are built and you have to just bear with it.  No, this one jumps right in and grabs your attention right off the bat!  The characters are developed throughout the story, so it's certainly not lacking.  The story line kept me guessing.  Several times, I thought &#34;I didn't see that coming!&#34;  Can't wait to read more from this author!
2 What can I say about such a disappointing book that was (misleadingly) compared to the novels of Stieg Larsson?The plot premise was not bad, but the characters were annoying and were written with as much depth as a sheet of paper. The subplot of romance between the two main characters was out of place and would have been more appropriate for a romance novel aimed at young adults.Unfortunately I purchased this book along with too other of Camilla Lackberg novels that were offered on a daily deal.  I'm not sure if the others are any better or if reading them will also be a complete waste of my time.
5 This was an excellent story that held my interest throughout.  Even though there were s number of significant characters, it was easy to keep track of them. Each person was true to life and their actions were typical of people in those situations.
2 I was underwhelmed by the writing.  Although she does paint a fair picture of this part of Sweden, once fishing villages and now seaside resorts, the plot and subplots seemed awkward, labored and, ultimately unrewarding.  The use of language (and the translator has an excellent resume) was absolutely uninspired.  With so many excellent Swedish (and other Scandinavian) writers to choose from, I cannot understand why she has been so popular in Sweden.  Seriously mediocre, sad to say.
5 Wonderfully written, thoroughly interesting plot, with intrigue, revenge and romance. Enjoyed all of it and it had a surprising and satisfying ending.
5 This was a very enjoyable story.  The twists and turns were partially expected and partially unexpected.  One thing I learned from this story was how very important it is to face things and not try to hide them or brush them under a cover.  Every experience can have long term repercussions whether good or bad.  I will definitely be looking for more books from this author.
5 For me there is nothing like a book that draws you in with one premise and allows you to go deeper and far beyond through its characters and setting. THE ICE PRINCESS does just that. An apparent suicide brings to the fore our main character however the town of her childhood provides a cast of characters dealing with their own issues that are threatening to destroy them.The story develops in a way that you would expect a mini-series to unfold, deliberate yet with twists and turns around each page. In the end, I found myself drawn in to the story and the lives of the people the author introduces, definitely wanting me to know more about their lives after the book ends.Author Camilla Lackberg takes you on a real journey in this book and new readers will definitely be drawn to her ability to not only tell a story but take you to new places along the way.
2 This is a book that might appeal to some, but is likely to disappoint others. It has been built up as a book that will appeal to fans of Stieg Larsson, but it is nothing like his work. It is slow, overly descriptive and character driven rather than plot driven. It has way too much &#34;filler&#34; material and too little action. I tried to become interested in it but found it slow and boring. After reading through other reviews I find that I am not alone in my opinion. I should have read the more of the lower rated reviews and not relied on the many that were high rated. This might be a good book, but definitely not for me. For the first time ever - as I purchased the boxed set - I am going to return my purchase to Amazon. A shame as after reading the description and a couple of the positive reviews I thought that I had found a new Stieg Larsson
3 Camilla Lackberg has been described as the Agatha Christie of Sweden, probably because of the small town setting of Fjallbacka and lead character Erica Falck's amateur detective status. She's an author.Erica is confronted with the apparent suicide of her childhood friend Alex Wijkner, whom she hadn't seen in twenty-five years. In short order the ME rules the death a suicide and the game is afoot. Erica is aided and abetted by local detective Patrik Hedstrom. Although Erica does some snooping around, Patrik actually does most of the work. They've also known each other since their youth; he's been worshipping her from afar.Agatha Christie's mysteries have an effortless structure to them. Camilla Lackberg was originally an economist, and she's got some shortcomings. For one thing you don't put backstory in the middle of a scene. Then there are some terrible lapses in respect to some of her characters. What's the deal with Eilert Berg for instance? Is he important enough to be included at the beginning and at the end of the story? Then there's police chief Bertil Mellberg who's a complete joke; he even sports a Donald Trump combover that keeps falling off his head. One review refers to him as comic relief, but there's nothing funny about him and he`s just not realistic. The town rich lady Nelly Lorentz sounds like something out of Dickens. Her son Nils' earlier disappearance is another dilemma Erica and Patrik must deal with, and the plot resolution in relation to him is just too convenient to be believed.There are also several minor plot lines that interfere with the flow of the story. Erica's little sister, Anna, is suffering spousal abuse and her husband is bullying her into selling the family homestead. Erica, of course, can't  bear to lose the place.Despite the above, there are several elements that I actually like. Patrik is a likable character and he and Erica make a cute couple. What humor there is in the story occurs during their awkward early relationship. She's been putting on weight, and she's worried he'll think she's fat. Coincidentally he feels the same way about himself and sucks in his stomach around her.Anders Nilsson the tortured artist who had been having an affair with Alex is also an interesting character. I also had no idea who killed Alex Wijkner until Lackberg actually told me, and I can usually spot the killer early on.I'll definitely give her another chance; her work is a touch above what passes for a mystery in America today. Three and a half stars.
3 Got off to a good enough start but ... the main characters didn't really grab me. I think this falls into the category of a &#34;cozy mystery&#34; which is not really my preference.
4 `The Ice Princess' written by Camilla L&auml;ckberg is another title in a series of good crime novels that came from Scandinavia, the author's debut that does not offer a quick pace, but slowly and imperceptibly draw reader into the story until the very exciting end.Prior to translation of `Isprinsessan' what is the original title of this novel published in Sweden in 2002, Camilla L&auml;ckberg was already very popular thriller author back home compared with Stieg Larsson and Henning Mankell which is confirmed by her awards and recognition from the literary critics and the general audience.In her debut work, Camilla L&auml;ckberg introduces us to the main character named Erica Falck who is a writer that returns to her home fishing village named Fjallbacka, in Sweden. The reason for Erica's return is to take care of the things because of the death of her parents.  Erica is especially looking forward meeting with her best friend from youth, Alexandra Wijkner, but just before she will be back home Alexandra will be found dead, frozen in her bathtub and all indicates that she committed a suicide.Although the two of them broke up contact two years ago and she is not familiar with all the details that have occurred in recent times, for Erica is still hard to believe that her friend decided on such way to end her life because Alex was a beautiful woman, being married to good and successful husband, living a comfortable and almost carefree life.Besides their friendship that makes her to reveal more details, her professional instinct will be too strong therefore Erica will decide to write a work about what happened to Alex. Together with another common friend from the past, local detective Patrik Hedstrom, they two will begin with an investigation to discover all the details.Soon they will discover that there is a lot of things which indicate that perhaps it was not a suicide that happens to Alex, and that a small fishing village beneath the surface hides many dark secrets that obviously influenced the fate of this unfortunate woman...`The Ice Princess' is not a typical thriller that will make reader with its fast pace to constantly turn the pages in anticipation of what will happen, but slowly introduces the reader into the story by offering a quality slowly unraveling plot on this more than 400 pages long novel. Camilla L&auml;ckberg used a lot of psychological motives that may not appeal to everyone because sometimes the author sacrificed the action to clarify one's emotions, thinking or psychological state.It seems that the author had not devoted equal attention to all her characters, because while some are extremely rich and multilayered characterized, some others are almost funny and on the verge of cartoons, seeming a bit unnecessary such as Erica sister - however, it can certainly be attributed to the debut work, and it will be interesting to read the following.The only thing that is not in accordance with the level of quality of the rest of her work is description of the police work that makes it evident about this part the author has not done enough good research. As far as Erica is a natural talent, having a great detective nose, any serious police in the world would not allow such important omissions in the investigation.It may be objected by some readers that the novel could be a bit shorter that would accelerate its pace and make it more interesting, but it is a personal opinion. In the form in which it is delivered to the reader `The Ice Princess' provides a well-made story, not so fast in pace, but with good plot and interesting outcome that will intrigue reader to look for other Camilla L&auml;ckberg's titles translated or in original.
5 On the basis of recommendation by a fellow crime buff, I tried the first book by Swedish author Camilla Lackberg. The Ice Princess is set in a small fishing village in Sweden and is headed by engaging characters Erica and Patrik with an excellent support cast. I enjoy crime stories with a strong sense of place and characters who feel familiar, are flawed, may be likeable but not all will be. So it's a joy to read a book such as The Ice Princess where setting, characterisation and strong plot are not secondary to action and where the characters' lives continue to carry on whilst the crime story itself moves towards climax.Amongst books by other Scandinavian authors, I've read The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and stopped at that book in the series. In some ways I enjoyed the book (and movie) but it felt wrong due to the macabre plotting/level of violence against women portrayed. I also believe that book needed stronger editing.... I will not stop on book one by Camilla Lackberg and will read my way through the series. I recommend you try her books too.
5 Camilla Lackberg has been compared to Stag Larsson.  Lackberg is an excellent writer in her own right.  I find her less intense and not as dark as Larsson.  This is a very interesting, multi-layered, who-done-it, that has several things going on, with a tiny bit of humor thrown in a couple of times.  She spins a great mystery, that keeps you on your toes and guessing and challenges your &#34;sleuth&#34; ability.  Proudly, I was able to figure out a couple of things before they were &#34;revealed&#34; but not everything. There is one, kind-of, loose end that I won't discuss here in order to not ruin the book for others but it does not interfere with the book as a whole or interfere with the outcome of the murder mystery.  Possibly, this one item will be addressed in further books as she does continue with her characters.  Lackberg has written 7 books that have been translated into English and I intend to keep all of them on my &#34;to read&#34; list.  She is that good.  Highly recommend.
5 If you like Swedish mysteries this is for you.  Well written with none of those irritating spelling or grammatical errors. It kept me interested to the end. I usually download just the free books but I'm ready to by the next in the series.
4 The Ice Princess by Camilla Lackberg takes place in Fjallbacka, Sweden, where writer Erika Falck discovers the body of her childhood best friend, Alex, in a frozen bathtub with her wrists slashed. In an attempt to solve the mystery of what happened to her friend, Erika explores the memories of her past, as well as the division between the classes in a small town in Sweden. There are some back stories-- Erika's relationship with police detective Patrik Hedstrom, another schoolmate from her childhood, Erika's estrangement from her sister, who is pressuring Erika to sell their family home, and Erika's struggle to cope with the death of her parents.The setting of the story is new and fresh to those of us used to the British cozies and the American police procedural novels. I shivered a lot while I was reading the book as the author made the frigidity of a Swedish winter very realistic.The characters and the various plot twists wove together rather nicely until the end, where to my mind everything just kind of fell apart. The final resolution to Alex's death was, as Erika thought, bound in her past, but the incident from the past was too incredibly unbelievable for my mind to handle. Yes, I know it is possible, but it is so uncommon that it warrants its own page on Wikipedia, and it is highly unbelievable that it would have happened without attracting attention somewhere. I also find it very hard to believe that so many different people would have engaged in a cover up of this magnitude.It's possible I am just extremely naive or that I do not totally understand the Swedish culture, however the underlying premise behind the crime was just too much for me to accept. However, up until the end, I enjoyed the book and found it hard to put down.
2 While the plot of this book is a B/B-, the writing fails on so many levels that I had to drop my review to 2 stars.  Pick a few of your favorite overused mystery novel cliches/memes:  Nagging hunches that can't be pinned down. Protagonist finding a critical puzzle piece but the author deliberately making the reader wait to find out what it was.  Dime store psychology.  the Ice Princess has them all.Most skilled modern mystery writers have dispensed with the hackneyed vague-feeling-I'm-missing-something-but-can't-put-my-finger-on-it trope.  Not So Ms. Lackberg.  Sentences like "his subconscious was demanding attention...Patrick was obviously missing something here; he just couldn't see it" litter the entire book to the point where I was almost laughing out loud by the time I hit the 30th instance.Throughout the book, the protagonist of the moment (and Lackberg switches perspectives constantly) find a critical clue but the author withholds the key info.  Examples include:  Something is stolen from a room, the protagonist figures out what it is, the author doesn't tell us.  The protagonist makes a phone call, ID's a critical person and hangs up the phone, shocked, but the author makes us wait to find out who it is.  Protagonist reveals the contents of a mysterious note through clever investigation, solves a key part of the mystery; Author makes us wait for the reveal.  Even the ultimate mystery:  From "the ice princess":  "Now he was quite sure that he know who murdered X".  My response:  "great, who?  Oh, you're going to make us wait another 5 pages just to annoy us, of course, why change now?".And the dime store psychology is so strained.  Wife who still loves abusive husband.  Attractive middle aged protagonist concerned about weight.  Best friend who used to be boyfriend.  Shrewish old wife to whom the saintly and dutiful husband has remained loyal for 50 years. I could go on and on.Highly recommend avoiding this one.
4 Thoroughly enjoyed the storyline and characters. Very descriptive in a positive way. Very good character development without rushing in to anything. Nice conclusion,
3 was not quite what I expected and was a little too drawn out for meoverall it was an average read
4 Audie Award nominee David Thorn delivers an appropriately chilling reading of Lackberg's compelling story.  His well modulated voice carries the listener from the lead character's initial shock to the inexorable revealing of dreadful secrets.  An accomplished voice performer Thorn has a goodly number of children's book and classics to his credit.Losing her parents was trauma enough for 35-year-old writer Erica Falck, but returning to her hometown of Fjallbacka only to learn of the death of her childhood friend, Alex, proved to be almost too much.  Alex was found with her wrists slashed, frozen in an icy bath.  Her demise was presumed a suicide.  Although they had been close as children Erica and Alex had been estranged for almost a quarter of a decade - she is puzzled by the death of her once beautiful friend.Alex's family asks Erica to write a remembrance of Alex, which she readily agrees to do.  However, when an autopsy shows that Alex did not take her own life but was murdered and furthermore she was pregnant previous assumptions are tossed out the window.Erica joins forces with detective Patrik Hedstrom to investigate the case.  Eventually dark secrets are revealed, which may well destroy the fabric of that once peaceful small community.Lackberg's novels have continually topped bestseller lists in Sweden and THE ICE PRINCESS was named Best International Crime Novel of the Year.  Enjoy!- Gail Cooke
2 Erica Falck is a writer who finds the body of a childhood friend in her bathtub with her wrists cut. Although, she hasn't been in touch with this woman for 25 years, she takes it upon herself o investigate her death once she finds out she was murdered. With the help of the cop on the case, Patrick Hedstrom (the both have romantic feelings for one another), they find the death is more than just one person but a hidden secret. It sounds suspenseful, but as others have mentioned, maybe it is in the translation, but the novel did not hold my interest. Although I enjoyed the locale, the characters were not appealing and the plot unremarkable.
4 With the death of her parents, biographer Erica Falck returns home to Fjallbacka, Sweden to close their estate.  She quickly realizes you cannot go home as the town has changed from a coastal fishing port to a booming tourist attraction.  However, when she goes to see her childhood friend Alexandra Wijkner, she finds the woman's wrists slashed in a tub of icy water; an apparent suicide victim.  The grieving author considers writing a novel based on Alex.As her abusive brother-in-law Lucas persuaded his wife Anna and the third sister Marianne, he demands Erica sell her parents' home to take advantage of the thriving market.  Erica begins to look into what happened to Alex.  Erica meets Patrik Hedstrom, the detective investigating the death.  As they team up looking into Alex's death and begin a personal relationship, the pair finds anomalies even while someone wants the darkest secret kept concealed.This is an exciting Swedish investigation in which the suspects provides their perspective; a technique that enhances the mystery.  The town in many ways steals the story line as Fjallbacka is booming yet ironically decaying.  The cast is as solid as the wintry ice, but though I cannot believe a cop on an investigation would allow a writer, especially one that he is seeing, to tag along, fans of Swedish whodunits (see the Wallander police procedural by Henning Mankell) will enjoy this engaging mystery.Harriet Klausner
2 Painful and boring.  I wanted to like The Ice Princess; here was a female writer whose work was compared to Stieg Larsson. Not even close. I really disliked the book. Initially, I thought it was a translation issue. Lack of sophistication in the dialog, awkward and unnecessary descriptions, redundancy. But no, it was the writer's style. The characters are all cliche and one dimensional. And, for a woman to write female characters so badly is unforgivable! Did she copy them from some chauvinistic male author? The author doesn't seem to know what she wants this book to be: mystery, romance, thriller. Whatever it's supposed to be, it's not written very well. Unlike most of the mysteries that I've read this book did not draw me in and keep me interested. Had a hard time finishing it and was relieved it was a huge bargain find. I will give Ms. Lackberg another chance by reading her 2nd book but I fear for worst.
5 great mystery right to the very end, kept the mind going, just when I thought I had it worked out, another twist in the tale
5 I loved this book so much that I immediately ordered her next two books. You have to read this one first as all the other books follow the one before. All great reads.
5 Another Swedish author makes her mark in the murder industry. For once, I agree with the endorsements on the book jacket: "Chilly, deceptive and lucid, just like the icy environment it describes." -The Literary Review.The plotting, the intertwine of characters, the environment and even the ending satisfy the reader. All things work together as the story gathers momentum. Lackberg develops her characters deftly, just enough to be realistically appealing or appalling as the case may be. This is my starred mystery for summer.
1 Giving up at pg 139 (of 389, paperback). I no longer care who did it. Agree with the other 1-star reviewers: overly long and boring, poorly written, unrealistic dialogue, unrealistic male characters, and lack of respect for the reader. Honestly don't understand all the hype. My first and last Lackberg. And another donation to the library.
1 If you're a fan of Scandinavian crime fiction, do yourself a favor and skip The Ice Princess by Camilla L&auml;ckberg, the latest Swedish author to penetrate the American market.  The story starts out promisingly enough, with the discovery of a woman's dead body in a bathtub of frozen water.  Her wrists had been slit and she bled to death.  Suicide?  No, murder.The path to discovery of the murderer is clumsy: too many intersecting story lines, too many changes in point of view, too many characters inadequately developed. And the careful police work that marks the novels of Larsson, Mankell and Nesb, for example, is nowhere to be found here.  The investigating officer, Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m, seems to stumble from one lucky insight to another, but not in a way that is at all believable.  His supervisor and colleagues are amusingly inept, but there's nothing credible about the way Patrik goes about solving this central crime and other ancillary ones thrown in to complicate things a bit.  Worst of all, there's no tension in this book, no menace.  None of the characters are in any danger. It's merely a whodunit, and not a very good one. By the end, my sense was: who cares?
5 The author (or her translator) writes very readably and paints lifelike characters.  You feel as if you are watching a movie or a tv show, while you are reading it.I am also interested in her descriptions of life in Sweden, especially along what many have called the Swedish Riviera, where Ingrid Bergman often visited.I haven't finished the book, yet, but I highly recommend this book and others by Lackberg.  She is a nice modern writer, to follow Agatha Christie.
1 My complaint is not with the novel, but with the Audiobook quality. It is bad enough that the reader used the most awful British accents for the characters, but the quality of the CDs was horrible. The British accents were so poorly done as to be very distracting from the story. What would be wrong with a Swedish accent if any accent was necessary? Track 15 of every CD (12 of them)was full of garble and could not be completed. Hopefully nothing too important was on those tracks.
3 What's the use of laying out the plot and characters? Who needs a map or essay for a Swedish pop policer? What's interesting, though, is the triadic female author, protagonist and murder victim, up the west coast in Fj&auml;llbacka, ground zero for Svensk psycho killers. Lackberg is a natural at her true calling in this first of (at least) three dramas traversed by her alter ego Erica who is also a woman who writes about women. The feel and inventiveness continue in The Preacher and The Stone Cutter, which this reader got from Amazon UK.
4 This was a great book. Definitely worth the effort. Twist and turns to keep your interest and enough suspense to make it better. I enjoyed this book very much.Would  definitely recommend to my friends.
5 Erica Falck has returned to her childhood home after the sudden death of her parents.  When she sees one of her close friends, Alex Wijkner, in the bathtub with her wrists slit, she assumes the worst and calls the police.Once the police are there, they investigate it and determine that Alex has been murdered and the crime scene was made to look like a suicide.  From there, Ms. Lackberg introduces us to a group of memorable characters and creates a great murder mystery that is compelling from start to finish.Much of the formatting of this book reminds me of one of my favorite authors, John Dickson Carr.  On one hand, it's hard to compare Patrik Hedstrom to Dr. Gideon Fell because Carr based his books on Fell's brilliance in solving crimes.  Lackberg doesn't do that but there isn't a need to do that.  The story is engaging enough that she brings out other characters in the story as well.As far as point of view is concerned, like Carr, Lackberg writes from the point of view from different characters in the story.  Everyone of them has a past and it adds to the mystery to make it hard to put down.Take police chief Helberg for example.  He's the obnoxious boss who draws the wrong conclusions about the murder and is on Hedstrom's back to solve the murder so he can take all the credit for it and be promoted.  He's a comic character as well when we see him in his chair stuffing his mouth with chocolates.The book is not only a mystery but a great story for literary fans as well.  The relationships are dysfunctional and it adds great value to the investigation.  The relationships hit home for Erica also since she is in love with Patrik and her sister is a victim of domestic violence.If you're looking for a book that has a great mystery and memorable characters, then this is for you.  I really enjoyed this book and look forward to reading other books by Camilla Lackberg. It's worth more than five stars to me.  In fact, I'll go further and say that this is the best mystery book that I have read this year.
5 First let me say that if you have never read a mystery/thriller from a swedish author and you enjoy that genre you are missing out (not talking about just the millennium trilogy). While there were a few twists to the plot that were predictable, which they often are if you read this genre often, I did not predict the ending. The characters are developed and the author helps you to understand why they are how they are. I will certainly read more by Camilla Lackberg and recommend her to any fan of this genre.
4 Erica Falck inadvertently becomes involved in solving the murder of her estranged childhood friend, stepping into disturbing events that, unbeknownst to her, had been unfolding before her for the last 25 years - mysterious events whose solutions are never concretely answered, but chillingly left to the reader's imagination.Camilla L&auml;ckberg weaves an intricate story of small town secrets and deceptions, the scattered puzzle pieces of which slowly build up to an unbelievable climax, where the greatest number of lives are affected by the few you'd least expect.Events are given mostly from Erica's perspective, but other characters' motives are explored through their own eyes as well.  And it is a testament to the author that, even though the story opens with the discovery of the murder, the presence of the victim is felt throughout the book.There were moments I couldn't put the book down, or couldn't wait to go on break at work just so I could continue reading. I highly recommend this book if you like crime fiction and mystery novels, especially Scandinavian ones.  I've already bought the second book in L&auml;ckberg's series, and I hope the rest of her books are quickly translated to English!
4 THIS IS MY TYPE OF ENJOYABLE READING, i LOVE THIS WRITER BECAUSE HER STYLE OF MYSTERY AND INTRIGUE IS TO MY LIKING.  There is nothing like a good thriller and this writer brings you that in full force.
4 This book has laid the foundations for the trilogy featuring a husband and wife team of sleuths, set in Sweden. It is an engaging study of human interaction, constructed to lure the reader ever onwards, with a complex resolution that keeps readers guessing right up to the end. I have already bought the next two books!
4 I enjoyed this book quite a bit, although because there were a few different things going on, I had a hard time deciding what was the main point of the story.  I did stick with it and enjoyed mystery as it was uncovered.
3 I don't remember the book that  well as I read it several years ago, but it was a gripping mystery, and a  good  first book.
4 A young woman is murdered in her bathtub, made to look like a suicide. Her childhood friend coincidentally is one of the first to find her body after her death. Also coincidentally, the friend happens to be a writer - of biographies! Gee, all the coincidences. But don't let that stop you, it's still enjoyable reading. I enjoyed the slow pace of the investigation, but it was almost too casual and lazy - wouldn't people be upset that a murderer was in their midst? But you wouldn't know it by the attitudes of these characters! There is also a nincompoop police investigator to deal with - oh~! and a new love interest for our heroine. Despite all the formulaic stuff, I did enjoy the book.
5 This is a well plotted mystery, and even more importantly (to me), it's populated with a fun, believable cast of characters, with just the right balance between humor and drama.So many of the less enthusiastic reviews seem to have been written by readers who were expecting a thriller or a suspense novel (or the fourth Millenium book) -- it's not. I see Camilla Lackberg as having more in common with Julie Smith or Louise Penny than with Stieg Larsson. Imagine that: not all Scandanavian authors are interchangable. If you can appreciate a mystery story for the detective work, a strong sense of place, and great characters, I think you'll enjoy this book. I know that I'm looking forward to reading more of Lackberg's novels!
4 I may be the only living female who hasn't yet read Stieg Larsson's Millenium Trilogy. So, when Lackberg's new book is compared to the Scandinavian publishing phenomenon, it doesn't register much with me.Maybe that's a good thing. There's nothing to compare The Ice Princess to. I'm not a reader of the recent craze of Swedish noir, though I will venture into Henning Mankell territory next week. Thus, this novel will be considered strictly on its own merits.The Story:Erica Falck moves to her hometown of Fjallbacka, Sweden after the death of her parents. A writer, she is attempting to finish her fourth biography when she discovers the death of her childhood friend, Alex.  Found in a tub of nearly frozen water with both wrists slashed, Alex's death sets off an investigation to which no one person is exempt. Erica is drawn into the tragedy and mystery surrounding the life and death of her estranged friend. Along with Patrik Hedstrom, a police detective assigned to the case, Erica finds out more about the quiet close-knit seaside community than she ever wanted to know.The Review:There was so much going on in this thriller. A prodigious amount of colorful characters: from the eccentric elderly Mrs. Petren, who uses thousands of Santas and a state of the art coffee machine to ensure a steady stream of guests; to the aging socialite Nelly Lorentz, who is somehow involved in Alex's death; to Alex's sister, Julia, who is grieving in a very unusual way.Lackberg touches on a number of issues--domestic violence, child abuse, negligence, mental illness, and adultery--without devolving into the typical moralistic fare. Every detail of human nature is spot on, except the voice of the victim of domestic violence; in this case, it seems Lackberg consulted case studies and assigned the voice of the psychologist to the victim herself.In addition to that, there was an awkwardness to some of the sentences; I don't know whether that was caused by the translator or the author herself. It's nothing especially jarring, just an awareness of the bump in the flow.In addition to that, one of my chief complaints is that the deceased character seems to be the one most filled with life. Alex is well defined, which distinguishes from most of the other characters. Even Erica's voice didn't seem quite her own (as much as the author's) until about 100 pages in, when the writing noticeably improves and the story becomes more gripping.I've heard that Lackberg's writing improves with each new book, so I'm interested to see how the next one goes.This story was engrossing, the characters profound, and the atmosphere well drawn.The Opinion:Aside from those negatives, The Ice Princess is a fast, light read that will keep you racing through the pages to find answers that will make your jaw drop. Seriously.3.75 out of 5 stars
5 Such an extraordinary complex story involving interconnected characters.  The complexities of each character resulting from both  childhood experiences, adult choices, and the imposed and self-inflicted damage to each individual's psyche is mesmerizing as it unfolds during the solving of a crime.  Clearly reflects our inability to truly understand another's heart and one's own internal struggles and angst.
5 I loved this book from start to finishthe storyline was strong right to the endthe characters were goodwill definitely read more of here books
4 In Camilla Lackberg's debut Swedish crime thriller, she took us to the dark side of Sweden. When Erica Falck, a Swedish true crime writer, discovers her childhood friend dead in her bathtub, she starts on the path to discover who killed her friend. Between that latest discovery, she's dealing with a crisis with her sister and her evil brother-in-law for a battle of her childhood home. As the police start the investigation on her murder, she teams up with her childhood flame, Patrik Hedstrom. Together, they unravel family secrets and her friend's hidden past, when it's now connected to a disappearance of a resident from long-time ago and another murder. Many surprises were in store for Erica and Patrik, when someone's the real culprit in Sweden.
5 This novel is a story about lies and deceptions.As writer Erica Falck returns to her hometown of Fjallbacka to bury her parents and put their estate in order, she learns of the recent death of her childhood bestfriend, Alex, by suicide. Alex's ice cold body is found in her bathtub, her wrists slashed. They had been the best of friends as children but drifted apart at about 10 when the remote and ellusive Alex moved away to a larger city with her family.Now Erica conceives of a book about Alex that discusses lost friendships. She begins researching Alex's past and with Detective Patrik Hedstrom, new conclusions are made about her death.In short order, a new death is discoved in this sleepy fishing village.  The death is of the town drunk and former classmate, Anders. Alex and Anders knew each other from school.  Are the deaths connected?  What did these two know that caused their demise?As the layers are peeled back, we see a town that has been keeping a dark secret for years.  This is a wonderful mystery by Lackburg, a Swedish author reminiscent of Manning or the late Stieg Larsson.
5 I really liked this book. Crime fiction mixed with romance is my thing. It has a very interesting plot. I liked that the story started in the first pages. I do agree with other reviewers that there are some things in the book that are not related to the story, and Camilla does spend more time on those then I think needed. But that didn't bother me. I did like Steig Larson's "The girl.." books, and this one rates high on my list as well. I started her next book now.
4 Swedish author Camilla L&auml;ckberg's first mystery to be published in the US, The Ice Princess, is a suspenseful and compelling read. Set in the Swedish coastal town of Fj&auml;llbacka, the book follows well-known biography author Erica Falck, who has returned to the town after the tragic death of her parents in an accident. She plans to stay for a while to get their affairs in order and finish her latest book. One day while on a walk, she is flagged down by an elderly caretaker who has found a disturbing sight--the body of a woman lying in a bathtub of frozen water and blood. It turns out this woman was Alexandra Wijkner, Erica's best childhood friend, from whom she was inseparable, until they were 10 years old, when they inexplicably drifted apart and Alexandra's family moved away. For a woman who appeared to have everything--a successful art gallery, a handsome and wealthy husband, a beautiful and historic home--the idea of Alexandra committing suicide seems difficult for anyone to fathom.Erica is asked by Alexandra's parents to write an article about her for the local newspaper, and as she does research into her life since their friendship ended, she becomes convinced that Alexandra's death might not have been a suicide after all. She also tries to figure out why Alexandra drifted away all of those years ago. Teaming up with Patrik, another childhood friend who is now a police detective, she begins to discover that the case isn't as clear cut as it looks, and there are many secrets many people in Fj&auml;llbacka want to leave hidden.I feel a little bit of pity for any Swedish author whose work gets publicity in America, because they all get compared to Stieg Larsson. And in fact, a blurb on the cover this book says, "Stieg Larsson fans who give this book a chance will be rewarded." I enjoyed this book, but it's nothing like Larsson's Millennium Trilogy, so don't go into this book expecting that. However, many of the characters are richly layered, and while some of the secondary characters were a little too clich&eacute;d for me, the plot took some very interesting twists and kept me flipping pages fairly quickly. Erica wasn't your typical accidental detective and certainly was far from omniscient, and that made her curiousity about the case even more interesting. Apparently this is the first of seven books L&auml;ckberg has written about Fj&auml;llbacka (I know at least the next one features Erica and Patrick), so I'm definitely going to keep reading them. If you're a mystery fan, you'll probably enjoy this.
3 The Ice Princess by Camilla Lackberg, a crime novel set in contemporary Sweden, has stumped me. And perhaps it shoudn't.  In this story of two violent deaths fueled by the simmering resentments and psychopathologies of similarly violent childhoods, Lackberg skillfully weaves multiple perspectives and characterizations to keep the reader guessing up until the bitter end.  So what's the issue?Is it the scores of characters who weave their way in and out of this 400ish page tale of an amatuer writer-detective whose childhood friend is brutally murdered, then left to bleed out and freeze over in her own bathtub?  (I counted at least a dozen different perspectives in the first chapter alone...)Is it the brief descriptions of myriad Swedish exteriors and interiors for which I have no visual reference points?  (I'll look them up now.)Is it that I was expecting an action thriller but got a highly psychological and moderately paced mystery instead?  (Possibly.)I don't know.I do know that if this is considered a suspense novel, as it was described by its publishers, then my previous generalizations about the state of the genre (based on a current bestseller) must be seriously amended.  In fact, The Ice Princess stacks up quite favorably against the current bestseller by a famously prolific author from which I drew my conclusions.  Does this bode well for Lackberg's career and her future novels?  One hopes it does.Did this novel pass the time pleasantly?  Absolutely.  Was the 'Bridget Jones without the humor' heroine reasonably believable and sympathetic?  Indeed.  Did the plot move forward at a steady pace with occasional twists and turns and blind alleyways for good measure?  Yes.  Subplots in which the protagonist's personal life repeatedly intersects with her sleuthing?  Check.  Satisfying romantic developments?  Check.So if you're looking for those qualities in your next light read, and especially if you've ever held a fascination for Swedish culture and scenery, Lackberg's debut on the North American scene will suit the bill nicely.MFB with a fresh perspective on a popular genre,L
4 Kamilla Lackebrg's books is one of the best thrillers that I have read in a long time. And the "Ice princess" is my favorite. It has the perfect combination of all the ingredients of the good thriller; a balance of the suspense and psychological analysis, action and intrigues, well described small town atmosphere and a real life characters. None of the characters is one-dimensional black and white comics hero; both "cops and robbers" are as complicated as it gets in real life.4 stars  - recommended to the fans of thrillers and mystery novels.The caution: the books are best to read in the order, mainly to avoid spoilers related to the personal life of characters and occasional spoilers related to past events, to the actual "who's done it".Also, I think that women readers would like these series more than men - for the same reason: the personal life of the heroes represents a significant part of the story (it's real life, remember?). So, at the point when you'd be dying to know what new clue to the murder was found, you'll be reading about the detective changing pampers to his kid! Hence the complaint shared by many reviewers - the story line is sometimes too slow .
5 Much as I was enjoying the written style of Camilla Lackberg, and the development of the characters, I thought I had worked out the ending, which slightly disappointed me.  But I was quite wrong!  This book is full of surprises - and I immediately started her next novel when I finished this one.
4 Camilla Lackberg's "The Ice Princess" is a mystery full of mysteries. There's Alex Wijkner, the murder victim, found partially frozen in the bathtub of her childhood-turned-summer home by the caretaker and Erica, Alex's estranged friend from childhood. Why was she there and not at her home in G&ouml;teborg with her husband, Henrik, Erica wonders. Why had Alex abandon the close friendship with Erica while they were in grade school and moved away without even saying goodbye? Then there is the Lorentz family: mother Nelly, adopted son Jan, and missing son Nils, who simply vanished on January day in 1977 and was never found. Why had Alex kept an article about Nils' disappearance hidden in a drawer in her childhood bedroom? Why had Nelly Lorentz come to Alex's funeral reception and spent most of her time talking to Alex's sister, Julia? And there's the mystery of a painting Alex kept hidden in her closet at Fj&auml;llbacka of herself, naked, painted by her childhood classmate, Anders Nilsson, whose adult life is characterized by frequent extreme drunken binges occasionally interrupted with bouts of creativity.Other, more domestic mysteries, also wind their way through this complex narrative: Will Erica, who has returned to Fj&auml;llbacka after her parents' death in a car accident, keep her childhood home from the greedy hands of her brother-in-law, who she is sure is physically abusing her sister, Anna? What is the issue between Dan, her former lover and still close friend, and his wife, Pernilla? Why does Pernilla, after all these years, suddenly seem to think she and Dan are once again romantically involved? And can Patrik, the Police Detective investigating Alex's death, possibly be "the one" for Erica?I found "The Ice Princess" a solid whodunit with many interesting side stories. I enjoyed the characters and the setting and found myself hoping Lackberg has written other as equally engaging mysteries. There were, at times, seemingly abrupt shifts of scene but this could be due to the Kindle formatting and not the author's style.Note: This review is of the Kindle version of this work.
5 Another great book from Lackberg.  She makes things happen in such a small out of the way town, and it makes you wish you could see this town.  I have been googling the place, so I can perfectly picture her stories.
3 I don't know if it's the translation or poorly written- a lot of "telling" rather than showing and the two main characters seemed to spend more time on their body issues than solving the case.
2 I don't know if the problem is with the author or the translation, but even the awful revelations were rather boringly told. Alex, a beautiful woman is found frozen and bloody in her bathtub. A childhood friend, Erica, decides to write a book about what might have happened. She's a friend of the family, knows many of the possible suspects and finds that she is clueless about Alex's real nature. Should be a good read, right? Well, no. Within a few chapters I knew at least one of poor Alex's terrible secrets. Anyone who watches Law and Order should very quickly suss out this big secret. There are plenty of nasty secrets both large and small but told in such a disjointed way that they lack the impact they should achieve.People are falling all over clues and saying &#34;aha&#34;, but we are not let in on what that information is until several chapters later. This happens a lot in this book. Finding clues should be exciting, instead the story seems to just flatten out even more. I give it 2.5 stars because it could have been good and hopefully the author will find her rhythm.
5 I loved this book!  The characters are believable and the story line keeps you going right up to the end.  There were multiple possibilities for the murderer all the way through, in my mind.  There is something about the Scandinavian mysteries that really holds my attention and sets them apart from others.  Very intriguing.  Anyway, I highly recommend this book.  Apparently, it's the first in a series with the same main characters and I'm looking forward to continuing with them.
3 "The Ice Princess" is an intriguing crime fiction novel by Swedish author Camilla L&auml;ckberg.  The novel tells about writer Erica Falck who comes back to her hometown, a small fishing village, only to find her childhood girlfriend, Alex, dead.  At first it seems that Alex has committed suicide, but then the story takes some twists and turns and what seems to be a clear cut case turns out to be anything but.Enter police detective Patrik Hedstrom and his bumbling colleagues at the Tanumshede police station.  Patrik follows his own clues and intuitions about the case, while falling in love with Erica, whom he had a crush on since childhood.  Working together, Patrik and Erica (who is planning a book about the murder while suffering from writer's block) start to piece together the truth about Alex.  The dark secrets which inhibit every small town start to emerge and the people who would like those secrets to remain buried begin to surface.Both Patrik and Erica are well developed, interesting and likeable characters.  The plot is very good and gets better as the characters of Fj&auml;llbacka start to immerge. Lackberg does her best to build suspense and gradually lets out secrets about the community in general and about the murder specifically.I found the setting of a claustrophobic small fishing town of Fj&auml;llbacka to be the most intriguing character.  L&auml;ckberg does a masterful job capturing the feel of a small town with lots of bad history to bury, where every ripple causes a big effect in the lives of many people.  The seemingly idyllic town, where rich people flock to buy summer houses for peaceful, restful and pleasant vacations, holds many dark riddles which the townsfolk would rather be left uncovered.Ms. L&auml;ckberg is a very visual writer; she describes the scenes in a few words which gives the reader a vision to work from in their own minds.  I read about furniture makers I've never heard about, designers I cannot pronounce, and magazines which seem interesting enough for me to look through.  Needless to say Google worked overtime during my reading."The Ice Princess" is interesting but I found it slow at times and had to trudge through the narrative at several places.  The story is slow to start and the book only becomes really interesting towards the latter half.  There are lots of twists and turns, several times I was disappointed and thought I solved the mystery half way through the book, only to find out I was wrong - and happily so.  There are no chase scenes, shootings, brawls or any of the like, the plot woven together tightly with a net spreading around the whole seaside town.However, the story telling is patchy with, what seems to me as simply fillers.  For example, we are privy to Erica's reflections about her new romance with Patrik which did not advance the plot.  Oddly, given the filler material such as what underwear to wear for a date (as if men care), it seems as though the author was rushing through subplots, where a longer book or less subplots might have been better.Even though the story unfolds very slowly, the big ending felt rushed, a "Star Trek" ending if you will, where a complex plot is being tied up in a neat package with only five minutes of airtime left.  That's too bad because it was anticlimactic, and after 290 pages we deserve better.Some of the characters speak in a cartoonish way, almost robotic but I don't hold that against the book due to the fact that it was written in Swedish and the prose could have gotten lost in translation.  What I do hold against the English editor and proofreader (assuming there was one) is that there are mistakes in the eBook version ("ho" instead of "no", etc.).  Those things are simply unacceptable in a finished product - no matter how fast you want to release it to the public in order to capitalize on the "Swedish crime fiction" craze sweeping the literary world.That being said, the "The Ice Princess" is a good read, not very demanding and an interesting "who done it".  Even though I think the editing could have been better, and the translation more fluid, this novel is still a satisfying read.Side note:This is the second Swedish crime novel I've read where the police are portrayed with such high level of incompetence (except the protagonist) that makes the Keystone Cops look proficient.  Also, as in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" series, everyone drinks coffee, or about to drink coffee, or making coffee, or offering coffee - all the time, at every hour of the day or night.  At first I thought it was some sort of an internal joke but now I'm seriously considering buying stocks for companies which produce or import coffee to Sweden.
3 Having been so taken with the Larsson trilogy as to read each book twice, I came to The Ice Princess with what I hoped was an open mind. While it is a well written, interesting character developer, with moving plot, it simply does not come near the Larsson books for comparison--a bit like the old oranges/apples comparison. Nevertheless, this doesn't mean The Ice Princess is not a fine novel for it is. Had I read it first, I would probably be more impressed. The dialogue is somewhat stilted, but that possibly relates to translation as do the tiresome overused cliches  After reading with much anticipation of the ending, when it finally came, I was disappointed. It left me without a satisfying conclusion. It is my intention to read more of Camilla Lackberg's books for she does have a talent for spinning a good story.
2 The plot is conventional and character development is schematic to say the least. One is supposed to be surprised at how character relations develope, but the surprise is simply not there. The only value I found is in the description of the setting which is interesting in the way that far away places are, but without the charm accomplished by other authors like Asa Larsson or Mankell in &#34;Italian Shoes&#34;. When all is said and done, it is only a minor thriller that can get you through a couple of nights at home.
4 The old man was checking the house. The lady who owned the house gave him the key. But the moment he went in, he knew that something was wrong. Checking the rooms , he went into the bathroom. A woman was there in the bath tub, veins cut, naked. Blood everywhere. Leaving the house in panic, he met another neighbor, Erica, and took her in the house to show her what he had found. The body was Erica's childhood best friend Alexandra, the owner of the house. She was lying there in the white bathroom covered with blood, beautiful like an ice princess.Alexandra had everything. Great marriage, money, job, happiness. Why would she kill herself? Why would she kill herself like that, cutting the veins, when she was afraid of blood?Her best friend Erica decides to find out what really happened. The local inspector who works on the case is a friend of her. Long time ago he was in love with her. Can old flames sparkle again?The main character here is Erica. She is a writer who writes biographies for famous women in the history. Telling the story for Alexandra is her big chance to write a real novel inspired by true facts. In the name of their friendship, she starts a research to write the story for real Alexandra, not like some journalist would  do. But truth sometimes hurts. The investigation digs out some things buried in the past. Alexandra wasn't what everyone else was thinking. She had double life, a life with another childhood friend, with a missing person, with possible murder, with many secrets. Some things should stay in the past.The story centers around two characters. On one side there is Erica with her personal life, her family relationships, her best friend and her love life. On the other side is Alexandra, married, having a lover, pregnant. But that is just the surface. Under that there is a victim of sexual abuse, a secret buried deeply in the past that has consequences today. As the investigation goes by, the secrets from the past start to arise.As a huge fan of Scandinavian thriller, I couldn't put his book down.  It's my first Camilla Lackberg book, but it sure won't be the last. I really liked that the main character Erica is a little bit different than the other main characters of crime books. She has pretty normal life and she is not alcoholic. The police inspector is a supportive character here. This story has everything: child abuse, domestic violence, secret lovers, revenge. A real page-turner.
5 The Scandinavians certainly seem to have mastered the art of thrilling crime writing. This author is new to me but I can't wait to read the next one. She does a great job of dropping morsels of clues along the way but adding a punch at the end. Leaves you both with the feeling of satisfaction that you figured some of it but punctuates the pleasure with an aha! moment
5 First time reading Camilla Lackberg, what a great writer. The book had me enthralled from the first page with so many twists and turns it had me guessing the whole way through. A great read and highly recommended.
1 However, I am 78 pages into this book and I may have to stop reading because it is so badly written or translated, I don't know which.I am bewildered by the many rave reviews.It reads like the bubbles in a cartoon strip, stilted and with childlike simple sentences and clumsy character development.Best International Crime Novel of the Year? How can that be?
1 I was disappointed with this book, I felt it was not well written, but then that could be the way it was translated.  I expected a better quality of use of the English language.  However I accept that this is Camilla's first novel and will read one more of her books.
4 Swedish author Camilla Lackberg won France's Le Grand Prix de Litterature Policier for Best International Crime Novel of the Year when this novel was published in Sweden (2008).  Her unique style and sense of plot have won her numerous prizes, not only in her own country, but throughout the world, where this book has now been translated into twenty-five languages.  The Ice Princess begins mysteriously with an unnamed person finding a woman's body in a filled bathtub in a rural house so cold that ice has formed around her.  Her wrists are slashed in an apparent suicide. The woman is former resident Alexandra Wijkner, nee Carlgren, who grew in this house and who had been visiting it regularly on weekends.  Erica Falck, a writer, had been her best friend until Alex unexpectedly fled Fjallbacka when she was ten.  As Erica begins her research into Alex's life for an article for the local newspaper, she soon finds herself working informally with Patrik Hedstrom, a local policeman who had loved Erica from afar when they were schoolmates.In the course of the novel, the intersecting lives of the townspeople unfold.  Though they are of different social levels, the town is small, and everyone has contact with everyone else.  Lackberg creates her characters from the inside out, letting the characters drive her story, the plot developing in a leisurely way as the author presents scenes from the characters' lives and lets the reader see them as people.  Each has some secret life that is not shared with the rest of the town, and Alex, herself, has secrets which, when revealed, will change the lives of many people in Fjallbacka.For readers accustomed to crime novels filled with macho heroes, extravagant action, chases, shoot-outs, and fights to the death, Lackberg may be a surprise, though the novel certainly has plenty of action.  Her characters are not larger than life--they reflect real life, generally ordinary people, rooted in reality, who, when faced with extraordinary events, try to deal with them in ordinary ways.  As the various characters live their lives and discover tiny pieces of information, the reader begins to acquire a bigger picture of the circumstances surrounding Alex's death.  The mystery is enhanced by five anonymous meditations scattered throughout the novel which reveal the inner world of one or more characters.As in real life, there are some small issues which do not get resolved--we never know why one or two people don't tell the truth--and a few subplots could have used some pruning. Lackberg, the literary juggler, successfully keeps many balls in the air at once, and as an additional death occurs and crimes from the past are discovered, resolution, if not reconciliation, occurs.  The secret underlying all the action is stunning in its depravity and in the lengths to which some people will go to preserve secrecy.  This is a carefully conceived mystery which will delight those whose interests lean toward the inner worlds of the characters rather than their willingness to take up the sword.  Mary Whipple
5 The author is knowledgable about the microcosm of Swedish life. She is keenly aware of whatever makes her native society alive despite the early dark colors of each winter day and days...
4 Enjoyed enough to immediately buy the next one, it was a good, easy read, perfect for a quiet weekend. Being unfamiliar with Scandinavia i enjoyed the details of the setting, the snow, the driving, the foods they eat. The story is well structured and keeps you interested although there were perhaps too many sub plots, the characters are likable and I look forward to seeing what they do next.
3 This was slow moving at the beginning. It eventually got interesting and I had  difficulty putting it down. I thought the translation was excellent. Will definitely read another from this author.
4 If you have come across other Swedish detective series, you have some idea of what you are getting into. Great plot structure, good narrative and memorable characters with glimpses of a different country side than the usual LA/ American landscape, Chicago Industrial, English countryside, Scottish Industrial etc. There are some odd moments in translation and the female character's POV obsession with weigh etc verges in what I imagine to be romantic fiction, but overall a good read.
5 While she has been compared to Stieg Larsson, I have to say that Camilla has her own distinct style.Anyone who enjoys a bit of nostalgia with their mystery will absolutely LOVE her style and her work.The ICE PRINCESS was a bit dark, but it was very well written, and I enjoyed every minute of it.Becuase of it, I've found another author whose works I enjoy, and will be looking at her other books.Great read for all
4 I just can not compare this to the girl with the dragon tattoo trilogy but taken for it self it is a pretty good book.  I must admit that there was a piece of the puzzle that I had figured out very early on, but I still enjoyed how everything was revealed and the personal relationships in this book.
2 So disappointing! I had hoped to like it more than I did. Unfortunately, I could never connect with the writing style or the characters. That might have been because I read the translated version.I was bored right from the start. I forced myself not to give up on the book, hoping it would get better. It just got slower and more boring instead. The two main characters, though likable enough, had a tendency to behave and think more like teenagers. Plus I never really felt anything for them. The final revelation did come as a surprise, but that could not save the book for me.I might try another book by this author in the future, but won't keep my expectations very high
1 Here's the problem. A thriller can have as many twists and turns as a roller coaster, but the pace at which the roller coaster travels is part of the thrill. It it's zipping along at 60+ mph, it's heart-pounding. If it's traveling at 5 mph, it's painful. This book is a 5 mph roller coaster ride. It's the first of a series of books with the somewhat engaging male protagonist, but I really don't think I can be bothered.
3 Erica Falck has returned to her childhood home in Fjallbacka to straighten out her family's affairs in the wake of her parents' deaths. Within just a short period of time, though, Erica experiences another loss. This time it is a friend from her past. The town of Fjallbacka is stunned when the body of Alex Wijkner is discovered. At first, it appears to have been suicide, but evidence soon reveals that Alex has been murdered. Though it's been years since Erica and Alex last spoke, Erica is determined to find out the truth behind the murder. Investigator Patrik Hedstrom is also eager to solve the case. Nothing much happens in Fjallbacka and a murder is big news. Not to mention the fact that each new clue in the case leads to further mystery. Erica and Patrik are soon working together towards a common goal -- and beginning a relationship together as well.Lackberg's character development is her greatest strength. The mystery itself is well plotted, but the characters that carry the series forward are carefully built in this first installment. They're full of depth and the reader has a chance to get to know them very intimately, a point that I think will make many readers want to continue with the series.I will admit, I found the style a bit dry. Not sure if that's a result of translation or not. It's a common element I find in a lot of Scandinavian mysteries, however.
2 While I usually love suspense novels, this one was a little off for me. The author shows some signs of talent, and it may be because this is a foreign novel translated to English, I don't know, but I just didn't like the way this book was. Her characters, while complex enough, failed to blend well with the plot line, in my opinion. The Scandinavian mystery thriller, well, it just didn't capture me the way I was hoping it would. I was hoping for some fast paced mystery, yet it was, to me, slow going and a bit boring, as it dragged on.I feel awful when I have to give a review like this, but honesty is the best policy and every author deserves a chance, even it isn't a book that the reader likes. I gave this author a chance and didn't like the book, and sadly, I have to give this book 2 stars. But, that being said, I do still encourage everyone to try this book. Sometimes a book might not set well with one reader, yet be another readers favorite book.*This review is based on a complimentary copy which was provided for an honest review*
4 The Ice Princess captured my interest right away and didn't let me down. I enjoyed the mixture of personal story with the crime development. The rest of the series just improves on this first book.
5 If you like to read mysteries that take place in far away places, then you will enjoy the Ice Princess.  Camilla Lackberg creates a gripping mystery in a remote Swedish town.  She manages to create interesing characters and also makes me want to travel to the town.  I love mysteries like this. I bought this in the Barcelona airport to read on the trip home to Atlanta.  Very enjoyable.
5 I really became involved with the protagonists as they became involved with each other in their quest to solve the crime.  There were many twists in this convoluted plot, which kept me guessing until the end.
4 I could not put this book down and was totally surprised at the ending.I agree, the ending is a bit abrupt.  Too many threads tied together in too little time.Cliches abound, but that could be the translation; much repetition of information, clearly a first novel.But aside from all that, quite a good story.  Although, I did have a hard time keeping track of so many people.
5 This lengthy mystery novel kept my interest to the very end. It is a readable translation from the Swedish that acquaints one with the popular author Camella Lackberg. The names of many unfamiliar Swedish towns and cities may cause you to look for a map.
3 This is the first of seven best-selling novels by Swedish author Camilla Lackberg that's been translated to English. A character - rich mystery novel that helps fill the void left by another Swedish author, the late Stieg Larsson.In The Ice Princess, a struggling author returns to her family home to find her childhood girlfriend has been murdered. From there, it's all a mystery just waiting to be unravelled; with the help of a new love interest, a local police officer.While this book doesn't measure up to the standards of Larsson's Millennium Series, it's still a worthy read for those craving for some more Scandinavian mystery and adventure.
3 A perfectly serviceable mystery. Well paved and with developed characters I enjoyed the experience of reading it. The villains are a bit too cookie cutter, but the romance was entirely believable. This book is in no way art or literature, but it is quite enjoyable and entertaining.
5 I was delighted to discover this book and author. The story is interesting and exciting and a special look into life in Sweden. I'm looking forward to reading more from Camilla Lackberg.
2 After a promising start, this novel became a vapid romance of the heaving chest genre. That will teach me to try a sample before purchasing.
5 This book is set in Fjallback, an old fishing village by the sea, lively in summer but a ghost town for nine months of the year. Camilla Lackberg was born here, and she brings alive the salty air, the wonderful seascapes, the muscular bodies of the local fisherman, and the sharp tongues of the local gossips.The heroine of this book, Erica Falck, also grew up in Fjallback, and she's going through the house of her recently dead parents when we meet her, trying to get things in order. Almost immediately she's thrown into a sensational murder case. Erica's childhood friend Alexandra is found dead in an icy bathtub, her murder ineptly disguised as suicide.The Ice Princess is not just a murder mystery, but also a love story. Erika, unmarried at thirty-five, gets involved with the divorced police officer investigating the case. He's just her age. Their insecurities (they both weigh a few extra pounds) make for amusing reading as their shy courtship progresses.The relationships in general are quite interesting, since everyone went to school together or interacted somehow with each other in the past. The mystery of who killed Alex is only one of several mysteries and secrets lurking around Fjallback. And Lackberg ties all the complexities of the story together quite deftly. There's even a pleasing cyclical elegance to the plot, which begins and ends with murder.The main characters are full-blooded beings who could be your own friends or relatives. There are fun minor characters too - like the eccentric old lady who collects Santa Claus figurines, the retired teacher with an acute germ phobia, the nice old man who's secretly plotting to escape his shrewish wife...I'm very pleased to have discovered such an accomplished writer.
4 Finely woven themes in a town of Sweden. A myriad of events, relationships and problems which are brought together well to make an interesting read throughout.  I do recommend this book and look forward to more of the same.
4 liked this book...well written...liked the two sisters and the divorced cop....this might be something for another book...wonder what Anna and children will do, stay in the family home or go back and face her evil husband...complicated intermingling of characters...would recommend this to a friend to read
5 Yes, I have joined the bandwagen of all Scandinavian authors and I love Camilla lackberg!I have almost finished reading all here books. She has an amzing story telling ability. The plot is so intense that you almost can't wait to finish this chapetr to see what twist is going to happen on the last line!!!
5 I have now read all of Lackberg's books--I read this one last.This is her first, and not QUITE up to the standards of the others (the best is The Preacher), but it is still very very good.The story seems simple at first.  Erica Falck, coming home to live in her parents' house in a small village after they die, discovers the body of a childhood friend, Alexandra Calgren, apparently a suicide in her own bathtub.Forensics quickly proves that it was no suicide, and the mystery takes off from there.Erica is a writer, and no sleuth, but she discovers important clues that allow her policeman-boyfriend, Patrik Hedstrom, to finally put it all together.But it takes a long time for this to happen.  The paperback is 453 pages of dense and  twisting plots.  Some have complained that all these sidetrips are neither interesting nor necessary, but in fact they are key to the killer's motivation.  And on the way, Lackberg introduces an enormous array of village characters.  She is exceptionally good at psychology, and even better at sociology--the interactions and interconnections of many people of many different classes.Another criticism is that Lackberg telegraphs her punches.  This is certainly true for some things, for example, the trauma in Alexandra's background that caused her to drop Erica and take a sharp turn in her history.  But it is not true for the main killer, who remains bafflingly elusive till the end.Overall, if you like novels as well as mystery novels, you will probably like this.  It has good characterization and wonderful ensemble pieces.  And the mystery is good too.
3 The story was decent with a few twists. Didn't leave a lasting impression and a bit predictable.  For me, it left too  many story lines unresolved which made parts of the book seem gratuitous.
3 I'm a huge fan of Scandinavian crime fiction, and Sweden has produced some sensational authors: Henning Mankell, Stieg Larsson, Liza Marklund, Karin Alvtegen (and this is not an exhaustive list).  While Camilla L&auml;ckberg shows some promise, she has a long way to go before she can be considered of similar calibre.The novel's premise is intriguing: writer Erica Falck's best childhood friend, with whom she lost touch, dies suddenly, apparently by her own hand.  As Erica, in tandem with another childhood friend (and eventual love interest), local copper Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m, look into the circumstances further, they find that the explanation is not so simple. Inevitably, they uncover secrets that have been hidden for decades.The claustrophobic small town setting is relatively well drawn, and the novel started off really promisingly.  Unfortunately, there are a number of issues with it that interfere with the flow of the story.  Another reviewer has commented on the numerous "filler" scenes, full of redundant information, which bog down the narrative - for example, too frequently we have a scene where Character A tells Character B the same information that the reader has already been told on the previous page. Similarly, while Patrik and Erica are engaging characters, I really did not care about their incipient romance and Erica's repetitive musings on "Does he like me?  Will I look fat in this?" became tedious (yes, we even have a Bridget Jones-esque scene where Erica debates whether to go with the lacy undies or the supportive nanna knickers, and just in case we don't get what has inspired this scene, Bridget Jones is helpfully referenced in the text ... mildly amusing at best, but did not advance the plot one jot, and should have been cut). Nor, for example, did we really need to know about the romantic history and family life of Patrik's friend, Robert the forensic scientist - he only appears in a few pages of one chapter.  I found myself skimming those scenes.  Further, I felt that the themes of domestic violence and child abuse were not explored quite as well as they could have been, and dealt with quite simplistically. The big reveals towards the end felt rushed and somewhat anticlimactic.The character development is a bit patchy, partly because there is far too much telling rather than showing, and too many POV shifts. Erica herself, and Nelly Lorentz, a wealthy widow with an apparently inexplicable interest in the deceased's victim's family, are the most well developed and interesting.  Patrik is the standard nice guy, bordering on Marty Stu territory.  By contrast, Erica's sister Anna's husband, Lucas, is a cardboard cutout villain, with no trace of the charm that supposedly led Anna to fall for him in the first place.  While we frequently see him only through the eyes of Erica, who can't stand him, there is no complexity to him at all; this subplot would have been much more effective had he and Erica been on good terms, with Erica slowly becoming uneasy that things are not quite right.  In fact, I think this storyline would have been better dealt with standing alone; it really had little relevance to the major plot.The prose is uneven, especially the dialogue, with characters speaking in an often stilted and unnatural way and overusing each other's names; seriously, no-one in real life talks like that unless they're a telemarketer who rings you in the middle of dinner.  I acknowledge this could at least partly be due to the translation, but unfortunately I don't read Swedish so cannot compare it to the original. Either way, some judicious editing would have helped.I've given it three stars because it is a reasonable, not too demanding holiday read.  However, despite what the publisher's spiel claims, L&auml;ckberg is not yet any threat to Agatha Christie based on this effort.
3 Fj&auml;llbacka is a sleepy & idyllic fishing town where ostensibly nothing of note ever really happens, until the body of the beautiful art gallery owner Alexandra Wijkner is discovered dead in her bathtub. The biographer Erica Falck is one of the first people to discover the body of her childhood friend, and she soon becomes obsessed with Alex's life and death, while also becoming involved (in more ways than one) with the murder investigation by local policeman Patrik Hedstrom. As Patrik and Erica dig for answers, explosive secrets from Alex's past surface.I had very high expectations, what with the book winning all those awards and Camilla L&auml;ckberg being called the Swedish Agatha Christie. Maybe something was lost in translation? Because I am not that impressed; the plot was sluggish in many parts (weighted down by unnecessary sub-plots involving peripheral characters), the conversation between characters was awkward & stilted, and the secrets when finally revealed were not quite that shocking to me in the end.Don't get me wrong, the murder-mystery plot itself is cleverly written and will keep you guessing until the end. And Detective Patrik Hedstrom and the author Erica Falck are delightful characters, surprisingly pretty ordinary people who suffer from the normal everyday insecurities about their weight, work and love life. It would be interesting to follow their relationship in later books.I've read some reviews that say that Camilla L&auml;ckberg's later novels in the series are much better written, so maybe I'll check them out inspite of this first book not quite meeting high expectations.
4 The greatest contribution the late Swedish author Stieg Larsson made to the world was opening the doors for several other Scandinavian authors to enjoy similar international acclaim.  Larsson's  "Millennium Trilogy" (consisting of "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo", "The Girl Who Played With Fire" and "The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest") are still atop the best-seller's list worldwide and have been made into a successful series of Swedish films (and soon to be American versions directed by David Fincher).Along with fellow authors like Hakan Nesser and Henning Mankell, Camilla Lackberg has joined the fray.  Already dubbed "The Swedish Crime Queen", Ms. Lackberg has turned her career as an economist into best-seller stardom all due to taking a course in creative writing that changed her life.  She has been publishing top-selling fiction in Sweden since 2005 and is now beginning to enjoy similar success in the U.S.  Her novel, THE ICE PRINCESS, was originally released in her home country in 2008 and already has received international acclaim.What makes her series of novels so popular --- they feature the unique pairing of authoress Erica Falck and her husband, Detective Patrik Hedstrom.  In THE ICE PRINCESS, Ericka is drawn into the alleged suicide of a childhood friend named Alex.  Those who know Alex best insist this is not a suicide but cold-blooded murder (she was found in a bathtub full of blood).  Toxicology reports support that there may have been a poisoning involved and now everyone in Alex's world is a suspect.To further complicate matters, Erica has decided to base her next novel on the life of her old friend, Alex.  Having lost touch with her for many years, Erica has a good deal of ground to make up.  As her research begins --- initially speaking with family members, her husband, neighbors and friends --- Erica is able to piece a few things together.  First and foremost, Alex may have been having an affair with a mysterious lover.  Secondly, Alex was pregnant when she died --- and the child is NOT her husband's.Simultaneous to Ericka's quest for the perfect expose/novel, Detective Patrik Hedstrom is heading up his own investigation as part of the local Police Department.  Unfortunately, Patrik has to battle with his head-strong boss who wants a slam-dunk conviction (and a good deal of the credit for having neatly solved the murder case).  When the wrong man is initially apprehended and imprisoned, Patrik must go toe-to-toe with his boss to release this suspect who Patrik knows with confidence is not the murderer.  Now, Patrik must race against his own team to secure enough clues and evidence to lead the way to the true killer.It is when the paths of Erica and Patrik cross that the action of THE ICE PRINCESS truly picks up.  Separately, they have had slow and steady success in their respective cases.  Their combined resources, however, prove to be far more formidable.  The pair begins to delve into the dark secrets that lie beneath the surface of the small Swedish town known as Fjallbacka --- and they are not at all prepared for what they will uncover.  Some secrets should remain hidden and darkness inhabits certain residents of this town that may be claiming more than just Alex as a victim of their evil deeds.What Camilla Lackberg does best is using a great deal of `economy' in her language and this allows for a quick read that permits the reader to instantly enter the world she has created and relate intimately with each of the characters she has depicted.  After devouring THE ICE PRINCESS I'm confident most readers will want to read more from Camilla Lackberg.  As more of her work becomes available stateside I can only hope that the word of mouth about this talented author takes flight!Reviewed by Ray Palen for Rebecca Reads
3 A childhood friend found dead in her unheated house and an aquaintance of hers found hanged shortly afterward.  The connection takes our investigator back to unhappy experiences kept secret for decades, and leads us to new secrets to be kept for decades more.
4 I'm going to keep this review short and simple, as other reviewers have pointed out several of this novel's flaws.  It certainly does have flaws.  However, the ability to write a suspenseful page-turner is a talent in itself.  Think Dan Brown... I don't know if there is any educated person who thinks that Dan Brown's writing is fine literature; nevertheless, he is able to write thrillers which keep readers entertained from start to finish, something which cannot be said for most authors.  Lackberg possesses this skill.I am a big Stieg Larsson fan, and I found many similarities between Lackberg's writing and Larsson's (and not just the copious amounts of coffee consumed by virtually every character.)  The similarities are so numerous that one might wonder if Lackberg copied Larsson, but this cannot be the case since her first book came out 2 years before Larsson's first book hit the shelves in Sweden.  (I do have to wonder how many of the similarities in tone have to do with the fact that The Ice Princess and the Millennium Trilogy were translated into English by the same translator.  I also have to wonder how much of this book and Larsson's books - which are highly popular but also flawed - was lost in translation.)  Lackberg doesn't weave as intricately-detailed a plot as Larsson does, but she has managed to deliver a thoroughly satisfying reading experience.  I enjoyed this book so much that I read it in just two sittings, and hopped on amazon.co.uk to buy two more of her books (she has written nine, four of which are available in the UK, only one of which is available in the US.)If you enjoyed Stieg Larsson's books and have been looking for a similar reading experience, I highly recommend giving Camilla Lackberg a try.  If nothing else, The Ice Princess is a good way to while away an afternoon, and it keeps you guessing for quite some time.  It should not be dismissed because of its flaws - it should be enjoyed for what it is - an entertaining crime novel which, like certain other popular novels - require the reader to suspend disbelief at times (but not too much.)
4 Although there are some issues I did not like aboutThe Ice Princesstale, these are not reasons for passing up this unique mystery by Camilla Lackberg. The story takes place in Sweden which spends a good bit of its year in deep cold. Just the cover of this tale will make a reader shiver.After finding out that a female friend of twenty-five years past did not, according to forensics reports, commit suicide, Erica attempts to put together the missing pieces of this woman's life. It appears that all agree with police reports, even though Erica finds Anna's body sitting erect, wrists cut, in a bath with ice across the top of the water.Police testing proceedures show that the young woman's death occurred long before she was propped in the tub so that the water would freeze around her as the temperature dropped far below freezing inside her apartment. A home without a furnace would quickly loose heat in such a subzero climate (-30). In this particular story, exactly when the furnace became out-of-order is a timely clue to the alleged suicidal death.Erica does her best to piece together the missing years of Anna's life. She uncovers secrets about Anna's family and her relationships with various family members. Of course, Erica falls in love with a hunky intelligent policeman, but what would a story be without some form of romance.InThe Ice Princess, it would appear that all family knows more, a lot more. And most of all, what about Anna's mother? What would she know about her children that might better be kept hidden from them and the rest of the world? Is Anna's mother a victim, or a protector for family members who always seem shoved to the background.I enjoyedThe Ice Princessas a mystery. It held me suspended until the awful truth finally surfaces. What I did not enjoy was that as a story, the book was an emotional foxhole. One of the few positive events that happens is the physical and emotional love relationship between Erica and detective Patrick.In that part of the world where ice and snow preside over weather most of the year, this chilling suspense/mystery is just that. It duplicates the weather--it leaves one very cold physically and very chilled emotionally. But then I realize that not all dark stories can have a happy ending.I would recommendThe Ice Princessas a good read, only if you also surround yourself with other stories which have a more balanced, a more pleasurable ideal for the human situation. Cold climate does not necessarily mean a frigid story.Review written by Regis SchilkenAuthor of:Tears of DeceitOther Good Reads:A Foolish PluckingTo Fetch a Thief: A Chet and Bernie Mystery (Chet and Bernie Mysteries)
5 I don't know what it is about "The Ice Princess" by Camilla Lackberg that makes it so great, but for some reason, I found this impossible to put down.The story is a typical small-town whodunit in which a suspected suicide is found to be a murder.  Writer Erika, and age-old friend of the victim, and her eventual love interest, policeman Patrik, work together to solve the murder, and deal with the other issues in their lives as well.The murder is certainly at the heart of the tale, but I think that what makes this book stand out for me are the number of interesting subplots.  Erika's sister and her husband want to sell the family home, where Erika is currently living, and they have to deal with that stress, as well as the fact that the sister and her husband have some serious marital disputes within themselves to deal with during the course of the narrative.  Patrik and Erika find themselves inexorably drawn to one another, and fill their time wondering how they're going to be covering up their own faults while keeping the other interested.  Erika's best friend's wife is suspicious of her husband's cheating, but should she be?Other reviewers have found these side stories to be unconvincing and plodding, taking away from the rest of the story, but I thought they were probably the best part of the entire book.  I think that they gave a definition to the characters and the town they lived in.  A definite strength of the book is that I feel like I really knew a lot about Fjellbacka (sp?), Sweden, even though this kind of small fishing and tourist town should be completely foreign to me.The murder story was just as captivating.  With plenty of well-drawn characters (although a few standard "typical villains" are roaming about), there's plenty to keep you interested in throughout.  Patrik and Erika have to delve into the victim's past, and learn that even though you grow up friends with someone, you never really know everything about them.  There are mysterious disappearances, other side victims, and plenty of stuff to be uncovered, which I think really helped the pacing.I thought the translation was handled pretty well.  There were times when a sentence or two didn't really flow with the paragraph, and there were a few scenes in which characters kept referring to each other by name, but I'm willing to accomodate both of those since this is, of course, a translated novel.  A darn good one at that, and one that I'm recommending to anyone with an interest in murder mysteries.
4 THE ICE PRINCESS is the first of a series written by Scandinavian author, Camilla. Lackberg.  She definitely gets the flavor of secrets too long hidden in a small fishing town.  When author, Erica returns to her hometown to deal with her old home after her parents death, she finds a lot more than she had bargained for.  First of all, her wife beating brother in law is forcing the sale of their family home which Erica loves but she can't afford to buy out her sister's 1/2 share.  Then she decides to visit a childhood best girlfriend, Alex,  that she hasn't seen in years and finds her in a tub of frozen water with her wrists slashed.Erica has been asked to write a short article about her friend's life.  She begins research by meeting with an old childhood sweetheart, Patrick, who is now a policeman.  Together, they determine that Alex's death was not a suicide but was murder.  As they work together, getting all the local gossip, they rekindle their love and find more hidden secrets from the town's past.  Secrets that kept hidden, caused more grief and sorrow for the town's residents than one could imagine.I really enjoyed this book, but found the huge cast of characters a bit daunting to begin with.  This is definitely one of those book where you need to sit down for a couple of long reading periods rather than reading in short bursts.  The story line kept me intrigued, and though I kind of knew where the story line was taking me, I was fooled in the end.  Plan on continuing this series for sure.
3 From the back cover:"Erica Falck returns to her tiny, remote hometown of Fjallbacka, Sweden, after her parents' deaths only to encounter another tragedy: the suicide of her childhood best friend, Alex. It's Erica herself who finds Alex's body-suspended in a bathtub of frozen water, her wrists slashed. Erica is bewildered: Why would a beautiful woman who had it all take her own life?"My Thoughts:I was really hoping to like this book more than I did. And after reading that summary I was really looking forward to reading it which may have led to my disappointment. I'll have to admit that I never quite connected with the story though which led to a bit of a disappointing reading experience for me.Let's start with what I liked about the book. I really, really liked the atmosphere that the author created with this book. The descriptions of the setting, the icy cold, all fit perfectly for me as an ideal setting for a thriller. I could feel the cold while I was reading and I loved how just the atmosphere drew me into the book. The mystery was interesting and I'll admit to never having any clue as to who the killer was. The problem that I had with this book was more with never connecting to the characters. The author wrote the story from multiple viewpoints and I found it hard to transition between the characters. I found the switching viewpoints confusing and would have preferred a little more distinction between each character and their thoughts. And I never fully connected with the characters. I liked Erica and Patrik's characters but although I liked them I felt distant from them and what they were going through. The other characters were never fleshed out enough for me to really care one way or another about them. The storyline was good but it moved slowly for me. There wasn't a whole lot of suspense for me but there was a lot of foreshadowing. And I'm going to be honest and say that my dislikes might have just been me with this book. The book was translated and is written by a Swedish author which also makes me wonder if that is why I had problems connecting to the book. It could have just been that it didn't translate well. Maybe if I had read this book written in its' original language then I would have been able to enjoy it more.All in all, I found this to just be an okay read for me. Although I had a few problems with it, I would still be open to reading more by this author and continuing on with the series.
2 I thought  that the characters were cliches. I also wondered about the mean-spirited comments and thought that they were based on the authors own personality.
5 This is the first Patrick and Erica book, and it is surprisingly good for a first book in a series. Great crime psychological thriller. Definitely worth a read.
4 THE ICE PRINCESS REVIEWFirst, a confession.  I'm not enthusiastic about reviewing translated prose.  Am I critiquing the author's writing or the translator's interpretation of it?  Is it fair to judge a book using a stand-in writer as the actual author?  The answers have always been difficult for me to determine.  In this case, I think I've found the resolution.THE ICE PRINCESS is written by Swedish author Camilla L&auml;ckberg and translated by Steven T. Murray.  I checked on Murray to find out if he is a respected translator.  It turns out that he is eminent in his field, having provided translation for 21 Swedish works, 6 Danish and 2 German/Spanish.  Perhaps his best known translation (using the pseudonym of Reg Keeland) is THE GIRL WHO trilogy, the late Steig Larsson's global best selling thriller.  So I'm going out on a limb and declaring that my review will be directed at Camilla L&auml;ckberg, the author.I think the Princess is an excellent book but I have a few misgivings.  This was L&auml;ckberg's first novel and I sensed a lack of originality that new writers often display.  The characterizations, dialogue, plot constructions, and relationships were slightly formulaic.  I know from reading a L&auml;ckberg interview that she is a voracious reader of crime novels and I found traces of writing techniques used by other crime fiction writers which sometimes is indicative of a fledgling's desperate search and failure to find fresh themes and new crime scene techniques.  It wasn't a glaring shortcoming but, in my opinion, it was there.To be fair, I haven't read any of the author's books written since this one, originally published in 2003, so I can't establish if she has modified her writing style.  But, judging from the success of her newer books, my criticism might be somewhat untimely.  I hope, however, that she has pared back the wordiness, eliminated the unnecessary asides, and avoided straying from the theme.  I'll be looking at her newer works to see if she has managed to do that.There's no question about the skills of the author.  She has an enthusiastic and clear writing style.  The structure was solid, the plot was clever, and the final disclosure of the mystery was wonderfully prepared and presented.  I had no trouble in reading the book, enjoying it, and was eager to see how it all evolved.  The setting in a frigid seacoast Swedish village was realistically portrayed and added to the atmosphere of the novel.  Some of the characters were admirable and others were bottom feeders, a successful formula for any good book.I tend to be picky about my crime novels and which ones I read.  There are so many out there and, frankly, some shouldn't be.  Fortunately, Camilla L&auml;ckberg's book is one that shines and, except for my uneasiness about its wordiness, is very enjoyable.  I highly recommend it.Schuyler T WallaceAuthor of TIN LIZARD TALES
5 Make sure to read the Patrick Hedstrom/Erica Falck series in order: The Ice Princess ... The Preacher ... The Stonecutter ... The Gallows Bird (aka The Stranger) ... The Hidden Child ... The Drowning ... The Lost Boy.
4 Well put together book. Enjoyed it from first to last despite a few lulls. Looking forward to the next one I read.
5 I thought this book was great.  I wasn't able to decipher the end until the very end which is amazing for a book.
2 "The Ice Princess" was just barely entertaining enough to hold my interest. The plot is okay, but the writing is uninspired and amateurish. Maybe it's just the English translation that seems heavyhanded and sophomoric, almost as if it were written for the YA crowd. More than likely, however, the translator didn't have all that much to work with. Lackberg's bio indicates she embarked on novels after taking a writing course, and her lack of natural talent is obvious. Perhaps it isn't all that hard to get published in Sweden.On the upside, the peek into everyday Swedish life and culture is interesting if sometimes a little weird--as in sitting on one's mittens to avoid getting a UTI from a park bench, even though presumably fully dressed in winter clothing. (But then, maybe I missed some sort of inside joke with that one.) Lackberg's writing and characters aren't in the same class with Larssen and his fascinatingly psychotic hacker, Lisbeth Salander. Savvy American readers are likely to find her stuff a little too juvenile.
5 I really liked this one! I've read Swedish crime fiction by three different authors so far, and this riveting mystery by Camilla L&auml;ckberg, set in a provincial small town replete with dark secrets that lead to tragedy, is my favorite. The protagonist is Erica Falck, a writer of literary biographies who, when she returns to her hometown, finds the body of her childhood friend frozen in a bathtub filled with ice-covered water.The intricate story, told from the viewpoints, in third person, of various characters, gradually reveals the town's shocking secrets, which have been kept hidden because of fear of what people might think. The portrayal of characters and their relationships is exquisitely detailed, so that we know exactly what these people are like, and in one case, where we're privy to the thoughts of the indolent, absurdly pompous and overbearing local police chief, hilarious. Yes, this tragic tale is frequently leavened by humor, a quality not notable in other Swedish mysteries I've read. And the humor is light, not dark and morbid as you might expect in a dark crime novel. The winter setting is appropriately chilling. There's romance, too, as Erica teams up with police detective Patrik Hedstr&ouml;m (who, refreshingly, is a stable, cheerful type, not alcoholic or depressed) to investigate the murder.I strongly recommend this book to readers who like Swedish crime fiction and to those who would enjoy a complex contemporary small-town mystery with interesting, well-portrayed characters.
3 Format:  Audible DownloadThree stars are an average of the book (4 stars) and narration (2 stars).This is Camilla L&auml;ckberg's first mystery originally published in Sweden in 2002. It starts out with the discovery of a body of a woman, an apparent suicide, discovered in a bath tub in an unheated house in a former fishing village, now a tourist goal called Fj&auml;llbacka. One of the first people on the scene, Erica Falck, was once a close friend of the deceased woman. Because Erica is an author, specializing in the biographies of famous Swedish female authors, she is asked by the dead woman's parents to write about the woman's life. However, as Erica learns about her old friend's secrets she starts to look deeper into what happened that drove them apart as young girls.The story begins with a bit of a bang but starts to drag a bit about a quarter of the way in. I don't think the characters of the police officers were particularly compelling (or even very interesting). A second death gives the story more impetus and although the answers to some mysteries are quite obvious, the ending is satisfactory.And that's it for the story, now for the audible part. David Thorn's voice is strongly British and male. His way of voicing female characters is to make them sound breathy and bland. He occasionally will apply some accent, but usually he doesn't. While I might find him a good narrator for another type of book-- one with fewer female characters or one where there is no need for accents, I definitely don't think I would try to listen to him read another Scandinavian set mystery.
4 This is the first Lackberg book that I have read and I was not disappointed.  Good character development.  Mystery and a good whodunit!  I will definitely get more of her novels.  I especially liked the descriptions of the weather, town, etc.  It helped to visualize the area and the country.  Most of the story line was quite believable and got me hooked from the beginning.
2 It is the type of book you read when you have no access to something better... Predictable, repetitive, characters that are just thrown out there... A &#34;blah&#34; book if you will. I dont understand how it could get so much attention and praise. Id rather read Twilight. Yup, this bad.
4 Good book. I really didn't like the ending. odd way to end however the story line was excellent. Will read more by her
4 This is was the first book I read by Camilla Lackberg and I hope it won't be the last.  I have to commend her on choosing a good translator to work with her manuscript.
3 This novel deals with life in a small Swedish town, and events a quarter of a century earlier which ended in at least two deaths.  A woman, her wrists slashed, bleeds to death in her bathtub, covered with ice, preserving her body until it is discovered.  Subsequently, an outcast ne'er-do-well artist, her boyhood friend and possible lover, is found hanging in his flat.  Both apparent suicides are subsequently determined to be murders, and therein lies the beginning of a tale.The book is nominally a murder mystery.  However, so many extraneous sub-plots and characters clutter it up that the reader becomes bogged down in unnecessary verbiage and unrelated information, slowing down the reading and detracting from the otherwise excellent story.  If only a sharper pencil or even a re-write had been applied to the novel, it would have been far superior to the book as published.  Nevertheless, it is still worth reading because the main plot and the unfolding of the investigation are well-done.  Which is more than can be said for the character development.Writer Erica Falck seems merely a foil in place of the author, and her new boyfriend, Patrick Hedstrom, is more wooden than alive.  As for the police superintendent, he's not even funny, as it appears he is supposed to be.  Most of the other characters merely fill in blanks.  Given the fact that Lackberg has written seven books that have dominated Stockholm bestseller lists, these observations surely are surprising.  That said, the novel is recommended.
5 I have read the Ice Princess before - but in Swedish. The English versions are just as captivating and (mostly) accurately translated.  Since I grew up in the vicinity of the &#34;plots&#34; it is like a trip back in time/home.Thanks for snagging my husband's interest too.  With his constant questions of how to pronounce places and names...  I am reminded of my time on the west coast of Sweden.Ulla-Marie
3 Camilla has brought to the table, a novel where she has laid all the puzzle pieces out. Everything is in plain sight. All but that one main piece. A thriller with an ending with such shocking events, you don't know just what to believe.As Erica must return to her roots and her town where she grew up after her parents had suddenly passed, she is now thrown into yet another and even more tragic event.Her best friend from childhood, Alex has now committed suicide she is being told. Really though? Surely something else must have happened. Some kind of foul play. Erica meets with Alex's family as well as the police to try and find out exactly what happened. In the end, Alex was murdered and now Erica is in on helping to find out who. As Erica begins to find out the hidden past of Alex's life and the mysterious men in it she has a lot of work cut out for her. She joins in with detective and friend Patrick Hedstrom to not only come across another murder in the process, of the cover up, but many dark and hidden secrets buried deep that nobody wanted revealed.
3 A woman is found dead and frozen in her bathtub by her neighbors in a sleepy and cold seaside town. She has slit her wrists and at first it appears to be a suicide. However, the forensic teams conclude from the evidence that it is not suicide. She has been murdered.Thus begins the murder mystery novel The Ice Princess by Swedish author Camilla Lackberg. Lackberg is intensely popular in Sweden. She has sold over 3.5 million copies of her book there. That might not seem like much until you realize that there are just over 9 million people living in Sweden. The mystery has been translated into English by Steven T. Murphy and will soon be available in paperback from FreePress.On the cover, Lackberg's book is compared to the extremely popular Swedish mysteries written by Stieg Larsson. I haven't actually read his work yet but I've heard some good things.I don't often read murder mysteries but I do enjoy a well developed one. I started The Ice Princess last week. I read the first 100 pages in a few hours. It got off to a great and exciting start. If I hadn't been so exhausted, I felt sure that I could have finished it that night.However, I got bogged down in the middle section. There was too much side-story that didn't involve the investigation. While the characters of Patrick, the police detective and Erica, the discoverer of the body are well developed and their budding romance is fun, it distracted from the mystery. Apparently this book is the beginning of a series starring Patrick and Erica, so I understand the need to have more of their story.The ending wasn't entirely satisfactory either and the truth simply spills out without much difficulty in the last few pages. For guarding a disturbing secret so carefully for so long, everyone gives it up too easily with just a little questioning.Camilla Lackberg does create interesting and believable characters. She has a great understanding of even the so-called "dregs of society" and writes of them with compassion and sympathy. Each one of the characters in the story, no matter how minor, earns a good description with plenty of back story.The Ice Princess is a fairly good mystery. It's certainly not the best one that I've ever read and I must admit some disappointment. I expected better.I received a free copy of The Ice Princess from the publishers in exchange for an honest review. No additional compensation was given.
5 First of a three book series (so far), and I enjoyed it tremendously. I can usually figure out the murderer, but I never did. That was a nice surprise.Interesting characters and subplots kept me reading.Will start the 2nd book immediately.
3 This is the first book written by Camilla Lackberg.This books starts off at a slow pace introducing the characters but gradually picks up momentum so that i could not put it down.The story begins when Alexandra Wijkner  is  found murdered  in a bathtub.  Alex used to be an old school friend of Erica Falck who is willing to write an autobiography about  Alex for her parents and as such becomes involved in the investigation.The main detective involved in the murder case is, Patrik Hedstrom  and becomes romantically involved with Erica.Throughout the story Ericas sister Anna and her life in domestic  violence with Lucas her husband is raised and how she copes.Birgid  and Karl are Alex's parents and  Julie is her ugly sister . Henrik is  Alex's  husband.  Are they who they are meant to be?Anders Nilson an alcoholic and  Vera his mother who was the Lorentz house keeper are part of the story.Nelly and Fabian  Lorentz are wealthy and have an adopted son Jan who is married to Lisa.Alex ,Jan  and Anders have a common past and have a pack as the three musketeers .Read this book and link them all together to get one great mystery murder. Who is really is whom and who is the murderer? Read and find out.Like all Swedish writers it is such a twisted plot and you need to keep reading to satisfy your curiosity.This could be a great movie and as entertaining as "the Girl with the dragon tattoo". Well worth reading.Cant wait to read the second novel "The Preacher"
5 The Ice Princess by Camilla LackbergA murder or a suicide of one or perhaps two in the tiny village of Fjallbacka, Sweden is the focus of the book.  Erica Falck arrives in her home town to settle her deceased parents affairs.  She is soon immersed in intrigue, death and mystery.Ms. Lackberg crafts an intricate tale of deceit.  She provides a great deal of information about her characters by having them investigated by either her protagonist, Erica, or the secondary protagonist, Patrik, a local cop.  Her details provide plenty of clues but she does not allow resolution of the mysteries until the very end.Winston Churchill's out of context quote is an apt description of this book; "It is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma."  Just when you think you have puzzled out the solution, Ms. Lackberg throws a curve instead of a strike.This is an excellent, thought provoking, disturbing mystery that I highly recommend.
4 About a month ago, I had read a glowing review of The Stranger by Camilla Lackberg on FictionFan's Book Reviews &lt;a href=" http://fictionfanblog.wordpress.com/2013/05/14/the-stranger-by-camilla-lackberg/"> The Stranger by Camilla L&auml;ckberg &lt;/a>, so I went to NetGalley and requested a digital review copy. I was approved and I had it sent to my Kindle. Meanwhile, I had gotten a copy of the audiobook of the first book in this series (The Ice Princess) from the library. So I decided to read (or listen to) this book first. My wife and I both listened to the audiobook in the car on the way to our cottage in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan last week. We continued listening on our way back and finished it today. I'm glad that I started with this book first.The Ice Princess is a well written Swedish mystery novel. The story isn't too light, but neither is it dark and dreary. This isn't one of those mysteries with the bodies piling up all over the place and blood covering everything. No serial killers popping up in this book. The characters are believable and likable. You will have a good idea of some of what is going on fairly early in the book, but you won't be able to figure out everything until the end. The clues are there, and if you think back you will say, "I should have caught that, too", but you won't.I enjoyed this book and so did my wife. The translation felt very natural. The narration of the audiobook was very good.I give this book 4 Stars out of 5 and a Thumbs Up. I am looking forward to getting back to reading The Stranger, but I'm sure that I will be reading The Preacher (Book 2 in this series) soon, since I just got that from the library.
4 Also another Book filled with suspense and action. Yes i would recommend this Trilogy to fellow readers. really good book.
5 I enjoyed the twists and turns of this novel and will read it's sequel.  This book is not full of gory violence.  It has suprises which made me want to continue to read.  A good book.
4 I am a fan of Scandinavian mysteries, and count Karin Fossum, Henning Mankell, Arnaldur Indridason, Johan Theorin, Mari Jungstedt, and Yrsa Sigundadottir, among others, as my favorite authors. Camilla Lackberg's "The Ice Princess" is an interesting read, though it is slow and plodding in parts. The story is set in a seemingly idyllic fishing town in Sweden, where a beautiful and reclusive young woman, Alex, is found dead in her parents' home, seemingly a suicide, with her wrists slashed in the bath-tub. Erica Falck, a biographer and Alex's childhood friend is the second person to discover the body and this sets the stage for her eventual deep involvement in the case. Together with policeman and old school friend, Patrik Hedstrom, the pair do their best to solve the mystery (independent of each other and later together) when it turns out that Alex's death was not due to suicide but murder.The story unfolds very slowly, there really is no fast-paced action here. What readers get instead is a meticulously-detailed plot with lots of twists and different story arcs, all weaved together in a fine example of story-telling. Erica is a complex character - having had a strained relationship with her mother (who apparently was indifferent to Erica), she has become very protective of her married, younger sister Anna, who is under the control of her domineering husband, Lucas. Erica shies away from serious relationships with men, which changes when she meets old school pal Patrik and they begin investigating the case informally. Patrik is the nice guy who gets along with everyone and who digs deep to get at the truth. There are many other characters in the story - beginning with the murder suspect & resident drunk Anders, Anders' mom Vera, society lady Nelly, the dead woman's wealthy husband Henrik, Erica's high school sweetheart Dan and many more.As the story unfolds, dark secrets are unearthed, revealing some very troubling and horrifying family secrets that some would prefer stay buried. I found "The Ice Princess" to be a satisfying read, though it could have done with better editing as some parts seemed more like "fillers" and only served to slow down the story. I do look forward to reading Ms. Lackberg's other novels.
5 Quite simply, this was a joy to read.Ballard tells of his childhood in Shanghai, internment there under the Japanese, his university years in England, right through to his writing career and the joys and tragedies he's experienced as a father and husband, and his love of family life.What makes this book appealing is that it's not only well written and direct, but also that Ballard tells his story with an honesty and poignancy that is so rare in many autobiographies today.This isn't about Ballard the writer, but about the circumstances and events that shaped and formed his personal values and beliefs.You don't have to have read Ballard's fiction to enjoy this book either (although his Shanghai reminisces provide a fascinating insight into Empire of the Sun, the novel based on his internment experiences).What stands out above all else is his enjoyment of childhood and subsequent selfless devotion and enjoyment of family through all the joys and tragedy he experienced.His life affirming views on childhood, fatherhood, and single parenthood set this book apart from those hundreds of other autobiographies available that only tell of how individuals found (or lost) their fame or fortune.
4 In Miracles of Life, JG Ballard tells the story of a boy who grew up in Shanghai before the last war, was allowed to roam the city at will, immersing himself in exotic and cruel sights, and then found himself interned by an increasingly brutal Japanese occupation force. Ballard writes evocatively and you can feel the excitement and fear coursing through the first hundred or so pages. Yet he also writes with a certain reserve since as a young boy he can only cope with what he sees by shutting off part of his emotions. I don't think it's an accident that he spent two years studying to be a doctor, another profession where you can't afford to give in to your feelings. Ballard settles into a happy marriage and then his wife dies suddenly of pneumonia, leaving him with three small children to bring up. The book is oddly paced, giving us an awful lot of Shanghai at the beginning before moving to grim crushed dirty starving post-war Britain. The more famous he becomes the less we learn about his writing and then we are back in Shanghai and he suddenly more relaxed again. I can't be too mean-spirited though because as he makes clear in the last chapter, he started work on Miracles of Life (his nickname for the three children) after learning he had incurable bone cancer.
4 From his childhood in a prisoner camp in Shangai during WWII to his going back to it after a 40 years hiatus (a lovely chapter and a noteworthy description of how memory works), the book is a depiction of how these events influenced his major life decisions and his most famous works.The book is divided in many chapters, each one an important year in his life telling a.o. the relation with his parents and fellow prisoners while being in the camp, the post-war England in a bourgeois family (and how to get away from it), the wedding, being the loving widow father of three, his interest for surrealism and SF (with a strong foot in the present), his relation with other writers (Kingsley Amis gets the biggest "second role" in the book), the sense of peace while the cancer was taking him away only a few years ago.A book one would have liked to be longer, and (much) more detailed at times - but then again, the clock was ticking while he was writing it...
4 after viewing the film, EMPIRE OF THE SUN once again on DVD, i was sufficiently inspired to read the true life account of the novelist responsible. after just finishing MIRACLES OF LIFE, the first thoughts entering my mind are, heart-felt, sincere, and touching. the most engaging gripping sections of the autobiography were (for me) found at the beginning chapters...his carefree freckless youth spent growing up in pre-war Shanghai and subsequent civilian internment by the Japanese at Lunghua Camp. the descriptions through the haze of time, of the International Settlement, social life amongst the Brit and other foreign ex-pats, his formative years as a young growing curious teenager in a Japanese Civilian internment camp, and the ending of WW2 in occupied China, were perhaps the crux of his autobio...essentially an unique life experience that determined his future direction and mind set. of mild interest were the follow-up chapters of adjusting to a drab post-war Britain still under rationing (not only food...but optimistic hope)...but unfortunately his narrative of his adult years dissolves into a personal aesthetic exposition of literature cum cinema cum modern art, all tinged with the political upheavals of post-50's decades, and includes a rather pedestrian marriage with single parenthood after the death of his spouse. for those wishing a first hand account (albeit european eyes) glimpse into pre-war Shanghai...this is an invaluable resource. the concluding chapter of his return to childhood Shanghai (after four decades)...now a post-Maoist New Order metropolitian city....was much too short, not as dramatic as expected and proof that 'you can't ever go home again'.
5 J.G. Ballard's candid autobiography impresses through its hallucinatory evocation of the human (war, social, psychological) scenery, the unfolding of the deep sources and motivations of his authorship and the emotions in his life as a family man.Human sceneryAs a young boy in Shanghai, J. G. Ballard was unsettled by the deep social differences between the wealthy foreign bourgeoisie and the extreme poverty of the local population with `orphans left to starve in doorways'.The picture became even grimmer when the Japanese invaded China and war atrocities (clubbing to death) became nearly an everyday street scene. `Starving families sat around the gates, the women wailing and holding up their skeletal children.'On his return to England after the war, he was confronted with the English class system, `an instrument of political control'. For the higher classes `change was the enemy of everything they believed in.' Meanwhile, the living standard of the working class was dreadful: `how bleakly they lived, how poorly paid, educated, housed and fed ... a vast exploited workforce, not much better off than the industrial workers in Shanghai.'Studying in Cambridge he saw that for the inmates `heterosexuality was a curious choice.'His family lifeAt the beginning of the 20th century, `children were an appendage to parents, somewhere between the servants and an obedient Labrador' and `childhood was a gamble with disease and early death.' To the contrary, J.G. Ballard was a father and a mother for his children after the early death of his wife.WriterHis medical studies in Cambridge (dissection) taught him `that though death was the end, the human imagination and the human spirit could triumph over our own dissolution.'As an editor of a scientific magazine `Chemistry and Industry', he read at first hand reports on new discoveries in the drug, computer and nuclear weapons industries.He saw the originality and vitality of Science Fiction, which he wanted to `interiorize' by `looking for the pathology that underlay the consumer society, the TV landscape and the nuclear arms race.' For him, writers of so-called serious fiction wrote first and foremost about themselves.Other deep influences were Freud and the surrealists, who showed him a more real and meaningful world.As a writer he considered himself a lifelong outsider and maverick, devoted to predicting and provoking change.Themes and vision on mankindAgainst all these backgrounds, J.G. Ballard saw perspicaciously that `human beings have far darker imaginations' than normally accepted. Human beings are often irrational and dangerous.' Mankind is ruled by reason and self-interest only when it suits us.Fundamentally, his fiction `is the dissection of a deep pathology, witnessed in Shanghai and expressed in the threat of nuclear war and the assassination of J.F. Kennedy.'The result of all these unsettling confrontations and psycho-pathological insights are masterpieces like `Empire of the Sun' or disturbing provocative nightmares of auto-destruction like `Crash'.This book is a must read for all amateurs of English and world literature and or the admirers of J. G. Ballard's iconoclastic prose.
5 Rarely do I read biographies. It's not that I don't have people whose life interest me, it's just that it always seems that there is something more interesting or more important to read. Literature is full of wonders and I find immense joy in discovering bits of this and bits of that. At some point I discovered "Miracles of life" by J. G. Ballard.I've read Ballard's work before. Mainly his SF novels and occasional essay or two and his writing always fascinated me. I'm a great admirer of new-wave science fiction of the 60's and Ballard's work stands as a perfect example of this movement. It is fresh and radical, more fearsome of technology than fascinated by it, but still it holds some longing for the future and its possibilities. Ballard and his generation were avant-garde - not just for the science fiction but for the entire literature of the 2nd half of 20th century. All of this promised me a fascinating read and I wasn't disappointed.Ballard started work on this biography after he was diagnosed prostate cancer. He was 78 then and he lived quite an eventful life. First part of the book deals with his growing up in Shanghai and his life in prison camp during World War II (International Settlement in Shanghai where Ballard live with his parent was occupied by Japanese after an attack on Pearl Harbor) - before this autobiography this was fictionalized in "Empire of the Sun". Second part of the book starts with young Ballard moving to England from where the rest of his life will be lived. Both parts are equally fascinating though they highlight different aspects of life and may not be equally interesting to readers who are looking for literary influences, gossip or musings about literature in general. Both parts show that Ballard is a skillful writer. His memory is keen, and his recollection of events is something to behold.When describing his life as a boy and young adult Ballard sort of rewrites history. This is an integral aspect of every autobiography which basically shows that thinking about ourselves always becomes fictionalized. That does not mean that Ballard lies in his autobiography (as far as I can tell), it means that Ballard tends to reinterpret past events using a knowledge that wasn't in his disposal when they occurred. Sometimes he overstretches himself and sometimes these interpretations hit the mark precisely. Browsing through these facts and fictions is what makes this book an interesting read for any reader - one that is already familiar with Ballard's work and one that just begins to discover him.For my part, I found his Shanghai musings rather uninteresting. They do portrait intricacies of a multicultural life in a foreign country, and they do shed some light on an economic colonization of Asia but for the most part they are Ballard's reinvention (or reinterpretation) of his family. Nevertheless, Shanghai experience is crucial for understanding of Ballard's literary work and 2nd part of the book will deal with that.Second part of the book is where things become interesting (at least for me). It captures the essence of post-World War II Britain, it deals with art and artist and rise of the new paradigm in literature, it presents an insight into a cultural history of the 20th century from an insider's point of view - insider being one of the most important British authors in past 60 years.Throughout the book Ballard yet again shows his writing skills. His sentence is perfect and has a nice flow so that even when he writes about most tiresome themes you feel compelled to go on, to discover what lies on a next page and how it all fits together. It's a rare skill and seeing it in action reminds me of why I wanted to study literature in the first place."Miracle of life" is something you really should read if you're interested in the history of the 20th century. It doesn't show you great events and important things (as "official" and more "serious" handbooks do). It leads you through the backstreets and one should visit these if one hope to gain a semblance of an understanding of how marvelous, intriguing, troublesome and challenging this life on Earth is.
5 JG Ballard lowers his shields as an older man. This book is a more personal and unguarded view (than The Kindness of Women) of the life of an interesting person and prolific, accomplished author.
4 How fascinating to see Shanghai life through the eyes of a young boy during an otherwise obscure time in an otherwise obscure place...obscure from my perspective anyway.  Just the panoramic view of life and death in the teeming density of 1930's Shanghai is stunning in and of itself.  And, curiously, I as the reader, seemed to be protected or shielded from any emotional over-reaction to the obvious brutality of that era, including the early 1940's.  I attribute such insulation to Mr. Ballard's subtle mastery of understatement, as well as his highly developed mental faculty.Quite a fascinating life's journey, recounted by a master storyteller, as he shares his emergence into the world of writing through the unfolding of his life.  Especially interesting was his description of the constraints and conservativism of the science fiction genre, as well as his attraction and response to it.Fond of Freud, Mr. Ballard sort of, yet lightly, explains certain aspects of his life in psychoanalytic terms.  While neat, I wasn't totally convinced.If I have any criticism of this book it is that it struck me as a bit dry, which seems to be characteristic of most Brits.  Not that there isn't a strong emotional component, it's just that it's all channeled thru the mental faculty; hence, a tad "dry."  Yet, like so many Brit writers, we're talking about serious mastery and command of the mother tongue; and, Mr. Ballard is, indeed, a master and commander.
4 This was a fascinating and well written memoire.It is pretty short and certainly isn't comprehensive when it come to Ballard's writing career.However it was always interesting and insightful.The earlier sections on his childhood were very good and were quite comprehensive. It would have been good if it was longer.The bits on his domestic life after his wife's tragically early death were quite moving. Though I have read that he maybe have glossed over some things and his later domestic life wasn't perhaps as idyllic as it is portrayed here.His lack of ego was impressive and I thoroughly enjoyed this biography and though that I gained greater insight into his work.
5 a brief review of the private life of a star. it shows, in the authors own words, the difficult transition from an alienated existence to center stage. the life of a chef is a solitary one and rarely does anyone make it to the spotlight and live to tell the tale. it summarizes the authors take on life and outlines the mistakes that should be avoided and the good habits that should be reinforced. it is paternal without being patronizing. a cautionary tale that inspires and looks out for everyone else who might be going through a parallel journey.
1 I enjoy Chef Ramsay and respect him quite a bit.  However this book did not do it for me.  It is obvious he is a driven man. Perhaps I did not enjoy this book so much because I have the opinion that people who only care for work and money, which is the focus of the book, are not my cup of tea.  I prefer people to be more introspective and less.... focused on "stuff". I think being so focused on money and what it can buy is a large problem in the Western world. I am still a fan. Just not of this book.
1 Don't usually write reviews but I have to say you would have to pay me a great deal of money to read a book written of about Gordon Ramsay! I have worked in, managed and owned restaurants and truly love this industry...He is an insult to this business! No on should behave the way he does in a restaurant or any business for that matter.  I hate that the public is seeing restaurants run like this!!  I don't care why he behave this way but he should show more self respect and more respect of his business!! I also understand he has kids....Does he want them to think it is alright to behave the way he does and to talk to others the way he does?
2 I love Gordon Ramsey's shows, and was really hoping for some meaty info on his origins and motivations. This pamphlet - hard to really call it a book? - sort of skimmed along the surface and left me feeling only a little "full".  I'm afraid I was disappointed...
3 It was interesting to get a view of Gordon's life from his own perspective.  I wish I'd bought the full book, not just the teaser.
5 Enjoy watching Chef Ramsay on tv and now reading his autobiography is a treat.  Look forward to reading more of his books.
5 As it says it's a "quick read" which meant I was done with it in one afternoon.  But it was very interesting and told me some things that I didn't know about Gordon Ramsay from other books I have read.  I highly recommend it for your Gordon Ramsay library.
5 And so hard working.  Unless you hate the F word and straight talk, you will like Gordon even more than you already do.  He has walked the walk and is a really decent bloke.
4 I enjoyed this book quite a bit, it was a quick read, with just a few pages that I skimmed over because they were sort of irrelevant (the listing out of soccer matches got boring quickly).I definitely felt for Gordon when reading about his incredibly crappy childhood and adolescence. I giggled when I read about him shagging a restaurant owner's wife when he was 19.He definitely has had an interesting life. I think this book puts a more human face on his persona.He comes out as a likeable, driven, and ambitious professional. Just two small gripes - he's so gung-ho about not spoiling his children that he goes IMO overboard. As a parent myself, I don't think that kids who get more than 1 Christmas gift each will grow up spoiled. For some reason, Gordon seems to think that giving them 1 pound allowance and just 1 present each will ensure that they grow up selfless and appreciative.Another thing that bugged me a bit was his insistance that in the restaurant kitchen, the staff is not allowed to laugh or wear their name embroidered on their chef's whites.Gordon - no matter how serious you think your job is, it's just cooking. You're not curing cancer.P.S. At first I thought "His wife must be a saint to put up with him" but then I realized that he's never home anyway! She probably lets him feel like the boss when he IS at home, and the remaining time, she just runs things the way she sees fit and he's none the wiser.
5 Love the quick reads. This actually let me know some of the outlandish behavior on some of the TV shows must be just for TV!
4 This book has made me a new  fan of Gordon Ramsey and I now want to watch his shows and buy one of his cookbooks (plus one he suggested.)  I'd heard of him and saw part of one episode of Hells Kitchen and he was cussing and clearly unhappy and I thought, "This guy is a mess!"  But now I understand and appreciate his background from this book, Humble Pie.About six months ago, my sis read a chapter to me as we were on a road trip and since then I'd really wanted to know the rest of the story.I held back on one star because I don't understand some of his language/slang, and because it is too short.
5 Nice to know that Gordon is well grounded. But for a senior citizen and also in a power chair his restaurant in Las Vegas is not an easy place to get in and around in. The music is too loud and you can't hear your server. It's also so expensive, Lawery's in Las Vegas is where I plan on this year for my birthday. Not so expensive for the locals and just as good as Gordon's place.
5 Really enjoyed the book. Can appreciate Gordon Ramsay more. Knowing what he's been through and how hard he's had to work.
1 Found it a tad boring and I did think he might not use his bad language in the book as much as he did all in all a great dissapointment
5 I found this to be a very interesting book. It would definitely be worth reading if you are a fan of Gordon Ramsay.
5 I love watching Gordon Ramsey and own some of his cook ware.it was humbling to read what a hard childhood he had to becoming such a famous chef.i recommend this book to everyone.
4 I've never been a Gordon Ramsey fan - I've always thought he was playing a character on TV and he seemed a little too smug for me.  I wouldn't have read this autobiography either except that it was recommended to me.  As with all autobiographies, the essence of the man comes through - and he is a lot more likeable than I thought he would be.  After finishing the book I'm less inclined to believe that he is "putting it on" for TV and I actually think that he doesn't really give a damm what other people think and that he is fanatically driven by what he does.  I'm not sure he's someone that I would want to have a beer with - but I'm not the hater that I was either.
5 This is a very quick read (I read it in an afternoon) but it was very interesting, providing us with lots of information about the humble beginning of Gordon Ramsay, showing us a success story that proves that hard work and knowing what you want is a way to achieve success.An enlighting insight of the beginnings of the celebrity chef. A perfect way to know (quickly) a lot about him.Recommended!
5 I really enjoyed this book by Ramsay. It is very readable and he comes across as supremely passionate about his cuisine and career. It is written in his own style and reads almost as he would say it. The details of his life, his upbringing, culinary education and family dynamics make for engrossing reading and this makes for an easy couple of days reading without any deeper pretensions. Well worth a go.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
3 Veers between easy reading and some confusing and dull passages for an American non-chef who is unfamiliar with nearly all of the persons mentioned in the book, ie, chefs in the UK, businessmen, etc., and also the slang used. For example, he describes his wife's kitchen as an "MFI job."  What is that? Much of the book is devoted to his deal-making success, jumping from name to name without clarity.  The book deals mainly in great leaps with his evolution as a business giant and not as a chef.I would have liked to know more about how he went from  "commis" cook (whatever that is) to his spectacular reputation as "Superchef".  How did his "passion" develop, what were his early failures like, what are his favorite dishes, what does he cook at home, etc.?On the positive side, I did enjoy this mostly fast-paced book and find him an interesting, volatile, energetic personality.  He is brutally honest about himself and his family. While the flow of the book can be a litte jagged, to his credit it rings true and without the polished-apple feel of a ghostwriter. His "Kitchen Nightmares" series is the only one of his shows I watch and I've developed a jaundiced eye towards all restaurants after watching the series.  I would love to have the pleasure of dining in one of his restaurants knowing his impeccable standards.Followup:  I downgraded my rating to 3 stars as I found out one of the key stories in the book was a lie which was exposed after the book was published (the "stolen" reservations book).
3 Althought chef Ramsey talk about his goals and carrer in cookin, I have wanted to read about the passion he feel when he is cooking, helping others or the lessons he learned in his life about passing from poor to millioner, after al it was pleasure
3 I didn't really want to have to read through an entire biography, so I thought this might be just my thing.  Unfortunately, it was a bit too short.  Felt like there was waaaaaaaay too much missing or skimmed over.  It definitely did put Gordon Ramsay in a new light for me.  I'll probably pick up a proper biography at some point, though this was an okay starting point.  Considering the length, I don't think it was value for money at all.  I read it in less than 2 hours.  There are only about 80 pages, and the print is quite large.
5 I liked how Iggulden (the author) lets us readers figure things out as we go along without overexplaining, but without creating confusion."Conqueror" contains enough historical information in the narrative to make it significantly educational (about the way people lived, what they ate, how wars were fought, etc.). In an afterward, the author explains which elements of the story are historically known and which parts were unknown and filled in by the author for the sake of the story.Iggulden uses a few unfamiliar (Mongolian) words, but defines them in a glossary.Even though I knew how it was going to end (I knew Kublai would become khan), the story managed to keep stimulating my curiosity about how it would happen.Another thing I liked about the book: The characters in the story have human weaknesses and normal human fears and emotions. They just happen to find themselves in extraordinary circumstances.I don't normally read fiction, but every night, I found myself looking forward to reading some more of the story.
4 This was my first Conn Iggulden book but it won't be my last.Who can forget the Coleridge poem, "In Xanadu did Kublai Khan a stately pleasure dome decree"? If you remember learning that in school, you will be thrilled to learn so much more about Kublai, who was remarkable indeed.Iggulden paints a stunning portrait of the era with its greed and treachery, the sweeping lands, the different cultures...one feels so immersed that it's almost as if you were there.If I have one quibble, I would have liked to know a little more of the internal struggles of the characters. In some cases, events are related as statement of fact which led me to do some research. But again, that's a minor quibble in a major work.
5 Wish I had read the rest of the story first. But it was an awsome read and you realy get the feal of the carakters and their suroundings and adventures.
5 Interesting historical novel covering the rise of Kublai to become the grand Khan.  More than just a rendition of a sequence of battles, the author shines some light on some of the interpersonal relationships that ultimately conbtribute so much the formation of a man as he matures.  The stratagies read very much like the Chinese classic, RECORDS OF THE HISTORIAN.  The Khans of Mongolia conquered lands from Bagdad to Moscow, from China to Italy.  It sort of makes the Roman conquests look like a minor church picnic.Infact it was so interesting that I am going back to read more about Genghis, the first Khan to unite the Mongol tribes and begin an empire.
5 It was not just good, it was a totally awesome series! Fun and exciting, it pulled you in for hours at a time. Hard to put down.  I so much enjoyed the entire series that I have sold my paperback versions and bought hardcover books to keep displayed on my book shelf. I do not have a large book collection, very few I keep around for future re-reading but to give you an idea of some of them include:  Name of the Wind (Patric Rothfus), The Way of Kings (Brandon Sanderson), Game of Thrones (Martin), and Emperor Series + Conqueror Series (Conn Igulden). If you like any of these books then I know you will like Conn Igulden series as well.
5 this series is wonderful it does justice to the mongol nation as empires go for all they accomplished it was short lived,history does not teach much about the mongols usually just maps that show there conquests,this really shows a good portrait of there goals and ambition and how 1 man can ignite an entire people
5 what more to say. This was a great great series and sad to see it end. I wish you would reconsider and tell the whole story of Kublai....... but that being said truly remarkable.
5 The author covers a lot of territory in this book.  I enjoyed reading all the customer reviews.  The author admits to using literary license several times in the book.  I am piqued over his portraying Guyuk as a homosexual when the author did not know the truth of the matter and wrote it to make his job easier.  Writing fiction of that nature about a real historical character is just not right.  The author named the head of the Assassins' stronghold 'Suleiman' because his real name might be confused with 'Aladdin.'. Upon seeing the name Suleiman my thought processes jumped to Suleiman the Magnificent, but the dates and actions did not fit. I should have read the author's notes first, then the book.  I was sorely confused.I like this author's Kublai.  Some authors portray him as a sissy.  Here, he had heart.  He was a military tactician genius.  He recognized the wrong in killing his own people in the fight with Arik-Boke.  He was a hero.  I liked the author leaving Kublai with a future.  Should the author write about Kublai's successor, please don't give me cause to confuse him with Tamerlane!Mr. Iggulden is so talented.  I found him two or three years ago when I wanted to read about Genghis Khan.  Reading his books has been a pure pleasure.Thank you, Mr. Iggulden, for a good read.
5 I loved this book so much I had to get all of Conn Iggulden's books on the Khan series and the books on Rome.This book was wonderful full of action,battle plans,hard choices and trickery.Conn Iggulden has done a wonderful job of making the mongols live for me.I loved how alive these men and women became for me while reading this book. I couldn't put this book down.While reading this book it was like being there in a way just so vivid.I highly recommend reading this book if you are a fan of historical fiction.This author has truly made a fan out of me with one book.I can't wait to read all of the other books Conn Iggulden has written.
4 DISCLOSURE: This is the first book by Iggulden that I've read.I found this book to be engrossing with fully-fleshed characters. Iggulden brought his vision of this violent, political world to life with small details. I rarely felt as though I needed a guide book because he gave enough information for me to understand the scenes.I enjoyed the familial interactions combined with the backstabbing politico-type drama. While this is not an era or culture that I am familiar with, I felt driven to keep reading. He kept my attention on this story.I do know that I will backtrack and buy the first in this group. I think that my enjoyment of this richly detailed novel would have been increased by knowing the backstory of all the characters.
5 The whole Conqueror series is entertaining, gripping reading. Thoroughly enjoyable. Look forward to more. Wonder if we are related? Thanks. Brian A Iggulden
5 Once you start reading it captures and hold your attention with Conn's marvelous gift of writing .I patiently await the next one.
5 Wow!  This book is very entertaining and fast paced.  I had a hard time putting it down once I started.  I've read all of Iggulden's books on Caesar and the Khan series.  I've enjoyed all of them but Conqueror is the cream of the crop.  Before you read this book you MUST read the previous four.Conqueror deals with Genghis Khan's four grandsons who are brothers.  The oldest, Mongke, becomes Khan.  He has Arik-Boke administer Karakorum.  He sends Kublai to China with instructions to conquer it.  He felt Kublai was too scholarly and needed some toughening  up.  Kublai conquers China with a mix of force and mercy.  In the end, he gets to own more territory than Genghis himself.  The last brother Hulegu was sent to the middle east.  He razes Baghdad to the ground with such ferocity that leaves one heartsick.  The Tigris practically stopped flowing when books were tossed into it from Baghdad's famous libraries.  Hulegu, however did the world a favor by destroying the Assasins - a secretive, violent Shiite suicide killer sect who terrorized the area.  Mongke dies and the Mongol nation is plunged into a bloody civil war between Kublai and Arik-Boke.  The outcome of this war results in Kublai Khan, the founder of the Yuan dynasty which lasted a 100 years.  Indeed, the Chinese currency is named the Yuan.The author freely admits that this is historical fiction and he does takes some liberties with history.  He explains where in the last chapter.  This is not a dry history book, the author skillfully brings alive the various characters, the brutality, the violence, the land and its animals. For those who are interested in the sack of Baghdad in 1258 there is an excellent article in the New Yorker by Ian Frazer.  [...]
5 I have read all of Conn Iggulden's books and the Genghis books have been my favorite by far.From the war tactical decisions the military make down to their daily way of life, I have thoroughly enjoyed these books.  The characters come to life in an exciting dynamic way, and while this is historical fiction, there are many factual details as well.  Please write more of these wonderful historical fiction books!
5 I liked this book. I didn't remember much about Kublai Khan from history but learned a lot from reading the Conqueror.  It is filled with details of the day to day living by Mongols, who kept on the move with whole entourages.  It's difficult to picture moving 100,000 men, with all the wagons of supplies, without wondering how they managed.  Just feeding the horde seems impossible.  But we are taken along on the invasion into China with Kublai and are amazed at how well it all worked.  If you have any interest in history at all, don't miss reading this book. You won't be sorry you did.
4 So wish there was more-Yes we know Kublai from history but Conn's take was super and we want more from his point of view instead of Marco Polo's.
5 I had, until recently, a slightly better than layman's grasp of the Mongol hordes and their impact on European history. Reading the first four books in this series gave me an even better grasp. But I had no real understanding of what the Mongols were up to in China, aside from dim recollections of some made-for-TV movie about Marco Polo that featured Leonard Nimoy playing an Asian. Indeed.So this book I approached with great enthusiasm, and I'm pleased to report I was not at all disappointed.The book centers mostly on Kublai as he gets sent to China by his older brother, who thinks young Kublai spends too much time with his head in the clouds and not enough with his backside in a saddle. Kublai turns out to be very, very good at conquest, and almost without trying he soon takes large portions of territory and begins building a city called Xanadu (which I believe is located on the desert coast of Florida and has a pleasure dome that features a skating arena for Olivia Newton John). He does this with as little bloodshed as possible.Meantime, over on the other side of the continent, Kublai's other brother, Hulegu, runs afoul of the Assassins, and decides to finish them off while on his way to take over Baghdad. He does this, but winds up paying a high price. Similarly, he takes Baghdad, and shows the level of restraint you'd expect from the likes of Genghis, thus making it clear that there's a big difference between him and Kublai.A spanner goes into the works when the Khan dies and all the Mongols have to return home, which all of them promptly do, except Kublai. He figures he's conquered his own lands. He considers himself a Khan. This sets up certain problems.I really enjoyed this book. Kublai is a much more pleasant character to be around than Genghis ever was. I also appreciated the contrast between him and Hulegu when it came to...well, pretty much everything. I was less pleased to see that, from what I can tell, this is the last book in the series. That's deeply disappointing, as I was looking to see what the author would do with Marco Polo's visit.But if it is the end, it ends on a high note, and I cannot recommend this book highly enough. Very, very good.
5 I've been a dedicated reader of Iggulden's historical novels, enjoying his four-volume Julius Caesar bio and the four preceding volumes in the Genghis Khan saga.  As I noted in my review of the fourth in the series, "Empire of Silver," Iggulden had a hard time moving the story onward in the absence of the central and unifying figure of Genghis.  With his death in the third volume, the cycle of rise and fall was completed and so the fourth book, chronicling the chaos of his heirs, suffered.  With this fifth entry in the series, he's picked up the narrative thread with confidence and the story has returned to its previous heights.  The beginning exposition involving the ascent of Guyuk is at times labored, but that can't be avoided-- much groundwork must be laid in the first fifth of the novel before the main arc of the story can commence.Once we enter into the saga of conquest on two fronts-- Hulegu in the West and Kublai in the East-- Iggulden is playing to his strengths, and the story zips along.  Battle and rapine and slaughter are tempered with some nice character work as Kublai attempts to diverge from past practice (murder everyone you meet, take their money and move on) and introduces the beginnings of governance and diplomacy.  The pace is fast and the story strong.While this volume might be read without having a familiarity with its predecessors, I'd recommend beginning with the first and enjoying the rise of Genghis in the first three novels.  They're very well done (though some have criticized their historicity, the entertainment factor is high) and introduce many of the characters in this book.  Likewise, much of the drama here arises from the fourth book.  The confusion and chaos of Genghis' successors-- really, the absence of a unified successor-- makes for a weaker read.  Here, however, from early on we're watching Kublai's rise and the ride is an exciting one.In short: highly recommended for fans of historical action and adventure.
4 This is the third book in the Mongol historical fiction series I have read by this author.  All three books have been very good.  Having read a great book on Ghenghi Khan in non-fiction a while back adds to what you can gain out of the series.  My only issue with this book, and I understand why the author did what he did, but I would have loved the story to continue through his later years.  I would love a book about Marco Polo through the eyes of Kublai Khan.  Great historical fiction.
5 I've read all of Conn Iggulden's books and one after another they never let you down. He's a superb writer who will keep you yearning for more.
5 I loved reading this book. It took me back to the times, made me experience every moment totally. It's not often you find an author who can depict earlier times with such stunning accuracy. I could see, smell, taste every moment. Each character was an outstanding characterization. I would definitely call this a masterpiece.Highly Recommended with 2 thumbs up!Diane Davis White
4 Continuation of the Mongol history and enjoyed the way the author maintained the story interest even though this was volume 5.  I would recommend to others.
5 I wish this wasn't the end. I love these books. They are fast paced, exciting, and are very interesting.Please find someone else to write about.
5 This book is better than book 4.  Definitely worth a read if you have read the previous 4 books already.
4 This is the first of Conn Iggulden's novels I have read. At the outset, I will say this will not likely be the last. The novel was descriptive, the characters were worth knowing, and the plot had enough twists to keep the pages turning.Throw in that it's all extracted from history and it was a pleasant discovery for me! Now, admittedly, there are details within all historical fiction that fall under the "fiction" part--certainly much of the dialogue is the author's imagination. However, that's to be expected. This isn't a textbook, but it makes what I've read in textbooks come alive.Not being a Mongol scholar, I can't say for certain that Iggulden's facts are all perfect, but the overall sweep seems to fit with what I learned in World History.The overall content is certainly violent--but it's a book with a sword on the cover and "Conqueror" for the title, so that should not be a surprise to anyone.I think I'll put the rest of Iggulden's series about the Mongols/Khan Dynasty on my list. If they are better than this one, as a few reviews indicate, I think they'll be worth it.
3 A solid effort, but not as compelling as the first three Genghis books. This one felt a little choppy and a little dragged-out in certain places. Although the last battle of Mongols fighting Mongols is quite compelling, overall this could have used more editing and polishing.One of the major issues I had with this had actually started to rear its head in the third book and became really irritating by the fifth - the way Iggulden writes domestic scenes. Take the following passage for example:"Kublai tried not to laugh as he saw the boy sneak a handful of steaming meat scraps from the pile that Chabi was working into pouches. She had only looked away for a minute, but the boy had quick hands. Zhenjin had stuffed his cheeks before she turned back. It was bad luck that his mother chose that moment to ask a question, or perhaps not. Chabi adored and spoiled her firstborn, but that did not mean her instincts were blunt. As Zhenjin struggled to reply around a mouthful of hot meat, she poked him in the stomach and he sprayed bits of food, giggling."This was followed by, "Chabi crossed her arms and shook her head indulgently at her husband. 'Honestly, Ward,' she said, 'you have no idea what kinds of things Wally and the Beaver got into today.' Then she wandered off in search of heels and pearls so she could vacuum the yurt."Nearly every single domestic scene in the book follows this pattern. Male child does something naughty, mother and father smile at each other and go "Aren't boys just the naughtiest little scamps?", lather, rinse, repeat. I'm not arguing that Iggulden should have nixed the domestic scenes - they do provide a much-needed break between scenes of Asian armies hacking each other to pieces. But did every scene need to be written like a 1950's sitcom? If Iggulden was going for realism, here's something he should have kept in mind: kids can be great, yes, but they can also be demonic little monsters. Sometimes, even if they're (gasp!) female. I know. I was one. And having multiple domestic scenes that all follow the same script pulls the reader out of the story as s/he starts to wonder how much of the rest of the story is artificially scripted as well.Then there's the other issue, which is tangentially related to the first. Take the following passage for example (although it's not by any means the only one in the book):"Al-Mustasim left the children to their games, already growing raucous in the dark tent. He blinked as he came back into the sunlight rooms and took a moment to send a couple of his servants inside to make sure the boys did not break anything."So the children were growing raucous in the dark tent, but only the boys were capable of breaking something. Why is that? Why not just write "to make sure they did not break anything"? That would flow better. We already know, from a previous paragraph, that his daughters were included in the crowd of "raucous" children. So why did Iggulden choose this particular phrasing?It was points like this in the book where I lifted my eyes and went "Ah yes. This is the author who writes things called 'The Dangerous Book for Boys.'" Because while I appreciate that Iggulden wrote great characterizations of Sorhatani, Tolugene, Borte, etc., I can't help but notice that whenever he wrote about the general population he habitually overlooked the women. It's true that most of them would probably not have been observed by invading armies, unless they were wailing and bemoaning the loss of their men, and lord knows I'm not asking him to shoehorn in a fictional Mulan-type character that would have been totally out of place for those times and cultures. But I do find it odd that he chose the particular phrase mentioned above and neither he nor an editor flagged it in subsequent drafts. And it was certainly not the only one in the book; otherwise, I would simply have ignored it as poor word choice. By the end of the novel, however, the repeated instances of this had nearly ruined the story. They gave the whole novel a farcical undertone of being about MANLY men doing MANLY, MANLY things (*grunts* *sweats* *hawks a loogie* *punches something*), instead of a quiet, wondrous sense of people doing extraordinary things.
4 Conn Iggulden continues his historical fiction series about the Mongols with Conqueror: A Novel of Kublai Khan. This is the fifth book in the series, but you can easily jump in at the end like I did and not be lost so long as you have a rudimentary idea about the Mongols and their lifestyle.Iggulden comments that he was interested in writing another trilogy focusing on Kublai Khan but decided against it when he realized that while Kublai's life and reign were interesting (Marco Polo, attempted invasions of Japan, etc. ), they were not nearly as dramatic as his early life and would be rather anti-climactic in comparison.Kublai is a grandson if Genghis Khan and he comes of age in a time of great political turmoil. The Mongols are undoubtedly the most dominant military force in Europe, Asia and the Middle East but they have no clear leader. Various relatives of Genghis Khan have a claim to the throne and the political give-and-take can be quite deadly.Eventually, Kublai's oldest brother becomes the Great Khan. One of his little brothers is sent to the Middle East and Kublai is sent to northern China to subdue it. The bulk of the book is about this campaign and the ongoing political struggles in the Mongol Empire. For me, it was striking to realize how the Mongols were truly a bridge between Europe, the Middle East and China. It was interesting to note that Kublai was familiar with Islam, Buddhism, Judaism and Christianity as well as his own native Mongol beliefs.The action is first rate and the political intrigues are simplified and explained well enough that readers will not have a problem. Iggulden has sacrificed strict historical accuracy for the sake of a better story. At times you can tell that Iggulden intended to write a much larger story - characters are fleshed out in detail and then abruptly dropped with little explanation. But, the story is still a good one and worthy of your time.
4 Conn Iggulden has taught us our Roman history with his "Emperor" series, and he has now moved on to the fifth book in his reenactment of Genghis Khan's empire. In "Conquerer" the Great Khan's grandsons are fighting for power. This is not just inside fighting with political assassination. This is the killing of thousands in battles of epic size. We do go inside the palaces and tents to learn more about the chances Kublai Khan took against his adversaries and the helpful intrigues of the women of the palace.The book moves rapidly from battlefield to council, from peasants to the ruling class. Iggulden slathers the pages with blood. There is a reason the history books call the people of this empire "the Mongol hordes." Nevertheless, Iggulden shares the vision of Kubla Khan, to go beyond killing and warfare, to develop "a mighty pleasure dome" of a kingdom (quote from Coleridge). If all you know of Kubla Kahn comes from Coleridge's mystical poem, let Iggulden fill in the history through his research and imagination. This is a long book with dozens of characters and places, but it is also unforgettable. Iggulden has a golden touch.
4 Finished this fourth of the series...a great historical fiction read. I wasn't looking for a completely accurate retelling of Genghis and his descendants. For me a great read - sweeping plains, hot deserts, massive battles, sibling rivalry, loyalty and betrayals. A life and time that I couldn't begin to imagine on my own.
5 My initial introduction to the Khan's Empire (the world's largest empire under a single authority) was my reading prior to traveling to Mongolia whereby I rode Mongolian ponies across the plains.  Genghis I read about and comprehended but never Kublai.  Wow.  This writing was engaging, enlightening and hard to put down.  Conn Iggulden is superb as writer who brings the historical Kublai to life.  The CD books is one of the best I have listened to in years.  Highly recommended!
5 Conn Iggulden has brought the world of the line of Genghis Khan to rough-living, cold-loving, open-space-existing life in a richly imagined series that keeps getting better. His latest, CONQUEROR,  about the rise of Genghis' grandson Kublai, does not disappoint.Ogedai, Khan who built Karakorum and son of Genghis, has died, leaving his son Guyuk as the new Khan. Guyuk is woefully ill-suited to rule; power-crazy, imperious, and spoiled, he has waited some time to become khan, as his mother ruled in Ogedai's stead while Guyuk grew to manhood, waiting until she deemed her son ready. No amount of preparation can instill the qualities of a good khan in this weak, mean-spirited little man, and he rules by fear.This rule, untenable and unpardonably cruel, comes to an abrupt end under suspicious circumstances (which, because of the general relief it brings about, is not investigated too closely), and after a convention of all of the far-flung family, Ogedai's nephew Mongke is chosen Khan. This grandson of Genghis takes his duties seriously, though he is not content to stay peacefully in Karakorum but chafes to follow his brothers out on the conquering trail. Kublai, who has grown up under the influence of a Chin scholar, has until now been happy with his nose in scrolls, dressing in a far more refined way (in the Chin style, which his brothers look down upon) than his camp-gear brothers and initially resists Mongke's orders that he lead men out to conquer, but to his own surprise he begins to enjoy this new martial life.Mr Iggulden certainly has a way of bringing to life a road long gone. Extensively familiar with the weaponry, tactics, and lifestyle of a race that struck fear into the hearts of all of 13th-Century Asia and Europe, he breathes vivid color and visual being into this fascinating family that dominated this part of the world for so long. The reader is immediately absorbed into the life of camp, of the reasoning out of how to take an enemy city, and of the consequences of domination of a new culture. There is also an immediate identification with the various members of the family and those unrelated persons who affect the outcome of each campaign.I can scarcely recall a series of historical fiction whose each new edition I anticipated so avidly. Mr Iggulden is a master crafter of a rip-roaring story. I loved every line, and look forward to his next work. Highly recommended.
4 Good, not the greatest. A famous quote from that period was that Kublai Khan told the Chinese he had conquered them on horseback. They told him it was hard to rule from horseback. Just one of several quotes that could have helped this book. I think the author was clearly tired of writing about this. Fun to read and entertaining.Perfect for airplane, poolside and the beach.
5 An outstanding book and continuation of the Genghis Khan series. Conqueror follows the tortuous struggles of Kublai to eventually become the Great Khan. Well written page turner, vivid detail.
5 Few individuals in history have had as much world-wide influence on events as Ghengis and Kublai Khan.  You probably know of Kublai Khan from the story of Marco Polo and his years in China.  That is not, however, the story that Conn Iggulden has chosen to tell us inConqueror: A Novel of Kublai Khan. Instead, he gives us the story of a younger Kublai, grandson of Ghengis, a young man highly educated in the Chin style, a young man whose palms are stained with the ink of his studies rather than callused from war & weapons.Iggulden does a masterful job of combining history with storytelling, bringing to life an era and people far removed from present day Western experience.Conqueror: A Novel of Kublai Khanis satisfactory in every way, the kind of tale that you'll not put down easily and will want to read again. Highly recommended . . .NOTE:  While reading through About This Author in the back of the book I learned that Conn Iggulden has authored a series of novels about Genghis Khan:Genghis: Birth of an Empire: A Novel,Genghis: Lords of the Bow: A Novel,Genghis: Bones of the Hills: A NovelandKhan: Empire of Silver: A Novel (Conqueror), all of which are now on my "to read" list.
5 Conn Iggulden's latest addition to the Khan saga is perhaps his best, with its focus on Kublai, arguably the greatest ruler of his illustreous family. The author deftly merges historical accuracy with fascinating and realistic human interactions among the range of adversaries, allies and enemies.Most fascinating is his ability to explain and describe the merger of the Mongol culture into the Chin (Chinese) culture, displaying the ability of the Chin to "absorb" the invader by dint of superior civilization. Kublai's understanding of the need to use Chin governmental mechanisms to rule (as opposed to merely conquer) is a profound explanation of cultural development.Added to this is non-stop action, and you have a book you just cannot put down. Highly, highly recommended
5 Keeps moving and good story. Guys will love it, with lots of action. Historical link is good and made you want to review the history more
3 I loved the history in this book.  I didn't like the conversations between characters they seemed contrived.  I did learn a lot about Kublai Khan.
4 however the historical facts are a bit askew.  For sheer entertainment the book is excellent, but the history looked different.I was initially disappointed about the abrupt (but justifiably so) ending, had to realize though that it was a good decision to cut the story at that point.Thanks for another very good read!
5 I got this book for my 16 year old son and he likes it so far...the book arrived on time and in good condition.
4 Conn Iggulden is a well-established English writer of historical novels.  In 'Conqueror'he continues his story of the Mongol Empire, which he began with three well-received novels loosely-based on the life of Ghengis Khan.  Obviously, a lot of historical and cultural research went into these novels.  They ring with authenticity on every page.  I did a quick check through some more detailed history about Kubalai Khan, his rise and his rule and found that Iggulden has been higly selective in the details he offers in this book.  It is is every sense a novel set in a real historic period and featuring real historic personages; it is not history and it is entertainment.  Iggulden is a master of selection, conveying complex events in a way that is highly understandable.  He is ever deft in his pacing of his story and his writing technique is at a high level.  In this novel, he shows great understanding and sympathy for the Mongol people--their love of nation, family, their animals and warfare. After the death of Ghengis Khan, the Empire returned to intra-family squabbling over hegemony.  Iggulden convincingly sketches three generations of this action without ever bogging the story down.  We get a clear sense of the vastness of the Empire as we follow the exploits and alliances of several of Ghengis' grandsons who ruled in places as far apart as Eastern Europe, Iran, Iraq and China.  I never realized that the Mongols sacked Bagdad.  Tieing this all together is a story of the rise of Kubalai to become Great Khan and Emperor of China.  While Kubalai is the focus of the great action in the novel, his historic person and life story are, again, greatly simplified: he was an active governor of a region at a time when this novel depicts him as a young dilletante scholar...because it makes a better story and, in a novel, story-telling is all.For action and adventure, Iggulden creates an amazingly complete world of a Mongol Tuman--groups of 10,000 warriors--as they ride vast distances and face much more numerous enemies in 'do or die' battles.  Their military techniques are clearly sumarized and we can almost hear the buzzing of the swarms of arrows flying from their powerful recurved horn bows and we can smell the horses as the cavalry lines surge over a battlefield.  We can feel their tiredness and aching muscles and bones after every forced march and we can appreciate the real sense of comfort they felt over each little thing that brought relief from the harshness of their existence.  We clearly feel the pressure of political intrigues and family plots.  We get the pulse of a nomadic people who feel at home anywhere they happen to be but whose ruling family is looking for a model to use in settling them down.  Theirs is a world that is facing many changes and we are along for the ride!I really enjoyed this book both overall and for its intelligent focus on its themes with no real digressions for, say, steamy sex scenes and convoluted romantic entanglements.
5 There is only one author with the epic storytelling abilities of Conn Iggulden.  And that author is Conn Iggulden.  Lustful anticipation is too light a term to describe my wait for this book.  This is the 5th book in the `Conqueror' series and you HAVE to read the previous four.  While this one is penned as "a novel of Kublai Khan" I saw it as "a novel of Kublai Khan and company".  True, Kublai is the "focus" but it really isn't just about him.  Death abounds in this latest story and with it comes confusion, civil war, blood, and mistrust.  The sons and grandson of Genghis have been given their lands to command and rule but the enemies of the great Khan's have other plans.I really loved reading about the assassins.  A cult unto themselves, they have (even at this early time in history) damn near perfected the art of the subtle kill.  They make some very memorable appearances in this book that are as chilling as they are calculated.  But back to the bloodline... loyalty and trust are tested as Khan's die and Generals are made to follow less than experienced men.  Someone must lead this nomadic nation, but whom?  `Conqueror' is a sweeping novel that follows four other sweeping novels about the Nation of Mongols and how they came to rule such a vast expanse.I love reading Conn's books because they are incredibly entertaining and incredibly vast.  This is a book that you can read in one sitting or savor over a week.  Either way you'll either come to one of two conclusions 1. I shouldn't have read this book in one sitting or 2. I shouldn't have read this book in a week.  Heads you win, tails you win.  Conn's been winning for a while now.
4 Conn Iggulden makes a splendid return to his 13th century world of Mongol dominance. "Conquerer" marks Iggulden's fifth book in his historical fiction series on Genghis Khan, his legacy, and the lasting cultural impact of his Mongol empire on the world."Conquerer" focuses on one of Genghis' grandsons, Kublai Khan, who's probably most well known for his monumental interactions with explorer Marco Polo. Absent of the Marco Polo years, "Conquerer" explores the rise of Kublai Khan from a studious and intellectual youth, to a savvy general and Khan of one of the largest empires our world has ever seen.The first 120 pages set the stage for Kublai's assencion. Iggulden imagines the politics of the ugly internecine battles for leadership among Genghis' grandchildren (and their wives). The palace (and ger) intrigues expose Iggulden's deft writings skills outside the context of adventurous battle scenes. This may come as a disappointment to readers used to his magnificently large scale wars which come to the more patient reader further into the book.It's been a year since I read "Khan: Empire of Silver", the fourth book in the series which focuses on the reign of Genghis' son Ogedai, and Iggulden only provides the most subtle clues as to the back story of characters and family alliances. I had to shake the cobwebs to recapture where things had left off in the previous book and this may make things a little frustrating to the new reader. In the broader context of this sweeping tale, it makes little difference to the understanding of the story of Kublai.Two generations after Ghengis, the Mongols sought stability at their core while continuing the process of expansion started two generations earlier. It was also a time when the Mongol nation was modernizing, mostly through the influences of their pan-Asian conquests, especially China.Kublai's brother Monkge assumes control of the Mongol Empire and returns to it the discipline and strength instilled initially by his grandfather Genghis. Mongke asks Kublai to put down his scrolls and pens and pick up a bow to finish his grandfather's work in China.In the book's second act, Iggulden shifts focus between the Mongol frontiers in the far west and south as we follow the parallel stories of Kublai and his brother Hulegu. As Kublai captures a small walled city in China, Hulegu prepares to take Baghdad, the light of the Muslim world. Iggulden writes each event from two perspectives: Kublai and the city's Prefect; Hulegu and Baghdad's Caliph. Each battlefront throughout the novel follows a similarly satisfying pair of perspectives.Hulegu is vicious and deceptive. Kublai has a keen intelligence while taking a very different approach to conquest. Hulegu is the very model of the Mongol reputation for unforgiving violence while Kublai takes a more measured approach by allowing those that surrender to live. He's slowly building out his future constituency, while Hulegu's ironfisted approach will ultimately lead to a strongly rebellious people and the ejection of the Mongols from the middle east.Kublai transforms from an intellectual into a battle-hardened, glory-seeking leader. His foundation of cultural intellectualism continues to drive him. Hulegu, like his predecessors, is very "foreign", cold, distant and harshly regal. Kublai is infinitely more relatable. He's loving father and husband, and his committed adoption to Chinese culture weighs heavily in his favor with the Chinese people.Kublai's tale is, in many ways, a tale of the evolution of the Mongol empire. He represents the transformation of a society from a massive blending of distinct tribes from across the steppe into a forward-thinking, multicultural world influencing power.As always, Iggulden's writing is very big and bold. Dialogue is straight forward, but more subtle when Kublai is involved. Like the other books in this series, the reader is introduced to the world and culture of the Mongols and, to a lesser extent, 13th century China. If this is the last book in this series then I'm genuinely sad to see it conclude. This is a good book in a very strong series.
4 Found the book to be educational while still exciting and has left me wanting to read more of his books.
4 The battle scenes are gripping and the main characters are well drawn with a deft brush. From what I have determined the major historical events in the book are accurate. The portrayal of family life and relations is a little corny in some cases. I found it to be a compelling good read.Kublai Khan eventually ruled an empire more vast than that of the Romans. I learned little of it in the history I learned through my education all the way through grad school in the US. We are sadly lacking in teaching students about Asia & Chinese history. This was an enjoyable way to make a little dent in my cavity of ignorance.It's the 3d in a trilogy, and so now on to 1 and 2.False Prophet, a Legal Thriller
5 Another success by Mr. Iggulden.  I have read all of the Conqueror and Emperor series books.  The level of detail and the story telling are excellent. Mr. Iggulden is one of my favorite authors.  I look forward to his next series.
4 This, the fifth and apparently final novel in the Conqueror series is set in the 13th century and is about the grandsons of Genghis Khan, and the control of the empire he created.  As the novel opens, Ogedai's son Guyuk is the Great Khan.  When Guyuk dies in 1248, M&ouml;ngke, son of Tolui, eventually (in 1251) succeeds him as the Great Khan.  Each of M&ouml;ngke's brothers, Kublai, Hulegu and Arik-Boke are assigned territorial responsibilities.  Kublai, a scholar of Chinese culture, goes east (into China), Hulegu goes west (eventually to Baghdad), and Arike-Boke is responsible for the Mongol homeland, around Karakorum.  After M&ouml;ngke is assassinated, civil war breaks out between Arike-Boke and Kublai for the right to be Great Khan.  The novel ends with Kublai's defeat of Arike-Boke (in 1264), poised on the edge of his remarkable future.`I declare myself great khan of the Chin lands and the Sung.  I have spoken and my word is iron.'Mr Iggulden covers a lot of action, and territory, in this novel.  There is a lot of detailed description of battles in the Middle East  (including with the legendary Assassins) and in China and a sense that the laws and traditions of the past were being outgrown as the Mongol nation increased its territories.  In this novel, Kublai is depicted as learning how to be an effective leader of men and adding these strengths to his knowledge of Chinese culture.  There are a number of interesting characters depicted in the novel, including Kublai's orlok (general), Uriang-Khadai.`Laws and traditions mean nothing, if you have the strength.'While I enjoyed this novel for its depiction of the dynastic intrigues and territorial battles of the descendants of Genghis Khan, I was hoping for a greater focus on Kublai.  And while I understand Mr Iggulden's decision to complete the series before covering Kublai's life in its entirety, part of me is disappointed.  I'm not particularly concerned, though, about any factual inaccuracies in the series.  If historians don't always agree on facts and interpretations, surely writers of fiction can be afforded some degree of flexibility in their depiction of people and events.As Mr Iggulden writes about the Conqueror series in his historical note: `This story begins with a single, starving family, hunted and alone on the plains of Mongolia - and ends with Kublai Khan ruling an empire larger than that of Alexander the Great or Julius Caesar.'  His point is that this is a fascinating tale of `rags to riches' in just three generations. I think that this is true from a dynastic perspective, but doesn't stop me wondering how Mr Iggulden would have depicted Kublai's founding of the Yuan Dynasty in 1271.`I was in the right, but now you are.'Jennifer Cameron-Smith
5 This is the fifth in Conn Iggulden's saga of Genghis Khan and his descendants as they sweep across first Mongolia, than Asia and the Middle East, through Russia into Europe, leaving death, devastation and misery behind.Iggulden is a master of the historical novel. Before the Khan novels, he wrote the Emperor novels about Julius Caesar.Here he tracks the ascendancy of Kublai Khan who went on to rule one-fifth of the Earth's land area.Some complain that Iggulden distorts history, a familiar charge against all historical novelists. Here the claims often fall short because relatively little of the period's history was recorded and much that was written by the losers who had, as you might expect, an axe to grind.Iggulden quickly covers the period between the death of Ogedai, the reigning Great Khan, through the machinations of his wife to get his son Guyak elected by the tribes as the Great Khan. Guyak, a cruel, rather stupid, man rules a few years before being murdered.Kublai in Iggulden's novels was the scholarly grandson of Genghis. History reflects this generally as fact. But where the other Mongol children went out to loot and pillage, in the novel, Kublai stays at home and studies. When his brother Mongke assumes the mantle of Great Khan, he sends Kublai off to conquer that part of China Genghis Khan didn't put to the sword a generation earlier.Kublai grows as a warrior and in wisdom.Iggulden casts these world historical figures as humans who love, have fears, love their children, suffer from poor decisions. The world of Genghis's heirs is a world filled with brutal violence where a king can be a slave the next day. The ordinary people are there to fulfill their master's desires. As someone once said, life was nasty, brutish and short.Iggulden is a master of his craft. Every page is loaded with some kind of action, whether it is the politics of electing a Great Khan, the forming of an alliance, preparation for battle, the battle itself and its aftermath. I haven't been able to read one his Genghis novels without wondering for days afterward what life must have been like for the Mongols - and those they came to rule. I would want to have lived in that time."Conqueror" is a page turner in every sense of the word. Yes, it can be read as it stands, but I think the reader's pleasure would be enhanced by reading the four preceding novels.Overall, this is a page turner. Kublai Khan comes alive in these pages.Jerry
5 Where to begin?  It was such an amazing series!I love historical fictions, they give you a front row seat into how our world was shaped while breathing life into long dead people.  This series did that and MORE!I recommend starting at the first book and, if you are half as into these books as I was, you won't be able to put them down.Pros:- Battle scenes, very descriptive and exciting.  I would like to congratulate the author on keeping the types of battles written throughout the series fresh and interesting.  They fought constantly for generations but always a new location, new odds, new strategy, new obstacles.  Very EXCITING!-Character development.  The number of characters is never overwhelming and you become emotionally invested in their lives.  They have varying personalities, goals, dreams, while still keeping a bit of humor.-Extremely well written-Great mix of historical fact and page turning dramas. I really enjoyed understanding the life of the Mongols.  They are strong people.  Very impressive.-Scenery descriptions, I loved the changes in scenery and I have a much deeper understanding of the climate and environment of the Mongol, Asian, and Islamic parts of the world. Plus the struggles that had to over come to survive and conquer.-Assassins~!  Only the Mongols would take on assassin strong holds...The author truly captures the essence of this book in his final note:"This story began as a single starving family, hunted and alone on the plains of Mongolia -- and ends with Kublai Khan ruling an empire larger than that of Julius Ceaser or Alexander the Great.  Over just three generations, that is simply the greatest rags-to-riches tale in human history"  Conn IgguldenI am now going to read his Ceaser series and any other historical fiction Conn Iggulden writes!!WONDERFUL!!!!
5 Never knew much about the Mongols but this set incl this book is so readable, true to the facts and the people come alive. Couldnt put it down and have ended up with a huge respect for their achievements.
4 Fantastic read! Iggulden continues the great story with Kublai as its crowning glory.... truly have enjoyed the entire series! Enjoy!
5 Conn Igguldon is simply one of the best. This book continues his Khan series and the writing is simply superb. Igguldon's treatment of historical fiction is second to none.His treatment of combat puts the reader in the middle of sweeping battles. His characters are engaging and true to life. They are not simple. They are complicated. The book is a "can't put down page turner." Buy it, you'll love it.
4 There are two ways to judge this book: as a historical novel standing on its own merits, and as the capstone of Conn Igulden's five-book series on the glory days of the Mongol Empire.  The four-star rating I'm giving the book applies to the former; on the latter standard, I'm afraid I'd have to go with three.I've been a fan of Iggulden's Mongol books from the start, but I have to say that this one suffers in comparison to the first four.  The characters whose compelling stories we followed are for the most part gone.  Genghis, of course, died in Bones of the Hills.  By the end of Empire of Silver, his brothers and sons were all dead, leaving no one to remember the events of Birth of an Empire; and even those who were present for Lords of the Bow don't make an impression in this book.  Very early on there's a scene with the retired Tsubodai, who never even gets a reference to the effect of "By the way, Tsubodai died" later in the book.  Yao Shu hangs around for a while and actually winds up giving a great retrospective of the events he's seen in a lifetime with the Mongols in the one chapter written from his viewpoint.  The boy emperor who was forced to kneel to Genghis after the fall of Yenking and who then fled returns as an old man who's spent his entire life on the run, and makes one last, vainglorious stand, but incredibly, Kublai never even notices.  Sorhatani is a major player for the first half of the book or so.  By then we see elder Mongols reminiscing about their youths during Tsubodai's invasion of Europe at the end of the last book.The point is, this book sets out to cover decades of history and moves through it all very quickly, so that readers who might be used to the more deliberate pacing of earlier works might be taken aback.  (It probably didn't help that I finished Empire of Silver just a few weeks before starting this book; up till now, I'd waited for each book to come out in paperback or else drop in price, and wound up reading the installments in the series most of a year apart.  This strengthened my feeling that Ogedai's khanate should have been thought of as a very recent thing.)Anyway, so the strong characters are gone, and the book really moves too quickly for new characters to take their place.  Even Kublai himself is not as well realized as he might have been.  Another book or two, detailing his unification of China, his invasions of Japan, hosting Marco Polo at his court, would have given the new generation of characters time to establish themselves, and we could have looked back on Conqueror as a transitional book.  Unfortunately, Igulden announces in his afterword that this is the end of this particular series.  (Though rumors abound that he'll be returning to Rome next, resuming a series he discontinued years ago; we might hope he eventually revisits Xanadu as well.)  But characters who appear only in this book, or in this book and the last one, flit across the stage and die off without having made much of an impression.  Guyuk is especially forgettable, in the novel as well as in the history of the empire.  I was amused to see in the historical note that Iggulden justifies the very ahistorical choice to make Guyuk gay--a gay khan!--when, had he not mentioned this, I would not have noticed at all.  The only indication in the narrative of this artistic choice is, apparently, a blink-and-you'll-miss-it sentence where Guyuk goes hunting with one bondsman and orders him to unroll a thick mat on the ground; the mat is never used.  Still, at least this choice  was intended to serve a purpose, in Iggulden's mind anyway.  It seems that lately I've constantly run across writers who write gay characters for no reason at all.Plotwise it's a whirlwind tour of the khanates of Guyuk and Mongke (skipping over an interregnum during which Sorhatani and Torogene ruled the roost, which they'd been setting up at the end of the last book; I suspect their stories would have been far more interesting than their firstborn sons'.)  When Mongke succeeds Guyuk, he begins his bloody reign by "purifying" Mongol culture (and ethnically cleansing the capital, and purging the supporters of the previous khan--who'd been his ally!)  He also resumes the empire's expansionism, which had stalled since Tsubodai was recalled from Europe, sending the ruthless Hulegu out southwest from Samarkand to push as far as Syria, and sending Kublai into the Sung empire, the southern half of China.  Kublai is infinitely more civilized than any Mongol leader encountered in the series to date, even Tsubodai, and his plans for reforming the way his people's empire operates are interesting--to say nothing of a welcome relief after four books of having to root for gratuitously cruel protagonists.  (This is another reason that the decision to end the series as soon as Kublai consolidates power and becomes the undisputed khan is regrettable.)The final third of the book, the strongest section by far, tells of the civil war between Kublai and his brother Arik-Boke, both of whom are pressing claims to the throne.  (I must say that, over the course of the last two books of the series, the lack of interest among the Mongol princes in establishing clear succession protocols, sparing themselves the headaches of costly horse-trading and palace intrigue every time a khan dies, really became perplexing.)  It's pretty good stuff, especially after the very rushed whirlwind tour of the two decades connecting it to the death of Ogedai; but it feels more like the prologue of another great book than the stopping point.  As the end of Iggulden's afterword discusses, historical fiction has to stop somewhere, and the final page of dialogue involves Kublai and his son having a somewhat philosophical conversation on the same theme, of history winding off toward eternity.  Sure, the story has to stop somewhere, but the point Igulden chooses feels like a very strange stopping point indeed.  I hope he reconsiders in a year or two.Like all of Iggulden's novels, the book ends with a summary of the historical research that went into the book, providing more information on events that were represented accurately (if dramatically) and justifying why certain embellishments were made where they are.  I love finding these sections at the ends of historical novels, and Iggulden's are the most informative and accessible of anyone writing today.  This section also includes something new to this book: a glossary of names and terms.  I found the characters pretty easy to keep track of this time (though that wasn't true in earlier volumes) and after five books I would hope I recognize words like airag, tuman, and ger.  Why a glossary now?  Even more perplexing, it includes the names of characters who don't even appear in Conqueror, and names the books in which they had their last appearances.  Wouldn't such things have been more useful in the earlier books?Bottom line: As a book judged on its own merits, this holds up all right despite feeling somewhat rushed, and despite referring back to events of previous books so often that it could never be a true standalone the way Lords of the Bow or Bones of the Hills maybe could.  As an installment in the overall series, it's not one of the stronger books.  I feels like a necessary transition from one generation of characters to the next, and pick up momentum toward that end in the final hundred pages or so; but that momentum has nowhere to go.  I do hope Iggulden eventully changes his mind, but if he decides to tell some other historical story instead, I can say that, after this introduction to the author, I'm prepared to follow him anywhere.
5 The best of the Khan Saga even without Marco.  If you read this first then starting at the beginning with the Birth Of an Empire will be a must.  A very believable account of one of the Most Interesting Men of all time.  Conn can write two or three more books on Kublai without exhausting  the tail.
3 First posted on Amazon.co.uk on 10 NovemberIf you are a fan of Conn Inggulden, then this book should probably get four stars. I am not, after having read all of his books and despite all his qualities.I agree with other reviewers: he is a great story teller. This book is superbly written, at least most of the time, although I got a bit annoyed when he kept switching scenes every 3-5 pages because it felt like a cheap and unecessary ploy to build up suspense where no such build up was needed. He is also very good at describing the personality of his characters but here again, he sometimes goes a bit overboard and overdoes it. A couple of examples: Kubila portrayed as a scholar whose personality is "transformed" into a hard warrior. Somewhat exagerated when you know that Mongols in general, and the descendants of Gengis in particular, learnt to ride, shoot a bow and use a sword and lance almost as soon as they started to walk! Another example is Alghu, turned into some kind of trembling coward, which he wasn't at all in reality. He in fact sided with Arik-Boke, then changed sides and defeated Alandar in battle. Another example is G&uuml;yuk Khan, of which we know little in reality, and who is portrayed as some kind of sadist.However, my main problem is that this book (and all of Conn's other books) is that it is simply NOT historical fiction. Rather, it is FICTION built around a rather loose historical background with which the author takes as many liberties as he pleases, without even disclosing half of them in his so-called "historical note". Here are a few examples, but there are many others:- did you know that Batu, far from having a single tuman when G&uuml;yuk made his bid for power was in fact his most powerful opponent? He had with him part of the battle-hardened army that had swept into Europe with Suboda, Jebe and all of the other descendants of Genghis. He also had thousands of warriors from the nomad people that they had just conquered (Volga Bulgars, Cumans etc...)?- did you know, that contrary to what Conn Inggulden mentions, Batu was NOT the first-born of the first born (son of Jochi)? He had an elder brother who was the one who became paramount Khan in the West when Genghis died and its only afterward his brother's death (during Ogoda's reign) that he took over this position.- did you know that BATU died in 1255, so that he NEVER sided with Kubila, simply because he was dead five years before the latter made his bid for supreme power? In fact, Batu's successor, his younger brother Berke, converted to Islam, allied himself with the Mamluks of Egypt, and attacked H&uuml;legu from the North through the Derbend pass, effectively preventing him from taking an active part in the civil war between his two other surviving brothers- did you know that H&uuml;legu sided with K&uuml;bilai straight away, was never rescued by K&uuml;bilai top general (who was NOT the son of Suboda) in the middle of a battle and that H&uuml;legu had no qualms at all in going against Arik-B&ouml;rke?- did you know that the conflict between Arik-B&ouml;rke and K&uuml;bilai last some 4 years (1260-1264) and was ended when the former surrendered to the latter, after Alghu had joined K&uuml;bilai, who held Northern China, and beaten Arik-B&ouml;rke- I won't even discuss K&uuml;bilai's ride to Batu as a (relatively) young man or even his crossing of central Asia when fighting against Arik-Boke: both are fabrications and never happened, nor did the Assasins attempt to kill H&uuml;legu and successfull attempt in killing Mongke. One last thing: the death of G&uuml;yul is a bit of a mystery, as Conn mentions. Conn chose to have him killed by Batu in single combat: how very dramatic! He could just as well have died of dysentry, as Mongke when besieging one of the Song's city...So, fiction, yes. A gripping read and a superbly written book, certainly. But historic, it is certainly not and contrary to Bernard Cornwell, for instance...
4 If you like good historical novels and don't care too much about getting all the historical details right, then you will like this book.  Iggulden is a talented story-teller.  The novel moves at a brisk pace and is hard to put down.  The bad guys may seem a little too bad and the good guys a little too good, but it is a fun read.Iggulden's publisher likens him to James Clavell.  I don't think he is as good as Clavell, but he is nevertheless quite good at what he does.  If you want an action-packed yarn about Kublai Khan, then this book is for you.  Just keep in mind that the history is altered for the sake of telling a good story.
5 What a great ending to an equally great series of books! I am a big fan of Conn Inggulden's historical fiction, while I did enjoy his Emperor series, I've enjoyed reading this series the most. If you've enjoyed the other books of the series then you will enjoy this book as well. This for me is arguably the best book of them all. It manages to be interesting through out with the right amount of political intrigue, war and general plot development.It's fascinating to see the contrast between Kublai (with his Chin influences) and his Mongolian brothers. While I expected this book to be "more of the same" it is different from the others, mostly due to Kublai's different approach to conquest when compared with the previous Mongolian generals.Other reviewers have been very critical of Inggulden in his diversion from the historical record. But he is very forthcoming in the Historical Note at the end of the book. As a casual reader, I enjoyed this book I spite any historical inaccuracies and I recommend it to any fans of the series. If you are new to the series then I recommend you start with the first book, Wolf of the Plains.
5 The author admits that he stretches some facts to suit his storyline, but he creates a real story to engage us.  This was my first book by this author, and I went ahead and bought the five prequels because it brought history alive for me, and took me back to living in those times without feeling dry and boring. I could not put this book down one I got past the first chapter.  I can't wait to read the sequel too.  I had gone to see the Genghis Khan exhibit at the local science museum, and while that was pretty interesting, even their movie did not capture the brutality and hard life that was prevalent.
5 This is a wonderful conclusion to the series. Once I was into the last one hundred pages, I just had to keep reading until I had finished at 2.30 am this morning.As Conn Iggulden says in his historical notes at the end of the book, there is still so much that he could have continued to write about the Mongolian empire. Sorhatani, mother of the four grandsons of Genghis: Mongke, Kublai, Hulegu and Arik-Boke, deserves a book of her own. However, I think that Conn is correct in deciding to leave the story at the point that he does.In this book, three of the four sons of Sorhatani, and Tolui, become Gur-khan (the Great Khan), following the early demise of their cousin Guyuk. As the author points out, this is a work of fiction, and the exact nature of any of the deaths and battles are made up around known historical fact. This is waht makes Conn Iggulden such a great writer of historical fiction. He brings it to life. He adds excitement to the (possibly) dry historical reference. This is why I love the genre so much.Although it is possible to read any one of the five books in this series as a stand-alone volume, I would advise against it. One can only wonder at the rise of an empire that, at its peak, extends far further than either the Roman or Alexandran empires, from the tiniest of beginnings in the first episode. Terujin, as a small boy, is purssued into the wilderness. He grows to become Genghis, uniting the Mongolian nation and conquering most of the known world from western Europe to Eastern China.The Conqueror series is a marathon read, and I have read them as they hit the book shops. I am glad that I did. This is tremendous series, and Conn Iggulden and his supporters have done a fantastic job.I thoroughly recommend the whole series starting from the first volume and ending in the early hours of one morning sometime in your future. You will not be disappointed!
5 One of the best entries in this series. I couldn't put it down. Prior to Kublai,the Mongol khans are murderous sickos, enemies of humanity, including their own kind. The enlightened self-interest of Kublai is balm indeed.in a ruthless, brutal world.The book has the usual good writing, well-drawn characters and fast pacing of Iggulden. It's worth your money and time.Larry K
5 This is the final novel in Conn Iggulden's violent, bloody, exhilarating, dramatic, masterful series on Genghis Khan and his descendents, focusing on Kublai Khan as he transitions from scholar to warrior to Great Khan of the Mongol empire.You know, as much as I loved this book and the series, the thing I most took away from the story arc is the confirmation that men are pigs. No, dogs. No, pig-dogs. And I don't mean men as in "the human race." I mean men as in the gender. Men are the ones who revel in war, who drive their armies across the land because the land they've got isn't good enough. Men are the ones who destroy cities, melting down precious artifacts so they can stare at the bars of pure gold and silver in glee, who set fire to libraries because they don't contain any knowledge they need, destroying generations worth of learning. Men are the ones who kill the men and children in enemy villages/towns, who kill the women but not before passing them around and raping them several times over, keeping them around to act as slaves for a few years before the women finally give out from the abuse. Men are responsible for all the misery in the world.Anyway, to proceed to the actual review and step off my soapbox: I hate to categorize novels along gender lines, but I have to admit that there are historical fiction novels with storylines aimed more towards men (having more action, war, bloodshed, violence, etc. and less "mushy" stuff) and women (having more romance, personal conflict, drama, basically lots of "mushy" stuff). Iggulden's Genghis series is most definitely a masculine historical fiction series: heavy on the violence, light on romance. However, that's not to imply that characters are cardboard cutouts and no time is spent on character development. Far from it. As with all of Iggulden's previous books in this series, each character is imbued with humanity--the good, the bad, the ugly, the saintly. No one character is ever mixed up with another due to vague descriptors or similar voices.Speaking of characters, though there are many others in the novel, it's Kublai who takes center stage (naturally). The evolution of his character, from a sheltered scholar to canny general to visionary leader of the Mongol nation, is fascinating to watch. Iggulden lets us peer into the mind of this legendary man, lets us see his fears, his machinations, his strategies and battle plans; only with Genghis did we see this kind of intimacy, their outer strengths as well as their inner fears and doubts. And I believe Iggulden did this on purpose, to forge a link between grandfather and grandson, creator of the Mongol nation and its savior.For the first time, I actually have a nitpick about one of Iggulden's books, and it concerns the character of Guyuk, who seems to undergo a 180 degree shift in personality. While, admittedly, we didn't see a lot of him in the previous novel, what we did see of Guyuk seemed to imply that he was somewhat happy-go-lucky, willing to go where others led, and not much inclined to put up a fuss if plans seemed to go awry. Suddenly, though, in Conqueror, Guyuk has become a narcissistic psychopath: Things must go his way or else people begin to die. Perhaps it was the delay in him being named Khan that brought about this change in personality, but when he does, finally, become Khan, he remains a bloodthirsty (beyond even Mongol standards) tyrant, so that when his death comes, it's a welcome relief, both to the Mongol nation and to the reader. Perhaps that kind of personality shift is completely natural under such stressful circumstances, but it was still jarring.Aside from the minor point, once again I was blown away by Conqueror. The power of Iggulden's writing is darn near awe-inspiring and it makes me quite eager to pick up his other series concerning Julius Caesar.
5 Conn Iggluden gives us insight into the thoughts behind the actions of Kublai Kahn, Gengis Kahn's brightest grandson.  Kublai chooses to  establish his kahnate in previously unconquered Chinese territory.  He chooses to offer peaceful surrender rather than military devastation by his tumans; the devastation which the then-world remembers all too vividly from the time of his grandfather's violent victories.  Kublai spent his learning years being guided and educated about the advantages of the Chin culture by a Chin monk who had been Gengis' adviser. It is Kublai's goal to achieve domination of this culture to divert their riches into his coffers and unending streams of riches and knowledge for himself, his heir and his followers.This historical novel is a real page-turner to us fans of the genre!
5 One of the best books that I have read so far this year.  Conn Iggulden has taken the history of Kublai Khan and the story of a immense empire and created an absolutely amazing story.  The story is well written, the action fast and the book impossible to put down once you start.The author has loosely followed the history of Kublai Khan starting with his brother, Mongke's rise to Khan after the death of Guyuk Khan and has done an amazing job at bringing the story to life.  While Hulegu is occupied in the middle east, Mongke sends Kublai into China to overthrow the rulers of the Sung territories.  Genghis had also tried to take over the Sung territories in China, but had died before being able to do so. We read about the transformation of Kublai from a scholar to a warrior and leader of thousands to becoming the Khan and emperor.  Although the author has taken liberties with some details, the story of the rise of Kublai does follow many of the historical facts.The author has lent the main characters depth though the sharing of their thoughts and weaknesses which lends more credibility to the story.  Other characters in the book such as Kublai's mother, his generals, Batu and of course the assassins are all powerful characters in themselves and add to the grandness of the story.  Without their influence, Kublai would have been but another minor footnote in history instead of the famous Khan he became.I highly recommend this book.
5 I was, as most Americans are, only vaguely aware of the Mongol Hordes from history classes in my long ago school days. So I decided to fill up some of that gap in my knowledge. This book certainly fills that gap. Though I would have liked a more detailed map. Still I learned a lot. The list of foreign terms and names in the back helped.The Mongols were semi-democratic. The Khan (pronounced Haan, since there was no K in the Mongol language, though I couldn`t find who added the K) was elected by the officers and nobles voting for their units. Though with more bribes, threats, torture, murders, flowing rivers of milk based alcohol and other shenanigans than even a Chicago election.There are a lot of graphic violence scenes. Mongols liked and enjoyed graphic violence. One candidate for Khan is applauded because he managed to totally cow his opponents with a mere murder count of less than 100, instead of the thousands a lesser lord with less style would have needed.They not only bashed others, but it was even traditional to slash your own face up into a mass of scar tissue so the beard wouldn't grow and you have to shave. Mongol warriors had as part of their traveling rations a dish of mare's milk mixed with blood. They sometimes ran out of milk, but always found all the blood they needed.The Hordes not only brought extra horses, switching to a fresher one every so often.  They also brought their wives and children to watch the slaughter, and carried along their entire portable towns on horseback. And big cannons, which hadn't been mentioned in the history class. Huns and earlier hordes had ignored big walled cities, just wiping out all the farms in the area so the town had to surrender or starve. Mongols just blew the city walls away with stone cannonballs.Kublai (Hublai) breaks this mold, by being almost civilized. He even learned how to read.  After killing 10,000 or so Chinese with a cleverly done surprise attack he got from a book by the Chinese general Sun Tzu (Art of War), he stops the ritual slaughter of the 40,000 prisoners of war, sending them home with eyewitness accounts of what happens to those who don't instantly surrender. Thus using fear propaganda instead of mindless slaughter, disgusting his lesser officers. Every enemy leader underestimates Kublai for the Mongol reputation as brain dead barbarians who can't think their way out of a paper bag, or for the opposite reason, namely, how can someone who likes to read win a fight? Yet by the use of his brains, he consistently defeats armies that outnumber him by plenty.Other Khans or would be Khans are covered, as well as the Islamic cult of assassins (hashasin).Oddly, the book is so well written that even though I knew that Kublai would end up the Khan before I opened the first page, I even felt periods of suspense, wondering if he could possibly get out of the latest scrape.
5 I consider myself lucky to have been offered the opportunity to read an advance review copy of this novel, as I truly believe it is one of the best books I have read in some time.  Conn Iggulden does an excellent job of getting you inside the head of his characters - you smell the smoke, feel the pain, and can get a sense of even taste when he describes things - and your emotions go up and down with the non-stop action in this book.This is not only yet another tale of Kublai Khan, but is well-researched as you go through battles with his brothers and cousins in the Middle East and Russia, and Kublai's battles in present-day China.  You not only find yourself rooting for the Mongols to prevail, but you also feel some sympathy and start rooting for the former emperor of the Chin Empire.  In a comparison of historical fiction authors, Conn Iggulden (to me) ranks right next to Jeff Shaara.Kindle owners may balk at the pricing above $9.99, but it is worth every penny and then some.  I certainly hope Iggulden intends to write a sequel, as I would like to read more about the Mongol dynasty!
4 The thing about Conn Iggulden's Mongol series is that it's historical fiction that is fun to read. You get enough of the history to get a sense of how things were; quick Wikipedia scans will highlight discrepancies almost immediately (not that this reviewer cares). But the reader is treated to scenes of thousands upon thousands of marauding horsemen battling grim-faced Sung infantrymen in southern China or treacherous Assassins in the dusty Arabian deserts, or the horsemen fighting each other in the open Mongolian plains as internal political struggles within the empire turn violent. We are also treated to engaging recreations of Mongol warlords, generals and the various adversaries they faced."Conqueror's" plot is more developed as Iggulden takes the time to set the scene for the introduction of Kublai Khan's reign. He keeps it interesting by weaving the political struggles for who would take the fallen Ogedai Khan's place with well-written battle sequences. The author takes us from one end of the Mongol empire to the other as new khans are declared, some are deposed and new lands fall to the lords of horse, bow and cannon. From Batu's khanate in the primeval forests of the vast Russian expanse to the deserts of the Baghdad caliphate and the rich lands of Sung China, battles for the heart of Genghis' empire and for its expanding borders are written in clear prose that vividly brings the scenes to life and keeps the pages turning at a rapid gallop. Very fun to read.
4 I love historical fiction and was interested to learn more about Kublai Khan. I think most people in the western countries are unaware of the rich history of Asia and I was hoping this book would become a springboard for me to discover more about the Mongols and their conquests.In that aspect, this book was a success. The main character was fascinating enough that I researched more. I regretted starting the series with this book and wished I had known about Iggulden's previous series about Ghengis Khan. Still, it was a good read. The writing was superb with spot-on details that bring that world to life. Kublai was fully fleshed out. You saw him as a calculating warlord but also as a family man, concerned about the safety of his son and wife. Sometimes he was ruthless, sometimes he showed mercy.The only downside to the book was the countless battles. Understandably so considering who the subject matter was, however I found the beginning much more interesting when there was more political intrigue and machinations. Towards the middle it was just one battle after another and it took resolve to pick up the book and finish it. Don't get me wrong, the battles had remarkable detail and the pacing was good. I even found some of their methods fascinating but in the end, I was just thinking "Okay, enough. We already know he prevails. Now tell us what he does after he wins."But alas, that is not included in this book. Maybe there will be a sequel?A 3.5 but since Amazon doesn't do half stars, I'll go with 4.
4 My husband got me started reading this series about Ghengis Khan and his successors.  I didn't think I'd care for such a blood-and-guts theme that, of course, surrounds this era, but to my surprise I have really enjoyed them.  Iggulden really is an engaging writer.  A word of warning, however, for those of you who are sticklers for absolute historical accuracy in your historical fiction:  Iggulden takes liberties.  If you understand and accept that ahead of time, you'll likely enjoy this series far more than if you were expecting complete accuracy.  That said, this installment of the series, which focuses on the grandsons of Ghengis Khan has all the hallmarks of a good Iggulden novel: a fast-paced plot, interesting characters and great battle scenes.  If the series sounds interesting, be sure to start with the first one: Ghengis: The Birth of an Empire.  Happy reading!
5 You have to read the earlier 4 books in this series to see where the theme of this book comes from.  A great series giving weeks of reading enjoyment. Not for the lighthearted. Lots of butchery and slaughter. But worth the read even from an historical perspective.
5 Having read Iggulden's &#34;Emperor&#34; series of books, I moved on to his series about the Mongols and their Khans.All Iggulden;s books are well researched and written, with a style that I find both easy and enjoyable to read. I look forward to any series he decides to write in the future.I recommend any of these books to those seeking well written, informative and interesting literature.
5 (warning: spoilers) Kublai leads his Mongol hoard into China, then returns home to defeat his brother and become Khan.If I didn't know this was based on a true story, I wouldn't believe it. It's like the entire population of central Asia was a bunch of filthy, stinking, murderous nomadic psychopaths. Kublai was just as bad as the rest of them, even though he was intelligent and educated. He loved to spill blood, in huge quantities.One point that struck me is how small accidents and decisions made in haste can affect thousands of lives and change the course of history. When it comes to a fight between brothers, a little diplomacy would have gone a long way. If Kublai and his brother had just talked to each other before trying to slaughter each other, they could have prevented massive casualties in both their armies. But they didn't care about that. Warriors were fighting on the same side one year and then killing each other the next. It all seemed kind of insane to me. And yet it's mostly a true story. Humans really are capable of that kind of carnage.This book gives you a lot to think about. It's a good read -- a bit bloody, but compelling.
4 I have read all of Conn Iggulden's Khan series books and quite enjoyed them.  Both the history was insightful, and the plots and characters made them a pleasure to read.
5 Another well written and enthralling book.  The Khan series of books are ones that I could not put down for a moment.
5 I found this book to be a great read,based on true events the story is woven through the history of the Mongols I could not put the book down, in fact the only disappointment regarding this book was that it finished.Another thing I liked about the book was that at the end the author lets you know which bits are not factual and why he decided to interpret these events in a particular way. I have not read any other of the authors books and am sorry I read this one out of sequence. However a great read and worth every penny.
4 I was first introduced to Conn Iggulden when I chanced upon a copy of Genghis: Birth of an Empire. As a student of history, I had long been fascinated by Genghis, perhaps the greatest conqueror the world has ever known, and yet I knew very little of him. While Iggulden of course at times take liberties with history - he is, after all, writing historical fiction - his tales are carefully researched and truly bring these great men to life.Over the course of the series, we have gotten to know Genghis and then, later, his sons and grandsons, who would attempt to carry on his legacy. Obviously, none of these descendants were as famous as his grandson Kublai. I have been looking forward to reading about Kublai from Iggulden's perspective almost since I began reading the series, and thankfully Conqueror does not disappoint. It contains all of the action and suspense of the earlier books, but in many ways it harkens back to the first book, as we are once more introduced to a man who at first seems entirely unsuited to the path we know he will eventually take.I wouldn't likely recommend this as a introduction to Iggulden's work, but to anyone who has read the other titles in the series, this is a most-read conclusion.
4 This is a really good book about Kublai Khan, a grandson of Ghengis Khan. It is thoroughly researched and well written. The book seems overwhelming at first, consisting of over 450 pages, but it is filled with action and interesting plot lines that take the reader swiftly through the pages. Ghengis Khan was a strong, fierce, Mongol warrior who commanded a huge army and conquered vast territories in Asia from the borders of  Eastern Europe to Northern China. Kublai would expand Ghengis' empire to include all of China, even attacking as far as Japan. This book is the story of Kublai's rise to power from a scholarly youth, to his appointment by his brother, Mongke Khan, as a leader of a mighty army sent to conquer the vast lands of China. As Kublai gets a taste for leadership of his Mongol army, his older brother, Mongke Khan, is assassinated. Both Kublai and his younger brother, Arik-Boke, each claim leadership of the Mongol people. This sets the stage for a thrilling fight for the right to the title of Khan.
5 With 'Conqueror', Conn Iggulden can very well be acclaimed as the best Historical Fiction writer of today. This is the latest in his 4 novel series on the Genghis Khan dynasty and tells us the story of how Kubali Khan (Genghis grandson) built up the one of the most remarkable empires that human civilization had witnessed. Unlike most writers of Series novels, where they come to depend on a standard 'formula', Mr. Iggulden is very creative and innovative, making each of his books unique. Further you do not need to have read the other books in the series to enjoy the current one. This is a remarkable achievement and takes him above the other well known historical fiction authors such as Bernard Cornwell or Colleen McCollough.  The thorough research and the natural story telling mode makes Conn Iggulden's books a pleasure to read.Whether you are historical fiction fan or new to it, I would strongly recommend that you read this book.
4 Conn Iggulden's novels of military historical fiction may not demonstrate complete fidelity to the historical record, but they are bloody entertaining."Conqueror" moves Iggulden's saga of the Mongols forward by leaps and bounds - if Iggulden weren't so focused on keeping the action flying fast and furious, "Conqueror" easily would contain enough story for two books.  But that's Iggulden's choice, and it's valid.  Unlike, say, George R. R. Martin, who will give you pages and pages of intricate story about minor events in the lives of minor characters, Iggulden focuses on the big events and the big people.Here, the big people are the grandsons of Genghis Khan - for the Mongol nation is about to fall into horrific civil war.  I am far from steeped in the lore of the Mongols, but even I know that eventually Kublai Khan will take over.  Many dominoes need to fall first, it seems.  Guyuk, who should be referred to as "the Unworthy," assumes the mantle of Great Khan largely thanks to the efforts of others.  He proves more interested in abusing the position than building the nation, and he is not long for the throne.  Kublai ("the Scholar," which was not a compliment in Mongol culture) is not ready to assume the throne, but his older brother Mongke is.  Mongke decides that to toughen up his brother he needs to send Kublai to war, and so it is that Kublai discovers his true genius waging war against the Chinese.  In another culture it would be a sad thing for someone to make the journey of self-discovery over the bodies of so many thousands of butchered bodies, but these are the Mongols.True, Kublai is a revolutionary Mongol leader.  Thanks in large part to the influence of his Buddhist teacher, Kublai retains a measure of mercy.  But Kublai is also capable of leading a brutal fighting force that crushes army after army as the Sung decide to use their overwhelming manpower to wipe out Kublai's superior forces.  (If you cannot tell, this is one violent book.)"Conqueror" spans the range of the Mongol nation, from Xanadu in the East to Baghdad in the West.  The Mongols conquer, loot and slaughter their way across the world, but thanks to the vengeance of the Assassins and the Mongol practice of awarding leadership to the strongest general, the Mongols are destined for civil war.  Indeed, if it were not for this civil war that saw the Mongols decimate themselves, the Eastern world would be a much different place today.Iggulden has more freedom with the Mongol story than he did with Julius Caesar as there are more gaps in the historical record that he can fill with a novelist's touch.  This is to the good, as Iggulden tells an exciting, violent story.  Just don't read "Conqueror" and believe that you're getting an honorary PhD in Mongol history - you will need to read some duller but more fact-based accounts for that.  This isn't a criticism of Iggulden - just an acknowledgement that he's aiming for a great story rather than a great history.
5 A great adventure! I never thought I would love a story of their conquests and their lives. Makes them real!
5 Most of us know the Mongol Emperor of China from seeing movies about Marco Polo or the Stately Pleasure Dome in Coelridge's poem.  Iggulden's novel is a fictional account of how he became Emperor.  It's not so much a fictional biography of Kublai either as it is a fictional history of his family.At the start of the Novel Torgene the wife of the great khan Ogedai has her son Guyuk put on the throne of the Mongol Empire as Great Khan.  Kublai and his family swear allegiance but are friends to Batu Khan of the Golden Horde.  When Guyuk plans to attack Batu, Sorghaghtani Kublai's mother sends him in Secret to tell of Guyuk's plans.Sorghaghtani and Torgene are two fascinating women who had quite a lot of power in their time.  If nothing else this Novel has quickened in me a desire to discover more about them.  The fate of nations literally rested in their hands as they tried to put one of their children on the Throne of the World Empire.Eventually, Kublai's brother Mongke becomes Great Khan.  Thinking that his brother has grown soft and is too Chinese, Mongke send him off to attack the Sung Dynasty in Southern China.  Kublai's Chinese education and Mongol Martial prowess serve him well in his campaigns and are a stark contrast to his other brother Heleugue's blunt and bloody campaigns against the Assassins, Persians, and Arabs in Middle East.It is indeed a marvelous and exotic tale based on real events.  We know how it ends but getting there is still exciting with Iggulden's excellent prose and characterizations.  He helps to bring stale history to life.
2 Conn Iggulden is a very good writer and i like his writing and have read all of his novels.  The problem with his so-called historical fiction is that the history has become further and further between.  Complete major fabrications with zero evidence is majorly damning his credibility as a writer of historical fiction.  Case in point, in a prior book, Genghis (who in history had a heart attack/stroke and fell off his horse), is stabbed to death by his wife.  Zero evidence.  Or in this book for example, the ruler of the Mongols, the Khan Guyuk, is now suddenly a homosexual character.  Once again, no evidence.  Now, i understand that today's author's are pressured to bow to political correctness and that having Genghis killed by his wife gives a woman power in the book, or changing Guyuk's sexuality is supposed to make 21st century readers associate with him more, but this is supposed to be "historical" fiction, the fiction should not descend into fantasy, the book is 'not' set in the 21st century (it's only written that way).  It's fine to make generalizations based on statistics, but some of the major plot point in Iggulden's books these days are based on completely random fantasies.  It just makes him very difficult to take seriously as a writer these days.  He is very easy to read though.
5 I listened to this as an audiobook, narrated by Richard Ferrone, so my review is based on that version.This was a great story of shifting power within the Mongol nation.  It was very interesting to hear this story because it brought up several Khans that I wasn't aware of.  I enjoyed the story of Kublai.  I liked the way he conquered without leaving total destruction in his wake.  I also enjoyed not actually knowing what the outcome of the war with his brother would be.  I was very tempted to go look it up in the history books, but that would be like peeking at the end of the story.Since I am not a history buff, but I know enough to get by, I knew that Kublai was going to become Khan.  How did he get there, well that is something that my limited knowledge didn't know.  Well now I have a better idea.  That's one of the great things that I love about historical fiction.  When I was in school, history class dragged on and on and on and on.  If only I had a few good historical fiction books back then, I would have been a straight `A' student!These stories of Genghis Khan and his descendants are really great.  I don't know which parts are historical facts and which are historical fiction, but I will always remember this version.  I know there is no way for Conn Iggledun to be privy to all the secret discussions etc.,  but they are so finely woven into the story that it just seems like they belong there. It is so well written that I find myself just wanting to accept the whole thing as truth even though I know otherwise.  LoLI highly recommend this whole series to anyone that wants to know more about the rise of the Mongol nation.  Also there is a lot of interesting facts about their specific breed of horses, their lifestyle while out on campaign and the warfare they used to gain the nation.The Narration ReviewThis audiobook was narrated by Richard Ferrone and I have grown so used to hearing his narration that I will not be able to think of this series without him.  I don't know if his pronunciation of the names is the correct pronunciation, but it is the way I will forever pronounce them. He has the perfect voice for this set of historical fiction books and he makes the whole series seem so believable, just like he was there.  Awesome.
5 Conqueror is a brilliant book!  Author Conn Iggulden takes the reader on a fast-paced, thrill-a-minute ride through the history of the previous khans and the murders committed either by their hand or at their request, and it takes a close look at Kublai's life before he became khan.  This book is not for those who dislike blood and violence, however; it has plenty, and even those with strong stomachs might not be able to get through it without wincing.  Even so, Conqueror is a good book for the history buff.
5 If you loved Iggulden's previous books, you won't be disappointed.  This story is just as intriguing,fast paced, and entertaining as the prior books. The characters are believable and the story easily captures the imagination.  In this book, Genghis' heirs fight for control of the empire.  This plunges the Mongol people into a bloody civil war where everyone must pick sides.  It is an adventure from beginning to end.
5 I had enjoyed the Ghengis books very much and thought this book was a fitting conclusion. I agreed with the author that the ending be fixed where it was, before losses and disappointments diluted the story line about Khengis Khan's development.
5 This novel fittingly ends the Khan series. The author says that he wants to end a series with the character alive and Kublai is very much alive and in control at the book's ending. This series has been so interesting and I have learned so much about the Mongols although, if truth be told, I knew next nothing when I began. Genghis was a fascinating man who was a natural military intellect. As much as I was interested in his life, I had no desire to emulate it. Riding the plains for months, eating hard bread and cold meat, drinking the blood of my horse and engaging in battle holds no appeal for me but how great it is to learn about somebody so completely different from me.The weskest book was "Silver", the one before this one. It was not the author's fault. The subject matter just wasn't as interesting. It's a very hard act to follow Genghis and, in fact, any great man. You rarely find a son from true leaders who are as heroic as their fathers. How can they be? they grew up differently and, usually, with a lot less hardship and they suffer for it. That's what happened in "Silver".But that brings us to this book, the story of the grandsons and what a group they were. I think there could have many fine khans. Batu, Jochi's son, could have been great but the line came through Tolui and Sorahatani, a great ruler in her own right. Mongke becomes the first khan of that family and shows flashes of brillance. He sends one brother west to Baghdad, Kublai to China, one to guard the home front and his able cousin, Batu, to Russia. In one sweeping move he gives his natural opponent to the Khanate enough to satisfy their ambitions and keep them busy. Problem solved.The middle third of the book bogs down a little as Kublai fights his way across the Sung empire. He uses quite a few tricks he has learned from studying Genghis' battles. I guess all that studying finally paid off. It was great to discover what happened to the Chin Emperor in exile.After several unfortunate deaths, two brothers, Kublai and Arik-Boke, fight each other for the ultimate prize, Khan. Mongol against mongol! Unheard of and, yet, it happened. Other rulers were forced to make difficult choices on who to support. Although, history tells us the outcome, I won't spoil it for anyone. The book does end up on a rather "up" note which is a nice change.This has been a rwarding book, and series, to read. I have appreciated learning so much about a period that I knew next to nothing about. I was pleasantly surprised to find a female Mongol leader I admired. Who would have thought?The author, in his historical notes, sums it up best. He says, "The story begins with a single, starving family hunted and alone on the plains of Mongolia- and ends with Kublai Khan ruling an empire larger than that of Alexander the Great or Julius Caesar. Over just three generations, that is the greatest rags-to-riches tale in human history." I couldn't have said it better.
5 The first page captures the imagination of the lives of brothers and grandsons of Genghis Khan (temujin) .When Torogene the Mongol regent steps aside for ber son to become Khan it starts a unrest and power changes hands thru death murder and the power of giving oath to a Khan. To better understand the Mongols a must read first is the Conqueror Series. My oath you will love it .
5 Have read all his books in this series and loved them all except this very last one.  Think the author kind of ran out of steam. The others really gave you a feel for the persons and had more cultural detail and descriptions.
5 I've usually limited myself to historical fiction from the modern era.  Branching out and trying new authors when it comes to historical fiction is hard to do as one grows used to the stories, character development, descriptions, and reading pace favorite authors have already created.  In the case of Conn Iggulden's "Conqueror", I cannot say that I was disappointed.  In many ways he does for the Mongols what Bernard Cornwell does for the Saxons with his most recent series.There is an immense amount of ground covered in "Conqueror" and by the end I didn't want the book to end.  As I started with this book, I'll definitely have to go back to read the first books in the series.  The history of Genghis Khan and his descendents never interested me beyond the idea that they were able to accomplish so much in so little time, but the amount of historical research Iggulden seems to have put into his tale shows how rich the history of the Mongol Khanate truly is and the immense impact they had on the world.The pace of the book was good, I somewhat hoped for better battle descriptions, but when you have masses of tens of thousands struggling against each other, there is only so much one can describe without getting bogged down in needless minutia.  The political intrigue, the secrecy, and the new 'worlds' one encounters as the Mongols attempt to spread their rule are all intriguing in their own way, especially the Assassins in the Middle East.  While historical fiction isn't the best way to learn history, it is an open door to at least experiencing part of a world we'll never truly know.  Definitely a book I would recommend.
5 Great book and well researched,it puts the reader right in the middle of the action. The Conqueror is an exciting and enjoyable history lesson.
5 I thouight that perhaps at some point things might get boring or trite but the series still retains an excellent vitality, and my interest is still balanced between keep reading and slow down to savour the story!
5 Got hooked on Conn Iggulden with the original Julius Caesar books.  Haven't read less than a 5 star book yet!  The only negative is the books end and you have to wait for his next!
4 Conqueror stands on its own, even though it is one of a series of Conn Iggulden's novels of the Mongols beginning with the story of Temujin, who started as a nobody with nothing and became the Ghengis Khan, the conqueror of nearly all of Asia. This story takes up the tale with the death of the last of Temujin's sons, and the invasion of China by Kublai Khan. It was Kublai that we remember in Coleridge's poem Xanadu (In Xanadu did Kublai Khan a stately pleasure dome decree...). In real life, Kublai was a stout warrior, even though he preferred the civilization of China and writing poetry to battle. His tumans conquered all of China...the first external dynasty to do so since the First Emperor Chi Huang Ti unified the nation.The story just rips along, as Kublai grows and develops into the great Emperor of China he became. This is one of the stories where the history itself is a great plot, and has more action than anything...if you want action, read this.Iggulden did one thing that drove me nuts, however. It is a silly, small nit, and it shouldn't detract or keep anybody from buying this novel. He continually had characters refer to the Ghengis Khan as though Ghengis were his name. It was a title that Temujin assumed, not a personal name.I plan to go back and read the others in the series.Very good book. Highly recommended. There isn't a lot of good historical fiction (not historical romance) being written, and this book stands out.
5 I am a huge fan of historical fiction.  Having devoured Barbara Tuchman, Ken Follett, Herman Wouk, and Leon Uris' books, I was overjoyed to learn that Conn Iggulden has 10 other books already available for me to absorb.  And I will.  He is electric.I understand that this genre does not appeal to everyone, but this is my heaven.  The author writes in a way that expands the story in MY head to a golden place where I get thirsty along with the rides.  I duck as the arrows fly overhead.  I scream warnings to the principal characters as they enter a danger area.Outstanding historical fiction intertwines actual events, actual characters and fictional individuals. The author then composes events that affect the characters, as well as the dialog between and reaction of the characters within the context of history. The pros in this craft of historical fiction stay within the realm of probability.  They don't stray far from what could happen.  Conn Iggulden's "Conqueror" is both an outstanding novel and historical fiction.  I am going to continue by reading his earlier "Genghis' and "Khan" novels.This is a very exciting, fact-based historical fiction.  You will not be able to put it down once you start.  The "Conqueror: A Novel of Kublai Khan" is one of the best written books I have read in the past three or four years.  I highly recommend this book.  You will love it.
5 This guy's writing is getting better and better over time and this book is no exception.  I'm glad he's still relatively young so he'll keep putting out amazing historical fiction like this.
5 Conn Iggulden's "Conqueror" is two stories: one of the political intrigue and power in the Mongol's Great Khanate  and another of military conquests. Life in the 13th Century (1200s) in the region around what is now China, Tibet, Mongolia, and generally parts of the world north and east of India was one of war and conquest. During the period of the European Dark Ages, the Mongol Empire fathered by the great Genghis Khan was in a new generation as Genghis' power was passed to sons and then grandsons. Most of the story is about Kublai's rise to power and his brothers and his own conquests in war.For me, one of the most fascinating aspects of the story was how women, both as "stage mothers" guiding their sons to power and as temporary rulers themselves, had major roles in Mongol politics. However, once a son was in power, often mommy dearest was shuffled off to some remote (yet comfortable) city away from the seat of power in Karakoram.  Likewise, a ruling kahn's aunt was often removed either geographically or sometimes more permanently.The wives of warriors and leaders often accompanied the Mongol tumens (military units about the size of small contemporary division of 10,000) as they went to battle.Early on we learn that Kublai is an unlikely candidate for Khan--he did not seem especially ambitious, he wasn't a warrior, he spent most of his time with books, and worst of all, he admired much in Chin culture and even dressed in Chin clothes. His older brother Mongke said, "He acts and dresses like a Chin whore."  Later, though, we learn that Mongke may not have been as big as a fool as he seems at first blush. He gives Kublai command of an eastern area with instructions to attack the Sung in the Chin lands to the south. Kublai's brother Hulegu is given the western lands with the rich treasure of Bagdad (then the center not only of Islam but of a magnificent library and store houses of silver and gold.) The youngest brother, Arik-Boke is made khan of the homeland where he would not launch any major campaigns.As an adventure, this one is hard to top. It has wonderful historical lessons as the reader learns that the Great Khanate is effectively ruled using a system of relay stations. Every 25 miles messengers, known as 'yam riders' would dash between the yam stations, switch to a fresh horse, and then speed on to the next station. This system of fast messaging is almost identical to the Pony Express system set up in the United States some 600 years later. Likewise, the many tumans under Kublais command were able to move quickly yet separately by an excellent communication system, even including a Mongol version of semaphores using colored flags.  Kublai's tumans could move steadily at about two yam stations per day, outmaneuvering the Sung armies and striking them from unexpected directions and in positions of their own choosing.What made Kublai Khan great was not his brutality but his intelligence and understanding of his enemies--especially the Chin. In virtually every battle he fought, he was outnumbered by the enemy; however, by using every advantage that the Mongol's had in training and mobility, as well as some tricks of his grandfather, Ghenghis Khan, Kublai defeated one army after another. Likewise, he understood what was necessary to run an empire. It was not brutality or the raw power of his tumans, but instead it was a combination of a better life for those conquered as well as the conquerers.  The notion of "hordes" is probably based on the propaganda of the defeated because rarely in the Chin lands did Kublai have superior numbers. While the Sung had short lines of communications for supply, Kublai's get getting longer and longer, but since the Mongols traveled with herds of extra horses and even camels, each warrior always had a fresh horse and a source of food when supply lines became overextended.At the end of the book is a complete list of historical characters and a small but helpful glossary. If you ever get lost, it's a great help. However, I didn't read Historical Note at the end, and I'm glad I waited. Being ignorant of the history, I was not sure how it would turn out, but once finished, the Historical Note provided a satisfying conclusion. This book is great fun, and now I want to learn about Kublai's grandfather Chenghis as depicted by Conn Iggulden.
5 A beautiful well crafted book; a book so useful for the artist or to be enjoyed by anyone who enjoys the African animals and landscape.
4 I wrote a review of this but under Animal Painting Workbook, confusing the two books.  This is a lovely book too.
5 I wouldn't say I'm a real pro at working with watercolor, I'm in my first year of trying to paint something at least once a day, still have a long way in the learning department. I have probably purchased well over  100 to 200 books here about working with Watercolor in some form or fashion. I do have my favorites among them now are Hazel Soan.  When I got this book in the mail yesterday I was totally thrilled with it, with in an hour I was painting African Sunsets/Sunrises, tree's out of Africa, and most exciting Elephant's for the very first time.This book is so beautiful, and so  much to learn from just looking at the pictues and colors Hazel chose for the subject's. Very few colors are used and what color's Hazel chose to use makes for some really exciting, beautiful paintings.I just re-ordered this book again "used" so I can fold the pages flat to work from.I think that at no matter what stage you are in with working Watercolour, you will love this Book, it is truly one of the most "Beautiful" Books I own to date.I highly recommend it for anyone on any level. I never imagined that painting Elephant's was so easy, the looser you work your paint with them or anything else in this book the better your subject looks.The Sunset's etc., are spectacular in addition to the flower's she took a minute to put in this book, in addition to the villages, animal's, just everything is breath taking and exciting.The more relaxed you are while working from what Hazel shares with us here, the better your out come. I truly think you will love this book as much as I do, and if you are just getting into Watercolor you will be amazed with what your work will look like after looking at what Hazel offer's us.You really won't be sorry you made this purchase! There is not a lot of step-by-step brush strokes to follow here, nor is all that endless page after page of "color theory" and what types of paper to use and brushes to chose you know the basic boring information that always starts out all "painting with Watercolor" how to books.I'd like to "Thank Hazel" for sharing her African Adventure in Watercolor with all of us. It has opened so many door's for me working with my Watercolors and opening my mind to so much about "what to paint"!  You will love this Book!
4 This lady is a great water colour artist and anyone would love this work of hers. Please be assured it would make a good gift as well.
5 Hazel is an amazing artist and is able to explain how she is able to make the items she paints come to life. Great skills!! Wonderful outcomes..............a joy to view ...............Brilliant artist
5 Although this book is not really a "how-to" book of watercolor techniques, it does give you much valid information about painting.  Ms. Soan shares her palette, the wet-in-wet vs. drybrush styles, and talks about values and making your subject be the focal point of the painting.  It is also a lovely travel book with gorgeous paintings on each page.  As an intermediate painter, it has just enough information and paintings for me to want to try this style and technique.  And it will be a book I treasure for the sheer beauty of the paintings inside.
4 This is the most horrifying book I've ever read. Horror fiction cant touch it. May his mother, older brothers and &#34;uncles&#34; burn in hell.  May God Bless this man and his loved ones with forever happiness!
2 Although this story does grip you from the beginning, you start to wonder if it was actually true.  Not to say that the author did not experience horrific child abuse or to doubt his story, but there were just times that I caught myself asking &#34;how does a 4 year old remember what someone else said so long ago?&#34; Or how does he know what was said by others when he was not present etc.  It just got me wondering at times.  Truly it is a miracle if Joe Peters experienced this and through no help of any adult in his life, just  happened to walk away at the end and turn out ok and write a story about it. Sorry to be negative towards an author that may have experienced such a horrendous childhood but he provides no evidence, records or adult confirmation from anyone who can confirm the story. He does not need to convince me of the atrocities of his childhood but I just felt red flags go up as I read the story.  If for his sake, he experienced such a horrible childhood, he deserves to make some money off his story but if not then perhaps he should stick with fiction since he seems to write very well.
2 I had a hard time reading this book and believing everything that was supposed to have happened it is very graphic but if this is true God only knows how he survived  a ordeal such as this.
5 This is a very raw story of his life experiences and how the people that are supposed to be there to protect the children let him down repeatedly! I'm so happy for how he was able to turn his life around and have an amazing wife and children,and to end the cycle.
4 I was so saddened by this authors history and story. I kept wanting to reach out and hug the young boy. It was also upsetting that our society as a whole failed to help him when he so badly needed it. I was so glad to hear that as he grew older he learned to love and to be accepted by another human being. It would take a very long time to learn to trust and allow other people into your life with the childhood filled with neglect and abuse.
3 I enjoyed the last page the best as you finally feel hope for Joe. I cried a lot and felt for the small child. It was an easy read and intriguing. But I just kept hoping it would be better for him sooner. It broke my heart.
5 Terrifying and heart wrenching. Sad that such a page turner is a disgusting truth. Bought and read all in the same day. I hope the abusers in this story literally burn in hell for eternity.
4 An extremely hard book to comprehend in the sense that the child abuse described seems unimaginable. Throughout the book I found myself praying for Joe and hoping he would find a way to get through life.
5 I am impressed by the choices that Joe made. Like he wrote most people would have turned to drugs and a life of crime.kudos to you Joe.
5 i read the book in one sitting how sad of a story very well written  2 many people didnt see any signs????
5 It was a good read and I had to have a strong stomach but I got through it and was happy at the end
5 Thank you Joe for sharing your story. There comes a time when children need to be heard and not just listened to. There are so many people that choose to turn a blind eye to the terrible things that's happening every single day. So many children fall through the cracks because the ones that can help only think about a pay check.
3 the book was well written,  but I don't believe the author did his homework on children who have suffered this type of abuse
5 This book is a very good read. It talks about abuse that happens to alot of boys and young men. This book has lots of raw emotions of anger and empathy. I pray that God will bless this man who opened up about his past.
5 this is excellently written, but so sad and discusting what this young boy went through, it is unbelievable. It is hard to understand how people can treat anyone like that but especially their own child. Worth reading but just know there are alot of disturbing parts in the book
5 Very tough read but know all too often that it happens. I am so sorry for all that Joe went through. I am so happy that he changed his path and finally got a life he deserved. Thank you.
4 ...gives you an idea of how horrific life can be for abused children. Not an easy read due to its` content, but never less a read that makes you want everything to turn out with a positive ending. READ IT!
4 This just made my tear up. It really opened my eyes to ask how can people be this cruel. He is a courageous man.
5 Written well, easy to understand. Filled with such raw emotion you will be moved  by it. I would recommend it.
5 I was so moved by this book. It was a truly heart wrenching story and at times hard to believe that this happened to someone. I read it in two days, couldn't put it down.  I would definitely recommend this book and hope more people read it.
3 Not the best book I've ever read. The. Story was sad and disgusting, But an eye opener if really a true story.
4 Sad tale and knowing these things really do happen scares me!  Language was a bit strong, but all in all, liked the book.
3 It is hard to believe that in a society this abuse can and does happen everyday.  I KNOW the world is cruel, but when a mother or father abuses their children ; it is just sick.  There is many psychological terms to use ,but sick is a word that everyone will understand. I give it a three star for the reading became confusing time to time.  It might just be me ,but this was a difficult read. Thank God he turned out good.
5 I read this book in about 2 days. I couldn't put it down.  When I wasn't reading it, I was thinking of Joe and what he went through.  What an amazing spirit to have survived the abuse.  I'm ready to read his second book.
5 This book will open your eyes to things that go on everyday in families that nobody knows about. It will break your heart to read what this poor boy went through but yet came out a very strong man
5 Child abuse is horrific and this story is hard to read but also shows you how some people are able to overcome a great many terrible experiences and yet still manage to be responsible people in the end. If you haven't read stories of survival like this before, be prepared to be shocked. There are a great many evil people out there in the world that we should all be aware of. A good sad story but how the writer and survivor ended his story was very well written.
4 Very good and sad. Sometimes I don't understand howpeople can be so mean. I recommend this book to everyone
5 it is hard to believe how mean people can be. but preservation and determination can overcome. this is an excellent book for people who want to read about the human spirit.
5 I read several of the reviews but I disagree with the ones that say it is not well written. I could not put it down. The sad part to me is for his Dad to love him so much and something happen to him that way. It is a shame he could not have stayed with his Dad's family, just not the sister. There are people as mean and vindictive as the Mother. I am so happy that he found a wonderful mate and had children of his own. I feel his Dad would have been very proud of him.
5 Cry Silent Tears is one of the best books I have read to date. Joe Peters has an intriguing writing style that really draws the reader in. I literally didn't want to put the book down, but, unfortunately, I had to go to work, and I don't think the boss would approve of my reading on the job. Lol! I loved everything about the book, and I was glad to find out in the end that the author was able to overcome his horrendous childhood to live a happy, healthy, and productive life as an adult. Kudos to you, Joe Peters!
4 This book is difficult to read. I found myself skipping several pages at a time, because I couldn't stomach what was happening. I kept reading for one reason, and one reason only: To find those little glimmers of light in all the darkness, even if they are brief.The lower ratings of this book say that the story seems unbelievable. Be grateful that you know so little about this life that you have trouble believing it is possible.
4 In many ways I found thus book very disturbing, but also knowing the sad fact if the truth and how this does happen. I was very moved and saddened by the happenings but the ending was all I could have wished for. Him breaking the cycle.
4 I found it hard to believe that this young man fell through the cracks as many times and for long as he did!  Thank goodness child protection laws have changed so this hopefully doesn't happen in today's world.  I am glad that the abused child grew up healthy enough to write this book, but I don't think I could be as forgiving to such a horribly abusive mother as he has been.
5 The thought  that there are children in the world who suffer the way that Joe has suffered is heartbreaking. Joe's story is a sad one but his courage and perseverance is undoubtedly admirable. He has succeeded in breaking the cycle and should be extremely proud of himself. I for one have had my eyes open to a world of pain and deception I knew existed but like many other parents would like to imagine was only the storyline of bad Hollywood movies. I know he will never read this review, but if I could tell Joe one thing I would say thank you. Thank you for having the courage to tell your story, and thank you for giving hope to others who may be living the nightmare you lived hope that they too can succeed at life.
4 ThIs was a very hard read because of the content. It made me not want to keep reading, but unable to put the book down.  It is unacceptable that such horrendous crimes are. Treated so carelessly.  I applaud Joe for his courage in sharing his story. I.m very happy for him that he has such a good life now.
4 It was a good story hard to read though. It does make you open your eyes, I work in social services and I have to remember to scratch below the surface sometimes because a true amusements how to fool everyone.
3 This was my first time reading something like this.  I had to keep putting the down because some parts of the book was so disgusting.  Some of the things this child endured was unbelievable.I kept hoping Joe would be rescued or his older brother would come back for him.  No such luck!
3 This was a story of unbelievable suffering.  It is unlikely that it is true.  Any child that suffered this much would have to been taken for medical treatment and could not have gone on unnoticed.
4 Told in a simple straight forward manner, as though it was a matter of fact part of this authors life.  Something like A BOY NAMED &#34;IT&#34;.  But with graphic simplicity of getting raped, starved , beaten by those who were to protect you.  Not porn, but just the simple words of rape, without the tititlation that could have been used.  Very detached in his story telling.  As though this did not happen to him, but instead another him in a different life.
4 The story is disturbing but it tells a real life story of abuse we all should be aware of. Children that act out need someone to listen sand someone who cares.
5 I could hardly put this book down. I just loved it. Felt so sorry for this little guy. How can a mother be so mean.
5 THIS BOOK WILL MAKE YOU SO ANGRY AND BREAK YOUR HEART AT THE SAME TIME. THE WORLD NEEDS TO KNOW ABOUT THE ANIMALS THAT DO THESE THINGS TO CHILDREN AND BE SEVERELY  PUNISHED OR BETTER THEY SHOULD BE EXECUTED BECAUSE THEY WILL ALWAYS BE CHILD MOLESTERS
5 I've been through abuse as a child and young adult, this was a very hard read but has an amazing ending.
5 It is a very hard read. How a person could be so cruel to their own child is beyond me. I think people should read this because it may hit home for some or help others. While it is a tear jerker I hope he continues to find peace and happiness in his life.
5 Saddened me that no one would believe the terrible things that were happening.It's a shame how wicked our world has become. We need jesus more than ever.
5 Hard to read at times but very well written and sad. Brought tears to my eyes and anxiety attacks to me..
4 This is a hard story to read.  It hurts me to know this is going on all around the world. It makes you want to go hug your children a grandchildren and keep a watchful eye on them.
5 It's hard to imagine this can happen to a person and nobody in authority would listen or take this young man seriously.
4 this book was one of the saddest things i have ever read . and even sadder to know that it all had really happened. reading this book makes me want to hug all the kids in foster care and to try to understand why kids act out . it really is a a silent crime because kids are going to trust there parents no matter what because a lot of the time they are isolated and don't know that things are very wrong.
4 At first I was a little hesitant about reading this material because of my own experience. I think it is good reading for people who have not experienced abuse.  Why we remain silent and confused. The writer did a good job explaining that.My only complaint about the book was how long he spent sharing the detail of the abuse. 60%  I found myself paging through at one point.
5 This is sad, disturbing read.  Yet in the end he overcame the odds. A must read for anyone dealing with disturbed children.
5 Very well written, a very good, easy book to read as far as books and reading are concerned.  However, this was probably THE saddest book I have ever read.  I actually cried throughout most of it.  And the injustice of the whole story is beyond belief.  The fact that those people ... well I won't ruin the book for any who wish to read it, but it is just unforgiveable.  The boy, now a man, is phenomenal.
4 I liked this book but was a hard read because of all the horrible things his Mother did to him! It was quite graphic but I can see where it had to be so you could really feel what he was going through! It is amazing he turned out to be a &#34;normal&#34; person! It is an amazing story tho!
5 This story was absolutely disturbing on so many levels & I don't know how I managed to fight thru the tears to actually finish this book. I CANNOT IMAGINE how he survived & was able to come to terms with his life. God bless his wife for being in his life. This book was a great read & an even better reminder of how inhumane & heartless life can be..
5 For many years I have seen the results of abuse. Ruined lives, hurt and distrust, and scars of the body, soul, and mind, turning life into just an existences of emptiness. As a case worker in a large city, I have seen hope & distress. This book gives a graphic description of the dark side of life, and the seldom experience of hope. The author is to be commended for his courage to share his own life full of abuse, betrayal, and hatred. But through it faith, love, and hope prevails.
5 This was a great recounting of an abused childs survival against all odds.  I would recommend it for anyone who likes to read.
5 Wonderfully written.  At times hard to read but other times you did not want to put it down. It's hard to believe that this really happens in today's society.
4 The only reason I gave a 4 is because of the terrible disgusting things this poor boy went through and those parts were hard to read/digest.
4 This story is hard to read because if you have had a normal childhood with good parents, it is hard to believe that there are people out there who could treat their children so horrifically. It also boggles my mind how long it takes for a child to want to sever the relationship because they so want their parents to love them.
4 Sad to know there are innocent children living like this and believing that this is how life is for everyone.
5 The story is horrific you want to reach in and gather this young boy in your arms and protect him make all the evil and viciousness that he endured be gone and erase it from his memory and from his life. You want to just hold him and tell him no one deserves this and make him feel true love.
5 Reading this book their are so many emotions it takes you through. I would never imagine that their are people in this world to do such things to children.
5 This is a very sad book and knowing this sort of thing is still happening to our children without being picked up by teachers, police and others that are supposed to care and look after our children of the future. Thank you Jo Peters for being brave enough to tell us your story.
4 This book was very difficult to read, but his story needs to be told. The agony, pain, abuse and humiliation he endured is something no child should experience. My heart aches knowing this goes on every day. Hopefully with more awareness more children can be saved.
3 The child protection agency in England most be lacking.  Only one physical examanation would have taken this boy out of that living hell!!  And no charges filled against the abusers?  Hard to beleive...
5 This is a great book , I loved it ... but it was also a book that made me cry more than once. The things that poor child had to endure were terrible . I just hope his so called family pays in death for what they should have played for in life.
4 Good book but left you frustrated with the system.  Some may read and think, &#34;this could never happen&#34;.  Read it and know it does.
5 Once I started this book I could not put it down - I read it in one sitting.  What a horrific story but the writer is inspirational.
5 I work with children. This book helped me to really think about and want to get to why a child acts out and not just believe what parents say. It made me want to dig deeper and not give up on these children. It should be a must read for anyone working with children.
2 I forced myself to finish it, but it was so drepressing that it was almost unbelievable that there are human being like those
4 This read was a very serious story that is very believable.  Our society is seeing the consequences of this type of child abuse in very dysfunctional homes.
4 I am in shock and disbelief at what this child went through. A very tough read, but only due to the sheer honesty of the author. My heart goes out to this man and any other child who has suffered in this way.
4 I really like  this book. It made me really think about what is going on and there are terrible things that are still happening in this world. Also that the social services are not great and children aren't always being cared for the way they need to be.
5 This book opened my eyes to the most horrific events anyone could imagine happening to a child. The fact that he survived at all is a miracle.
4 It's hard to believe that someone could go through what Joe experienced, and come out the other side with a relatively normal life.  This is a true testament to the strength of the human spirit.
5 A no holds barred expose from one who experienced this; know about these things from news reports; this give the victim's personal experience;  Society, child welfare, and the judicial system need to look at this very closely, and rethink such things as a child is better off being with their natural parents than in a foster home;  i was thinking of this last night as i watched the superbowl, and recalled the movie &#34;Blind Side&#34;.  The true story of Michael Oher, # 74, offensive line of the Ravens. If you haven't seen the movie, I advise you do so;
5 I've read many books about child abuse but this was by far the most shocking story I have  ever read.  Joe shares so many details with graphic clarity.  It amazes me that anyone could survive this, or even want to.  I wish Joe all the best and hope story will changehow child survivors or handled in the system.
4 This book was shocking and very very sad. It was also very encouraging. I thought it was very good. !
2 This book is so sad but it is so long I am unable to finish it. I have read similar books recently and was able to read until the end, but this is an almost unbelievable story. It is hard to believe that a child so physically damaged, so often, was able to remember the detail that is portrayed and I guess this is what makes it "unbelievable" to me. It is more like a purposely written horror story. Sorry!
5 My heart broke for Joe, the strength to overcome all Joe went through to become the man he is today!  Inspiring we don't have to be defined by our past.
5 The story was page turn.  I read the book in two day.  The child to adult hood was very twisted by his mother.  How could a mother ever treat her child in that matter.  I'm glad the adult man has found some piece of mind.
4 This book is truly amazing and I can't stop reading it! I am appalled by the fact that this was a true story from Joe Peters and that he had experienced all of those horrific abuse treated by his mum, stepfather and his two perverted brothers. As I was nearing the end of the story,I find it disturbing that he didn't told on his family about the abuse he was treated. A very heartbreaking story.
4 I'm glad Joe made it out. This is one of the worst stories I have eve read. How could a mother be so cruel.
5 This book is very sad, I hope that it was a fiction, but I fear that there are stories out there that are true. The system surely let this boy down
5 This story is so shocking that I am still trying to process it.  It took great courage, I am sure, to write about such a painful childhood, and I commend the author for opening up his heart and soul to write this book.
4 This book broke my heart but it was a good read.  It was well written and I look forward to more from this author.
5 I just want to write Joe Peters.  I want to tell him that I'm so desperately sorry that he went through what he did.  Death would have been merciful, it would seem. More than that, I want him to know that while people and society have utterly failed him, there is One that ultimately will never fail him.  While the sufferings of this world are so incredibly painful and unfair, I believe that God will one day wipe away your tears, my tears, our tears.  The One who sent His Son to suffer and die on the cross became intimately acquainted with pain and suffering Himself (in order to provide us victory over death, to provide us eternal life).  And because of this, we have reason to hold onto hope.  I know God to be only and ever loving. This, I would imagine, may be difficult to wrap one's mind around given the sadness and pain He allowed to continue for such a length of time. My answer to that puzzle: I honestly don't know. What I CAN say is that I have weighed the evidence, I have pondered my doubts, asked the tough questions, and considered the alternatives. And all points, regardless of how much evil looms, lead to the fact that HE IS there. And that He loves me - and that He, most assuredly, desperately loves you. The biggest obstacle which prevents so many of us from believing in HIM is the fact that a large majority of mankind experiences a great deal of suffering (some more than others, certainly). Why? Why would a loving God allow suffering to occur? My answer: again, I don't know. But I have a good guess (well, I think so, anyways). My guess is that the glorious goodness of what He has prepared for you, for me, for us in heaven far, FAR surpasses the misery of earthly suffering. He has a place waiting for you and for me.....a glorious home of beauty, peace, love, and absence of all darkness and pain. He says in the Bible that "He will wipe every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death or sorrow or crying or pain. All these things are gone forever." (Revelation 21:4) Indeed, an eternity of glorious love and peace and beauty - an ETERNITY! My sincerest prayer for you is that you know His peace, His love, His mercy, His grace. I believe this is the key to healing for all of us, regardless of our pasts. There is a God-sized hole residing in all of our hearts, and only He can fill it. I truly believe nothing else can fill it (not a partner, a substance, a child, wealth, beauty, or fame). I know that, while I haven't been through what you have, I couldn't go a day without Him. Not one. My prayer is that if you don't know Him, you will. In the Bible, it details what Jesus Christ went through when He was crucified in order to grant us eternity with God....From the book of Isaiah:"He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him,nothing in his appearance that we should desire him.3 He was despised and rejected by mankind,a man of suffering, and familiar with pain.Like one from whom people hide their faceshe was despised, and we held him in low esteem.4 Surely he took up our painand bore our suffering,yet we considered him punished by God,stricken by him, and afflicted.5 But he was pierced for our transgressions,he was crushed for our iniquities;the punishment that brought us peace was on him,and by his wounds we are healed."By HIS wounds we are healed. What a beautiful depiction. He is intimately, personally acquainted with your sufferings. Not even a sparrow can fall from the sky without His awareness. If you ever desire to know about the real God that really loves you, check out the New Testament book of John in the Bible. There you can find the truth about Him and His deepest love.  I look forward to that glorious day when He does, indeed, wipe away our every tear.  My prayers are with you, dear Joe.Romans 8:38-3938"For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, 39neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."
5 When you read this book you can't put it down.  This keeps you going.  Everybody should read this book.  This an eye opener.
4 There was so much violence against a young person that it is hard to read.  I could not let myself fully put the image in my head
4 A horrible account of abuse and neglect of a child who fell through the cracks of social services. A frightening barbaric story of extreme cruelty. Could this be a true story?  I am dubious.
5 This is the saddest story of abuse I think I have ever read!  Everyone should know that there really are such things going on in this world.  Not every person should be a parent, and there are a lot of things that need fixing in the Social Services divisions.  Please, please read this book!
4 So so sad!  This story will break your heart.  I had to put it down sometimes just to catch my breath.  Amazing little boy who has grown into a remarkable person!!  God Bless You!
4 The author wrote about his childhood, a wrenching story of violence & abuse. It is also a story of hope, as he has overcome unimaginable horrors in a remarkable way. I would have liked to read more about how he is doing now and how he accomplished his recovery.
1 Such sickness. I have no idea why i even downloaded it. The images made me sick to my stomach. I finished it only to see if there were any redemptive value in it. Although i feel sorry for Joe, i wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. I feel like i need to take a bath now.
3 I don't know why I read these kinds of books but the first one of this kind was "A child called it", that book moved me like no other and I felt a great need to help children ever since.This is my second book of true childhood abuse and it was a quick read. Due to being a real life story, I didn't know what rating to give it...I can't base my rating on the content because I already knew beforehand that it was about a baby boy suffering at the hands of horrible adults but it was still a shocking story that I found myself mad in many occasions!!! mad that a little boy was being treated that way....I was even angrier when the sexual abuse started and totally pissed off when the adults turned a blind eye and never believed the kid or when the older brother was to chicken to move a finger to help his little brother. I couldn't believe such people with such lack of heart could exist...I would have given it one star if the story would have been fiction because I wouldn't understand how the author could inflict so much pain upon his character and how no one...literally NO ONE helped this little boy!!. But it is a non-fiction story, it happened and it still happens to many children out there and it's just a reminder of how sad and unfair life can be.Joe, the baby boy who suffered at the evil hands of her mother after his father died in a horrible way...I found myself asking to God "why didn't you kill the mother instead??", "why evil people get away so easily and live longer?". We will never know why things happen the way they do, the good thing about this story is that it gave me an insight of childhood behavior when they're being abused, they sometimes act aggressively or shut themselves out from everybody...one thing for sure is: always believe the child!!! if a child says he/she is being beaten or doesn't want to go home please listen to them...those red flags should never be ignored.All in all, I still found myself being frustrated. I couldn't help but make comparisons with the book "A Child called it". Both mothers in both stories were outrageously mad, evil, with no heart at all for her kids. Worst of all, they were never punished for the pain they caused, the mother in "Cry silent tears" was even more despicable if that's even possible because she sold her son to pedophiles without any remorse HOW PEOPLE LIKE THAT CAN EXIST???!!! arg. The story was told from the child's point of view, he didn't know what was happening in many occasions, he didn't understand and my heart cried out to him when the baby shook his head indicating that even though he didn't understand what was happening, he didn't want to do it because he didn't like it and it hurt...yet, more pain came and no help arrived. There were also evil brothers in  both stories and both kids developed an aggressive behavior to cope with their f**ed up lives. But in "a child called it" the boy was helped and rescued while here in "Cry silent tears" no one made a move to help or interfere for him, he eventually had to see for himself how to get out of this hell, get away from his mother and I was still mad that no one was punished.In the end, both characters struggled to get away from their evil mothers but there is a happy ending for both of them. However, I was able to immerse myself in the book "a child called it" that I felt connected to the character and the story, it took me some time to finish it because it was so painful but it promised hope and redemption....whereas with "cry silent tears" I found myself reading fast and not actually connecting with the story, I was just reading words because everything seem void of any feeling other than fear and hate that I was unable to feel something when Joe found his happiness, probably because it was told in just one page and it wasn't elaborated, feelings weren't shared, just told so i didn't feel nothing. Wish we could have seen a bit of how he came to find love and healing....this book just told me that "this" and "that" happened to this boy and "this" and "that" continued to happen instead of showing it(not that I really want to see it *shudders*). Overall, it was...a nice book but very very very sad. I feel bad for giving it 3 1/2 stars (I put 3 instead but it's really three and a half)since the book only made me feel negatively towards people and the world itself but it wasn't the child's fault of course...I think I was left traumatized by it :( I had nightmares the night I finished the book and I dreamed with little Joe and how much he cried for help but the world was deaf to his pleadings.However, Joe became a very brave boy with a gold of heart in spite of all the abuse he suffered. I am glad he is fine now. God bless him and his family and to children going through similar things...I pray God may help them in a way or another and that evil people get their punishments!!
3 This little boy went through so much at a very young age. Good read indeed. Tear jerked ,and very sad.
5 It's amazing to me how when a child really needs someone to hear them out we as adults provide no comfort at all to these abused children. This book is a real eye opener to the real abuse that some children are exposed too and how the system has failed them.
5 It is hard to imagine that any child can survive the abuse Joe did and grow into a responsible adult.
5 Words cannot begin to express the sadness of this book. It is so heart aching to hear this man talk about his awful childhood. As a parent I cannot even being to image that the abuse he went though and still manage to become a wonderful part of society. This book brings feelings of anger and sadness and love and helplessness. If you have a weak stomach or a weak heart this book is not for you. As I have finish this book I stand and applaude this man for sharing his story and he makes life a reality that life is not perfect and their or sick people in this world.
4 Very hard to understand how a mother can be so cruel to a helpless child and where did the system fail in that they never caught her in any of her lies?  Very sad!
5 Joe first I would like to say u are very brave.  So many times I thought as I read please let your torture be over.  Bravery doesn't even describe how I felt u made it through everything.  I always think about those who hide and lash out for the wrong they've endured.  I am so sorry for you not getting support in the Times you needed.  My question is why didn't your dads sister or Marie ever follow up on checking on you.  It seems like they gave up to soon as well. Why?  To me I find myself telling my sibling's that family is everything to me, if we don't have it what are we here for?  I have the utmost respect for people who have endeared what you have went through.
5 This was well written.  But I genuinely feel that Joe should file charges with police.  Especially against his mother.  She is one EVIL inhuman being.
5 WHAT A GREAT BOOK IT. MADE ME ALL SAD AND SO UP SET THAT PEOPLE DIDN't even look into that little boys story and the people in charge of the school DIDN't help at all. It makes me sick that there is horrible people in this world to do this to young kids and their own children .  We need to wake-up.
1 Didn't really care for the style of this BOOK. Not what I expected of this BOOK.  Don't an interest of mine.
5 So heartbreaking ~ I couldn't help but cry as I read all Joe had endured. What is wrong with these people and his own mother the worst most of the  time  who should have loved and protected him . As a Mother I cant understand ppl like her and she doesn't even deserve the title Mother as far as Im concerned! I hope karma and the law catch up with her and all the people that hurt Joe in such a horrific way , all ppl in general that harm children should be locked up and the key thrown away!! I am shocked that Joe was able to survive everything he went thru and come out of it strong as ever. God bless you Joe , stay strong...
5 This book was so captivating. The pain and suffering expressed in  his book heart quenching and vivid. The author's bravery is inspirational.
4 This was a sad but good book. parents can sure dissapoint an innocent child, a real eye opener.It is very deep and how amazing that a good person can turn out of this. The subject matter is so deepand hurtful that not everyone can handle it. Kudos to the author for coming out of a tragedy and makingsomething of hemself!
4 I can't say I enjoyed this story but it will make you think about the child porn industry differently. People who hurt children are evil and they do not deserve the credit they get for being loving caring parents. Please listen to kids when they speak up, there's so much they aren't saying.
3 This story is a very sad,disturbing story of sexual and physical abuse. Not for the faint of heart this one.
5 I read this book from cover to cover in one sitting. It is a haunting ,frightening story. One cannot read this book and not be affected emotionally. I am glad the story ends well. I see now that the author has written another book concerning the years after his "escape"' I am determined to read it also.
4 I really like this book but it bothered me at the same time. I grew up with a step-father (my father passed when I was 11 years old) and even though he never physically abused him - mentally was another story. My heart goes out to children who lose parents at such a young age and have to spend a life time with someone they know does not love them.
5 I chose this rating because this book deserves this many stars, & whole lot more !!!  There is a whole lot of heartache in this book, however, somewhere out there in this world, a whole lot of truth, sad to say, but true.  I love reading about child abuse because I have grandchildren & I feel these type of books can always help me keep my eyes & ears open for any signs, just in case. God I pray there's no signs,EVER !!!!!!!!!!!
4 well written book about a very hard story.  I was i tears while reading most of this.  I would definitely suggest this to anyone
5 This story was so raw it was almost painful to read. Although I'm not new to hearing some of the horrible things in this book,I still have to be amazed at it all while I read it. I applaud this writer for being brave enough to share his story.
5 Joe is such a brave and misunderstood child that  it's just heartbreaking to know what he endured.. what a brave  little  boy an  to know he over came an  be the man he is today.
5 While there were times I had a hard time continuing on with the book I'm glad I did. It's a harsh reality that so many kids live with
5 A very powerful book... I literally cried a couple of times.. I can't believe things like this go on and it hurts me to my heart
4 I love true stories and although this is one of the saddest I've ever read, it was very thought provoking and well written. I don't know how someone ever comes out the other side of a life like that but am so glad Joe Peters did.
4 This book was a hard read because I am so opposed to the abuse of children in any way.  I gave it four stars because it was a story that had to be told.  People need to know that we have to watch for children being tortured and abused by the very people that should be protecting them.  This was fairly well written and the story is so heartbreaking.  I really took the time to write a review to make people more aware of child abuse right in their own neighborhood.
5 It is hard to imagine that children could be treated this way by anyone, but especially their mother . There is definitely evil in this world. and many people in this man's life demonstrated it over and over. And yet, the human spirit wants to live and Joe finally won his battle. God bless him in his life now.
5 This book brought tears to my eyes. I can't believe that abuse this bad could go so long unnoticed and then when it was brought public nothing was done. This book brought me to tears. I can't believe that this boy survived and became a man who now lives what people consider the "NORM. My name is Laurie and I am a survivor of sexual and emotional abuse. This is the first book I have read where the victim was a boy and I can say that compared to all the ones I've read about girls there seems to be a bit of a difference between the two. I give this book 10 stars. A must read. I will keep those who have survived and those who are still trying to escape this horrible disease  brought on by their perpetrators.
5 This is an intense read. The horror the author endured makes it a riveting and emotional experience. It draws you in and you cannot feel anything but sadness and sympathy for him; you turn the pages in the hopes of relief from the unspeakable evils he endured. Great read.
5 This book is so difficult to read... so many times I wanted to stop, because  I have children, and to think of the thought of parents out there who subject their children to SO much pain hurts! I can say that it helps me value our family so much more. I hope this book helps people realize the evil that is all over, and remember that when children act out so violently, individually due to some lack of love. Thanks to the author who endured reliving his experiences in order to open up people's eyes.
5 I GAVE THIS BOOK 5 stars because it is a book so sad, so horrifying that it is hard to wrap your mind around it. To believe that a biological mother could be so evil that she could submit her son to such degradation is unbelievable. To  dehumanize him by making him eat under the table out of a dog bowl and being made to eat scraps off  of the floor at four years old  is unthinkable. The severe beatings,  starvation,  violations, and forced into porn at nine years old is heartbreaking. But when Joe goes to London, puts his past behind him, and finds himself as well as love which results in a family is heartwarming. The little boy who cried silent tears was lost but now is found.
5 I believe the people that did this should have been turned in and punished.  Until we put a stop to this abuse, it will never be stopped. They need to be in prison for the remainder of their lives, I feel they can never be rehabilitated.
5 This book was very disturbing, I work with young children, and it never seizes to amaze the horrors adults inflict on those that are helpless. Thank God, the author was able to rise above his childhood and have a loving wife and children.
4 It took a lot of courage to write this book,  how he could turn out normal is amazing. Powerful and so sad.
2 I thought this book was a little unbelievable for the time frame the abuse took place in. it was in the era of child abuse awakening. But no one could help him or see he was being neglected, not even a teacher. I found that hard to believe. I came away thinking he may have been exagerating for the sensationalizing to sell the book.
3 This book is really good at depicting child abuse and what really doe  go on. It was a tough read at some points I skipped pages
5 This book is very powerful and sad and I found myself mentally screaming at everyone abusing him to just stop.. I love this book
5 I would of liked a better ending. All those people should have been brought to justice. I really liked Joe and felt really bad for him. I am happy he found happiness in the end. Something should be done to pedifiles in this story.. Thank You for sharing your story it was very enlightening and maddening. Good luck in your life.
4 A very moving story. Not what I thought this book was going to be.. But still continued to read it. I was moved by how Mr. Peters rose above all that he endured during his youth.. and as an adult reached out to other children who otherwise may have slipped through the cracks, just as he did.
4 I gave this 4 stars because if a book keeps my attention and if when I have to put it down for some reason, but can't wait to get back to it, it's a good read. I'm not sure why I like to read these kind of memoirs, the kind that pull at your heartstrings. I guess it's so hard to believe that there are parents that exist like this, that are so evil, that I'm hoping to get into the minds of what makes them tick. I admit since I've been reading these kind of books, in the last few years, I look very closely at how a child acts, how a parent reacts to their child in stores etc. I saw one woman at Target pinching and twisting the skin on her son's neck, I approached her and told her that I should call the police on her, I said it front of everyone in line and the cashier to humiliate her. I feel if a parent does this kind of thing in public, what does she do in private? It also helps me be more patient and understanding with people, as you never know what kind of life they are having or have had.
1 I found this book to be disgusting.  The graffic details page after page made me sick and did nothing to add to the story.
4 I cant imagine anyone having to deal with this childs life situations great reading i cant believe this stuff actually hapens
4 The photo on the book cover grabbed me. There is a picture of young boy, crying,  who you want to pick up and hug and comfort....a natural instinct for most of us....Beyond the horrors described in the book, that many reviewers have already touched on, does a book like this force us to ask deeper questions, beyond the fact that evil exists in our world? Pick up any newspaper today and you see it in your own backyard, as well with the internet describing events half way across the world. Young Joe survived his horrors and told us a story right out of our nightmares. Why do these events occur? How can a mother like Joe's exist? Why do others not intervene? How does Religion fit in?For a very good spiritual debate on these questions and more, read "The Sparrow" by Mary Dora Russell. In "The Sparrow", it is a Jesuit Priest who is forced into these horrors and asks the logical questions about his own faith.
4 WOW what a story!  My heart hurt reading this.  It was difficult to get through because my mind just couldn't wrap around everything at once.  Hard to believe that their are actually people like this in this world!  So very sad.  Proud of Joe Peters and they way he has taken over his own life and made something of himself after all he went through!  I would enjoy reading more from this writer!
4 THIS IS THE WORST OF THE WORSE. I'M STILL IN DISBELIEF THAT THIS MOTHER AND HER FRIENDS WERE NEVER PROSECUTED FOR THEIR CRIMES AGAINST CHILDREN. THIS IS A REAL EYE OPENER ABOUT THE HORRIBLE CHILD ABUSE THAT GOES ON IN OUR SOCIETY TODAY.
5 This story gave me an acute case of pissitis.  I am not a kid person.  Actually they really bug me.  Never had one, never wanted one.  But I would have given so much to stand in front of this child and beat the pulp out of all the sadistic, perverted, and generally stupid people he had to deal with throughout his younger years.  I wanted to pick him up and give him to somebody cool.  I hope to God his momster got an autographed copy of the book not to mention the degenerate brothers (creepy little twerps).  I really don't understand the authorities reaction to the rape charge.  Hello?  Didnt anyone think to take him to a doctor to check him out for rape? That system sounds like a complete joke.  Everyone in his life, except his father, let him down.
3 Kept my interest but depressed me to think that some parent could do that to a childWas happy with the ending
3 Most likely due to subject matter this book was difficult to read and I had issues with believability at times. I also thought once abuse was over and Joe moved into adulthood the story left a "hang" feeling for me because it did not explore the healing process. Not sorry I read it, just not a favorite.
5 Hard to read this with out crying yourself .I cannot imagine this sort of abuse going on with children , yet it does. I commend Joe Peters for relating his story .Wonderful book.
5 I think Joe is very brave in writing this book and I hope it will be used to help others in his situation. It is nice to read a story that was so horrible but the victim turned  his misery into something positive in the future.
5 I cried numerous of times in each chapter. I couldn't believe that this could actually happen to a child. Very sad but I would definitely recommend.
4 Difficult reading about the atrocities visited on this poor child from the age of five.  Unfortunately, this happens all too often to children.  It's understandable, but it's too bad that charges weren't pressed against the perpetrators; perhaps some other children might have been spared torture by criminal, disgusting, sick adults.  I can't understand the &#34;review&#34; by Bill W. of N.C. saying this book was &#34;boring and poorly written&#34; and that it should have been relegated to a magazine article.  It was anything but boring and it took a book to tell the story and do it justice.  The author never claimed to be a &#34;writer&#34;; he had a story to tell.  A magazine article would have been totally inadequate.  The &#34;review&#34; smacks of sour grapes.
5 I was moved by Joe's story especially since I have experienced some the same abuse by people you are suppose to be able to trust. I am very proud of the fact that I also did like Joe and found someone I love and trust and created a life and family with him. I have always made my daughter feel loved and above all else I made sure that I was a parent that could be trusted to never, ever hurt her physically or mentally and would never allow anyone else to abuse her in any way. I would recommend "Cry Silent Tears" to everyone. It is an inspiration to know that you can overcome your past and make a wonderful future for yourself!
5 i have heard stories like this but. first time read  about it from a victim. i cried and had some bad dreams. i was happy to see he has overcome his horrific experiences and is happy now.
1 I felt physically ill while reading this book....it has very graphic descriptions of child sex abuse.  The stories were so outlandish that there is no way they could have happened as the author claimed.  The graphicness of the content leads me to believe that a certain % of the readers are "getting off" on this kind of torture p*rn. I actually returned this book to Amazon, and I have NEVER done that before.Please don't buy this book.  It's gross, and what's worse is that it's probably not even true :(  which begs the question---what is the author's target audience?  The same type of villains he is writing about in his book?
5 This book is hard to read, but unfortunately this happens far too much in this world! It is sad to think that people in authority don't believe kids when they come to them with these horrific stories of abuse!
5 This was a excellent book but very difficult to read without wanting to throw up or find these sick nonhumans in it and torturing them to death.
3 What a sad life this man has led. This is a must read! It's timf our society to speak up for those without a voice.
5 It was hard for me to read this book all the way through because it is so heart wrenching.  The author did an amazing job writing this book and I have to give him a lot of credit for doing so.
2 This is not my type of book. Sorry I ordered it, but will know not to order books,about child abuse. My fault
3 I really liked this book, it wasn't easy to read though because of the horror this little boy had to go through.
5 I was not sure I could read this book and was happy that I could.  What a horrible life this man has endured.  It is so horrible what so many children have to suffer with.  He is a very strong man to survive his younger years and make a good life as a grown up.
5 This was a very eye opening book.  It was horrifying what that child went through.  I think he should have sought justice, but understand his reasoning.  So happy his life is great now.
3 These biographies are heart breaking.  Difficult to understand how supposedly human beings can do these things to their own children.
3 This is a touching story but I didn't think it well written.  It is really sad  and difficult to read without being disgusted and upset.
4 A story of true survival and the need to belong. Even if it was to a dysfuntical family.  Will to live trumps all.
4 Reading this book broke my heart! You hear about the tragedy of child abuse and slavery but never know the extent of it. This book goes into details that will leave you horrified and angry at what people can do to innocent children. I would like to commend Joe Peters for writing his heart wrenching story. I can't imagine what he felt like growing up in such a terrible environment then having to relive the nightmare when writing the book. Aside from the bad language, I would definitely recommend the book!
5 The book was so sad thoughout the whole story made me want to cry and wish I could help, i would feel sad that no one paid attention, hopefully the system has changed to help children more.  The story opens your mind to the reality of some lives and that sometimes a child acting out means more is going on at home and needs help, the epilogue was a happy one.
5 This was an amazing story about the fight for life of a little boy that wanted nothing more than the love of his mother. I cried for him through out the whole book. Excellent read.
5 This book is a gripping novel if the reader has lived or witnessed such dysfunctional behavior. The emotional roller coaster the subject rode was devastating, and I would recommend reading for all that are unaware of abuse in society.
4 It is always hard to read about child abuse of any kind. This book is very well written. Victims, especially young victims, don't tell or ask for help. Just wish that all the perpretators had met with proper judicial justice.
3 I enjoyed reading this book as very often we forget about the evils in this world.  what i didnt like was the fact that once he had grown up he moved on with his live as if nothing had happend to him and in a way I felt that he was turning his back on all the once who do not get away from the harsh live they have to live.
5 This was one of the first books I downloaded on my Kindle. It was so good it was hard to put down. I can't believe there are people out in this world that would scar a child for life like this family did.
4 I won't tell you this was a good book, but I feel it is a. Book to read of reason.  It was written in the first person  that I'm sure is not an isolated  life for someone.  I amazed me that this child slipped thru so many hands with no one to help him.  A story well told sand more I will remember.
5 How anyone could possibly survive all the abuse that this child does is a miracle.  My heart ached for him.  I couldn't stop reading....
5 "Cry Silent Tears" is a very emotionally difficult read, yet I had trouble putting it down.  The extreme abuse that the author suffered in his childhood, by his own family, is unheard of.  The story is told with no apologies.
5 i enjoyed this although i found myself crying at times as well from what he was put through i couldn't imagine a child being treated that way but also knowing the reality of it is that it does happen in our world today
4 It's hard to believe that really happens.my heart goes out to Joe and the other children like him.May God keep them safe.
4 This is a very sad book about the childhood of Joe Peters and his siblings. Today, their parents would be arrested and children would be taken by the authorities. It was good to know that the children came through the problems of their dysfunctional family to be responsible adults for the most part.
4 It was a good book, very sad. Joe Peters does write it well. Not the normal kind of book I read but someone did say I should read it.
5 It's hard to believe in this day and age there is so much abuse and neglect of children. What's worse is the way our system deals with these individuals. It's so much easier to put a bandage on a problem rather than find the underlying source of the behaviour. If this book opens just one persons eyes to the failures in our system, it was worth the read. Congratulations to the author for a well written, brutally honest portrayal of abuse.
5 JOE thanks for opening the eyes of people who should of had them open a long time ago.I am sick of the things you had gone through, but I am very happy with how you have been able to get things out through this book. GOD BLESS YOU. I pray that you and your family will have all the happiness that our good Lord has in store for you. I have been through abuse by the people who you think are suppose to love you and keep you safe. I was four years old when it started with my dad and there are still things I have problems with at fifty eight, but I have been very blessed with a wonderful family.  Take care and thank you again for sharing your story with everyone I hope that more eyes will be open and people start taking this problem more serious.
4 Books about child abuse are always hard to read. My heart was broken when I read this one. At least it has a happy ending.
5 This is well written, and a heart breaking story. I could not put this book down. It is truly a page turner.
3 Slow readNot the book I thought it would be but not so bad in the end. It is a very sad story and I could not imagin life as he had to endoure it.
3 The author has great courage in writing this book at all.  I can only conclude that, given his education, the book was ghosted.  That being said, there was little understanding in the amount of a specific horrific experience the reader needs or can absorb.  The book goes on at length about all the horrors of his life, often to excess.  The book ends with his taking off for London, and gives little to no information about how he resolved his issues and moved into a full and successful life.  That part should have been started half to 2/3 of the way through, and given insight into how all these things were resolved.  Instead, a very brief overview is given in the epilogue--too little too late.  Frankly, I would recommend that if you bother at all with this book, you skim.  As an alternative, there are several encouraging books written by foster carers, such as Cathy Glass and Casey Watson, that give a far better sense of the whats and hows of working with damaged children.
5 Some people think that they had a difficult and sad life, but they don't think about what others may be going through is more tragic and sad.  My heart goes out to Joe Peters and what he what he went through.  Fantastic book from the point of view from the victim's perspective.  All professionals in the law enforcement, medical and psychiatric fields should be required to read this book..
3 Very hard to get through this book. You keep wondering when is someone going to rescue this boy? The experience he had was one of those that never should have gone on and on into his teens! This kind of abuse is unimaginable! Made me ill.
3 This book was a disappointment.  It was all me, me, me.  Their was very little on the effect of such brutality on people and almost nothing on the other children he met.
5 This kid endured a lot...and still seems to come out OK in the end. I will never understand how humans can treat each other with such cruelty, especially children.
4 What a horrible story. The fact that these things actually happen is shocking.  Well written,but depressing.  I will have to read something funny next.
4 A really sad story ! But very interesting and it does have a happy ending!8) this story shows that even in the worst situation there is hope it may be small but there is some.
5 How in the hell did Joe survive the horrorable events..no not events...his whole childhood.  Most of us (thankfully) could never, ever consider even the least of the trauma's Joe had to live.  All I can say is for you to give the book a chance yourself.
5 This book made me feel a lot of different emotions.  Anger at the system, sadness & thankfulness that he is not repeating his mother's actions.
5 This is a book that is all the harder to read because it's a true story. One of personal triumph over tragedy. What this man had to overcome shouldn't happen to the mangiest creature on earth, much less an innocent child. You will find yourself biting your lip, getting angry, being moved to tears and your heart will go out to young Joe.But if you stick with it, you will also find yourself cheering for him. And you will never be able to turn away from your instincts the next time you sense a child in trouble. In my opinion, the most unforgivable sin (almost) was how so many teachers and others were able to ignore what today, we, nurses, doctors, police, and other parents should be able to recognize and what should be reported. What's worse: reporting POSSIBLE abuse and finding there is none, or looking the other way and finding that a child has been crying and suffering, even being tortured because too many people were afraid or too unconcerned to speak out?Don't read this book if you can't handle sad truths about something that happens all too often in our society as well as others around the world. I couldn't NOT read it once I began.And I cannot forget it, nor will you.
4 It was hard to believe anyone could possibly be this vile and monstrous to her own children and apparently get away with it for so many years.  The story will stay with you long after you've finished the book.
5 This is an eye opening story on how much pain & suffering this young man has been thru.It also tells how Joe could overcome his abuse n go on make a good life with his wife & 5 children.This story also shows how the police & social workers should pay more attention to kids that are claiming child abuse.This is a must read for anyone who likes to read.
4 It is remarkable that Joe Peters survived his childhood at all but to go on to have the family he always dreamed about is even more remarkable!  What an incredible story!
3 I have read several books on child abuse, kidnappings, and severe childhood disabilities, but this is the first book that left me just feeling sad.  To little was said about the road out of the abuse, and those who helped him.
3 A grueling, difficult, but ultimately compelling read about a horrific case of child abuse and the author's ultimate triumph over his terrifying upbringing, which included physical and sexual torture at the hands of his family, particularly his witch of a mother. The tale is ultimately redemptive, but casual readers be warned--this is strong stuff and not for the weak of heart. My most fervent hope is that the true story is a hoax and all made up--it's hard for me to accept that such monsters are out there, perpetrating such evil on innocent children.
4 I know that I marked four stars, but this was such a difficult read for me.  This is a horrible reality in our society, yet it was hard to put the book down as I ached for this child.  My only disappointment was this youngman did not report his abusors to the authorities.  I will not forget him!
5 This was a tough book to read, a real eye opener.I was hoping that his mother would have been brought to justice though.It's just disgusting that there are such evil people out there that hurt children,anyway this book is not for everyone, I had to skip some of the graphic parts, but I'm glad little Joe made it through, what a true survivor.
1 I just feel like this story could be made up! I have a hard time believing it . could be just a kids mind
5 This was an amazing book that I can really relate to, this was definitlly a heart breaking story of survival in the real world that many don&#8216;t know about.
1 I'm sad and horrified about the abuse Joe lived with. However, while reading about the abuse, I'm wondering if it was all true. Throwing a child down some stairs, especailly a small child would have broken bones, or internal bleeding . Living in the filth and the mattress was all he had, he should have been really sick. Having one of the brothers throwing him up in the air, and letting him just drop on the floor would have surely broken some bones.I do think he was abused, with severe beatings, and the rapes, but I'm wondering how a body could have survived what he had to go through.I cried through the book, knowing that he was one of the lost ones. Hating our society, and how much we turn our heads, and do not try to help ,not just children but adults as well.If you are in any way depressed, or sad, try waiting until you're feeling better to read this one.
4 Very sad I'm so glad he grew up to be a good man.  I agree that allot of child abuse is hidden we as a society need to keep our  eyes . Open and do what we can to fight child abuse.
5 At first it felt like there was lots of repeating but once I realised that it must have been a really hard book to write I just accepted the words as they came. My heart breaks for Joe! It is sad that the authorities  we're so easily swayed but the evil mother. I'm happy for your life now and sad for the boy you were never were.  You are probably the most AMAZING father! Thanks for sharing your artillery.
2 This book was supposed to be about a boy who went mute due to trauma and abuse and found his voice again.  He never really found his voice from what I could discern because he never told anyone what happened to him.  I find it hard to believe that the horrendous accounts of abuse did not leave him with broken bones in need of setting, especially since he was so malnourished.  I don't doubt he was abused but he never told care givers at the homes, nor did he recount any therapy or counseling to help him recover.  He did not find his voice.
5 Captivating from the first page.  I couldn't put it down.Because it was a true story I am even more amazed at the human spirit can overcome evil and survive so brilliantly. I gives me hope that the grace of God lives within us to percevier.
3 This book was very disturbing and hard to read.  Very sad that he could not get anyone to believe him or help him.
3 how could this child fall through the cracks how could no one know what this child then young man was going through
5 This book is a must read only a warning to readers this book is intense and has some heartbreaking truths in it.
5 Wow, this book is truly amazing. It is horrid to hear and visualize what was going through the life of this child. To know things like this exists in life is disgustingly to me... it was  hard reading through this book without tearing or having a heartache knowing what they were doing to this book. Please ppl be aware of how strong and vivid your imagination will be once you start reading this book. NEVER NEGLECT OR UNDERESTIMATE A TROUBLED CHILD. THERE'S ALWAYS A REASON BEHIND THEIR ACTIONS!!!!
5 I am speechless  how could anyone do these things to a child. We all need to stop this abuse  I hope Joe has overcome this abuse  and move on from hear what a courageous  man  I had not been prepared for all of the abuse he had to endure.  What an eye. Opener
5 What strength it must of taken to live through such a horrible childhood. Now you can take the time and try to enjoy what each day may bring.You are truly and inspiration to a lot of children and adults that have suffered at the hands of their parents or a loved one.
5 This book had me crying throughout. It strengthens my resolve to GET INVOLVED if I think as child needs help. It broke my heart and also made me proud of this man who was able to overcome such abuse. I have adopted several children from the foster care system who either had been abused or were at high risk of being abused and it is scary to think that this could have ended up being their story also. I agree with the author that when children are being aggressive and difficult that the adults involved should make a thorough effort to find out the complete truth of what might be going on to make these children act out.
2 Shocking language and explicit details that were not necessary to get the point across of how bad the abuse was.  I finished it only to see the outcome.  However, I must say I question the fact that he walked away the last time without going to authorities, even into adulthood.  And, to not try to get help for his siblings still living with his mother - to me that is an injustice that he allowed on them. Maybe it is because I work at a CPS shelter, I do not see where no one would listen to him all the times he did finally speak up.  I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.  I got really tired of the disturbing use of his profanity and would quickly read through to get to the end. There is no explanation how he emotionally dealt with it to get on with his life.
4 I loved this book.  It was the story of a man who overcomes life's unfairness.  The unfairness and abuse that he suffered as a child is horrific and it is amazing that he has survived, let alone thrived.  It opens your eyes to the monsters out there . . . a very interesting and suspenseful book.
5 This is one very well written book, my thoughts and prayers to you. It has kept me wondering, how some people can live with themselves, the way they treat others.
5 This book was painful but riveting. There were times I needed a break but knew I couldn't stop. I was eager to get to the end where I was sure justice would be served, but it was not. In fact we don't even know if Uncle So-and-So's house of porn horrors was ever shut down. I'm sorry to say it does cast some doubt on the whole story that the author didn't pursue justice. It may have helped in the rescue other children. I would at least liked to have read something about the present condition of his tormentors lives, not to mention that of Uncle So-and-So's. Also, I am so bothered by the social worker who had him physically forced back to his tormentors. Does she to this day know what she did to the boy, and does she have any excuses for not following up or taking precautions such as having a wire planted on the boy. I gave the book four stars because it was a fascinating read, but more importantly an enlightening read as few books are.
3 Tragic story.  Writing was disjointed and didn't really flow.  I would recommend it as a testament of the level of immorality in our culture.
5 Wow! This was an intense read. Kept me up late! Very late! This shows the power of having someone that loves a child in his/her early years and how that can really carry you through the worst of the worst.
3 This was a true story and what a sad story it was.  But the outcome was good.  I think that the book could have been written better.  Some of the parts really draw you in and a lot of it seemed repeated.  But it is a book to read.
5 This was the most horrifying yet inspiring book I have ever read. It really opens your eyes to what awful things happen to children behind closed doors. I am so inspired by Joe, and how he managed to survive all the abuse and come out a wonderful family man. Good for him! We could all learn a lesson from him.
5 I choose the earring because it took a lot courage for him to tell the story of his life. Especially to go through all the hurtful stuff.  I am happy that he made a great life himself. I recommend everyone to read this book.
5 Some of the things in this book I could relate to myself. I couldn't put this book down until I finished reading it!  If only more adults would actually listen to kids when they act different than other kids, things would be about better.
5 This was an amazing story of one little boy and how he survived. It was so sad, it made me cry for this little boy. I would defianatly recommend this book.
5 I wasn't sure I was going to be able to finish this book, some of it was so painful to read. After beginning it though, and coming to know this boy, I knew I had to see it through to the place where he triumphed over his circumstances. A compelling work that required courage to re-live and to share. I hope it achieves at least some of the change that the author intended.
5 This is a hard read it is well written but tragic and reading somewhat had occurred  to a child m makes me sick. Most upsetting is that it no.doubt still goes on today.
5 i love this book because it sheds light on child abuse. but let me state 1 thing. this book is slightly graphic. not so much in complete detail but you have a serious idea as to what is going on.  overall the book was great and i hope it gets across to the readers who need it the most
5 The intense detailed thoughts of a child living through hell, shows the brokenness of humanity. The resilience and spirit of the boy in this story shows what small acts of kindness can do in the face of horrific atrocities, to give a glimmer of hope in the darkest corners of humanity. This is a must read for those working with children and young adults, it can help prepare adults to step in when a youth reaches out. No matter how sideways the plea may at first seam.
5 I had great difficulty reading this book . I will never understand how this possibly went on unnoticed and unreported. Why in the world was this child not taken to a Dr. and how were all the scars and damage unseen and unreported? I think every adult that this poor child begged to help him should face criminal charges. How in the world does a 5 year old go missing and get beaten so severely yet no one notices or tries to help him?
5 I loved this book. It was different than many of the other books I've read by Agatha Christie. Refreshing, which is why I read Agatha Christie novels in the first place, for a break from an otherwise unpredictable and high stress life.
3 Interesting look back on time (1930's) when Communism, Capitalism and Fascism were the themes of the day.  looked like a conspiracy of bad guys trying to take over the British conservative power when in the end it was nothing more than self preservation by an individual.
5 No one writes complex murder mysteries quite like Agatha Christie. Her observations of human nature are as fresh and keen today as they were when she wrote them seventy years or so ago. When the dentist Mr. Morley is found dead in his office, an apparent suicide, Hercule Poirot begins gathering information with Chief Inspector Japp to prove it was murder. A missing woman, an international banker, and scheming Communists quickly muddy the waters. Who was supposed to die, and why? Another entertaining read by the queen of mystery!
5 Dame Agatha Christie (1890-1976) the Devon Diva of Crime was at the apogee of her long authorial career in the 1940s. One Two Buckle My Shoe (aka in America as "The Patriotic Murders") provides readers with a fine novel of murder and detection by Hercule Poirot the little Belgian detective with an egg shaped face and a brain of genius!The Plot: We find the novel beginning in a dentist office at 58 Charlotte Street in London. Poirot visits the dentist every six months for a routine checkup. Unfortuantely the dentist is a murder victim! Dr. Henry Morley! The police believe it was a suicide case but Poirot will prove the good man suffered a murder most foul! Morley's assistant Gladys had been called away to visit with a supposedly ill aunt; the real reason was to get her out of the office. Mr. Amberiotis a patient of Morley is also found murdered. Another patient named Mabelle Sainsbury Seale is discovered missing; later her body wearing shabby shoes is found in a trunk. Howard Raikes the lover of Jane Olivera (niece and heir of Anthony Blunt) and Frank Carter a young man with a bad reputation come under scrutiny for the crime. It is thought the object of the murderer was the killing of Alistair Blunt a rich banker who is influential in the British government.The way in which the murderer is discovered shows Poirot's little grey cells are still worthy of praise despite his growing age. The book moves rapidly and keeps your attention throughout the proceedings. This is one of Dame Agatha Christie's best Poirot novels. Enjoy1
4 Hercule Poirot is not bound to the armchair in this one!  The story is twisted, and thoroughly enjoyable.  Just when you think you have it, the tables are turned.  As usual Poirot explains it for all to see at the end,  but the facts are not as clear as in most of Christie's other books and  this is evident in his having moments of self-doubt, which is a bit  uncharacteristic and gives the whole affair a bit of an unusual flair.  He  actually guesses at one point, a tactic normally as foreign to H. Poirot as  to Mr. Spock!The hint:  remember the bloodstains on the carpet!
5 Agatha. Christie was writing at her prime when she penned this Poirot with it's twists and turns.  Agatha used red herrings to mislead the reader until all is revealed.
3 Agatha Christie's ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE begins with considerable interest: it finds the usually unflappable Hercule Poirot unnerved by the necessity of a visit to the dentist!  But no sooner does Poirot walk out of the office than death walks in--and the result is a complicated tale of possible suicide, certain murder, missing suspects, and political intrigue.Christie is always at her best when working a tightly structured plot, but although enjoyable (how can you resist Poirot at the dentist?) SHOE is not among her best efforts. The novel begins as very tightly-plotted, then suddenly flies in a dozen different directions at midpoint.  Christie has considerable difficulty recapturing the different strands for her conclusion--and for once her solution fails to impress.  Worth reading, certainly, but old fans and newcomers alike may be a bit disappointed with the end result.
5 Hercule Poirot's dentist is found dead of a gunshot wound to the head.  The police call it suicide, but Poirot is not convinced.  The dentist's death is followed closely by the deaths of two of his patients, and Poirot undertakes to solve the mystery.  Is it possible that these three deaths were merely &quot;collateral damage&quot; in a campaign to eliminate an influential financier, another of the dentist's patients?  Two suspects immediately present themselves for consideration: the worthless ne'er-do-well boyfriend of the dental assistant and the left-wing radical boyfriend of the financier's niece.  Both appear to have had ample motive, means, and opportunity to kill either the financier or the dentist.  Poirot solves the mystery in exemplary fashion, but exposing the killer gives him no great pleasure.  To find out why, you must read the book.
5 The Kindle Edition is missing the last chapter.  Otherwise, it is a great mystery that kept me guessing and prevented me from sleeping.
5 One, Two, Buckle My Shoe (Hercule Poirot)This book is a thoroughly enjoyable read with elements that still resonate today.  Hercule Poirot is in rare form as he makes a dreaded trip to the dentist and finds himself involved in more than he bargained for.  In typical Poirot fashion he is soon hot on the trail of insurrectionists, murder most foul with a plot to overthrow the British government thrown in for good measure. Poirot's ability to appreciate how his peculiar foibles make him the object of scorn by some members of a household in the countryside he visits during his investigation  make this Christi novel different from others where Poirot seems to take himself much too seriously.
2 This kindle version of One, Two, Buckle My Shoe does not have the last chapter.  It could be that the book ends where this version stops, but in fact the book does not end there.  If you want the ENTIRE book, this is not the product for you.Also, however this version was created there are wrong word usages sprinkled throughout, so it isn't very well edited.Otherwise, you can't go wrong with Agatha Christie!
5 Among the subtlest and "deepest" of Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot stories, ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE is a murder mystery that comments on the British class system.  That the story is essentially about class is clear from the widely differing social stations of its cast of characters.  Take, for example, the three victims:  first, a respected dentist named Mr. Morley is found shot to death in his office; then one of Morley's patients, a wealthy Greek immigrant, dies while another patient, a nondescript charity worker with the "pompous" name of Mabelle Sainsbury Seale, vanishes.  Hercule Poirot and Chief Inspector Japp must find the common link between these three occurrences.  The matter is complicated further by the fact that Alistair Blunt, a financier who gained his status by marrying into an Anglo-Jewish banking family (one obviously based on the Rothschilds) was also a patient in Morley's office on the day of his death; Japp believes that Blunt himself was intended to be the victim.  But for the ever-observant Poirot, the case really begins with something quite mundane:  that is, a shoe...a woman's black patent leather shoe with a large, ornate buckle...Also highly recommended, for those who have finished the novel:  the superb made-for-TV version of ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE, starring David Suchet as Poirot and Philip Jackson as Japp, and available on DVD from Amazon.com.
4 Why read: I'm reading all of Christie's mysteries.What impressed me: This book was crazy. The story felt a little dated, but the plots twists were better than most modern books and movies. Things were very unexpected and continued to get crazier to the very end.What disappointed me: The only real problem with this book was that is was a little difficult to get into, given the not so interesting victim. A dentist? Sort of boring. The story eventually made up for it, but I could see many people giving up on it before getting to the more exciting parts.Recommended: Yes, a decent, not as well known, Agatha Christie mystery.
4 I read this long, long ago when it was titled AN OVERDOSE OF DEATH. I recall that on the cover, a subtitle text was "Who drilled the dentist?" That was my first hint that mysteries could include humor. So I took up the thin paperback and was not disappointed in the first several chapters. Nice to see that Monsieur Poirot is as reluctant to visit the dentist as the rest of us! The first third to first half of the book is pure, excellent AC:vivid characters, tight plot, humor and charm and insight into human nature and the fragility of all human relationships. Perhaps because there is such a strong political and moralistic element to the book, it loses its pace as you get to the end. For the book does not have much of Poirot's warm and kindly "Papa Poirot" sentiments to it. Our beloved detective is just as kind and good, but he is addressing British class struggles, and the story itself revolves around high stakes wealth and big name families. Of course he solves it by the end, but all the same, even with the clever twist at the end, it was not as fully satisfying as other Poirot stories, perhaps because our Belgian detective himself was not satisfied at the greed and power struggles that he realizes will continue in governments and among the population.
5 Agatha Christie wrote great puzzlers, and this book fits right into that category. I appreciate the value that Christie puts on life and Hercule Poirot's determination to defend the right to live for every person, even those who seem unimportant or unattractive.
5 ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE has not, I think, topped anyone's list of favorite Agatha Christies for many years.  Re-reading it again after many years, it seems to me to share some similarities to CURTAIN, Poirot's last case.  Both of them are sort of bloodless, intellectual thrillers that play with ideas in a modernist way.  BUCKLE is all about the cult of the superman, in this case the sacred financier Alistair Blunt, the Bernard Baruch type moneymind whom Britain "needs" and whose wellbeing is necessary to prevent the collapse of the UK economy.  The attitude of the police and the secret service is, He may have his peccadilloes, but by Jove we need him in this country.  In CURTAIN, which must have been written about the same time, the superman takes a darker turn, he is the man who can inspire others to commit murder for him, by the power of suggestion, but anyone who finishes ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE will know why I linked these two books on this one point.I was surprised and shocked by the ending.  Only Poirot could have figured out all the ramifications of the case, as well as to pull out the identity of the killer's accomplice out of thin air.  I don't feel that Christie was using "fair play" in this novel, but it is so baffling that I don't even care!  I love reading about her tormented, independent young women who cab't stand their own lives and yearn for something better--in this case. Jane Oliveira, the financier's niece.  I wonder if elements of this novel didn't find their way into Ben Hecht's screenplay for Hitchcock's film NOTORIOUS.  It's all about how you live with yourself when you're doing something wrong if it is for the public good, or if you can persuade yourself that it is while you're committing the crime (or sin, to be moral about it).BUCKLE, like CURTAIN, is a little vague about--is there a war going on or not?  Maybe it is set in an alternate universe in which others are fighting the war so we don't have to talk about it.  In today's political climate, that kind of aesthetic amnesia rings a bell.  Back then, it was a remarkably daring feat for the always experimental Agatha Christie.
4 I have read all of Christie's mysteries along time ago. I only remembered some of this one so I was pleased that there were so many actual suspects. It could have gone in several directions and yet all the clues were there.
5 This is definitely one of Christie's more entertaining mysteries.  Poirot's dentist winds up dead shortly after the great detective's visit.  This is followed by the death of a Greek aristocrat and an unidentified woman, all of whom visited the dentist that day.  We add to this a whiff of communist conspiracy and a banking magnate whose life is in danger.  Poirot has to chase down multiple murders and multiple unclear identities.  I figured out the culprit, but not the how or the why.  As the best mysteries do, this one kept me riveted, and had numerous twists and turns.  One of Christie's best.
4 One Two Buckle My Shoe (also published under the title The Patriotic Murders) begins with the murder of a dentist, no doubt a piece of vicarious wish fulfillment for some readers.Although initially treated by the police as suicide, master detective Hercule Poirot, one of the dentist's last patients, has his suspicions from the beginning, and we eventually run through a cavalcade of suspects and red herrings before coming to a rather convoluted resolution to the mystery. But to me the most interesting thing about the book is not the Rube Goldberg solution but how the usually apolitical Agatha Christie gives us a glimpse of her politics, which seems to lean toward favoring conservative fiscal policy and established traditions over radical change to achieve some vision of social justice. Or at least that is what her hero Poirot seems to favor.It's interesting to contrast Christie with contemporaries like George Orwell and John Steinbeck, who were very much in favor of radical change and made no bones about it. Curiously, Christie's "coming out" is almost anachronistic, since One Two Buckle My Shoe was published (and I assume written) after World War II was well underway in Europe, effectively ending the period of the 20s and 30s when the direction of domestic policy could be debated in England and elsewhere with no outside distractions. With the start of war, those arguments were put on the back burner as simple national survival became the overriding consideration. In fact, the book was first serialized in America and published in book form in England just as the Blitz was raining bombs on English cities and the threat of Nazi invasion from across the Channel was a very real possibility. Under those circumstances, even Orwell was willing to put domestic squabbles aside in favor of defending the Homeland, as articulated in his contemporaneous essay My Country Right or Left.The other fascinating thing about One Two Buckle My Shoe is the continued evolution of Poirot. It has been my impression, as I am reading Christie's Poirot novels in chronological order, that Christie was starting to get tired of him at this point. In the three Poirot novels preceding One Two Buckle My Shoe (Appointment With Death, Hercule Poirot's Christmas, Sad Cypress) the little Belgian is somewhat minimized as Christie spends extra time on the other characters. In Christmas, despite getting title billing for the first time, Poirot is really little more than a plot device for solving the case rather than the focus of the narrative.But in One Two Buckle My Shoe, Poirot is clearly back in the forefront, and he is an especially forceful presence driving the story. He also ends up as the moral center. Christie also spends extra time rounding and humanizing him, humorously with his anxiety about visiting the dentist and almost poignantly with his "Am I getting too old?" questioning of himself at one point in the investigation. Well, turns out he isn't, or at least not took old to solve an intricate mystery, as this novel shows.
4 Christie took the old nursery rhyme counting from 1 to 20 to chronicle Poirot's catching a murderer.  It isn't the very finest of her works, but it is certainly very good and worth your time to read!
5 I enjoyed this book which i read in a day of travel - certainly made time go by unnoticed !!The story begins with the 'murder' of the dentist of Hercule Poirot (soon after Poirot visits him), with apparently no motive whatsoever. Apparent motive soon arrives in form of 'suicide' to avoid loss of face after professional bungling.Poirot undertakes to find out the truth. Pretty soon, posible motives and suspects begins piling up, and it all gets very complicated.Unlike most of Agatha Christie's stories, this could've had several possible conclusions, even if 'read backwards' - which means the ending, though easy to guess, is almost impossible to deduce.This means that the (highly interesting) journey through the book doesn't have a very satisfying conclusion.However, it's very well written and i read it in no time at all - recommended !!
5 as usual another excellent Poirot story, which is very complex and intricate, and there are aspect of spyish theme throughout
4 Agatha Christie is my all-time favorite mystery writer and while this may not be my all-time favorite Agatha Christie mystery, it is still quite wonderful.Poirot has a dental appointment, which he dreads as much as us ordinary humans do, and finds out later that his dentist was found dead shortly after he saw him. It is presumed to be suicide at first but of course it isn't. There is no shortage of suspects since there was a waiting room full of patients, including one of the most influential bankers in England. Poirot does his usual cerebral job of solving one of the most convoluted crimes in his career.While this book has a complex mystery, the more interesting part to me was it's relation to it's time period. It was published in 1941 and times were tumultuous. It's clear through the writing that there was a lot of fear and change in the air. There was a lot of talk of bringing down the old ways of doing things and the need for revolution. This story probably reflects the feeling of the times very well. It feels less cozy and warm than some of her other novels and that's probably why it's a four star rather than a five star book but she's still the queen and I'm happy to read any of her books anytime.
5 As with many of Agatha Christie's mysteries, "One, Two, Buckle My Shoe" is known by various titles, but this is perhaps the most fitting, being one of her works that focuses on nursery rhymes.  Elements of the plot and certain clues fit the title rhyme quite nicely, all adding up to the ever present, classic Christie twist.  This is an enjoyable, hard to figure out Hercule Poirot mystery.Readers are given a treat at the beginning of the novel, an image of the erudite and arrogant Poirot in a state of trepidation.  Over some big case?  No, because he must pay a visit to the dentist.  When his dentist is discovered dead later on that same day, Poirot is not satisfied with the ruling of suicide.  There is no way that Dr. Morley would have killed himself, but who had means and motive to do so?  Could it have been one of his high-profile clients, or more likely someone who wanted him out of the way?  Could this possibly be a case featuring international discontent aimed at an important man in England?  What about the female patient who suddenly disappears soon after Morley's death? Poirot takes it upon himself to search out the answers, but too many clues begin to add up all too quickly, with several red herrings throwing him far afield.  But, as usual, by arranging his little grey cells, he comes to the astonishing, and correct, conclusion."One, Two, Buckle My Shoe" is a delightful Poirot mystery, fast-paced wtih just enough to always keep the reader guessing.  Sometimes a Christie mystery can feel too dated for today's world, and while this one is definitively placed (I loved a character talking about seeing the "new Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers film"), the story rings timely, and therefore these elements fade into the background.  Readers will be just as stumped and fluxomed as Poirot for much of the read - this is certainly not one that I figured out, which makes me like it all the more.  It is a fine example of why Christie was and still is the queen of mystery.
4 Mais oui ! Our small man with large moustaches and a egg shaped head is back. Does he live in England, speak French, and come from Belgium? Eh bien, it must be Agatha Christie's famous flatfoot, Hercule Poirot. This is my fifth Hercule mystery, and as customary, I didn't solve the murder. But I did solve 'Death on the Nile', so a twenty percent solving average is not bad. In this investigation, even the great Hercule was stumped for awhile as he thought to himself, "Is it possible that I am growing old?" But he must have been doing his job, since one of the suspects, Jane Olivera, said to him, "I loathe the sight of you-you bloody little bourgeois detective!" That's the Hercule that I know and love. Agatha wrote 37 Hercule Poirot mysteries, the final one was 'Curtain: Poirot's Last Case'. She wrote the novel during World War II, but didn't publish it till 1975, a year before her own death. Agatha was a master at writing main plots, creating subplots, and inserting plot twists into every novel. Her books usually had around ten suspects, yet Agatha was able to inject `reader's sympathy' into most of the characters, so  the reader was freely empowered to root for the innocence of their favorite hypothetical felon. She certainly achieved that in this novel.So it's time for Hercule's six month oral checkup, and he has the same fears as you and I. The superior Hercule was not himself. On page nine..."His morale was down to zero. He was just that ordinary, craven figure, a man afraid of the dentist's chair." While in the waiting room, our sleuth observes the other patients. There was a military looking man, and a  seemingly angry young man flipping pages of magazines. Hercule has his appointment with Doctor Henry Morley and prepares to leave after some minor filling work. Hercule learns that the Doc's assistant, Gladys Neville, is missing, and an important banker, Alistair Blunt, is on his way for his dental appointment. On his way out, He observes a fierce looking man in the waiting room, and outside a lady leaving a taxi who has torn her buckle off her shoe as she  exited. Later that day, Hercule is informed by Chief Inspector Japp (you remember him from previous novels) of Scotland Yard that Doctor Morley has shot himself. How can that be? The Doc seemed normal and trouble free. Hercule Poirot suspects murder, and gathers a list of suspects.The possible perpetrators are: Doctor Reilly, Morley's partner; Mr. Amberiotis, the last patient; Miss Sainsbury Seale, the taxi lady; Howard Raikes, the American; Alistair Blunt, the banker; Frank Carter, the angry young man; Gladys Neville, the missing assistant; Jane Olivera, Blunt's niece; and Alfred Biggs, the murdered Doc's page boy. Then the unthinkable happens on page 53, Mr. Amberiotis turns up dead at his hotel! He is dead from an overdose of adrenaline and novocaine. What? Was he poisoned by Doctor Morley before the Doc committed suicide, or was murdered?Hercule Poirot is stumped. Then later in the novel, he is in church with Alistair Blunt, Jane Olivera, her mom, and Howard Raikes, while listening to the morning sermon, the light bulb goes off: "It was like a kaleidoscope-shoe buckles, 10-inch stockings, a damaged face, the low tastes in literature of Alfred the page boy, the activities of Mr. Amberiotis, and the part played by the late Mr. Morley, all rose up and whirled and settled themselves down into a coherent pattern." Okay, Mr. Poirot's noggin is working again. Now is the time that you should grab your own copy of this highly recommended mystery.
4 One Two Buckle My Shoe is one of the more contrived of Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot novels but its twisted loops are definately part of the fun.  The author does play around with politics in her conservative, often very naive, way but handles it much more smoothly than she did in her early twenties spy novels.  The solution to the killer is both predicatable and satisfying as Christie crawls right up to the preposterous and then pulls back just a little.  This is one of the Poirot novels that could have used Hastings a foil and his prescence is sadly missed, particularly as everyone at a certain dentist's office on a particular morning has something to hide and it would have been fun to read Hastings switching prime suspects with each new revelation.  All in all, not a classic Christie but an interesting one.
4 Christie doing what she does best. I never would have guessed the villain, though she uses a few unorthodox tricks.  Perhaps a bit convoluted, but a good read.
5 I have always liked this book. It's one of the few stories that despite the fact that the murderer  is very wealthy, he doesn't get away with it. He sure tries to justify it though
3 When Poirot's dentist turned up shot in the head less within hours of treating the Belgian detective, Poirot was not satisfied with the apparent lack of motive, and got even more curious when the motive was helpfully provided later in the form of another patient of the dentist dying of malpractice.Amidst the array of witnesses; those who had been present on the scene at some time or other on the same day, Poirot tried to piece together a puzzling picture; who was, or is, the intended victim ?  How were the persons of Blunt, a most influential figure in the world of British finance who remained largely in the background ?  Or the rebellious Raikes who was in love with the niece of Blunt ?  Or the retired civil servant Barnes ?  Or the mysterious missionary lady Seale who inexplicable went missing soon after?Red herrings abound in this story, with numerous twists and turns.  The time interval was long, with weeks or more passing between chapters, making one marvel at how Poirot managed to keep the right focus on the murder even though he must have attended to numerous other affairs in the meantime.Unhappily, when all was revealed, what the book lacked was a credible motive for the murder of the dentist.  Given the resources available to and the intellect of the culprit, the killing seemed most unnecessary.
3 The novel takes place in Thesa, a world of magic and ancient legends. By day, the inhabitants of Thesa are driven hard to scratch a meagre living out of the earth and by night are tormented by the evil Corelings. Corelings are magical demons that appear every night to hunt humans. The Corelings come in many different forms such as fire, wood, wind and rock and the only thing that protects humans from the demons are magical `Wards'. Wards are painted over door frames and on walls to stop demons getting into houses. However, many of the secrets of Wards have been lost over the centuries and many humans are killed nightly because their Wards are not strong enough.Out of this terrible world, three stories emerge. The first is that of Arlen who is a very skilled Warder, even though he is still a young boy. After the death of his mother at the hands of a Coreling, Arlen runs away from home. He vows that he will fight the demons one day and to do this he becomes an apprentice warder. With his new profession, Arlen hopes that these new skills will help him become a `Messenger' and ultimately, help him kill Corelings.Leesha is a young girl who is abused by her mother and told that she will never become something. However, after a Coreling attack, she finds herself helping the local Herb-gatherer Bruna.  Bruna sticks up for Leesha and takes her on as an apprentice, teaching her secrets that many healers have forgotten. After seven years, Leesha finishes her apprenticeship and travels to the city to further her knowledge about the art of herb gathering. After spending a few years in the city, Leesha hears of a flux that is affecting her home village of Cutter's Hollow and returns as quickly as she is able, with a Jangler called Rojer.Rojer, like Arlen, is the victim of a savage Coreling attack in which his mother and his father are murdered and in which Rojer loses some fingers to a Coreling's bite! Rojer is taken in by a famous Jangler called Arrick who agrees to raise Rojer after the murder of his parents.  However, because of his weakened hand, Rojer is seen as a poor Jangler as he cannot juggle.  However, his skills with a fiddle gain him recognition and even gain him the nickname of Rojer `Half-grip'. His skills are so great that when on the road between the hamlets and the city, Rojer's fiddling even manages to calm Corelings. Unfortunately, on this same trip, Rojer's mentor is clawed by Corelings, forcing him to return to the city in which he meets Leesha and agrees to travel with her to Cutter's Hollow.This was a good novel and I really enjoyed it. It did start a little slow for me and I don't think it really picked up until `The Painted Man' was introduced. Nevertheless, from then on is really fast-paced, action filled and exciting! I can't wait to read the second book in the series The Desert Spear, however, I think I will actually read that book instead of listening to it as an audiobook.I would suggest this book to anyone who is a fan on fantasy novels such as The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss, Prince of Thorns by Marl Lawrence or It Began with Ashes by D. E. M. Emrys as they all have the same fantasy feel to them and they are all great books!For more book reviews google adam-p-reviews.
4 Was a bit worried about starting this series due to less than glowing reviews regarding the second book, however, I'm really glad I went there as it's quite richly written.
5 I lost interest in fantasy, heroic, epic or urban, for a long while. But I came back to it with a vengeance with this book. It does everything that's been done before but does it afresh, with vigor and style and complete sincerity. I almost lost interest once the story shifted from the first protagonist's point of view, and had some difficulty warming to the second and third protagonist--maybe because I somehow assumed from the title and cover blurb that it was a single-pov story--but once I kept reading, I found that they were as well delineated as the first.That is Brett's first and greatest achievement: to create vivid believable characters that not only hold our interest and earn our empathy but have a growth arc that would take many other fantasy series a half dozen books to achieve. What Arlen, Leesa and Rojer go through in this one 544-page book alone is more than most fantasy trilogies. Not all of it is pleasant. Much of it is quite the opposite. Yet, we root for them and want them to survive and thrive.Do they? Ah, that would be telling. What's important is that the journey is well worth taking. The action sequences are brilliantly staged and described and never do you feel the author flags in energy or attention, even ending with a terrific battle sequence to cap a great journey. This is closer to Abercrombie than Tolkien and the better for it. Recently, I read it's been optioned for a film adaptation by Paul W.S. Anderson of the Resident Evil series fame and I think that's a terrific choice: this is also a strong fighting protagonist adventure saga and I hope The Demon Cycle goes on to spawn its own franchise.I'll certainly play the PS3 game with relish! Hopefully, they'll bring out a version for the Move, so you can use your hands to ward off and battle demons, with an AI interface that's intelligent enough to track sunlight and shadow (or mud and rain, and the like) to make it as realistic and exciting as the book. This one's a true breakout in the genre and Brett has my admiration and loyalty from here on out. Write on!
4 This book is excellent. Engaging, well-written, with a minimal number of characters and a minimal amount of fuss. It's damn near a perfect book - I couldn't stop reading it - until very close to the end, where I think the author takes a shortcut because his characters weren't doing what he wanted them to do.He inflicts a trauma on one of his characters, which is no real surprise; but the character's reaction to the trauma is so utterly *wrong*, both based on previous behavior and on the way people react, that it completely threw me out of the book. It's as though the writer simply couldn't immagine having this happen to himself so he gave up empathizing with his character and guessed. It comes back a few pages later for a line or two, then goes again, then comes back. The very last bit of the book is ok, and I'll still read his second book in the series. It's just that based on how really fantastic the beginning of the book was, to see him give up like that at the end was really disappointing.
4 A very engaging tail that allows you to build a bond with the three main characters, Leesha in particular.  Highly recommend this to anyone who is a fan of the genre.
5 This book is great it has all the elements and  gripping originality,read it and you will enjoy it.Part 2 is almost a re-hash and part 3 is better but both are not as good as this first book.Almost seems like he got this right and was surprised at his success. I have read this genre for 32 years and this makes the same cut as tolkein,edddings,gemmell,feist,sanderson.Buy it and read it you will not regret it very rarely does something so refreshing come along but when it does grab it.peace
5 A brilliant read!!This is one of the best books and series I have read in ages.Such an interesting concept and plot created by Peter Brett. I am so grateful for his creativity and persistence to write such a great book.I thoroughly enjoyed every part of it. The characters were great. The plots and sub plots fitted extremely well together into a very entertaining book which I highly recommend. I have now read all of the books in the series (that the author has written) and I am extremely excited as I look forward to the next book in the series.
4 I was a little unsure of this title at first glance. But after hearing how Brett came up with the concept from a short story he wrote for a writing class I decided to give it a shot. And I have to say I am truly glad I did.The Painted Man is a story of a world where demons rule the night forcing humanity to huddle within the safety of painted wards and a young boy named Arlen as he struggles to understand the his world and ultimatly how he fits into it all.It's a gripping story from the get go with believable (if a little flat at times) characters that you really come to care about and fast pace action that keeps the story from becoming boring in parts where many writers would have floundered.There were some pacing issues I had, mostly involving the jumping in forward of the story but at the same time it wasn't jarring or annoying enough to make me stop. In fact I honestly couldn't put this one down and read it nearly non-stop over the weekend.The Painted Man takes a lot of traditional fantasy tropes but spins them into some new and fresh that gives me a lot of hope for the genre. I can't wait for the sequel and whatever else Mr. Brett has in store for us.
3 3.5 starsIn Arlen's world there is demons, or corelings as they're called, who rises from the ground when the darkness falls. People try to protect their homes with wards and hoping the wards hold during the night.Arlen lives with his parents at a small village when the village is attacked by the demons. When his mother is severly wounded and his father stays behind the safety of the wards watching, Arlen starts to wonder why people won't fight back and thinks that there must be some way to fight.Arlen is disappointed in his father's cowardice and leaves his home to discover a way to learn to fight.The book is also told from Leesha's and Rojer's point of view. Leesha becomes a herb gatherer, healer, and Rojer becomes jongleur after his village is attacked.We get to know Arlen from young age and see him grow to a very determined, or obsessed, man. Fighting corelings becomes his whole life whic borders on obsession. He loathes his father and the people who are too afraid to fight but I could understand why they were afraid. Sometimes I wished he had just little more understanding with those.I liked Leesha who was smart and had courage but why must every man want to bed her? And the romance part just came out of the blue. And I just don't believe someone recovers from rape that soon and then soon after has sex in the mud with near complete stranger.The world was scary and I liked the idea of protecting wards and the magic behind them. I did enjoy the book and it left me wondering what happens next. I'm definitely reading the next book!
2 The books starts well enough and the setting is reasonably interesting, but by the end some major events happen that didn't make much sense...also i didn't like any of the books characters
5 Couldn't wait to get started on the next book in the series.  I absolutely loved reading this book.  Well worth it!
4 This is the first volume of a trilogy set in a fictional world where demons that only appear at night, just after sunset, have terrorized and massacred humanity for over three centuries, returning after three thousand years of absence. Hence, all dating is A.R. that is "After the Return" (of the monsters). What is left of humanity is being slowly culled every night by the various types of demons that kill and eat them, with demon-types associated to the elements (such as fire demons or air demons) or types of vegetation and landscape (such as sand demons in deserts, rock demons in mountains or wood demons in forests). Humanity is organized in five main cities and a scattering of towns and villages. Humans have little protection against the almost invulnerable monsters at night, except for magical wards inherited from a distant and barely remembered past that repel rather than kill them. So they almost all hide behind them and wait in terror until dawn.There are two exceptions in this world of despair and terror. One is the warrior who will get to be known as the Painted Man. He has vowed to dedicate his life to fight and kill the demons, and a number of other characters who the reader gets acquainted with in the book will, over time, join him. The other exception is made of the inhabitants of one of the five cities whose militant religion promotes "Holy War", and of their chief warrior and war leader in particular.Contrary to what I was afraid off, this volume is not exclusively targeted at young adults, although, unlike some other reviewers, I would hesitate to make comparison with David Gemmell's works. The characters are not entirely implausible, including that of the Painted Man whose talents are acquired after much effort and suffering. The story is rather exciting, and, even if hardly unpredictable, it reads easily. The story, and how bits and pieces of lost knowledge are preserved and shared, found again and redeveloped, is an interesting one, while the monster attacks and the fights against them are, at times, quite gripping.Contrary to another reviewer, I would not go as far as to qualify this book as "one of the best fantasy novels ever", but it is certainly a very good "debut" and I can only hope that volume two, which I am just about to start, will be at least as good. Four solid stars, definitely worth reading and highly recommended.
4 A very good start for a trilogy. Masterfully crafted world and fine, three-dimensional, living characters. I loved it how Arlen's character was never developed into a mysterious superhero type, but retained his human weaknesses that showed from time to time. This made him all the more interesting. And the question that is revealed at the end - how much humanity is still there? Is he becoming totally inhuman? - makes me wait the next instalment all the more eagerly.Looking back, I think Leesha was somewhat overdone, she was becoming too dominant, too much of a Mary Sue Warrior Woman type of character. Too perfect. Well, let's see what the next books will make of her.All in all, definitely a book worth reading.
4 Started this book and was hooked from the start - then lost my kindle to my husband who wanted to read another book on my reading list! Didn't really mind as I had another one in paperback I wanted to read. Looking forward to reading the rest. Would recommend and will be buying the rest of the trilogy.
5 I found it engrossing, absorbing and well written.  It was hard to put down.  Character development and overall descriptions gave a well-rounded picture that captured the imagination.  Could not wait to start the next book in the series. Would recommend this to anybody
4 I really enjoyed this book. The writing is good, the plot and character development happening at a brisk pace. Even though the basic story premise isn't that new, the way in which the author has realized it is fresh, interesting and totally addictive. I can't wait for the next installments.
4 Really good story with plenty of action & heaps of tension. The main protagonist is a great character with plenty of shading. Well worth a read.
4 Picked this up on spec and a bit of a slow start but stick with it - this is a great read.  Been reading some reviews of the later books which have been quite critical of the writting style but I, personally, quite enjoy this style...
5 I never read books of this genre but my son read it and said he couldn't put it down. Neither could I . I have also read the sequel. Wish the author would write more in the vain.
5 This is an excellent book! Once I started it I could not put it down. And the characters and setting are both similar to other fantasy books I have read and different. I feel strongly that this could be a series to rival Robert Jordan's if only this author would write more. I am now reading the next book, The Desert Spear and it is great also.
4 In a fantasy world where demons rise at night - rock demons, fire demons, water demons and air demons the inhabitants of this world hide behind wards at night. Wards are intricate patterns painted by Warders and forms a magical barrier where through the demons cannot pass. Tales are told of a Deliverer who lived centuries ago and fought against the demons. There are five Free Cities, and each has their abundance of a certain commodity, which is sought after by another Free City.The Painted Man tells the tale of Arlen (with a dream to become a Messenger), Rojan (with a dream to become a fabled Jongleur) and Leesha (destined to be an Herb Gatherer). They eventually come together and in an epic last stand against evil. They teach the people of this world that they are able to fight and they need not cower in fear every night.I tend to shy away from books, which have more than 300 pages, because the story (for me) becomes long-winded. However, when I read the last word of The Painted Man, I wished that it wasn't finished.My first full-fledged fantasy, I am now hooked on this genre.
4 this book was recommended to me by my teenage son and I wasn't sure what it would be like.  Demons and wards, strong characters and a tale that made you want to find out what happens next.  Enjoyed it. I could imagine this as a computer game!
5 I love all of Barbara Erskine's books.  This one was so enjoyable I tried to read slowly so I would be able to enjoy it for a longer time.
4 Author Barbara Erskine must be listening to her fan base.  Her last few novels, although set in different locales, followed the same tired formulaic plot line where a modern day heroine urged on by a spectacularly historic backdrop channels into a restless soul from the past and is pursued by dual male contemporaries with a mixture of lascivious and murderous intentions to yield a 500+ page yawn of a good versus evil supernatural saga.  However, instead of the usual mindless pursuit where the reader can determine halfway through the novel its three snores and a beer can climax, "The Warrior's Princess" fascinates with a well-controlled weaving of the past and present storylines to create a compelling neatly crafted story about Eigon, the daughter of the defeated warrior king, Caratacus, of the Roman Britain's Catuvellauni tribe featured in her earlier novel "Daughters of Fire (Unabridged)".  As a master storyteller, Erskine explores her rape at the hands of Roman soldiers and her subsequent life in the Rome of Emperior Claudius and Nero.The plot of "The Warrior's Princess" does not deviate too far from the characteristic Erskine storyline.  Jess, a young teacher living in 21st century London awakes the morning after a party celebrating the end-of-school to find herself bruised, her clothing torn and disheveled, her mind wiped clean of whatever violence had transpired.  When she realizes that she has been horrifically raped, yet cannot remember which of the men from the night before returned with her to her apartment, she decides that her life may be in jeopardy. Frightened with her only recourse escape to her sister's home in remote Wales, Jess's heightened emotional upheaval attracts the vibes of a lonely distraught child searching the Welsh hills for her mother and sister.  The reader quickly discovers that the young girl is a manifestation from the Britain of Roman times, abandoned by her mother for her own safety on the day of the great battle between her tribe and the conquering Roman legion.  To her sudden discomfort, Jess relives her own attack as she finds herself witnessing the rape of Eigon and her mother by Roman soldiers.  Filled with pity for the outrage endured by the young girl, Jess desires only to discover what her outcome was in a historical sense.  Spurred on by her own need for escape, Jess decides to journey to Rome as once Eigon and her captured family did to explore the sensations Eigon is sending her through the funnel of time.Like other Erskine works, the premise behind the story remains predictable.  Admirers of Erskine know that inevitably she will employ her standard technique of introducing a woman who is psychically linked to a troubled soul from the past.  As the major character has enemies, so does her doppelganger in the present.  In fact, Erskine notably does well in fashioning a believable modern story filled with contemporary angst resulting from male/female relationship problems usually with city types that exhibit a somewhat jaded sensibility regarding the inevitability of relationship break-ups.  Jess, obviously has her problems with men--in this story Erskine flips four different men in and out of her life to parallel the goings-on in the early A.D. era revolving around, Eigon, her warrior princess.  As Erskine readers have come to expect, this familiar bit of male flipping reeks of a bit of a feminism that may seem dated.  Most of Erskine's female characters remain strong even through adversity and physical pain.  Her main men, however, tumble rather quickly, succumbing either to their overwhelming desire for the woman in question, their pressing need for dominance or an ever-weakening already sick psyche.  The majority of "Warrior's Princess's" men, sadly, remain of this ilk that lends itself to an "oh-no" `been-there-done-that' feel for the reader.Somehow, in this current offering,  Erskine redeems herself in the way she intertwines the two concurrent past and present tales. Eigon's portion of the story sparkles with life from the vantage point of the country stranger to the teeming of the ultimate Eternal City.  Erskine molds a formidable cast of ancient characters that do not disappoint along with a plot line that centers upon the early Christian community and their deers-in-the-headlights struggle during Nero's persecution.  Also commendable and this offering's major salvation as compared to her other recent titles is Erskine's trick of adding new personalities at the tail end of this novel that help bring the entire story to a satisfying conclusion on both a supernatural and human level.Erskine's well-known paranormal themes are tweaked to perfection in this one--kudos go especially to her creation of Marcia Maximilla, an intriguing seer from the past and Meryn, present day druid, a character first presented in "Daughters of Fire (Unabridged)," both of which I would like to revisit in a future tale that reveals more of their respective backgrounds.Bottom line?  Although Barbara Erskine's "The Warrior's Princess" again plays with themes of channeling the past and weaving a present story with emotional similarities to those haunted characters of another time, it is indeed a step above her last few offerings.  Therefore, don't be dissuaded by her reliance on retelling tales that reviewers like myself have deemed past formulaic disappointments and do give her another chance to provide her reading public with a classic story of the caliber of "House of Echoes" and "Midnight Is a Lonely Place."  In "The Warrior's Princess" Erskine finally gets her tale of possession, good and evil and pursuit over time right.  Her interjection of a bustling ancient Rome during Nero's persecution of the early Christians adds the necessary ingredient into her usual domain of Britannia and its Celtic tribes and supercharges this one to an over average rating.  Hopefully Ms Erskine's next novel will revisit the compelling creation of Marcia Maximilla and her flirtation with the present day druid Meryn from "Daughters of Fire (Unabridged)" and explore perhaps a romance between the past and present rather than another recycling of hatred passed down through the ages.  Recommended.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
3 I usually love timeslip novels like this. A first-century Celtic princess's life parallels that of a modern-day woman, who escapes to Wales to avoid someone who attacked her in London. Later Jess, the modern-day woman, goes to Rome, partly to escape her attacker (who followed her to Wales), partly to research Eigon's story. I thought I couldn't go completely wrong with a premise like this. The premise is good, but the execution of the book falls far short of my expectationsI enjoyed the historical part of the novel, but it took me a while (about 300 pages) to get in to Jess's story in the present day. You really have to suspend your sense of disbelief at this book, peppered as it is with too many coincidences and deus ex machinas to save the day to count. It's lazy writing, in my opinion. And although Erskine conveys Jess's sense of panic at being stalked really well, through the first 200 pages or so, I found myself thinking, "OK, I get it now, can we move on to the more interesting parts of the story?" Some of the supporting characters were also a bit confusing; at times, Jess's friends seemed to believe her story, but at others, not.In addition, the dialogue in the modern-day story is a bit stilted; native English speakers I know of use contractions while speaking, and they don't use the passive tense (as in this sentence: "you are looking at me as if I am mad"). I noticed that often, the author would use the same phrases and descriptions over and over again (a number of the characters wear open-necked shirts, and in a couple of scenes, Jess kicks off her sandals--in the middle of sidewalks in Rome in the middle of summer, in order to relax her feet.About two thirds of the book focuses on Jess, which is a pity, because the story really belongs to Eigon, the woman in the past. I think the novel could have been better had the author focused on this historical parts of this novel. I found Eigon's story to be much more compelling. I really liked the historical details; clearly, the book is well-researched, and I enjoyed learning about Roman Britain. Another part of the book that I enjoyed was the author's exploration of religious traditions; I thought she weaved the ancient Roman gods, Christianity, and Druid beliefs into the story very well. I also loved the suspense factor of the book. Through both the ancient and modern settings of The Warrior's Princess, the theme of good versus evil is delivered heavy-handedly.According to the author's note at the end of the book, historically, not much is known about Eigon--it's not even clear if Eigon was a man or a woman. That's one of the more interesting parts of the story, in my opinion, and I would have loved to see the author flesh that out a bit more. But as it is, the book is about 200 pages too long. The Warrior's Princess is the first Barbara Erskine novel I've read; and while my opinion of it wasn't stellar, interestingly enough, I'm willing to try more of her books in the future. Maybe this one just wasn't for me.
4 When Jess is attacked by an unknown assailant, her whole life changes forever...Looking to put her life back together after the attack, Jess moves to her sisters little secluded house in the Welsh Borders. But she does not get the rest she is hoping for.Late at night she is disturbed by the cries of a mysterious child and soon, she is having vivid dreams that seem so real she feels as if she is there.What Jess doesn't know is that, two thousand years before, a great battle took place in the Welsh Borders. When the king of the Catuvellauni Tribe is taken prisoner by the invading Romans, his wife and their daughter, Princess Eigon, take cover in the very same cottage that Jess is living in now.Soon, with the dreams becoming increasingly real, Jess is drawn into the mystery of Princess Eigon and what happened to her. Inside the cottage Jess will find connections to the past that are real.But those same connections to the past threaten to shatter Jess' present completely if she is not careful...I have always loved Barbara Erskine. Her books are an incredible mix of history, romance and the paranormal. It's like she's filtered the best of three genres into her work and it always shines.Having fallen in love with her work after reading The Edge of Darkness, I have devoured every book she's written. She has a way of capturing the reader and drawing them in, pulling them into her story and not letting go until the end.The Warrior's Princess is no exception and is her best book yet. The story of Jess and Eigon is poignant, incredible and thrilling. Erskine has outdone herself with this thrilling story of dreams, history and salvation.The characters are so incredibly alive, the danger so incredibly real, that I couldn't stop reading and didn't want to put it down. Though the book clocks in at well over six hundred pages, it was over in no time at all. I have never read another author who makes history so exciting.What I love most about The Warrior's Princess is that Erskine makes time travel seem so real, so incredibly vivid. Erskine makes it seem as if time travel, as if slipping into a different time, is real and could happen to anyone.She makes the impossible seem possible and brings what could be a boring historical period to life by having the pages drip with blood and emotion.If you read one book this summer, make sure it's The Warrior's Princess. You won't be sorry.
5 What a great read, I loved it. I enjoyed it so much I spent quite a bit of time researching Cartimandau, what a woman, so little known about her or given recognition. Up to Barbara's usual standard and then some.
4 I found this book really interesting, Barabara Erskine handled the changes in character and their stories really well. The characters were real and their  feelings told the stories.First in ancient England and then in ancient Rome. With the main character being in Modern times and in the modern Rome and England, gave you an idea of how time had changed. Very well historically researched.
2 As a former Cheltenham resident, I was hoping for more details on GCHQ itself between its founding and, say, 25 years ago (expiration of Official Secrets Act statute of limitations on disclosure?). There is very little in it dealing with the day-to-day life of the various Cheltenham locations or even the Uk &#34;stations&#34; in the seventies or eighties.Quite a thick (but disappointing) read.
5 After reading this book one realises how porous National Security is! The extent that Nations have to go to, to maintain security, is so great, that a private conversation in the Sahara Desert is no guarantee that some device has not been designed to discover what is being discussed! Can you really trust your confident?
5 This is the uncensored story of Britain's most secret intelligence agency, Government Communications Headquarters.This book tells the story of Britain's electronic spying from WWII up until the present day.It is a fascinating read and shows that the real intelligence gathering was done by "geeks" rather than by James Bond.Tales of amazing bravery are told, we have submarines going into enemy harbours and getting as close as 6 feet away listening to signals from the opposition.It shows how the electronic intell. gathering has had a huge bearing on all major military operations since WWII.All is not perfect though, for some reason the British intelligence community did not learn from McLean , Philby and others. Geoffry Prime, the last really damaging spy found inside GCHQ was allowed to work for two years in a high security area before he was even vetted. Everyone was later surprised when he was found to be a spy and a paedophile!!!!!!One very interesting fact written of here was that the Auckland power outages of 1998 were caused by hackers in Holland, rather than by faulty equipment in New Zealand, something that has never been spoken of here.This is a very good book, not too technical and flows nicely covering many of the major moments of the 20th century.
1 Aldrich doesn't describe his methodology: the sources he gives are British National Archives, plus some unpublished archives, e.g. British Telecom's, and about 50 sets of British and American 'Private Papers' - including Churchill, Lyndon Johnson, various Admirals, Air Commodores, Generals and the like. It's not clear how much of each, if any, was consulted. The notes begin with an (incomplete) list of abbreviations. The bibliography includes about 450 books - a couple of Billy bookcases full - largely on warfare, and biographies of politicians, spies and 'spymasters'. Technology, cryptography, and finance seem to be not Aldrich's strong suits. The book has a flavour of thrilling boys' action adventures; I don't think there's one single lesson drawn by Aldrich. Is 'intelligence' worth the money? Maybe worth more? Is it true that not one single difficult cypher has been cracked? Are these people perhaps careerists? What's the balance sheet between historical success and failure? What of events that might have taken place, but didn't? What general laws seem to apply to secrecy? Is it better to have many small intelligence groups - Norway, Holland, and other small countries are praised. Could negotiation be improved to bypass some of this? - Aldrich gives no answers.Judging by the endnotes, we can reconstruct Aldrich's writing technique: I'd guess Aldrich made a list of topics that were published in the general press - 'burst onto the front pages'; then opened some popular books by (for example) Tony Benn, P Calvocoressi, Montgomery Hyde, H Sebag-Montefiore, Duncan Campbell; on such topics as the Cold War, nuclear weapons, Iraq, jungle warfare, Suez, Turkey, spy satellites, U2 and Gary Powers, 'the war on terror'. And then looked up private papers or biographies illustrating some picturesque act of derring-do, or, perhaps, heavy bombing against soft targets - for example, what he still calls 'communists' in Malaya.The approach is 'open source research' - pioneered perhaps by James Bamford (American), and possibly Duncan Campbell (British). The idea is to fish through published material and look for disregarded but important bits, supplemented by Freedom of Information requests. It's similar in approach to Arthur Butz on the so-called 'Holocaust'; and Frederick Forsyth, who used published sources on the entire layout of 10 Downing Street for a novel.Aldrich has the curious moral imbecility which comes with accepting all conventional views. Aldrich talks of the 'notorious South African secret service (BOSS)' but thinks nothing of the millions of deaths of Vietnamese, for example, and the forcible movement of populations there - some of the biggest ever in human history. His book gives the general impression that powerful countries can afford expensive intelligence, which helps them do what their steering elites think they want - the quality of the intelligence being more-or-less irrelevant.The later chapters naturally can't use old documents - because these are still secret (or non-existent). So we have scattered topics - Diana and 'Squidgygate', drug crooks in south America using a computer, banks not wanting to reveal online frauds. And of course the fall of the Soviet Union - my guess is because the Jewish mafiosi no longer thought it worth keeping on - Aldrich prefers to think it was magic. And 9/11 - Aldrich, comically, repeats all the Al Quaeda stuff; this alone shows his book is official and worthless. Many generally-censored topics don't make it into the book: there's just a little bit about massacres in Indonesia - compare Pilger on this. The genocide in Clinton's time in Africa doesn't get in. Nor do many of the wars in Africa - Biafra was one - although intelligence must have been involved. No comment even on Pakistan/India war in 1948.Other omissions include: Caversham Park listening station, part of the 'independent' BBC; weather forecasting as part of the MoD. Aldrich doesn't seem to know that physical examples of the Enigma machine were needed - there's an account somewhere of a U-boat tricked into surfacing. Nor does Aldrich mention the Berlin microphone, listening for settings of the wheels. There's little detail of cryptography; Littlewood pointed out that 'every cipher is breakable' is a legend (1953) and it follows inevitably that indirect methods - stealing coding pads, tapping phones, interceptions, bribing 'assets', have to be used. The only convincing thing I found is an account of 'public key cryptography' described as two padlocks (a technique relevant only to computers). There's not much on Hong Kong and China or Japan.Some omissions probably exist for ideological reasons. Hungary 1956 is omitted. Vanunu is omitted. A Rothschild made money after the defeat of Napoleon, by reliance on a private signalling system - and no doubt the lesson has been retained, though of course Aldrich wouldn't mention that (though there was a Director of Economic Intelligence - Michael Kaiser - in the MoD who intercepted 'a large number of commercial telegrams'). Given that Soros and others speculate, presumably with more or less indefinite backing, against other currencies, this is of some public interest. Not just currency, but also raw materials are omitted, as is customary with hack historians: no mention of oil stealing by Kuwait. There's nothing on military actions around uranium ores. Tony Collins' '25 Mysterious Deaths in the Defence Industry' (1990) isn't even in the bibliography. A practical example of the downside of spying - the Tupolev TU-144 built from smuggled Concorde plans of a rejected design - is omitted.Technology: Aldrich appears to have no serious grasp of technology, and accepts what must be a great deal of mythology - suitcase nuclear bombs, for example. He has no inkling that there's something odd about the entire nuclear issue. Microwave controlled microphones sound like someone's little joke. NASA- why didn't intelligence listen in to the 'moon' stuff? With their unmatched radio technology! Aldrich's accounts of old computers read like PR ads of the time, designed to promise the earth and hide unreliability. Aldrich discusses the rise of satellite transmission, though I don't think he has any idea how they work or what they do.He dodges technology, but, possibly because it's easy to grasp, or is human interest as recommended to scriptwriters, gives descriptions - though not analyses - of numerous rivalries: RAF vs NSA, GCHQ vs SIS, secrecy vs exposure by legal systems, police vs GCHQ (amusing account of Prime), CIA vs NSA, NATO vs MI5, 'tradecraft' vs buggings. And US manufacturers of cypher machines vs European manufacturers - notably Swedish; US army vs US navy vs US airforce; Chile vs Argentina; land based spying vs spy ships vs satellites; competing unions (once) in GCHQ; KGB interdepartmental jealousies. Aldrich likes to use what presumably is still the language of military intelligence - 'assets', 'acquire their targets with their radar', 'assisting SIS on the ground', 'degrade Argentine intelligence systems'. He also likes to judge people, in a way which rationally is hardly possible: '.. distinguished security intelligence operator .. most skilled interrogator' [How can he be sure?]. One thing that amused me was '.. Denis Healey, one of the most intelligent people ever to hold ministerial office..'Finance: It seems odd, in a world where 'foreign aid' from Britain is tens of billions per annum, and the costs of immigration fraud are probably greater, that Aldrich should have no idea of the relative costs of intelligence. Throughout his book there's a sense of "just look at this great big number!" I think this is a by-product of secrecy; I suppose hacks like to pretend they know these things. A typical example is the Manhattan Project, which allegedly produced the atom bomb. More money was spent on radar (according to Chrysler).Bias: the bias most obvious to me is the complete omission of Jewish influence, notably over the USA, but also of course in Europe. The post-war money-making fraud of 'the Holocaust', and control over countless pressure groups, trusts, quangoes, unions, media and what have you goes unmentioned. The spies for the USSR, and indeed USSR as Jewish, is unmentioned; so is the secret export of western technology to the USSR. The Anglo-Israel War gets virtually no mention. The 'Liberty' - an intellidence gathering ship - is 'controversial'. Kissinger seems to have almost monopolised US foreign policy under Nixon - in fact the Vietnam War may well have been an attempt to get overall Jewish control of money in parts of south-east Asia. Many publicity outfits in the UK - the Rowntree foundation, the Scott trust of the 'Guardian', the New Statesmen, many unions, the violent 'Searchlight' organisation, are Jewish-funded. And so on up to 9/11. At any rate, here there are innumerable intelligence links which are completely unexplored by Aldrich.Readers might be amused at this mistake - someone 'was born in the Soviet Union in 1908' (page 80). Something similar applies re Islam: Gaddafi and Libya, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Muslims in the heart of Serbia have some cursory account, but the full complications with oil and gas are omitted. And of course the third world inevitably get the sticky end; for example after World War 2 they were sold Enigma machines by the British, deliberately, as they were known to be crackable. Aldrich seems not to know about innumerable interventions in the third world, many of course very bloody.Failures of intelligence are listed very rarely, in little paragraphs. They include: Pearl Harbor in 1941 - unbelievably, Aldrich professes to think this came figuratively out of the blue. We also have: Hitler's attack on the USSR, the 'outbreak' of the Korean War 1950, 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, 1967 'Six Day War', 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, 1973 'Yom Kippur/Ramadan War' by Egypt and Syria, 'failed to predict the end of the Cold War' 1989, 1990 Iraq against Kuwait. Aldrich draws no useful lessons from all this. Needless to say, the third world gets little mention. However, there's Ireland. The bombings suggest this was an intelligence failure - it looks like a failure to me! - but Aldrich doesn't draw this rather obvious conclusion. (Nor does he have anything useful to say on legalities - is the legal system up to the job?)So - what is the point of this book? So far from being uncensored, it clearly follows the official establishment line at every step. It's possible it was commissioned by the 'Labour' regime disaster - it was recommended by the BBC, a sure sign of official approval. The idea may be to show the government is in control and despite a few understandable small mistakes, knows what it's doing for our benefit. Scarlett - appointed by Tony Blair - is virtually omitted, though there's a 2003 photo giving evidence into David Kelly's death. And yet he seems to have been complicit in public lies on Weapons of Mass Destruction. Presumably the entire organisation is under the control of people who will lie if their promoter pulls their strings. This must surely have some effect on morale at 'the doughnut'. Typically there are accounts of bodged reforms - '[Roger] Hurn's review team .. included Alice Perkins (a.k.a. Mrs Jack Straw) and David Omand...' It's almost incredible that Strawinski, who undemocratically decided to open the UK to mass immigration - no public consultation - let's not mince words; he's scum - should have a wife who is officially permitted to tamper with arrangements that might have a permanent damaging effect. There isn't much consideration of the mass of employees at GCHQ; they seem mainly interested in money and one gathers quite a few computer experts leave - politicians may reward bureaucrats, PFI schemers, lawyers, and company board member shareholders, but people who actually do useful work get left out in the cold.If you're looking for a compendium of official views on GCHQ, in a form mimicking genuine research, this book might do. If you think the control of information is an important and difficult issue, you might decide to cross off Warwick University from future consideration.
5 How is it we have not heard more about this before? Because it was a secret. Great read, full of detail.
5 Having spent most of my active military time in the same environment I can testify that this is a great acount of the efforts of a few people to aid in the safety of all others in the free world.
5 I'm a History buff and purchased the Kindle edition of this book up after reading about the Mossad. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. During the time of my reading it, my wife became a Kindle widow.
5 From a complete layman on the subject of espionage and electronic surveillance, I expected this book to be only of interest to the initiated but it is very well written and kept a good pace of interesting facts and incidents that shaped the future if intelligence gathering. The author avoided the common mistake of including too much techno-speak and the mundane, which would consign this book to the text book shelves of the shops and libraries. Although not a "couldn't put this down" book (as I would have been awake 3-4 days), I didn't find it hard work to read and enjoyed the many different stories that proved interesting and entertaining.If this subject even semi-interests you, I recommend to buy this book, I don't think you will be disappointed.
5 Montgomery v Rommel at Alamein is one of the great battles of history. It remains a subject of both inspiration and controversy. Author Gale covers its strategies, tragedies and heroics in fictional style, yet the people are mostly real. His research is extensive and his style engrossing. Garnished from memoirs, he includes the thinking of the two great generals, Montgomery and Rommel, who pitted their armies in the war's bloodiest conflict. America's vital role is also recognised via its supplies of armour and its ambulance volunteers.Significantly, the author disagrees with Monty's claim to have successfully pre-planned everything before the fighting began. His conclusion is that the British general was a master opportunist. He beat the "Desert Fox" by changing tactics and ignoring "suggestions" by Churchill and other figures superior in rank to himself.At trench level, lower ranks dominate the narrative. This thrillingly describes the different perspectives of infantry, artillery, tanks and medics on the desert battlefields. Also what it was like from German and Italian viewpoints as well as British and Commonwealth and American volunteers.This is a grand history magnificently told.I particularly liked the end notes informing what became of the book's individuals after Alamein.
1 This is cliched writing at its groan-inducing worst. It's "damn the torpedoes", "keep a stiff upper lip" and "war is hell" stuff with large dollops of schmaltz. Here's a sample:"He pictured the [dead] boy's mother in their pretty baroque villa overlooking Florence in the little hillside village of Fiesole. Donna Bartoldi would receive the telegram within the week, before his letter could reach her. He saw her drop to her knees in the great portico, beneath the trailing vines in the October sunshine which dappled the Tuscan hills."
5 The first book of the battle of el Alamein I have read with stories from both sides and from all levels of the armies. Fabulous!
3 If you are looking for a novel about war that puts you in the trenches then this book is as close to all that. The story covers the 12 day battle of Alemein and is told from the accounts of actual real life characters and some fictional ones as well, of British Commonwealth, German and Italian soldiers, Generals who fought this significant battle of World War 2. Also included in the story is that of an American ambulance crew. It is straight forward and not fancy almost reading as non-fiction. Don't be surprised when you read of the gruesome realities of war. I was looking for something on different level but did come away with documentary style of fiction from reading this. It wasn't spectacular but wasn't bad. 3 Stars.
2 "Alamein" is a novel based on the famous battle in 1942, often (if inaccurately) called the turning point of World War II. We follow the ten-day long struggle through the experiences of several real individuals, who between them offer a fair cross-section of those taking part.Unfortunately the parts don't gel together very well. The use of real-life characters constrains the story to what they actually did and what is actually known about them. Inevitably some are more involved and more fully developed than others, so it all gets very uneven. And as few of them ever actually meet what we end up with is a series of short stories rather than a coherent novel. Not that this matters much, as the description of the fighting is always the same. The first time we read of someone being blown to bits or having a shell splinter slice into their heads it is shocking. By the twentieth time it has lost all effect.  That's not good writing.  It's also a disservice to the courage of those who were actually involved.There's also a few historical inaccuracies, particularly with the equipment; the situation map at the start doesn't show all of the terrain features or units that are referenced; the military operations are poorly explained; and combined with the bitty nature of the book it can get very confusing trying to follow what is going on. Now you could argue that confusion is the lot of the soldier on the ground in a big battle, so Mr Gale is merely conveying that emotion to us. Well yes, but although I want to relate to that confusion, I don't want it to stay with me all the time. I'm a reader, not a participant!There are some plus points. Mr Gale is a talented writer and the prose flows very well. It's an easy book to read and for once the Italians are not stereotyped as cowards or incompetents. Really though, Alamein was such a dramatic event in real life that a good non-fiction book on it would be just as tense and exciting as this effort.
5 I received this book for my birthday from a good friend. He knows my tastes well. If you like the show Little Britain  (of which the author is one of the stars) you will like this book. I am an adult, but I enjoy reading children's fiction and this one was very original. You do not often see children's books handle such interesting topics with such grace and humour--but this one does. Such great characters and a great story. I will hopefully get my hands on Mr. Walliams other books very soon.
4 The book arrived in excellent shapeand was a good book to read byboth adults and children.
5 Lovely, funny story, thoughtfully told. I laughed out loud numerous times. And who can resist the illustrations by the brilliant Quentin Blake? I will not soon forget the characters in this story.
3 I loved David Walliams on &#34;Little Britain&#34;.  And a good thing this book is published in Britain, because it would be challenged right out of the US of A Library system.  So, the boy likes to wear girls' clothing.  So....is he transgendered?  Doesn't seem to be since a crush on a girl is highly suggested.  Is he a transvestite?  Not enough information.  So....what?  All this because the star football (soccer in Britain, of course) wears a dress and shock!-that's the principal's secret, too!  It's an okay book, but it's not really useful to anyone.
5 Such a beautifully written, intelligent and compassionate book. Very tender and kind...a touching story.Walliams is a must read author.
5 David Williams' THE BOY IN THE DRESS provides the powerful story of Dennis, who lives in a boring down in a boring house and has a passion for soccer - and fashion. When his friend Lisa discovers his stash of Vogue magazines and convinces him to wear a dress to school, trouble begins. A compelling, unusual story offers black and white drawings by Quentin Blake throughout.
