5 Odd Thomas is such a great charactor. It sounds like this series is coming to an end. I hope not. Odd Thomas needs to continue to fight the good fight.
4 I still enjoy the thought of Odd and his unusual travels. Verbose in some chapters and oddly lacking in others as you reach the conclusion of this episode. It appears Odd will continue, one can hope so.
5 This is one of Odd's &#34;oddest&#34; encounters!  I read this late into the night because I could not put it down!  Absolutely wonderful!
5 Dean Koontz is a master storyteller.  He somehow makes the unbelievable very real indeed.  Odd Thomas continues his journey with remarkable wit and wisdom.
5 The human heart chooses right or wrong. To know this world fully one must believe in the here after. Without a belief of a greater place we are to go at our death, this world would be a hard place to live. But with faith we look to that greater end of this life and yearn for the new peaceful place in our future. Good always triumphs over evil.
5 The Odd Thomas books are endlessly fascinating. Some more than others. As this one involved children, I wasn't at all certain I'd like or enjoy it. I find no fun or entertainment in reading about children being hurt.  However, I should have known better, because enjoy it I did. Odd Thomas, communing with various and sundry spirits and the mystical, magical, mysterious people who befriend and accompany him along his victorious way, are all so hypnotically engrossing that once again I could not put this book down. In each edition we are introduced to someone so intriguing, so fascinating, that it's almost a reward for having to live through the treacherous, deadly activities that Odd Thomas must meet, figure out, and vanquish.  I especially liked this one. And I can hardly wait for the next one to come.  Dean Koontz has made me a firm, loyal fan of his Odd Thomas novels. This one only upped the interest and anticipation for what comes next.
5 I love this series by Dean Koontz.  The classic battle of good and evil with a wonderfully charming hero who is very humble, very witty and sweet.  Very entertaining.  I love Odd's soliloquies, his down to earth, &#34;fry cook&#34; attitude and outlook.
5 this book as all of the others of the series you can't put down till the end. Great read. I truly enjoy reading all of his books
5 All the odd books are wonderful, I hope he keeps going on writing them, if you have not read one, you should!
5 Another great Odd Thomas book.  I'm really enjoying reading the story line in these books.  Good luck Odd, we love you.
5 What can you say about Odd, this series has always entertained me in it's unusual stories, the twists and turns, characterization, and the new characters introduced so eloquently in the scenarios. Dean Koontz has always been MY ALL TIME FAVORITE WRITER!
3 I love Dean Koontz writing but this one spent too much time going back and forth between two or three realities.
5 After Odd Apocalypse, I was hesitant on reading this Odd novel.  I read the reviews and decided to give it a try.  All I can say is ODD IS BACK!  I agree with the other reviewers that the "flavor" of the original Odd novel is re-establish in this book.  I love the old lady's spunk.  I hope she is part of the Odd series.  Odd meets interesting people that have a special sense of the world and help him save some innocent children from crazed demon cult worshipers. You have to read it.  You will love it!
4 This was precisely what I expected from this series of books. I have loved the Odd Thomas series from the start. While it is starting to look a little like Mr Koontz churns these out like cookies, it is still an enjoyable addition to the 'franchise'. Evil is still pervading the world and Odd is still bumping into weird and wacky oddball sidekicks in his fight against the end of the world. What more could you want? While it's not exactly literature gold, it's amusing and entertaining enough. Keep 'em coming; they make great little rest stops along the highway of reading pleasure.
5 I cant put these books down. Great story and the way it is written keeps me coming back for more
5 I loved it! It's about Odd Thomas and I love this character! I love how he thinks and what a deeply good heart he has. Bravo Mr. Koontz on another job well done! Thank you for sharing your imagination with us!!!
5 I love Odd Thomas and have read all the Odd books. I also love Dean Koontz's work. I've missed Odd Thomas. This book was good, not my favorite of the series, but, I feel the series is winding down. Odd meets some real characters this time. He even meets up with Alfred Hitchcock. I read this book rather quickly, since I was in a hurry to see how this all played out. It was certainly different, and a bit scary. Sometimes, when I read Dean Koontz books, especially Odd Thomas, I stop and think that maybe he is onto something, and that these things really COULD happen.
3 This particular Odd book moved at a snails pace.  I got lost in the overly long verbiage  I kept waiting for a climatic ending that never happened.  The book just faded away with a whimper.  The chances of me purchasing another Odd Thomas book are zero at this point.
5 I have now enjoyed everyone Odd Thomas Novels. I would  say they are some of the most delightfully written books and would recommend everyone to read them. You will not be disappointed.
4 If you haven't read any Odd Thomas books, don't start here- start with the first one. If you have read Odd Thomas books, you will want to read this one no matter what.  So go ahead, enjoy.  It might not be great- but it is not a bomb, its a good solid read.Is this the best of the Odd Thomas books?  No, probably not.  Is it a good book, worthy of a read?  Definitely yes.I hope that Mr. Koontz (should he ever browse these words) will forgive me for my boldness, but it appears he has reached a point in his Odd Thomas books where he is about to clear up the mysteries (to some degree anyway) and wrap things up- you can feel it.  This book is necessary to that goal, as there are a lot of holes to fill in and the books' world view is still not complete.  Mr Koontz tries to do this with a new story, a few new characters, and some new found weirdness that crack the door on the world and let us start seeing the outline of how it will be filled out.The world view is classic Koontz- good people with great spirit are the heroes.  We need more heroes and I'm good with that.Does the book have some - uh - weaker points?  Sure.  First, the book tries too hard to bring a new reader into the world of Odd Thomas.  Frankly, someone who picks up the book will have missed the best of Oddie and will suffer loss.  Someone told me that if a book isn't numbered (Odd Thomas #X), your supposed to be able to pick it up cold.  HINT: It's time to start numbering the books.  The back story is distracting and a bit irritating to this long term reader.Second, Odd seems to be having a bit of a identity crises.  In the past books, his modesty shown through naturally, here it seems forced and repetitive.  In other books, the story and actions spoke of simpleness and such, here, Odd very nearly says, "I am a simple and modest guy."  IN other stories he spoke of people who had guided him and attributed much of his wisdom to him- "Chief Porter told me..." this seems missing.  The "You are such a special young man" moments seem overdone as well- but then again, perhaps others will disagree.Third, the ending seems contrived.  I kept waiting for the twist that wasn't there.  (If I knew what twist I was talking about, I'd be a great writer like Koontz, so I've got to be a bit vague here).  The book plays out according the story line established by the first chapter.  I won't give spoilers, but well, the crises moment works out too easily.  I did like the final resolution in many ways, however.Odd's obsession with Stormy continues to be brought up, but again, in words, not in story. I guess this is supposed to be sweet, but in some ways it seems contrary to the basic underlying premise that live in Odd's world is worth living- but then again, perhaps he is more depressed than I realize.I guess we'll see what happens when the story closes back on itself in the next book.  I will be eagerly awaiting it safe in the knowledge that even a mediocre Koontz book is better than most author's crowing piece.
3 If you have read this book, then you are a Odd Thomas follower, so you know all the previous novels.This one has a decent, continuous pace from beginning to end.There have been past Odd Thomas travels that have somewhat meandered at times. Deeply Odd does not do this but instead starts the story and keeps going to the end.I do like the small touches that point to a much larger conspiracy , setting up for possibly an epic good vs evil battle ( a la Stephen King - The Stand? )Good story.
5 Excellent book. I truly have enjoyed the Odd Thomas series. Anxiously await the next novel! I will revisit this story in the future.
4 I love Oddie, and would have given the full 5 stars, but I felt this book got a little bit over self indulgent for me and there were whole paragraphs I skipped to avoid the cringe-worthy inner dialogue of the main character and get back to the story. However, I have read all the Odd Thomas books and will continue to do so for as long as Mr Koontz continues to release them. I am a long time fan and a great admirer of his cerebral and chilling storytelling.
4 Oddie is a hero for the 21st century.  Dean Koontz has always been a &#34;go to&#34; for me when the rest of the publishing world seemed to be stuck on vampires, werewolves and deeply repressed housewife fantasies!  I'm a voracious, eclectic reader and I can honestly say that one of his earlier books, Watchers is in the top five of my long 40 year list.  His Odd Thomas novels are different and engaging.  The suspension of disbelief is what every author shoots for and Koontz is a past master.  No matter how strange or improbable the premise....he makes it work.  Highly recommended!
5 Have read every Odd book by Dean Koontz and hope for more.  Odd is so easy to love.  His character is what we'd all like to be &  I love the supernatural twist.  Try it & you'll love it.
4 The book was good at first it was somewhat confusing with the way it would bounce back and forth until Mr. Koontz finally got everything connected with how the otherworld and this world were connected for Odd Thomas after that it was much better.  I can hardly wait for the next book in the series to see what will happen next.  I loved the little old lady that was one of the characters in the book she was funny.
5 As with all odd novels, the story terrifies and intrigues you into rushing through the book.  I had to force myself to make this book last a week.  Now I will have to wait a long dry spell for the next book.  The detail in each encounter is so precise, you can feel and almost taste the terror of the moment.  I love these books.
4 For those that enjoy reading Koontz because you feel that you never know which way he is going to take a story I surely offer up the Odd Thomas series.  Deeply Odd is the latest in the series and thus far the one that most keeps you guessing about which way the will go.  Supernatural powers, dimension shifting, aliens, crazy back woods families, and good versus evil...Deeply Odd has all of that and most.  Koontz's writing pulls all these parts together into a surprisingly cohesive storyline.  Odd is a great character and hero.  This novel also improves on a little of the wandering of the previous chapter in the series.  It keeps upping the ante on the coming final climatic chapter in the Odd Thomas series.
3 Compared to Koontz other odd Thomas novels,it was somewhat disappointing,it did not have the suspense you come to expect,it was somewhat dull  except for the beginning . And end, hopefully the next will be  better.
5 If you are a fan of the &#34;Odd&#34; stories, you won't be disappointed by Deeply Odd.  Sure it is the same quirky character, but something deeper and darker is emerging, making not only the book, but the entire series compelling.  You could read this on its own - but reading the Odd Series, in order, is a worthwhile investment.  Odd Thomas is my favourite Koontz Character, and this instalment is the best yet.  Deeply Odd - deeply satisgying.
5 it is a good readdean koontz does another wonderful jobkeep up the good workhope he is writing another ODD book
5 I have been entranced with the entire Odd Thomas books. This one however left me feeling as if Oddies true reason for being Odd is becoming more clear. I feel as if this series of books with its slightly vague references to other Koontz series may tie some things together. The battle of good vs evil even mirrors some of the various inequities happening in our country and world today. I highly recommend this book, but one should start at the beginning of this wonderful series. You will not be disappointed. I also recommend the audio books available from Audible.
5 I really like almost everything Dean Koontz writes, but I really love the Odd Thomas books.  It feels like the series is heading toward the final climax and ending soon.  I'll miss Oddie, but I can always re-read the series.  Great book.
3 I wanted more from Dean since it had been a while since he wrote anything. Should have waited for reviews before purchasing.
5 It's difficult to write a fitting review of a great book from a great author. I have the same problem with Stephen King. But I remember reading their early works and they weren't always great writers. This series should be read in order. It is one great story about how to live told with a sense of wonder and imagination. The characters especially Oddie are ones you will never forget...
3 While the Odd series has, up to this point, been a satisfying read this installment found the author filling spaces with rambling dialog and wordy illustrations that added little to the story.This wasn't a bad read but I know the author can do better.
5 I read this while on vacation and had to download the Kindle version of Odd Apocslypse.  I will be getting Odd interlude next.
5 Thanks, great price great shipping. Will buy again
5 This book is not for the faint of heart, or for those with vivid imaginations. The humor woven through Odd`s communications and thoughts soften the stark situations he experiences. I continue to keep my eyes open for the next Odd Thomas suspense adventures. More than a good read.
5 I don't know why I am attracted to t his character. I've always a us been interested in t his st o r y of good versus evil, and the struggle to  understand it.  I see Odd struggle to deal with situations as they come up that I think I could do better at my age and having read so much more fantasy and scIence fiction than he, but wonder if this really happened to me if I could deal with it.  It is a good story. I love Odd th eprotagonist
5 I think this is my favorite Oddie story to date. Wonderful cast of &#34;characters&#34; and best of all, they set the stage for more Odd Thomas adventures that will surely come.
5 If you are into Odd Thomas you will like this. You just slide right back into his world in the opening paragraph.
3 I love Dean's Odd Series, and the character. The beginning was awesome. I was so excited to go on another Odd adventure. But, he gets lost in a episode of of Old Star Trek and Twilight Zone lost dimensions, where Odd rants his usual Dean dislikes, science, rational thought, environmental activists, climate change, etc, etc. I thought Fox news anchor took over as Odd. It was a non stop Bill O"Reilly rant session, and I was thinking the only thing missing was the war on Christmas, but wait keep reading. Every author has a view of the world and hop on the bus and travel along, but this non stop Fox blabbering mouth he turned Odd Thomas into was sad. BUT read to the end, there are important clues for a final battle?
5 the characterizations are full and engaging. the story pulled me in, yet not as strong as some of his earlier novels. five stars due to I care for the characters.
5 I have read Koontz for years, loved some, some not so much. The Odd Thomas series is one of the best stories, can't wait for the continuing saga.
3 Not as good as past Odd books. He seems to ramble on for a lot of the book about worthless knowledge.
5 Dean Koontz hit another home run with the latest installation in the Odd Thomas Series.  Can't wait to learn more secrets of Odd and all of his companions.
5 I enjoyed this book as much as the first one in the series. He rambled on a bit, but I think this was to give us more character building for Odd. I cannot wait for the next one!
5 These novels are spooky page turners and Odd an amazing character.I have read all Odd Thomas novels I could find and tried to read them in order as some characters show up in more than one.
5 As usual Odd is on the job saving people from doom.  This time it is children.  His new side kick is fun.  I'm old like her.  I would drive him around.
2 You could easily condense the action down to a handful of pages but Odd goes into these particularly long deep monologues over everything from sunsets to wall textures (wait! maybe that's why this one is DEEPLY odd).His voice has gone from simple, direct and humble to filled with 4 syllable words and these profound worldy insights that never cease.Villain is never really fleshed out, far far too many deus ex machinas that are so absurd even an Odd Thomas novel can't handle them.Overall it was just a big letdown as I hold the first two books in such high esteem and consider them among the best books I've ever read.
4 Nineteen months have passed since Odd Thomas lost the love of his life, but he has not idled away that time. He has chronicled many adventures, helped famous spirits move on to their reward, and kicked lots of bad guy butt. Odd has come to believe that his time left on earth is coming to an end and his next adventure might be his last. When he runs into a truck-driving cowboy, touches him as they grapple, and has a vision that includes children being burned alive, he is pretty sure this unemployed fry cook has punched his last ticket, because there is no way he can let this new monster hurt innocent children. As this knight errant charges his latest demonic windmill, he meets more unusual, lovable, and just plain psychotic characters. I fell in love with the mythical Mrs. Fisher and wouldn't mind being her shotgun riding chauffeur! Another great Odd Thomas adventure, and one I have high hopes that will lead to more interactions with Odd's new posse.
5 Excellent book! Dean Koontz came through again! I recommend this book to anyone who likesa good  fast action novel!
5 Another great Odd Thomas book. I can't wait for the next installment and to learn some of the mysteries of Odd Thomas's world. I have been reading Dean Koontz novels for over 20 years. His books never cease to amaze me.
5 What can I say, Odd is odd, funny, intense and caring.  Koontz has this character down and always weaves a good story around him.  Not into a lot of fantasy but I sure like this series.
3 I love the ODD  THOMAS BOOKS but this one is not his best work. it's good reading:) just a lot to take in lol
5 Another great read about Odd, but very short, I finished the whole book in 4 hrs. I think that for the price this book was very short. I do love the continuing story of Odd and am looking forward to is next adventure. I just hope it is a longer adventure.
5 Lets just say that metaphysical universes are intruding in this world to much. It is starting to tilt in the direction of another character say Chris Snow. Which if they were brought together would still be pretty awesome. Still a good read with a character we have grown to love.
5 Odd Thomas is back on the right track in this last book. He is such a fun character.  I really enjoyed the religious undertones.
2 (SPOILERS)OK, took me awhile to read as it was not my favorite Odd. There was far too much complaining by Odd in this one, I felt.  At 21 he had gripes that made him sound like a 90 year old man who's tastes stopped in he 50's.I find it ironic, however, that is was so slow going and took me about a week to plod through, but when I finally hit Chapter 27 or 28, when Odd shoots the Ken's, last night, I couldn't put it down. In just a couple hours I ripped through to the end of Ch 39.Some have said, this was the final Odd. I don't agree. DK left many 'carrots' for the next: Who exactly is Annemarie? Why is she and Edie so familiar w/each other and on a first name basis? Odd kept referring to going back to Pico Mundo or some reason ... what's going to happen? Was Hitchcock a ghost or was he *really* an angel even though he said he wasn't?My guess'? (assumed title) ODD THOMAS: AN ODD ENDING - Odd's mentor and rich sci-fi writer dies and leaves all to Odd, we find the connection of Edie and Anne ("forever pregnant"? Not aging? Odds REAL mom ... maybe even Edie's?), Odd and Stormy reunite, among other things.I didn't like FUN HOUSE and a LONG time later this, so I'm not giving up on DK or even Odd. I look forward to INNOCENCE.I apologize for typos I missed ---- physical challenges mess up typing &#9786;&#9787;&#9786;
5 I really enjoy the Odd series and await the next books. Odd is such a simple man with a complicated task. Koontz keeps the story more mystery than horror and uses unique characters to keep you guessing what's next. Odd has a special place in my reading adventures. I wish I could meet Odd, he would be a wonderful friend to have, despite his uncanny baggage.
4 Enjoyed yet another Odd Thomas story.  I'm really enjoying this series.  Good stuff Koontz.  I'll be awaiting the next book.
5 I live in Tucson and was downtown the night the fire broke out.  The story is very true.  All the facts are true.
3 Odd always battles evil, but some parts of this book were a little too over the top for me. I guess that's why it's DEEPLY odd!
5 I love the Odd Thomas books and this one does not disappoint. As with all the others this one also delivers.
4 I don't know that I would say this is Dean's best book but I was compelled to continue reading far into the night. I did feel that there were many truths buried in the book like hidden jewels.
1 Dean Koontz should go back to the first Odd Thomas book and refresh his memory. He is losing track of what made the Odd Thomas series enjoyable.I'm not very far into this book, and quite possibly might not finish it. So far I'm finding "Deeply Odd" to be just shy of deeply boring. The first 100 pages or so have been devoted to chasing a psychotic trucker, who may or may not be an other-world entity. The reason? Odd Thomas' vision that the trucker is planning to kill several children, who might also not be of this world. Wow, deeply riveting, if it ever gets to the point. Hopefully the plot will develop some real depth and offer up some halfway coherent explanations. But hey, this is vintage Koontz. He doesn't have to be coherent or explain anything.While there actually is some merit to the characters, and, of course, there's the hope that the story will eventually get off the ground, Koontz has taken to writing numerous flowery paragraphs that consist solely of filler and add exactly zero to the plot, if indeed there is a plot. Koontz is never at a loss for prose; the problem with this book is that the words don't say much. One wonders if he has run out of interesting escapades in which to involve Odd Thomas. Maybe it's time to retire the series, as this effort seems to be well on its way to going nowhere.Update, 9/16/13:  Sorry, Mr. Koontz, but after wading through 125 or so pages, I've given up on "Deeply Odd" as a waste of time. There are far too many rambling, introspective paragraphs that contribute nothing, and way too little distinction between Odd's normal life and his fantasy life--assuming there is some normal mixed in with the nonsense. I've read and enjoyed some pretty weird stuff, but this is bizarre in the extreme and, frankly, just plain uninteresting. Having revised my opinion of this dreck in a downward direction, I changed the stars I gave it from two to one, and even one star is one too many.
5 I really enjoy reading the books in the Odd Thomas series.  Not only are they witty and amusing to read, they are also supernatural which I also enjoy.  This book fell in with the series quite well and  I look forward to another book in the future!
5 Once again Dean Koontz has delivered a great novel. Oddie will save the world - both he and I hope.  I can't wait for the next one. Back to Pico Mundo - full circle. I will recommend this novel to my family and friends.
5 I have read every Odd Thomas book. They have been getting progressively more supernatural as the series progresses, but they never fail to be an awesome page turner. This book was no different. If you are an Odd Thomas fan, I strongly urge you to read it!
4 This book was good, but didn't grip me like the others did.  Well worth the read tho.  It is obviously, however, that the series is coming to an end.  That makes me really sad.  I love this character.
5 The Odd Thomas series is the reason I started reading Dean Koontz books.  Spellbinding, funny and intense..  Odd Thomas is someone you would love to know.
5 I am a huge fan of Dean Koontz and really enjoy his Odd Thomas novels.  He makes sci fi believable - writes the perfect escape novel.Sheila Smith
1 This is an edited version of my first review. After thinking about it, I decided I'd really been way too kind ("if you can't say something nice...."). I also took it down from 2 stars to 1 because I had to admit that it was profoundly bad in every way.I've always look forward to a new "Odd" book coming out - or at least I did for the first few. But this one was downright terrible.  Proselityzing (sp?), overblown prose, long-winded passages that seem like they should have a valid point, but upon further examination, have none. One thought leads to another which leads to yet another until we're left having absolutely no idea what anything means.  It's one thing to meander in your thoughts - plenty of great creative ideas can come out of that - but if you're going to put things on paper and try to tie them together into some cohesive plot, you'd better do some editing.Mr. Koontz, you've me given lots of good books to read (and not a few bad ones).  I'm thinking it might be time to take a break.
5 I really wish that DK would get back to where he started with this character - hopefully, the upcoming final (?) installment will bring us back to Pico Mundo and some familiar characters and maybe set the stage for another series, while resolving the ongoing storyline.
4 Odd Thomas is a fun character.  He is sort of like McIver  ie solves all problems with his wits not with weapons.
5 I love the imagery in this wonderful series of books I can't wait for the next one!! I hope that Odd finds his stormy again.
5 Anyone who enjoyed the previous Odd books will love this one. I felt it was the best so far in the series
5 As always you find yourself holding your breath until Odd has made it thru whatever he encounters and this one I found myself brushing tears away more than once
5 I love Odd Thomas.  This is the most wonderful character Koontz has created.  I am sometimes creeped out by the stories,  as I am really a big chicken at heart, but I love Odd so much that I keep going on these adventures with him.  He is so kind and good-hearted that he is an inspiration.  Also, the creepiness is offset by Koontz's wonderful sense of humor and irony.  Love the pithy comments and humorous asides throughout these books and often read excerpts to my friends.
5 I love Dean Koontz writings, both fiction and non-fiction. All of the Odd Thomas books are worth reading. I feel I know him by now.
5 Odd Thomas is off on yet another adventure.  This one, like the others, is full of twists and turns but in different ways.  The wandering dead celebrities remain as does his faithful ghost dog but the story is as different as Odd is.  Very satisfying after anxiously awaiting its release.
5 We love the Odd books by Dean Koontz. They are great adventures. In this one our reluctant hero Odd Thomas encounters a rhinestone cowboy trucker and has a vision of him immolating three innocent children and sets off to prevent this evil from occurring. But, this series is also filled with wonderful enigmatic characters that aid and support our hero and further has Odd's wry but oh so accurate observations on the nature of life and politics in the modern world and we find ours'elves laughing out loud at certain points and rushing into the next room to share these deeply humorous passages with our others. We hope there will be many, many more in this series.the silver elves,authors ofElven Silver: The Irreverent Faery Tales of Zardoa Silverstar
5 Once again Dean Koontz treats his loyal readers to a spellbinding tale of the adventures and misadventures of his delightful character Odd Thomas. A must read for all Koontz fans as well as all fans of the genre.
1 I am mourning the loss of my favorite author Dean Koontz.  No he didn't die.  Just his talent has passed away, slipping into the darkest night.  I have been fighting this for the past few books but I could not make it out of the 2nd chapter of his latest ODD offering.  The absurdity was just to much, even for me.  How can you defend yourself from a seemingly partially invisible, armed, psychopath with apples?  How can you just so happen to need a vehicle and see a bank robbery in progress so you steel the getaway vehicle a few short words later?  And how, how can there be Koontz's signature Ford Explorer and a Golden Retriever in the first few pages?  This post has more imagination then that!  I am sad.  Goodbye dear friend.  I shall remember all the good times we shared.  Sleep well.
4 My favorite of the Odd Thomas series, but not my favorite of all Dean Koontz books. This particular story foretells of even more Odd Thomas tales to come!
4 This was a better Odd Thomas book than the last one, sometimes it got a bit windy but I just skipped those parts.  It was a good story, although at times I think that Dean Koontz's books all just end, like he was really into the story then decided the next book was more interesting, so he better finish this one and get on to the next.  Several of his latest books seem that way to me.  I did like the story to this one and the fact that it added some &#34;check back next time for more information&#34; parts. Can't wait to see what Odd gets into next!
5 Love this author and this is my favorite series. Loveable character, great plot, kept me fully engaged and wanting more. Koontz never disappoints.
3 Overall I enjoyed it.  I always love Odd as a character and this book was no exception. There were some interesting happenings in this one, and the "case" Odd was working on had more of a supernatural feel like the first book, instead of the focus being on mad scientists or aliens as some of the books in the series have done.  (I prefer ghosts to mad scientists and aliens.)  Even though we still don't really get much new information about Odd's mysterious companion, Annamaria, or the big showdown that Odd seems to be headed for in the final book, we do get a little.  It wasn't much, but I did feel that the overall story arc moved forward, even if it was only a centimeter or two.The reason I took off two stars is that Koontz seems to have developed an endless capacity for proselytizing through the character of Odd Thomas.  Odd has always espoused some beliefs that I didn't agree with, but I could accept them as part of the character until this book.  There was so much philosophizing on every page!  Partly it annoyed me because I don't agree with the philosophizing, but also it just takes away from the story.  When is Odd going to stop rambling and just get back to the action, ya know?  A little bit of it is an effective way to develop a character, but too much makes it obvious that the writer has crossed over from showing you his character's thoughts to actually dropping the writer's own political and spiritual ideas onto your head like an anvil.Don't even get me started on Odd's tired insistence on calling everyone "ma'am" or "sir" no matter how many times they implore him to call them by their names.
5 I have yet to read a book that Dean Koontz has wrote that I didn't love......with that said I've even researched him enough (years and years and years ago lol) to find out what other pen names he used when writing and read those books too. While his earlier work is very different from the books he's written under his own name they were still excellent reads!! I even have both of his  books he wrote for children, and while one I think is a little much for a younger child the one about Santa's evil twin is over the top funny, all of my grands love the story and really love finding the hidden snowmen in each illustration!!! I never post story line &#34;spoilers&#34;, but I can say that if you love books about strange happenings with a sometimes supernatural or otherworld feel you'll love his books one and all!!! My absolute favorites are his Odd Thomas series, the ones he's just written lately about the boy, and later the man, that no one can tolerate looking at including his own mother, and my favorite stand alone story is probably Lightening it's about a time traveler and is reminiscent of the movie The Time Travelers Wife.....bottom line if you like stories on the &#34;strange&#34; side of things he is the ultimate story teller and my absolute favorite author!!!!!!!!I will be posting reviews of his other books and since as mentioned above that I don't post spoilers I will be copying and pasting this for the reviews of those books too!!! All of the ones reviewed here are Kindle books and I should mention that the ONLY reason I even bought a Kindle to begin with was because he put out a book that was only available as a digital download!!! Sooooo Dean Koontz is responsible for me purchasing a Kindle all of his previous books I own in hard cover his books fill a bookcase in one room and parts of bookcases in other rooms as well!! Try him I guarantee you'll love him!!
5 This is an excellent addition to the Odd series. It shows changes in Odd brought on by the events he's been forced into. Things are getting more intense for him and he's finding things are not as they once seemed to him in regards to his "gift".He's growing up fast. I like that this has a harder edge to it. I like that it's not quite the same Odd as when started.... that would be boring.There are 20 times the 5 star ratings than 1 star, so you can tell the vast majority of people are enjoying it.
5 This being the fifth book in the Odd Thomas series this book takes you on a edge of your seat ride literally with a lady named Edie as the driver and Odd as her of course fry cook. It takes only minutes into reading to see that there is no stopping and that true evil exists. Even if this is your first Odd novel there are plenty of clue ins as to who he is and the adventure speaks on its own. Now if your a faithful reader this series of books it is much more than just an adventure. It clues into several unanswered questions without a total reveal. Now yes Annamaria is in the book so is Boo and Alfred Hitchcock delivers a huge surprise to Odd so don't think that your gonna miss them but also don't think your gonna know the whole truth at the end either but know you will begin to see the truth of this world and others and see the end in sight which is sad but in the end Odd wins out as Good always does. I will not spoil anything with to much of story lines but Fear weird cowboy dressed truckers  Not to mention you might be into conspiracy theory afterward. LOL If your going to read anything this is the book and I guarantee you will run to get the first 4 of the series after this because you don't want to miss out on Elvis or Frank Sinatra do you???
5 Odd Thomas has become a friend through these books.  I feel I have known him forever.  Dean Koontz brings this character to life in a way that, almost, makes you forget he is just that; a character.  Read the Odd Thomas books in order to get to know Odd like I do. You will be glad you did.
5 I really enjoy these stories.  They are interesting and the characters are very likeable.  I often start and finish them in the same day!!
4 As always Koontz has created another adventure for Oddie and us and even though entertaining they become darker however funny none the less .... can't wait for the next!
5 As with the rest of the Odd Thomas series this is an excellent book.  Dean Koontz continues to out do himself.
5 If you like Dean Koontz and/or the Odd Thomas series, you should like this book.  Odd Thomas is one of my favorite fictional characters, and Dean Koontz didn't disappoint me with this book.  I am looking forward to the next Odd Thomas outing.
5 The next story can not come fast enough. I love the Odd series. It was a thrill ride for the brain.
5 I've loved this series though it's had its ups and downs. I'd highly recommend this for Odd fans out there.
5 Even as weird as Dean Koontz can get with his characters, plots, and parrallel universes...Odd Thomas always keeps it grounded.  But this was one book where Odd Thomas got a little lost in all of the wildness going on around him.  Looking forward to the next Odd Thomas book.
5 Excellent book, like all the odd Thomas stories engaging, spooky and a good read from front to back.When are we going to learn what smoothed out and fully blue means?  Did I miss something?Anyway, I am totally looking forward to oddies next adventure!I love oddie and I am hooked on Dean Koontz,  long write thing of spookie!!!
4 I am a big fan of Dean Koontz and the Odd Thomas series.  This book is an easy read and Odd is having another interesting adventure.  I did find that it was not as satisfying as the other books in the series.  There was an awful lot of bantering amongst the characters and not as much substance in their development as other books in the series.  You got the distinct impression that this book was merely a filler for more to come.  It would have been more satisfying to have a larger more complete book rather than this installment.  I do love Dean Koontz writing and find his imagery to be akin to prose.
4 I have enjoyed every book I've read on Odd Thomas. Dean Koontz writes very well, his characters are wonderful, the series is so strange, but I really enjoy them.
5 The odd thomas series is always entertaining. Dean Koontz does it again in his masterful way.  can't wait for another Odd thomas novel.
5 I love Odd Thomas, what more can I say? If you haven't read this series, do yourself a favor and get the first book. Odd's outlook on life is a breath of fresh air.
5 As usual, Koontz delivered a spellbinding novel. I love the "Odd Thomas"/ Thank you Mr. Koontz, I enjoyed every page
3 Now I fear Odd Thomas and I should part ways. I am no longer intrigued by these adventures as I find too many of the ends are not neatly tied up in the end.
5 Dean Koontz does it again. The juxtapose of terror and innocence, darkness and humor, and our hero unwitting yet effective.  The ride is not disappointing.
5 Of course, the latest in the Koontz library and I love it.  Can't come out with these fast enough for me.  I hope he keeps things to possibilities and maybes, because when things get too far out I back off.  Hope Odd gets where he going, just not too soon!
5 This is one of Koontz's best series (another is the Frankenstein series). If you haven't read any of this series, start with ODD THOMAS, the first book.
5 I am a loyal Odd Thomas follower and this book was true to form...you can't help but love the characters and delimas Odd finds himself confronted with.  I hope Mr. Koontz keeps these rolling for several years to come..
5 Could not put this book down!  I loved it, as usual with Odd Thomas books. It sounds like this series will be coming to an end soon though. :(
1 I love Odd Thomas and have read every book but this one was a  strain. The author completely lost track of the plot halfway through the extremely long drive to our final destination. His attempt to fill pages with the attempt to use every word in his obviously extensive vocabulary became tiresome at best.  He left way too many unexplained mysteries here an instead if anxiously looking forward to the next adventure I find myself relieved to have trudged through to the end.
4 I must admit this wasn't as good as the others, it started off so slow, but I always enjoy the &#34;good&#34; characters.  I will finish this series until Koontz lets Odd Thomas meet Stormy in the afterlife or aftermath as it may be.....
5 Odd's odyssey continues in very entertaining fashion as he overcomes some very interesting bad people and gets assistance from even more interesting new allies.
5 I love the Odd Thomas series and &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; does not disappoint! I enjoyed this one as much as the first and would highly recommend you read it if you're into the series! But, if you are then I know you don't need my recommendation.
5 I love the Odd Thomas books! They just keep getting better.
5 Deeply Odd is a real page turner.  The suspence keeps you glued to the book.  Mr. Koontz delivers a great novel with likable characters who you want to root for and evil characters that will make you keep the lights on at night.  The Odd Thomas books are never boring, each is different and new, which leaves the reader wanting for the next Odd Thomas book.
5 I have read all the &#34;Odd Thomas&#34; books to date. I feel as if I have know him forever.  Just waiting for him to stop by anytime. If YOU have not read this series, start now and start with the first. You will be reading each one and left wanting more.
5 If you have been reading the Odd Thomas series, don't miss reading this one! Excellent! I want to read more but I don't want it to end... Only two more for the happy reunion. Please hurry Dean Koontz! Can't wait!
5 Although we usually know the endings, that odd survives, the author is now at the heart of where the evil comes from. Not that the worlds can change but where the true spirit of evil is from. Even though I do not feel most of what is done can happen in reality, thank you for not covering it with &#34; it's just bad people or the human nature&#34;.
4 This may be the best in the series since the 1st one. I won't rank all of the books in the series, but this one was better than the 5th. There were so many interesting new characters and of Course I busted out laughing at some of Odd's witty lines. I'm curious now as to how the 7th and Final book will end.
3 I am big fan of Odd&#8217;s but this one wasn&#8217;t great. It felt like there was a lot of running around but not a lot of action. All I know that the story is fairly Christian but this book really felt like it was ramming religion down your throat. I&#8217;m not sad that I bought it but it would be nice if there was more oomph in the next one. (I really hope that Odd hasn&#8217;t jumped the shark).
3 Number one maybe it is because I could hardly wait to read the next &#34;Odd Thomas&#34; but I did not think this one was as good as previous books.  It just did not hold my interest as much, seemed to ramble on.  At times it seemed like, come on get it over with.He did bring out a new interesting character and if he does bring out another book I will certainly read it, just to read more about the new character &#34;Edie Fisher&#34;: no, that is not a typo.
5 Dean Koontz novels used to be a sure bet for me. However, the last few novels have been uneven in terms of enjoyment. The only ones that have been on the "must read immediately" list are the ones in the Odd Thomas series. The latest, Deeply Odd, gets back to the Koontz style that originally drew me to his work. Interesting story, quirky characters, and the supernatural struggle between good and evil. This was a fun read...Odd Thomas is once again stepping into the middle of a life and death struggle that he can't seem to avoid. He doesn't know what it is, where it will happen, or when it will occur, but he knows that there's nothing he can do except accept his role in it and try to prevail. He heads into the nearby town where he lives, and there he finds a flamboyant cowboy trucker who seems intent on putting a few bullets in Oddie. What's strange is that no one else seems to notice the trucker when shots are being fired. Oddie foresees a horrible death for three children at the hands of the trucker, and he feels compelled to follow and stop whatever is about to happen. He hooks up with an old lady who is just as quirky and mysterious as he is, and together they set off to walk a thin line between two worlds of good and evil.Koontz has a talent for writing great character dialog. He uses the Odd Thomas character to perfection when it comes to verbal interactions between both the living and the dead. I got a kick out of a conversational hook he used throughout the book. Whenever he'd talk with someone and use their Mr. or Mrs. name, they'd respond with "Call me ...", using whatever their first name was. The answer from Oddie was always "Yes, ma'am" or "Yes, sir", and he'd continue with the Mrs. or Mr. It's a small thing, but it's consistent throughout the story, and it adds a touch of humor and depth to the character. It's hard to explain, but it amused me. :)If you haven't read any of the Odd Thomas series, it's probably best to go back and start at the beginning. It'll add the necessary back story to the main character and his psychic "gift". If you've been keeping up with the series, this is a must-read. It's very good, and Koontz is hitting on all cylinders here.Disclosure:Obtained From: LibraryPayment: Borrowed
5 I READ &#34;ODD&#34; IN 2 DAYS.....IT DOESN'T JUMP OUT AND SQUEEZE YOUR NUTS......BUT GRABS YOUR MIND AND  HOLDS IT FROM START TO FINISH !
1 I promised myself that I was going to quit after Odd Apocalypse. I really did. Then I got offered this ARC through Vine and I couldn't resist. Call me a sucker. Call me a glutton for punishment.Have you ever had a friend that you realized over time that you just couldn't stand anymore? That's how I feel about Odd. I really liked him at first. Our first few adventures were really great. Then he foiled a terrorist nuclear attack and nothing has really been the same.I've really disliked every Odd Thomas book since Brother Odd. The adventures keep getting weirder and Odd's abilities keep changing (or new ones keep appearing) just to set up whatever new scenario Koontz has thrown him into. But it doesn't really matter because no matter what we know that Odd is going to come out on top and that we're going to have to listen to you philosophize the entire time.We get it: you're just a simple fry cook. You make great fluffy pancakes and live a simple life. You don't get involved in pop culture because you're oh-so-much better than the rest of us (yet your knowledge on the subject is surprisingly deep for a non-participant). You're still in love with your dead girlfriend and always will be. You're not a murderer, but you've killed quite a few bad people.Now would you kindly shut the hell up about it and get on with the story?Full disclosure here: I did not finish this book. I got about 1/3 through before putting it down. I just couldn't listen to Odd backdoor brag about how great he is and watch him try to help yet another troubled (and very famous) artist. This one started off a lot stronger than Apocalypse with it's weird time-travel-y house but quickly loses steam because every time Odd is alone he reverts back to his annoying "aw shucks I'm just a simple ghost whisperer" persona.  I just can't take anymore, Odd.I'm sorry, but we're done.
4 Dean Koontz's "Deeply Odd" is the latest Odd Thomas novel.  I totally love this series, Odd's quirky personality and the paranormal adventures that go with it.  Edie Fischer and Alfred Hitchcock are two of the new characters he encounters, and one very hostile rhinestone cowboy.When Odd Thomas' gift lets him glimpse a vile crime about to be commited against young children, he has no choice but to risk his life to save them, but he has no idea of the horrors he'll face on the way.Can you go wrong reading a Koontz novel?  Of course not!  :)
4 This may be my favorite out of the Odd series. The first third or even first half of the book may have been a full five stars. I hate myself for having to use this word, but it was delightful. I loved the part where Odd argued with himself about whether he should have to pay for the cantaloupe that the rhinestone cowboy shot. Most of his musings were especially quirky and entertaining. During the latter part of the book some of the musings became preachy at times in a way that didn't feel authentic to the Odd character, but instead appeared artificially inserted, perhaps inspired by some new theological leanings of Mr. Koontz? I LOVE EDIE!!! She brings a freshness to the series that was desperately needed. The latter part of the story was your standard Dean Koontz formula, which is great, but not as fresh and (ugh) .. delightful as the first part of the story.
5 A soulful story written in the style  singular to Mr. Koontz.  Haunting yet hopeful that somehow good can overcome evil, but always with a price!
2 I was disappointed with this one of the Odd Thomas books.  The author was too heavy on his own views or those he choose for Odd Thomas and seemed only to stretch out the story.  I enjoyed earlier books of Odd Thomas much better than this one.
4 If my math is correct, "Deeply Odd" is the penultimate offering in Dean Koontz's planned seven Odd Thomas novels.  Loyal readers of the Odd Thomas series will sense that things are nearing closure as more strange and heretofore unexplained phenomena are revealed in a manner that allows us to suddenly see Odd's world expanding right before our eyes. Readers have always been fascinated by seeing what Odd sees on his incredible journey of discovery.  In "Deeply Odd", Odd discovers much about his surroundings and his world that begins to expand his consciousness and awareness of his task, his responsibility, and his future.  He begins to sense an end to his adventure as he discovers that there are others like him in this world--some good, some bad--and that there are "other" worlds or places that very few of us have entrance to.In "Deeply Odd", Odd is stunned by the menacing and evil "vibes" emanating from a malevolent trucker he innocently encounters, yet a trucker who soon tries to kill him and, more surprisingly, seems to have abilities that may exceed his own.  Who is this trucker that Odd nicknames "The Rhinestone Cowboy" and why is he so murderously intent on killing Odd? And what is Odd to do about the disturbing vision he experiences of the trucker orchestrating the death of three innocent children in a horrifying manner? Long time readers will instantly recognize that Odd has found his next task--to follow and save the innocents.  Little does he guess that this new adventure will take him deeper toward the darkness and evil that has always simmered in his prior experiences.But Odd is not without allies and resources.  He soon meets Edie Fischer, an 86 year old seemingly daffy traveler, who enlists Odd as her chauffeur.  Using Edie as a resource to follow the evil trucker, Odd soon senses that she is much more than she appears to be. Thus begins a deadly life-and-death cat and mouse chase across the deserts of the Southwest that will ultimately conclude in an intense, white knuckle confrontation between Odd and the most depraved and deadly foes of his short life.  And before his tale is done, Odd again has assistance from the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock along with Odd's ghost dog, Boo.As usual, Koontz's descriptive wordsmithing allows readers mentally to picture the locales and people he describes. The  character of Odd Thomas may be the most deeply fleshed of all Koontz's creations, if for no other reason than appearing in so many novels and tales in which he seems to grow internally with each new undertaking.  I enjoyed how Odd's world and awareness of his place in it expanded so quickly and so intriguingly in "Deeply Odd", seemingly in preparation for the upcoming conclusion to the Odd Thomas saga.  This latest tale in Odd's journey of personal discovery and cosmic awareness should not be missed by loyal readers of the series.
4 Love the Odd Thomas series. Such interesting characters. Odd thomass is always so humble and kind but can take down the bad guys and still keep is humanity.
3 I have enjoyed the Odd Thomas books and novellas to date. I felt &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; was a bit tired. I also did not appreciate being preached at as I read it. Dean Koontz should stick to the knitting and stay away from pseudo-christian messaging. Lord knows there's enough pseudo-christianity around, particularly in the US. I will continue on to read the next one, but if it doesn't display some energy, that'll be it for me.
5 Love everything Dean Koontz writes.  His Odd Thomas series is heart warming.  (in an odd way:) Looking forward to his new book coming out in December.
2 This story of Odd Thomas is borderline terrible, and a 2 star rating is generous. As others have said, if this book was submitted by a no name author and didn't have the &#34;Odd Thomas&#34; character, it never would have been published.Don't get me wrong, I like Dean Koontz books, or at least I used to, as &#34;Lightning&#34; is my favorite book ever but I don't know if it's because I'm well past my teenage years and have entered my 40's that I now am finding his books downright preachy. And that's the way this book felt to me. There was very little story involved here, I would say about 75% of the book was Odd's moral ramblings to himself, repeated over, and over again. To me there's just no enjoyment in a book when the author is trying to force his views on you, whether you agree with them or not. I want to read a book to escape the world I live in for a few hours and enter another one that doesn't have the same issues we have in this one. Unfortunately with &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; there was no enjoyment and I had to force my way through it.Also, Odd's characteristic humor and wit in this book seemed forced, nothing at all like the previous books. The constant bantering back and forth with Edie and Odd, her telling him to call her &#34;Edie&#34; and Odd replying &#34;yes, ma'am&#34; too many times to count got old after the 2nd time. And yes, we know people get hungry Mr. Koontz even when they are trying rescue kidnapped children, so you don't need to over justify Odd needing to eat in the middle of the search.Too much over justification in this book and moral ramblings to make it enjoyable.
5 Deeply Odd and the first Odd book, Odd Thomas are my two favorites thus far out of the Odd series.  I love all the new characters in this book and all of the mysteries that I hope Dean Koontz will explain in his future books.There is a lot of sarcasm and humor and philosophy about religion/life/love/nature that entertain me along with suspenseful action.THANKS DEAN KOONTZ!!!
4 I have mixed feelings about Dean Koontz Odd Thomas Novels.  Deeply Odd is no exception.  While Koontz is an exceptionally good story teller and a magnificent writer, I have to be in the right mood to read these books.The author's humor is sometimes over the top and it other times it is belly laughing funny.  Parts of this book are enough to put the reader to sleep while other parts grab you tight and keep you flipping pages at break neck speed.Sometimes the Odd Thomas character makes philosophical profound statements of haunting truth while other times he says things that are way too weird and esoteric for me. Nevertheless, I keep reading Odd Thomas books and find myself waiting impatiently for the next one.Odd Thomas is a young man with special paranormal powers, talent, and psychic magnetism who finds himself in more dramatic bizarre dangerous situations with other world entities and dimensions than most could imagine.In this case, his nemesis, the Rhinestone Cowboy, is a murderer and cult leader whose powers and ability to cross into other worlds and times seem to equal his own.  Thomas foresees this mad antagonist kidnapping and ritualistically torturing and murdering children.  As the protagonist, Thomas' mission is to find and prevent the slaughter before it happens or die trying.For Thomas, death is just the first step to rejoin his only love in his life, Stormy Llewellyn, who he is destined to be together with forever; but his mission is to save the innocent.Thomas hitches a ride with a strange elderly no nonsense lady, the widow, Mrs. Edie Fischer who has special powers of her own, knows just about everyone, has powerful friends and is determined to assist Odd Thomas on his mission of mercy whether he likes it or not.There are several interesting side stories and amusing characters in this tale.  The most interesting is the ghost of the late great Alfred Hitchcock.If you love Odd Thomas books, you will love this one too.  If you are not a fan, you will not like this one either.  If you are patient, keep an open mind and can make it through the mundane parts and let the story lead you where it will, I think you will be as entertained as I was.This was a fun read.  I will round up from my solid 3.5 star rating.Enjoy!
5 As soon as I was done had a new ton of questions Oddie is getting better every book !! Enjoy great read
4 I'm a long-time fan of Dean Koontz and his Odd Thomas character.  &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; delivers in usual Koontz fashion with one exception; it's not quite as fast-paced as most of Koontz' books.  I felt that there were points were the story moved a tad bit slow.  This is the reason why I didn't give it five stars.  I still most definitely recommend the book, especially if you already a fan of Odd.Tony Brent, 2013
5 Loved it as usual with Odd, I am already looking forward to the next tale and very anxious to have it published.
5 I love the way Dean Koontz pulls all the loose threads of previous tales together and the fascinating characters he brings to life. Great series
5 Dean Koontz is one of my favorite living authors and the Odd Thomas series is among his best work, in my opinion.  This installment is the series continues the story and leaves you wanting more, as usual. I can't wait for the next Odd episode from this master storyteller.
4 I've also read the entire "Odd" series.  I enjoyed reading this book as much as a person can "enjoy" a book about children being kidnapped and potentially molested and murdered...anyhoo...This novel was had so many funny quips and witty lines, that I found myself laughing out loud in the middle of the night, disturbing my DH.The storyline is morose, dark, upsetting and frightening.  The interjection of funny one-liners and witty remarks makes the book readable.I would not recommend this book if you have not read a few of the other Odd Thomas books.  I would also not recommend this particular book if you are looking for "answers" or deep, philosophical thoughts.It is a good summer read, especially if you've read the prior books in the series.
5 A continuation of a well written series. I look forward to any further adventures in this series. A good summer read.
5 Love the book. Just don't like the way of stating interstate highways seem to go in wrong direction. Strange. Odd
3 It has an unpolished feel to it.  Fairly early in the book the main character is killed, the next page he is alive again.  How can this be?  Koontz never bothers to explain.  It moves slowly and there are jarring changes in tone.  We meet lots of new characters but none of them are well developed.  The good ones are precious and the bad ones are pure evil.  Some of the preexisting constraints that helped to make the Odd universe work are simply dispensed with.  Despite its flaws this guy can really write, and truth be told I'd probably pay to read Koontz's grocery list...  Damn, I probably just gave Bezos an idea.
4 While I've always enjoyed the Odd Thomas novels to one degree or another, I had myself worrying that the series was playing itself out. &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; changed my mind on that front. Teaming Odd up with a elderly wealthy widow who never sleeps and who seems to have endless resources  and who owns a customized souped up superstretch Mercedes limo. She hires Odd as her chauffer but decides he &#34;dawdles&#34; so she does all the driving as they search for a semi-truck who's driver Odd's senses tell him is about to do something very evil. You will find yourself holding your breath at several point as the supernatural part of the plot plays out. I'm hoping Mrs. Fisher stays with Odd for the next book. I found her to be a wonderful addition to the series.
3 I stopped reading Dean Koontz after the horrendously bad "False Memory," not only because of its own shortcomings, but because it marked the author's turn away from the excellent Moonlight Bay series, which to this day still awaits the concluding novel of the trilogy. I think you'll agree that 15 years has been long enough to wait. One of the reasons Koontz hasn't gone back to Christopher Snow's storyline appears to be his captivation with Odd Thomas, the short order cook who sees ghosts.When I saw "Deeply Odd" available through Amazon Vine, I decided to give it a try. Of course, this is the sixth novel in the Odd Thomas series, so I had to start at the beginning. I'll say this: I plowed through them pretty quickly. I was able to borrow the first through my library as an ebook, and the second through the fifth through the library in hardcover. I read pretty quickly, but I finished the FIVE of these books (including "Deeply Odd") in April.They're compulsively readable and relatively short novels. As a narrator, Odd has a distinct voice, although at times it's hard to believe he's only in his early twenties. I can chalk some of his worldly view to the fact that he's seen a lot of supernatural horrors, but on the other hand, in the first two novels, he had never ventured beyond the little desert city that he was born in. (He also has quite a libertarian view, which is consistent with what I know about the author, but not a very natural fit for the character. I'm not saying that young people can't be libertarians, but by the later books, the observations were becoming more forced, at least to me.)Anyway, in the early books, Odd would see some ghost that would lead him to some upcoming horror to avoid. This made him a bit like a proactive version of the boy in "The Sixth Sense." However, in more recent books, he's gained another power -- sometimes when touching someone, he can see a possible future involving that person (usually a very bloody/nasty future). This makes him much like Johnny Smith in Stephen King's "The Dead Zone."In "Deeply Odd," the future vision he sees is of three kids being burned to death intentionally, thus setting off a chase across California, Nevada, and other states to pursue the would-be killer. Along the way, he discovers an intersecting parallel universe, a soul-sucking entity from that other place, and a death cult.Koontz still has a definite gift for the way he describes events and feelings in particular. But for some reason, despite the intriguing premise of Odd Thomas, I found "Deeply Odd" ultimately kind of bland. It should've stuck with me more than it did. I'm not sure why, except maybe that so many of the tropes here have been done elsewhere. Not necessarily better, but in more memorable ways.3 stars is a little low for this, but 4 would be too much. This would be a good book for many writers, but it falls short of the best of Dean Koontz, which is a stretch in the mid-80s to the mid-90s, with awesome reads like "Strangers," "Watchers," Lightning," "Dragon Tears," "Dark Rivers of the Heart," and others.
3 I'm always intrigued by Odd, and amused by his wit.  It seemed most of the book was setup for the final chapters, which left it tedious with detail. There is lots of mystery surrounding Annmarie and now this new group Odd has met. It is almost too puzzling for too many books. I was glad Annmarie didn't play a large part in this book, as she has become more annoying than mysterious. The last few chapters are true to the Odd we have known in past books.  I can certainly see this character is at the end of his story, as there seems to be less and less of interest in each consecutive book.
5 Okay...this was MUCH better than the last book in the series!  I loved it.  The story was more entertaining, you couldn't put it down, and the plot was so much more engaging....I hated to see this episode of the series end.  I know they can't go on forever, and I know Dean has said that he knows how the series will end...but some of this does keep you guessing.  I know where it seems like it's headed, but it will be interesting to see where it does end up, when all is said and done.  This is one series I don't think I will quit reading because it's gone on so long it has become boring and redundant....Koontz is definitely keeping me hooked!
5 He's done it again! Odd's journeys are getting better and better, and so is the supporting cast. I laughed out loud more than once and stayed glued to this book the whole time.
5 I'm not gonna lie, I cried. I don't want to spoil anything so I'll just say this: if you love Odd, you'll love this book.
5 I found this book to be an enjoyable addition the Odd Thomas series, and I always enjoy Dean Koontz's writing.
5 I really wish I could be a &#34;fly on the wall&#34; in Mr.Koontz's brain.  The ins and outs and twists and turns in his stories are just plain spellbinging.
5 Odd is one of Mr. Koontz endearing characters to me. I always enjoy his new adventures. I am looking forward to leaningmore about Anna Marie and Hitch.
5 Loved it, this character is really likable and funny, warm and you know things are going to get bad. Love to read what is in store for him every book. What is next?
4 I echo a lot of other reviewers in saying this is the best, most enjoyable Odd Thomas  novel in something of a while.  The story moves at a fast pace, several interestingly quirky characters (living and dead) make an appearance, and there is a hint that Mr. Koontz has been building toward a definite end to Odd Thomas's saga.  DEEPLY ODD has the feel of a penultimate volume.  (And one does not feel the strain so much this time when the author reaches for similes and metaphors.)So why only four stars?  'Cause I had to stick a well-salt-grained tongue in my cheek at a few places in the story, a task made even more tricky by the grinding of my molars.One must assume young Thomas to be logical and truthful because he keeps reminding us that he is.  He assures us he sees ever more deeply how the world works.  (A process of perception much accelerated in this volume.)  And he reminds us of the importance of values.Some of the assumptions behind all this are:  the world grows increasingly corrupt.  Corollary:  it was less corrupt generations ago when everyone shared Odd's values.  (Odd never read any of those mid-20th-Century [NAME HERE] CONFIDENTIAL books about the workings of local/regional/federal governments.)Evil is all about corrupting innocence, not economically raping those less well off than you for short-term profit, or delighting in the fact that economic power means freedom from oversight and consequences.  There is nothing complicated about Evil -- it's only Satan-driven narcissism and indulgence.And, while the United States government has never produced a Hitler, Stalin, or Pol Pot, it might soon, now that those who lack Odd's values increasingly have come to power.  That's why the Government is buying up all that hollow-point ammunition, not to fight terrorists, but 'cause Granny might get pissed at the next ukase passed by the Social Security Administration.That's why some of Odd's magical friends (he gets a lot in this novel)(and they're all interesting to read about, and I look forward to the next volume) have a Men-In-Black/Matrix-sized arsenal in their off-the-grid basement.  It's not at all for political reasons.  It's only the sort of thing centuries of good (magical) people do in the values-driven fight against Corruptors of Innocence.  (You know, Satanists, Senators, Movie Stars, Popular Musicians, and Government.)I am reassured, comforted, when all is said and done (and my molars grind), by Odd Thomas's self-effacing insights into the workings of the world, his ability to see clearly what others do not.Nothing more precisely captures the insightful clarity of the humble, small-town, ex-fry-cook (channeling the voice of the rich bestselling author)(who can't resist the occasional side-slap at other bestselling authors) than this partial sentence from page thirteen of DEEPLY ODD:"Even my morning shadow, following as I ran westward, seemed to have bad intentions..."
4 If you have read any of Dean Koontz's previous Odd Thomas novels, then you know what to expect of both the author and our "hero".  If not, do not hesitate to start with this one.  With many authors who write a series, I always say, start with the first one and read them in order, or you will not understand the characters or plot.  With these novels by Koontz, you do not have to do that - it might make things a tad clearer, but not much, since the author tells you just enough to bring you up to speed, at the moments you need that information - not stuck at the front of the book in 50 pages of rehash.In this book, Odd Thomas continues his struggle against the forces of evil - a little different, but still the same old evil.  He is joined by a spry 81 year old woman with many unusual and helpful friends.Odd has a vision of a trucker burning to death three children, and the novel is his journey in tracking the trucker and attempting to save the children.  Any more than that and I would be giving away the juicy details that Koontz has done such a good job of rolling out.This is one of those books that is actually fun to read, and one finds oneself rushing from chapter to chapter to see what new perils await our "hero".If you have enjoyed Koontz's other Odd Thomas novels you will enjoy this one, if you have not tried them before, this one is a reasonable one to try, if for no other reason than to see if it is your cup of tea.
5 How can you say anything bad about the &#34;ODD&#34; books.  I love this character and this book is another in a great series.  Just can't get enough - Odd.
5 I must admit when I first learned Koontz next book was a continuation of the Odd series, I was disappointed.  I really enjoy the singular ones like Watchers, Strangers, Twilight Eyes (My Favorites).Boy was a wrong!  Although I cannot say exactly what it is, "Deeply Odd" reminds me so much of the first Odd book! And the first was my favorite in the series.Although you don't have to,  I would advise everyone to start off by reading the first Odd Thomas book.  Koontz sums up many things where he took pages in past books, here he does it in a sentence or two.  And that's fine, however there is so much behind what's happened and why it's happened and why Odd is where he is now both mentally and physically.  I feel readers should understand all this.As for the review on what goes on in the book.  Out of all my authors, Koontz is my favorite.  And I'm not even going to hint at the end as to give away (even a hint) at the end.What I will  say is that Odd meets up with someone who is similar to him. And Odd meets up with the one and only Alfred Hitchcock!  Yes, it says this on the cover.  However I really do not want to ruin anything.I'll end in saying that this book is a must for any Koontz/Odd Thomas reader.  Trust me, you don't wanna miss this book!!Deeply Odd is a great way to start off the summer!!
5 I absolutely love this series. I don't know how Dean does it, but his character development is wonderful. I liken the Odd stories to Harry Potter and have enjoyed them just as much.  Mr. Koontz, make it longer.
5 always thinking.
5 When Odd Thomas sees the stranger, he intuitively perceives the stranger will kill three children by fire and is driven to find him and put him out of business.  With the occasional ghostly cameo of Alfred Hitchcock, Odd tracks the killer who has some abilities that exceed even Odd's own ability to see spirits.  A typical Odd Thomas book: very readable, entertaining, well-written
5 I love Oddies adventures and this is one of the very best. I can't wait to read the next story.
5 I have never read Dean Koontz before I considered him just  another mad slasher horror writer.Was I ever wrong. He writes about as well as anyone can write. Crisply written , fillled with intelligence and detail . His Odd Thomas hero is an ordinary man with  psychic abiities and as tough as any film noir detective  character.. He may be terrified .. but he will do whatever he has to to help people against supernatural or other demons. The . The book is hilarious,, terrifying, and thrilling
5 Although not normally a horror genre aficionado, I do enjoy Odd Thomas.  It's almost as if by Koontz writing, you are in the story and these things are happening to you.  But we all know its fiction... or is it?
5 You will fall in love with Odd Thomas (both the book and the character) and will be crying for more stories.  Dean Koontz has found the perfect hero and story line. This has it all, a great love story, mystery, amazement and characters that you wish you really knew. You'll be scarred, worried, sad, happy, and completely obsessed with Odd!
5 Dean Koontz has been, and remains, one of my very favorite writers.  His articulation of a feeling; a thoughtful appraisal; and philosophical interpretation resonates wonderfully with me.  This latest work does not disappoint - Oddie is a sensational character; one who never ceases to delight in so many ways.  The &#34;good&#34; characters likewise!  A great read!
3 I have read all the other Odd Thomas novels.  Koontz has included just a little too much quantum mechanics in this one to suite me.  There are new characters, interesting enough.  Koontz manages to give them depth, personality, and Odd's friends are more believable, more relatable than his foes or circumstances.  I'll be back to buy and read more Koontz, but this one was a little off his best form.
5 "Deeply Odd" is the sixth novel in a series by author Dean Koontz featuring perhaps his most likeable character, Odd Thomas. The story itself takes place a short time after "Odd Apocalypse" (published in July 2012). As I don't give spoilers in my reviews, below are my impressions of this novel.This is yet another great effort from Dean. I have a habit of re-reading the entire Odd Thomas series every time he publishes a new Odd Thomas book, and I was able to seamlessly resume my journey with Odd when I started this tale. There are the typical elements of humor, wit, and interesting characters, although the story itself is fairly dark. Although never a lighthearted series, it seems each book is a little darker than the preceding entry, as Odd is forced to make more and more moral compromises in each book, and is being slowly worn down. I've read that Dean said that the Odd Thomas series will be seven books long (not counting the "Odd Interlude" novellas), and I think I can see that Odd will likely be physically and morally exhausted by then. There isn't much about the "lingering dead" ... or bodachs ... in this story, although as typical for the series, a famous deceased person (Alfred Hitchcock for this novel) plays a part in the story, and has a much larger role than is usual for those characters.  Odd's companion "Boo the ghost dog" is also in the story.  However, if you've been reading all of the novels in this series, you'll have already noted the shift away from Odd's simpler days in Pico Mundo, into higher and higher stake outcomes as the series progresses.If you're an Odd Thomas fan, you'll want this book. If you haven't read any Odd Thomas books, though, you won't really be able to understand a lot of the backstory here, so go back to the first book in the series, "Odd Thomas" and start reading the entire series. You'll be glad you did. Five stars.
5 Dean joints is a wonderful writer of visuals and deep meaning. I love his work! In every single book I find two or three phrases that are worth keeping in mind as memorable quotes. This book is no exception!Odd is a singular character who is funny and brave and fantastical. I'm glad he is amassing such a number of friends to help him in the upcoming battle. Can't wait!
5 He's quirky and nerdy in all the right ways as well as down right funny. Read the whole series from beginning to end. I have and can't wait for the next installment.  Hopefully Mr. Koontz will get to it right away. Worth every penny.
5 Absolutely loved it...and can't wait for the next one!!!!!!! I could not put it down and finished all of it
4 This one took me a bit longer to get into, but when it got rolling, it was non-stop.  I'll definitely keep going with the series.
1 Let's be honest ok? Did anyone out there really expect this one to be good? If so, you're delusional. Admit it: Koontz's track record has been just ghastly as of late. The guy has let me down so many times that I would be flat out surprised if anything decent came out of this newest Odd novel. Well, clearly as you can see, my prediction proved true. "Deeply Odd" was awful.Really though, should this even come as a shock? Before we delve into the waste of paper (or hard drive space since mine was on the Kindle), that "Deeply Odd" was, let's go back and answer that question with a brief trip down memory lane and into Koontz's biography for the last, 7 or 8 years. In that time are there any books that bare any sort of praise? I honestly can't think of a single one I really liked. There were a few ok ones, sure, likeWhat the Night Knows: A Noveland even the previousOdd Apocalypse: An Odd Thomas Noveldid show some promise, but within that time frame he somehow managed to write the god awful Breathless, the horrendousThe Darkest Evening of the Year: A Novel, the boring conclusion to the at one time promising "Frankenstein" series and not only his worst one up to this, but one of the worst books ever written:77 Shadow Street (with bonus novella The Moonlit Mind): A Novel.  Koontz has really been on a downward slump these last few years. If he were a professional athlete, he'd have had his walking papers many seasons ago. Like an aging pitcher that throws nothing but HR's, Koontz is aging and not doing it well.That being said, "Deeply Odd" is bad. I don't know where to start with it, it was that bad. The plot was bad. The characters were bad. The dialogue was bad. The attempted uses at humor were bad. Koontz's never ending right wing paranoia was bad. The action was bad. Even the rushed and boring conclusion was bad.Any single one of those things would be enough to write a scathing review on, but I am going to keep it to a minimum for time's sake and to keep me from looking to much like a babbling idiot.I will start at the plot. It wasn't the worst in recent memory but its been done before. By Koontz. 3 TIMES IN A ROW!!!!! Yes, "Shadow Street" dealt with an alternative sort of reality. "Apocalypse" did as well. Now we are subjected to this kind of idea for the 3rd time in as many books! Either Koontz has run out of ideas (and is getting senile in his old age) or he has come to the conclusion that his readers are stupid and have forgotten that this has been told to us thrice!Speaking of forgetting, it sure seems that Koontz has forgotten how to write his own creations. In the first 3 "Odd" books, Odd Thomas was a lovable character dealing with this talent (or curse, depending on how you saw fit to feel about him). He accepted this lot in life with little complaint and while he sometimes moped and went introspective, he was generally a happy-go-lucky guy, afraid of violence and hurting people. Now Odd is a gun-loving, emo kid with an all too apparent chip on his shoulder about losing his beloved Stormy. He whines constantly and cries continuously about his life. He says he still abhors violence and still hates guns, but for someone who feels that way, he sure knows how to describe his dual-wielding Glocks, his kevlar vest, and his top secret, government issued sleeping spray/powder. He seems to be extremely talents with said weapons as well as he's seen killing at least 5 people in this installment.That works out to be more than dead bodies than in all the other books combined. Oh, and now he is totally ok with stealing things too, justifying his actions with some horribly lame excuses. Don't misunderstand me here. If Odd would have started out this way, it wouldnt be so bad, but now that he's done a complete 180 so fast shows that Koontz is losing his faith in his character.Maybe you can blame that all on Mrs. Fischer, the gun-totting, limo driving, confusing-as-hell, 86 year old woman who miraculously shows up to save Odd after he somehow manages to survive crashing an SUV that he has stollen. She randomly appears, makes Odd her driver and proceeds to talk away for the next 140 pages about things that make no sense and have no bearing whatsoever in the story. I'm serious people. This is the depths that Koontz has fallen! I've read better dues ex machinas in children's stories.I've also read better dialogue in them too. The back and forth discussions, conversations, and inner monologues are laughably bad. No, wait. I take that back. They are cringe worthy and headache inducing. One such example goes accordingly:"It's a thing-a-ma-bob," Mrs. Fischer said."A thing-a-ma-bob?" I asked"A dohickey""Dohickey?""A thing-a-ma-bob dohickey. They implanted it in my right buttock. Or maybe it was my left.""Why would they plant a thing-a-ma-bob dohickey in your butt cheek?"Mrs. Fischer leaned forward and pinched my cheek. "You're a cute one, Mr. Odd."That's it. If I'm lying, I'm dying. Throughout this entire novel the readers have to crawl through these kind of inane and pointless fillers with no reason other than they are there to take up space. Take out these conversations and you're left with a story that would probably be only 1/4 as long.And that 25% would only come at the last part of the story because it isn't until you've slogged through the previous 75% of "Deeply Odd" that you finally come to any action and any kind of plot worth mentioning. What is that plot you ask? Well let's just say Koontz relies on age old demon mythology and some naturally evil people to explain why things happen. Like that alternate reality thing we previously mentioned, this has been done numerous times before too. I wouldn't have had a problem with this (after all I read countless zombie stories that are basically the same plot over and over again) but only if had been done well. Obviously this time it wasn't.Dean Koontz has frustrated, disappointed, pissed me off, and let me down for the very last time. I, in good conscious, can no longer support an author with no motivation to write anything good anymore. To continue to waste time, money, and even electricity recharging my kindle while reading his stuff, is just a constant, never ending circle of depression and anger. So with all that being said and these facts laid bare and open before you, Mr. Koontz, I bid you farewell. Should we ever have the possibility to cross paths, I do hope it will be in the company of your older stories and creations.
5 It is the year 2010 and the Anglo-Hispanic Unity is the greatest force on Earth. Ruled over by Her Divine Majesty Gloriana, Queen Elizabeth XXX, the Unity is defended by a mighty army and navy and also by the forces of the Magickal Arte, rediscovered five centuries ago by Leonardo of Vinci. Technology has stagnated, but the Arte has flourished under the control of the Church.Sir Rupert Triumff, lately returned from a mission of discovery in which he discovered a land named Australia, is a noted adventurer and consumer of alcohol. Curiously reluctant to make a formal report to the Queen about his newly-discovered continent, Triumff is soon drawn into an attempt to thwart a murky conspiracy with a most foul goal. For the safety of the country, Triumff has to go undercover, aided by allies unlikely and most redoubtable, as he attempts to discover who is planning to use sourcery most foul to endanger the life of the Queen...Triumff: Her Majesty's Hero is the first original adult novel by noted comics and Warhammer 40,000 author Dan Abnett. One of the launch titles for HarperCollins' new imprint, Angry Robot, Triumff is a flamboyant alternate-history story with elements of George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman books mixed together with a slice of Blackadder and left to simmer over the stove of Very Bad Puns.Abnett has created a rollicking world (neo-Elizabethanpunk?) which is basically a mash-up of our own and that of the Elizabethan period. Gentlemen fight duels of honour, but may choose to employ Swiss Army swords (which have an unfortunate habit of replacing the sword blade with a potato peeler at inopportune moments during combat) in lieu of a standard rapier. Firearms are around, but still relatively primitive, whilst those versed in the Arte may employ significantly more powerful magical weapons as well.Triumff himself is a splendid hero, a colourful man of action perhaps a little too fond of the bottle but generally out to do the right thing. Interestingly, whilst the central character he does not exist in a vacuum and a number of other major characters feature throughout the book, such as Mother Grundy the witchlock (independent witches and warlocks have been outlawed, but there's a loophole), Triumff's girlfriend Doll, a 'noble savage' named Uptil who is more than he seems and the book's narrator, Wllm Beaver, esq, a stalwart fellow whose assistance to our heroes is laudable but who also suffers from perspective confusion (unsure whether to refer to himself in the first or third person, and settles for both, to much hilarity).Events unfold at a rattling pace, although rather than charging straight through the reader is advised to savour the comical lines, the almost-missed references to movies and other stories and the increasing prevalence of puns, which at times arrive at such a velocity that they batter the reader's cultivated stoicism to such a degree that they must eventually surrender and find themselves laughing to references to a religious order named the Exeter Terrestrials and a young London musical artiste known as the Diseased Rascal.The book ends on a triumphant note with a promise that Sir Rupert Triumff will return for further adventures, which I find myself looking forwards to immensely.Triumff: Her Majesty's Hero (****) is a superior slice of amusement and is available now in the UK from Angry Robot. Those of a Colonial persuasion can enquire for copies via Amazon.
5 I read a lot, and sometimes it's best to read something light and amusing. I loved the wise cracks in this book! I can't wait to read another!
4 Triumff: Her Majesty's Hero takes place in a goofy alternate reality, in which the merged British & Spanish Empires rule the world. Magic has precluded any use of technology, Elizabethan culture still prevails and Shakespeare (or pornographic updates thereof) is still on stage.The book stars Sir Rupert Triumff. Triumff returned from discovering Australia about a year ago, and is doing his best to avoid the attention of court (mostly by drinking himself senseless). Unfortunately, he can't keep Australia to himself - too many of the court factions need him to essentially 'sign back in' so that the official, Imperially-blessed looting can begin.To add to Triumff's woes, he's also caught in the middle of a dastardly plot. Under the leadership of a necromantic Bishop, a group of disgruntled noblemen are making a bid for power. Triumff, much to his chagrin, is set up as their bait/victim/fall-guy/pawn. With the help of his friends and (often-unexpected) allies, Triumff has to save the Queen, Britain, Australia and the whole rest of the Empire.This is all, incidentally, completely irrelevant to the book.Triumff is actually about comic footnotes, slapstick humor, dirty jokes and bad puns. The plot, as outlined above, is essentially a vehicle that allows all the characters to run around like "Carry On" out-takes - fighting amongst themselves, mistaking identities, putting on outrageous accents, kicking in the privates and wearing silly outfits.And, believe it or not, it works.For one, Dan Abnett - previously known for cranking out Warhammer fiction - has a fairly impeccable sense of comedic timing. From the wry footnotes to the surreal Swiss-army-sword, malapropisms and apples-on-strings, the book had me chuckling from start to finish in a way that Terry Pratchett hasn't succeeded in doing for a decade. There's a lot of obvious humor here, but if Abnett should be ashamed of his puns (and he should), he should also be proud of their delivery.Triumff is an unexpectedly adept contribution to the subgenre of humorous fantasy, one that should find more than a few fans. It is also, by far, the best I've read from this publisher. Whether or not Triumff is her Majesty's hero, he will certainly be Angry Robot's...
3 Set in a magical world where the Elizabethan age never ended, this book tells the story of Sir Rupert Triumff, an explorer recently returned from his discovery of Australia.  Triumff is a drunk, a liar and a lout but quickly finds himself in the center of a conspiracy to bring down the United British and Spanish Empires and kill Queen Elizabeth XXX.Abnett begins on a dark and stormy night, with prose more purple than anything Edward Bulwer-Lytton ever came up with.  The first 5 pages are spend on an epic description of the rain.From there the plot takes off like a rocket, we quickly have evil plots, magical weapons and dark secrets.  But then it screeches to a halt and never really comes together again.Part of the problem is Abnett never really takes the time to introduce his alternate history or how magic works.  So we have people plotting to blow up the magical power plant but no idea what that means.  Abnett also throws in a lot of puns based on our world that don't make sense in context and took me out of the story.  For example an American Indian worried about his 'reservations' makes no sense when America was never colonized there never were Indian reservations.  A character based on Dirty Harry named Clinton Eastwoodho and a spy master code-named 'Kew' (after the gardens) just knock me right out of Abnett's world and make it harder to get back in.In the end it feels like the author tried to do too much.  He has an adventure story, a new fantasy world, a new take on magic and a farce and the book just never succeeds in delivering any of them.There's potential here but I won't be in any hurry to buy another Triumff book.
3 I bought this book mostly because I read a different book (Embedded) by this author which I liked. The descriptions / reviews of this book gave me the impression that it would be funny. I figured that the mixture of alternative history and humor would make this a quick and fun read, but after only a couple chapters I got bored.Now I'm not the kind of guy that can only focus on short stories ... I've read quite a handful of seriously deep stories with hefty page counts per book (for example, Wheel of Time, Malazan Book of the Dead, Baroque Cycle). No, this book was boring because it had insufficient or poorly written action, characters that weren't very well developed, and lots of seriously long and boring dialogue or exposition using pseudo-Elizabethan or otherwise confusing dialect.I expected the humor to be dry (i.e., British) ... but this book was dryer than the mojave in summer. I managed to crack a smile in a small handful of places, but not once did I get an real laugh. Compare that level of jollity to, say, the Discworld stories by Terry Pratchet ... I can't get through a Pratchet story without at least one serious belly-laugh. So ... Abnett is no Pratchet, that's certainly for sure.Anyhow, I won't say it's a bad book -- the premise of the story was good, and I really wanted to enjoy it, but it just didn't click for me. Many reviewers are fans of Abnett's work in Warhammer stories, but I've not read any of that work so I can't compare. I can say the writing in this book was quite different from the one book I did read and enjoy, so this was a bit of a letdown.
4 I have enjoyed this authors War40k works, particularly the Eisenhorn and, to a lesser degree, Ravenor trilogies, and have read pretty much everything he has published with them.  This story is interesting in that Abnett takes a tone and style very similar to PG Wodehouse, to such a degree that the cliche ironies are often observed in humourous dialogue.  I was a bit taken aback at first (I enjoy wodehouse, and Jack Vance, who often take a very similar tone in his stories), as it is unlike anything I have read by abnett, but it became more enjoyable as the tale progressed.  That said, it was slow early on and in places.A notable feature of a story like this, unlike most of abnett's previous work, is that you are to take for granted that characters move about easily, find each other without too much work in large cities, and otherwise all show up for major plot moments as needed without much rational explanation.I do admit to being curious as to whether abnett has read Wodehouse or Vance, and/or consciously decided to write a story not dissimilar to the styles either author has used.
4 This is a rollicking swashbuckling pastiche or parody, set in a modern alternate history where the technology never went much past the time of Queen Elizabeth ... the First. A form of magic has taken it's place, mostly run by the Church. Of course, this has been done before (and much, much better) by Randall Garrett, with his Lord Darcy pastiche fantasy mysteries (and if you haven't read them- NOW! is the time, these are by far the best in the genre).  However, not being as good as Randall Garrett isn't much of a complaint.This book does have flashes of excellent writing. Some of the humor had me chuckling quite often... but other "humorous" bits elicited a groan and much eye-rolling.  There are a number of rather good swordfight scenes, which would be even better if they were serious (our Hero has a type of "Swiss-Army" sword which often exudes something like a rutabaga peeler instead of a rapier.) In fact, if it had not been cut short, one of the last swordfights in the book would have been comparable to that of "The Princess Bride".It has been compared to Terry Pratchett but it's far more like Blackadder One.  There are also a good number of Shakespearian references and jokes.Only two Characters come to life with more than a single dimension- our Hero and Mother Grundy (who does remind me a bit of Granny Weatherwax ).Note that the whole subplot with certain portions being "written" in the first person by "Master Beaver" is jarring and annoying, and could have been dropped with ease.I am giving it 4 stars as I grinned more than groaned, but your mileage may vary.
4 Angel of Death is quite a difficult book to describe.  Unusually, the author has split the content into three separate books, and I think this was a sensible decision as there are three distinct phases of the story.Book 1 sets the scene with a prolific serial killer at work - however this is far from the standard  format within the serial killer genre.  At  the killer's elbow is an angel of death who has been sent to earth to ensure that people have 'good' deaths and who keeps an eye on the victims of the killer as well as arranging other deaths. Book 2 is mainly set around a trial, and not wanting to give spoilers, I will not reveal the content of Book 3, but will say that as a whole this tale twists and turns and the reader is sold on each new scenario until the author makes the doubts start to creep in.I thought this was going to be a fairly straight forward, angel amongst us story of which I have read several recently.  However, Angel of Death is quite different and really takes us inside the head of the Angel, who may be Azrael or Samael - which is not entirely clear - as he varies between total self confidence as to his role and questioning his very purpose and existence.  Ultimately this is quite a tense, psychological tale and though it takes a good while, it does become a page turner towards the end.For the first third of this book I was finding it hard to get involved, but I ended up enjoying it quite a lot more than I expected to. It is a complex story and well worth persevering with.
4 I stumbled across the sample chapter for Angel of Death quite a while ago and was hooked by the end of the first paragraph. There was no turning away from that gloriously disturbing narrative and by the time I finished the sample chapter, the entirety of the first chapter, I knew it was a book that I had to read. It took me a few months to get around to ordering it, but when it finally arrived I opened it and starting reading that first chapter again. It was better the second time around. The rest of the book just had to live up to it.The first chapter establishes a unique and sociopathic narrative, a first-person perspective from the viewpoint of our angel of death that sometimes manages to sound more akin to a second-person perspective. The second chapter establishes the other narrative, a third-person perspective that mostly surrounds Detective Donna Leland. The former narrative is one of the best things about the novel-these sections are immensely readable and enjoyable and show a dark creative scope that almost makes me giggle with glee. The other narration is more mundane, but shifts expertly with each section of the novel-the Angel of Death narration does this as well, but not so much.The ability to shift with each section of the novel is important because the novel is not just one long, static, story throughout. The book is split into three books and each one takes on a different subset of the crime genre with the supernatural theme of the novel running throughout. The first book of the novel sees Detective Leland on the case of a serial killer, the second book is more of a court room drama, and the delightfully disturbing third book is kind of like a novelized slasher flick split between the perspective of the killer and the victim.King manages to handle the characterization of our two main characters expertly. The Angel of Death experiences a lot throughout the novel and changes accordingly and though the change is sometimes radical, it cannot be said that they are unexpected or unwarranted. The same goes with Leland, who is pretty much put through the wringer in the novel and shows it more and more as the novel progresses. The secondary characters here are immaterial, little more than hands, faces, and pawns, and tend to be glossed over aside from a couple of characters that get the absolute minimum amount of time on the page. This is not their story though and I am so used to secondary characters getting thrown to the wayside that this is hardly something to complain about.In the second book of the novel there is a considerable amount of dialogue concerning what the Angel of Death character does and though he is surrounded by people who think him insane and prone to disturbed fantasies, the dialogue here is so well done that I have to admit that, if I were there, I would likely believe the man. This lends to the overall readability of the novel and to the characterization and is something that I feel I must applaud. Looking at the rest of the dialogue there is not a lot to say either negative or positive, but though that might be because, and I may be wrong here, the amount of dialogue seemed minimal. My one complaint about the dialogue revolves around one scene in particular where a conversation lacked any indication of who was saying what, which led to some confusion over just who was saying what. Thankfully this only happens once, any more than that and it would become a rather serious frustration.The problem with this novel is that it does not quite know what it is. Angel of Death is part fantasy and part crime novel, but the fantastic is undermined at points and just what kind of crime novel it is constantly shifts. That it is well-written and excellently handled by King ensures that it never becomes much of an issue, but abrupt change from one type of story to another is enough to make it feel muddled. At the transition from the first book to the second I was left feeling rather apathetic about continuing, though I surely would not put the book down, because of the extreme difference between the story presented in book one and the story presented in book two. A problem for me, though others may not feel the same.I would recommend Angel of Death, but not without hesitation. While I was not bothered with the disturbing concepts found within, I am well aware that others are more sensitive to such things. It is an enjoyable read and definitely one to pick up, but I would go so far as to say that those who have trouble sitting through the standard slasher film need not bother giving it a go as those actually seem pretty tame in comparison-even if there is remarkably little gore to be found in the book. The sequel, Death's Disciples, will be out later this year and I am looking forward to its release.
4 This book is a ripping good yarn, it reminds me a little of those old pulp paperback detective stories but with a lot more depth. The main character starts the book as an angel whose task (appointed by God himself no less) is to manage and arrange the deaths of everyone in the Illinios/Milwakee area. Then a death he had arranged goes wrong and he finds himself a flesh and blood human charged with murder.Doubt is cast on his identity by a defence lawyer who claims to have found evidence that he is in fact merely a severely traumatised gulf war veteran. Add to this the female cop who caught him has fallen in love with him and in fact becomes pregnant by him.The story is well paced and keeps you interested the whole way through with plenty of plot twists. I would recommend this book to anyone who wants an absorbing read.
5 King uses biblical texts with such ease that this Angel is utterly convincing. The angel calls himself Azra when he adopts a human form to meet a detective on the "soon to be killed" list.King is a mastermind. Literally. In this book he does master your mind. From one section to the next - you are thrown about mentally and emotionally until you no longer know what you believe. Each part (it's divided into three) is so completely about face to the one which precedes it that as a reader you are gobsmacked at how well you were deceived in the previous section.And as you keep reading - you reach a point where you just aren't sure of anything any longer.Emotionally this is gripping. It grips you the way a rotating spring would grab nose hairs. You will feel uncomfortable, you will want to cry and you will be upset - and it doesn't let go. Once this book hooks you - you're in it until it decides to let you go.Ezra is a magnificent creature. I liked Ezra so much that when he becomes the polar opposite of what you believe him to be - you're left a little shellshocked. This is a story that will shake your perception, (FABULOUS!) - it will force you to see the unshakable logic behind murder - mass murder even - and it will convince you that every death on earth is divine - that is - until it's not.I don't really want to expose the story line because it has so many twists in this tale that to reveal any of it would simply obliterate the delight of reading it for yourself. Honestly - if you love a good murder story - you're going to love this book. If you enjoy twisted stories like Silence of the Lambs - you will love this book. The thing is - King does it all so well that he is flawless.His metaphors are utterly brilliant. He wields the pen like an artist carving his own Michaelangelo. It's a thing of beauty. It's crafted so well that this man should be revered amongst authors in the same genre. More than this - he will make you laugh. This book is also a testament to King's delightful sense of humour. I refuse (you can't make me!) to disclose what in this book is so fall about funny - but trust me when you read the words "It hurts nicely" you will piss yourself laughing.This is the full package. It's funny, it's sad, it has such a solid core of romance running through it, it's a theologians wet dream, it's spiritual, it's disturbing, it's gory, it's bittersweet, it's beautiful - and it will make you view humans and society with new eyes. There is no doubt that this book is brilliant (I'm going to say that a lot). It's captivating, mesmerising - seductive. It seduces you into its pages and once it knows it has you - well roll over and expect to have your insides ripped out through your ears.One thing I can assure you - is you cannot escape the Angel of Death. So grab a copy and read it. Be prepared for when he comes for you. And see first his utter beauty and attention to detail.YOU WILL LOVE THIS BOOK!
4 I'm not sure what it is as of late, but I have become a magnet for the strange, and by that I mean those novels that contain something so twisted and freakish that you start to wonder if maybe the author is a little too close to these characters and that you should be worried. But then you remind yourself that the author doesn't have your address, just the publisher, and that means you can move before anyone finds out where you live and comes knocking. Maybe that's just my paranoia talking.Angel of Death is one of those strange novels: twisted and detailed in ways that make you uncomfortable, stylistically gripping, and otherwise a romping good read. And dare I say that J. Robert King has put together something that makes all those movies and books about angels look like child's play? Yes, I dare say.Angel of Death is hard to describe. The story opens with a serial killer and a metaphysical figure who directs the gruesome killings and accidental deaths of the day--an angel of death, if you will. But when he meets Donna Leland, lead investigator/detective on the serial killer's case, this angel of death finds himself thrust into the real world, rejected by the angelic home he once was a part of. What follows is a dark, terrifying fall into madness and an uncomfortable reminder of how fragile the human condition really is, especially for one who might never have been human before.Angel of Death is the second book from Angry Robot Books that I have read and loved, though for entirely different reasons. What is most striking, for me, is how King puts you into the mayhem, into the minds of serial killers, the detectives who hunt them, and the innocents who suffer as a consequence. From the start you are thrust right into the mind of death itself, a disconcerting experience for sure, but a memorable one. The result is that King has managed write a thoroughly enjoyable story despite being in a genre that I normally would not find all that appealing (detective mysteries). His twisting of convention, if such a thing is fair to say, has resurfaced all those old, long-forgotten childish joys resurface. I want more of these dark murder mysteries.King's novel is somewhat like reading a novelization of one of the Saw movies, but with a splash of the fantastic (or seemingly fantastic). A lot of what makes this novel so much more than just another story about fallen angels is that King fiddles with reality in such a profound way that by the end you're not entirely sure what is real and what is imagined. Philip K. Dick did this well, but King is somewhat more subtle about it, despite the characters having very little in the way of subtlety attached to them.The only problem with Angel of Death is that it takes some time to get into the gritty, page-turning stuff. The first part of the novel is entertaining, but it is the last two-thirds that changes everything. That first third had me curious, and when I ventured into the unknown territory of part two, I couldn't put the book down--someone probably saw me walking and reading on campus over the last few days.Those who are fans of dark murder mysteries, Andy Remic, the Saw movies (the early ones, not the last three or four), and other twisted tales will certainly enjoy Angel of Death. If you're not one for serial murders and the macabre, even in a powerful form as presented in King's novel, then you should find something else. Angel of Death is a book for those who want that dark edge.
5 The facts that I know the author personally and I live in the area in which this novel is set have nothing to do with how much I enjoyed this book.The facts that this novel is perfectly paced, disturbingly real, and horrifyingly descriptive have everything to do with it.I could draw comparisons with other stories such as those about Hannibal Lecter or Jeffrey Dahmer, but there's really no need to do so. This novel may have its origins in such tales, but is original in its presentation and powerful in its prose. I found the characterizations wholly believable, from the supernatural titular protagonist to his not-altogether-accepting and not-entirely-willing partner to the blood-chilling serial killer. King gives the reader just enough information about the victims to make them pitiable, without dragging down the story's pacing in the process. By the end of the book, one may well be pitying the two main characters in kind. In fact, if one isn't, I will be forced to question one's humanity. King looks deep into the questions of what it means to be human and inhuman (and inhumane) with disquieting skill.Recommended without reservation, to fans of both the "mundane" crime genre (this book may well widen your horizons) and the supernatural thriller (this one won't disappoint you).
3 I have given quite positive reviews of many Jack Kerley books.  They are riveting, and I give this one three stars instead of one because he is a gifted writer who kept me up until four in the morning to finish this book.  Having said that, I will read his next book but if it leaves me feeling the same way, it will be the last.  A small part of this is because while Carson has grown in his relationship with his brother and stood up to him yet again, his lack of respect for his friendship with Claire is wearing thin.  He doesn't have to commit to one woman.  Perhaps his shabby treatment of them is an attempt to show it is not just his brother who is badly damaged.  But it's time for Carson to change for the better.  If there is no hope for him, why read more?The serious issue I have with The Killing Game is that Kerley's previous Carson Ryder books were certainly graphic at times which made them realistic in portraying serial murders, but they were windows on such a world and you could stand back from them.  This book is more of an outright primer on how to be a sadistic murderer, and I ended up feeling something was wrong with me if I would read such a thing.  What kind of person reads a book that continually has cats tortured?  I more or less skipped those parts, which I never did in his previous books.  Near the end I had to stomach reading as little of this as possible while still trying to gain the gist of the conclusion.  The story of Romanian orphanages is important and I wanted to learn from his telling of it, as I always do in his books.  But to sum up, I realized if my husband leafed through this book, he would think less of me for reading it. I already think less of myself, and am sorry I was let down by an author I have actively supported through the years.
3 So it's been two years since the last JA Kerley release of a Carson Ryder Book. For those that don't know, or have never read a JA Kerley book before, the books feature Police Detectives Carson Ryder and his partner Harry Nautilus. I haven't read the early books from the series but picked it up from book 3 I think. In one sense, each book can be read as a standalone but I much prefer to have the history of characters from as early on as possible.After a humiliating encounter with a cop, Romanian immigrant Gregory Nieves launches a vendetta against the Mobile Police Department, Alabama. Nieves can't fight a department, so he selects one man who symbolizes all men in blue: Carson Ryder, the MPD's specialist in bizarre and twisted crimes. From early on the reader knows who the killer is, but in a bizarre shift in books, it seems that it takes the majority of the book for Carson and Harry to figure it out. I would almost go as far as saying they seemed rather secondary to the main character; the killer!I am really a big fan of Kerley and this series, but couldn't help feeling that we see less of Carson and Harry and too much insight into a sociopath! Don't get me wrong, I am as interested as the next reader into how these people (ie killers)have no conscience and why they turn like they do, but this time around I felt like it was overdone. Also, there was only fleeting mentions of both Jeremy, Carson's wacko but shockingly intelligent brother; and Harry's niece Rein. Both of these characters', I feel have earned places in the books and I kind of missed them both in equal measures.Overall, the story was a decent enough one, but I missed the camaraderie between Harry and Carson, I missed other characters and felt like this time around the book was lacking its normal `oomph'. The ending gave way to a nice little opener for the tenth book in the series due in December 2013. I will as always really look forward to the next instalment. I just wish this latest book would have given me a little more than it did.
5 The Killing Game met my expectations as all of Jack Kerley novels do. As always I couldn't wait to begin the book and was sad to finish it.
3 ... this time the reader knows way too early who the killer is.And I don't like thrillers which are not thrilling any more...Who likes a solid Whodunnit like me - stay away.Who likes the perverse evolution of a serial killer - buy it, read it.There is a cameo of Jeremy, too - always stranger and more persdverse and speaking in riddles...But Carson, too - seems a bit out of role, especially with his choice of women.I wait for the next Ryder ThrillerThe Death Box. There is an excerpt as a teaser at the end of the book.Maybe it is better than this one...
3 The story starts with our killer, a small introduction to him and how he tries to blend in to society and keep him reactions normal. Then we flick to Carson, under cover and about to get into a situation that will hail him hero or reckless. The story flips throughout from the killers view and then back to the police and Carson. We slowly learn more about why Gregory is the way he is and what sets him off on this killing spree.The story is well done although you are drawn in slowly. Carson soon realizes he has a dangerous killer on the loose and has to work out what has set him off and where he will strike next. An almost impossible task as his kills seem to have to actual motive, weapons and victims are different from one to the next and there is no killer more dangerous than one who strikes at random and with no pattern.Carson eventually needs to turn to a source for help he would rather steer clear from, his brother who is incarcerated for murder. His brother can give insight that Carson will get nowhere else so he needs to in order to get clarity on the crimes and the killer. I was disappointed at how little Jeremy, Carson's brother, actually featured in this book.The chapters are fairly short in length which I always like, I enjoy reading Carson's character as he is likable and this time he has a new relationship budding with Wendy, one of the girls from the class he has been helping out with. I felt we could have had more about those two and definitely more about Gregory, his childhood and the horrors he endured and survived that created the killer and psychopath he became. The ending is where the book dropped marks for me, I do enjoy a good twist but this one I didn't see coming at all and it annoyed me as there should have been more on this particular twist, even a few hints rather than shot out of the blue, I feel. I also think it was a tad short and left lacking in regards to Gregory when he is such a huge part of the story. However lots of people have loved it and it is a good story however for me it is a 3/5.
4 Jack Kerley is one of my top five favorite writers. He does great work. And this is again a great read.
4 I must confess to being quite the fan of this brand of serial killer thriller, and would definitely cite Jack Kerley as one of the most accomplished exponents of the genre along with Richard Montanari and Chris Carter. In this, the latest outing for the mercurial Detective Carson Ryder and sidekick Harry Nautilus, the series continues apace with a particularly screwed-up killer who definitely instils an uncomfortable feeling in the reader with his peculiarly scatological nature...If you are a regular reader of Kerley there is much to delight you here, and once again he plunders the darkest recesses of his imagination to bring us a suitably depraved and imbalanced killer. Gregory Nieves, struggling with the weight of his sociopathic tendencies and involuntary bowel problems, yes, I did say involuntary bowel problems, is a great construct. Here is a man who draws on other people's facial expressions, garnered from TV an magazine adverts, practicing them daily, to try and give the impression that he is in some way close to normal- not a premise I have come across in a book and that leads to some lovely moments of humour. After a routine traffic stop that causes an extreme moment of embarrassment for Nieves, he declares war on the local police department, and naturally Ryder becomes a focus for our killer. As Nieve's bizarre relationship with his own sister Ema comes to light and the disturbing nature of their childhood comes to light, it becomes apparent that Nieves is not the only problem for Ryder, as Nieves begins to exact his twisted revenge. Once again, Kerley has excelled in his characterisation not only constructing a truly creepy killer, but putting Ryder through the mill not only with his on-going challenging of his superiors, but also immersing him in a love triangle with a comely young student, and his long term on-and-off squeeze the brilliant pathologist Clair Peltier. As Ryder navigates the waters of office politics and affairs of the heart, along with determinedly pursuing a serial killer, there is much to hold the reader's interest, and as always the interplay with Ryder and his larger than life partner, Harry Nautilus, remains a central strength of the book.Yes, I would say the storyline is a little far-fetched and not the fare for the more delicate reader, with only a fleeting visit from Ryder's intelligent and psychopathic brother Jeremy ( personally speaking my favourite character of the series overall), but Kerley just sucks you in completely, amidst the more nonsensical aspects of the plot and you enjoy the ride. The book ends with a tantalising prospect for a change of direction for our hero Ryder, so bring it on Mr Kerley. I can't wait....
5 Wow what a great read. It will have you in tears of sadness, laughter and heart felt warmth. It leaves you in no doubt just how much John Loved his wife. He has put his heart and soul in to writing this story.It is such a personal look at their lives which has been so full of love and hardship. Thank you John & Bonnie
3 We need to learn as much about dementia as we can.  I feel it is important for all of us to have some level of understanding and empathy for those dealing with this horrific life disrupter.
4 John Suchet writes with passion and honesty about how dementia has stolen the love of his life. John and Bonnie were both already married to other people when they met, but both of them knew that one day they would be together. Theirs is a modern love story, they were a couple who completely in love, who shared the same interests and the same sense of humour and were meant to be together.When Bonnie first started to show signs of dementia, John thought she was becoming absent minded. Early on it was funny, as time went by he started to get annoyed and when finally she was diagnosed, he was heartbroken. John Suchet should be applauded for his honest writing, he admits to being frustrated, sometime angry, losing his temper and wishing he could disappear. Bonnie, on the other hand, is unaware. Unaware that she is no longer 'his Bonnie', unaware of their past, or their future - she is a shell of the woman that had been so vibrant and funny, the woman that had planned their old-age together.More and more people are affected by dementia every year, this disease has no boundaries. Not class, nor wealth, nor even age - it can and does affect us all. At times this really is a heart-breaking read, it's a frightening read too.
5 This is a touching story of how one of Britain's most well known news presenters lost his beloved wife to dementia.  My Bonnie is well written, and does not gloss over the harsh reality of dementia.  The author tells of the good and bad times and speaks from the heart about how devastating this disease truly is.  I would recommend it--not easy reading, but very, very worthwhile.
5 I must say, John Suchets' book held me enthralled from the first sentence. I just wish I could z'hurry up and forget it, so I can enjoy it once again"!! I assure you, fellow booklovers, this is one that is worth whatever you have to pay for it..That said, John was able to evoke an era, the 70's, when he first moved into an upscale neighborhood, and met Bonnie..sadly, they were married to others at this time.The spark was ignited, when John , at his wifes prompting, escorted Bonnie home, a block or so away, in the rain..someway, somehow, they idea to share a passionate kiss formed...and BAM!! Shot in the heart by Cupid, for all practical purposes...it was a few years, but never forgotten..John moved away, but his marriage floundered... he called Bonnie, to ask he rto meet him for a friendly supper..She accepted this proposal, and showed up, carrying  candles and candelsticks..the wine flowed...at the end of this encounter, they made a pact to tell their sposes, each wanted a divorce...Okay, I will leave you there, with only hilites of the rest of the nice, long satisfying read...they married and spent 30 some years madly in love, til dementia, made a blithering, demented , alto sweet for the most part, person out of Bonnie...what a book!! What a life, the years he lived with her as a demented lady...shocking and sobering it was...and what he endured is almost unbelievable, yet, John rings true...thank you! If this helped you please indicate it, for I tried my best to tell you, this is a wonderful book!!!
5 I have not read this yet. i will read this one when I get the chance. I have a huge pile of books I have not gotten to yet, lol.
5 Excellently written. Such a courageous account. It's not easy to read and is terribly sad, but it should be read. My heart goes out to Cassie and I found joy in her picking up the pieces and putting herself together after such horrid abuse, and sadness in all that was done so wrong to her. Read it.
4 its a good story. If you enjoy these kinds of books. Its well written, and easy to follow. Cassie did a great job telling the story
5 You'll both love and hate this book. I cried through the whole book. If you have been sexually abused, you will identify with this victim.
5 It irritates me whike reading books like this that people dont believe these children. I sometimes get so upset while reading and have to put it down for a while.
5 sad book writter made you feel like you were there I could fee every emotion would recomend it to anyone
5 ...what balm can ever mend?I met Cassie Harte in an Amazon memoir discussion group. The concept of child rape is abhorrent to any human being. Any to whom it is not are not "human." And so I was in no hurry to delve into what can only be the most despicable nightmare. But as I began to correspond with Cassie (now age 65) I wanted to know three things:How did she survive?How could she ever have a relationship with a man?Where did she get the courage to write this story that has sold over 91,000 copies?I ordered it on Amazon, put everything else aside and absorbed the travesty in tears, shock, anger and horror.TEARS for the child she had to give up for adoption and her profound sacrifice and loss that continues to this day, (they met in his young adulthood).SHOCK that the man who violated her time and time again from the age of six was her biological father!ANGER towards her own mother for "feeding her to the dog."HORROR at the side-effects from her withdrawl from benzodiazepine drugs that she was fed for decades to mask her unbearable pain.She now lives with her husband and daughter in Great Britain and cares for abused donkeys and horses."It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than that he would cause one of these little ones to suffer." Gospel of Luke 17:2Elizabeth Wallace is the author of: "The Invisible Thread: A Journey Home."
5 It's hard to say you could rate such a story well but my 5 stars go to the writer who deserves more. What's wrong with our world?
5 I could not believe how cold harded people can be, when reading this story. I wanted to keep on readying and readying. Great read, awfully sad story!
4 Although there was a bit of repetition, and the author never gets the closure WE would to see, it was very well told. I prefer books on this subject to end with the abuser being punished, so others who may be going thru something similar can be encouraged to take action. That didn't happen here, but perhaps the unspoken/unwritten message, is that karma took care of that.Overall, very well written, very believable, and I even cried towards the end, which is something only Danielle Steele was able to make me do up until now. I just hope that people don't read this & decide not to tell cuz of this authors experience...but that they KEEP telling until someone listens.
5 Dearest Cassie - you are a remarkable woman!! Your story moved me tremendously!! I cried for you and just wanted to wrap my arms around you to give you the love & reassurance you so deserved. None of what happened to you WAS your fault ! May the rest of your life be amazing & beautiful! I wish you ALL THE BEST!
3 I'm a little disappointed in this book.  Although the story is believable (I know firsthand about parental abuse), it is also written in a very amateur way.  It seems like much of the documented abuse is repeated... almost ad nauseum.  It's terribly sad that child abuse, such as this, went undiscovered, un-believed, and overlooked.  I'm also disappointed in the people who allowed this to go on; knowing full well that something should have been done.  It's sickening and I feel empathy for the abused child/woman.  It's frustrating to know that people go their whole lives never paying for their crimes.I would have liked to know what happened between the abused woman and her siblings, years later.  Not much is mentioned about her relationship with her brothers.
5 It is a true story and shocking. it is unbelievable how a mother could be so cruel. It makes you appreciate your family more.
4 Cassie Harte did not get a happy life.  She struggled with long-term sexual abuse as a child, with a mother who had zero motherly feelings toward her, with loneliness, with betrayal, with prescription medication.  But she is a survivor.  She learned early in life from a close friendship that love is possible.  She kept trying.  She kept searching for a life of her own.I found the portion of Cassie's story where she realizes how sick the prescription medications are making her to be unbelievably important.  My late husband had this same issue and did not survive it.  Cassie is an amazingly strong and smart woman to have understood that the medications were clouding her judgment and ultimately doing more harm than good.  I am not anti-medication, far from it. I think each person needs to exercise caution with all medications.  For Cassie, she needed to face her psychic pain and learn how to function on her own. And she does!  She continues to love fully even when she cannot have the person she loves in her life.Cassie's life is not an easy read; it's painful.  She writes well, but she is honest about her struggles.  And many of her experiences are not ones most people will have.  But her story is full of important life messages for all of us. Perhaps the most important one is to keep believing in yourself.
4 Cassie Harte was born to a mother who never wanted her, and a father who could never stand up to that mother for the cruel way she treated their little daughter. There were no hugs, no birthday parties, no christmas worth remembering for little Cassie. That in itself was bad enough, but for Cassie there was a whole lot more heartache in store.I have to say that I'm amazed by this womans strength, the things she has accomplished, and her sheer will to live. So many people in her situtation would have chose suicide or really completely lost it, but somehow she came through it all. She might have emotional scars, but what great soldier comes out of battle without such scars? Yes I compared her to a soldier. She might not have been fighting a physical war, but her battle is definantly one that deserves recognition.May God continue to answer your prayers Cassie, I don't know anyone who deserves it more.
5 I thought that this series of traumatic issues could never have happened to anyone, especially the person that had given birth to such a precious gift from GOD (or from some other type of engery form). I started reading quite casually, and before I had thought about it, I had read several chapters - almost 200 pages before I put the book down for the day.  The personal experiences that's shared, should brings a person to the realization that the gift of life they are blessed with (when having children) is the best, most tender loving part of living, and having the moral obligation in that of being blessed with and being able to take care of such as the precious charge of creation.  How could a person "NOT LOVE THEIR OWN FLESH" ??????????  I believe that anyone who feels that (or remembers that) these things have happened to someone they know, the victum needs to be heard, and helped.  SemperFi >>  SgtMac  usmc
5 alittle hard to read in the begining.. but was a very good read I really enjoyed this book. very intense
3 After the hype and description of the book I was somewhat disappointed in the content.  There seems to be so much that goes on in Top Gear that a behind the scenes expose should have had me laughing like crazy.  I wasn't.  Getting an insight into the man Ben Collins was interesting and his military desires told us a lot about him as a person.  But - and likely many others - are expecting to learn a lot more about the behind the scenes activities on the show...  It was an easy read but the details and flow/timeline could have been better documented.
3 Story of Ben's life is well mixed with racing cars, Top Gear and SAS training. Nice easy read, you can put it down and pick up where you left off.
4 I enjoyed it, but thankfully I read the reviews first. It is not a true insider to The Stig, but a bio about Ben Collins. Reading the book the content sometimes seems as contrived as Top Gear, but I enjoyed the read, as much as I will continue to watch TG.
3 Ben Collins shares his path to Stigness and anecdotes from the (BBC) series. A good read for fans, to be sure, but I can't see the book being popular beyond that core audience. Still, it's an honest and funny read.
4 A great story about one of the most mysterious figures on TV.  On the plus side, it's fascinating getting a backstage look at the most popular car show on the tube.  But what put me off and killed a fifth star is the amount of profanity Collins uses in places when describing conversations.  Sure, I know adults use that kind of language, but my kids love Top Gear and especially The Stig.  There's just no way I could read this book to them for a bedtime story.
3 I enjoyed the book for the insights into Top Gear that he provided. The first half was a little bit dull and he seemed to focus on his balls. Every other page he seemed to mention them in one way or another. The book picks up in the second half. I wondered if there was a new ghost writer. The humour is better and the pace improves and his balls mostly stay inside his trousers.
5 The Man in the White SuitI have been an avid fan of Top Gear since I first saw an episode a few years ago. Fifth Gear, albeit a similar program, was never quite as entertaining as Top Gear mainly because of the chemistry between the presenters and because Top Gear is more focused on entertainment. Ben Collins' book is not just an autobiography, but also a behind the scenes look at Top Gear. As I suspected, Top Gear is more about entertaining the audience than a factual car review show. Ben Collins revealed that a lot of the driving sequences, such as the Corvette and Fiesta duel in the mall, was mainly action sequences taken in piece meal with the presenter driving sequences cut/pasted into the whole affair to make them look good. I understand that there are a lot of people there heavily criticizing Ben for leaving Top Gear and the "best job in the world", but I read this book and reviewed it objectively as possible even though I am a Top Gear fan and gearhead/petrol head. As an example of how Top Gear's final production sequences are aimed at entertainment, Ben Collins said in a South African interview after the release of his book that out of the 3 presenters, the best driver was James May. The reason is that May has an engineering background and is more sorted out. In the book, Collins described May as always pretending to be a poor driver to provide some hint of comic relief.  In stark contrast, Fifth Gear is too heavy on professional drivers. I've seen episodes where Jason Plato, Tiff Needell, Ben Collins, and Victoria Butler-Henderson bored me to sleep because there wasn't any "cocking about" or entertainment - it was too factual and precise.So let's start from the beginning.Ben is a well-articulated speaker and writer. From his presenter segments on the latest season of Fifth Gear to his interviews, he is a knowledgeable and well-spoken individual. His description of vehicle dynamics is almost on-par with some of literatures greatest masterpieces. His line-by-line recital of track experiences and races is not only riveting, but also very descriptive. As a reader, I could visualize what was happening at the track. It helped that I watched some of the episodes (e.g., Top Gear 24-hour British touring car race at Silverstone with the diesel BMW) but his writing took that experience to another level.Some examples of his story telling technique are exhibited in his driving role for Ascari at Le Mans and Catalunya, as well as his military training. His writing is easy to understand, and although I have never met him in person, his ability to describe events would make him an outstanding instructor. Based on some of the comments and feedback drivers have made about Ben, it appears this is the case. I also learned something technical and useful - I've wondered why a lot of the open wheel racers tended to pump their brakes or jab at them periodically. Page 34 describes how brake pads could be knocked farther away from the discs while driving over kerbs, causing excessive pedal travel especially when the fluid could be hot - thus requiring a periodic jab or pump to seat the pads.Ben Collins did not start driving or riding motorcycles before he could walk, unlike famous Formula 1 and MotoGP riders (such as Valentino Rossi, Michael Schumacher, or Jorge Lorenzo). Ben actually started driving or rather competitively driving at 18. The fact he started at such an "old age" and the level he has achieved nearly 20 years later gives hope to all and is a testament that one could in fact start later and attain a level of success.The most controversial aspect of this book and Ben's stint at Top Gear was how he revealed himself to be the second Stig. Many, including the BBC, argue that the Stig was meant to be anonymous and to present a sense of mystique and entertainment to the show. However, as Ben mentions in the book, he was close to being discovered due to extensive digging by journalists. Some of the other racers, like Mark Webber, already knew it was Ben Collins but didn't reveal the secret. As a Top Gear fan, I had seen the You Tube videos where fans did comparisons of the Stig with Ben Collins about a year before this book was published. Honestly, I didn't care too much either way. The Stig was part of the entertainment, but in the same sense having a new Stig would keep the mystique going and present something fresh to Top Gear. It will keep the viewers guessing about the new Stig, and possibly draw more viewers. It is a win/win situation. I hear lots of rumors about Sabine Schmitz being Stig's German Cousin or even perhaps the new Stig. It's things like this that can draw viewers back to the show.Based on the reasons Ben gave for considering leaving Top Gear, I don't blame him. Much of his driving is displayed publically as The Stig, but he can't use that on his resume. He needs to eat, and his raw talent would go to waste as a side act on Top Gear. He mentions numerous times how he wishes to race professionally. His job as a stunt driver seems to be going well. I saw some YouTube videos of him on the set of the new Batman movie (Dark Knight Rises). His role as the Stig obviously opened doors, and from what I recall he was able to leave on amicable terms with the presenters according to the book. Something must have changed during the time between the announcement of the book and the BBC's lawsuit.From my perspective, Ben Collins is a knowledgeable and well-articulated professional driver that exemplifies what one could achieve with mental focus and energy. I highly recommend this book to any gearhead/petrol-head that has enjoyed Top Gear and is interested in cars.Overall: 5/5 stars, highly recommended
4 Ben Collins, born in 1975, has competed in motorsport since 1994.  He worked with Top Gear (both as the anonymous `tame racing driver' -The Stig  - and also as himself since December 2003.This is his story.Ben Collins was born in Bristol, has competed as a junior Olympic standard swimmer while living in California and wanted to be a fighter pilot.  When this career was ruled out because of his eyesight, he switched to cars.  Ben won races in nearly every category he competed in: from Formula Three to LeMans Sportscars, and GT.  In 2003 he won the European ASCAR title while racing for RML Motorsport.  When his racing career was temporarily curtailed by a lack of funding, Ben joined the Army reserves.  He also began a new venture working as a Hollywood stuntman.In 2003, Ben became the fourth presenter on BBC TV's `Top Gear.' As `The Stig', he test drove exotic cars, coached celebrities how to get the best out of the `reasonably priced car' around the now legendary Top Gear test track.  As `the man in the white suit', he was recognised by millions of Top Gear fans around the world.This book makes for interesting reading both for Top Gear fans curious about the identity of The Stig, but also for those interested in Ben Collins as an accomplished racing driver.I found this an easy and interesting read, especially the descriptions of his driving experiences.  As an Australian, I enjoyed his reference to the yellow flags (specifically in relation to kangaroos) at Bathurst.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
1 It's my fault for buying a book about a man who is famous for being a mute race car driver.  Husband loves Top Gear and this book ended up in the charity bin
4 I'm a long-time Top Gear (UK) fan, so I was very upset when Ben Collins betrayed Top Gear and the BBC the way he did. However, I still wanted to read this book.  I found it to be interesting and informative.
5 This was a very good read. I must for any Top Gear fan. Some parts ran on a bit but overall, it was very good.
5 In continuing my journey into types of books I haven&#8217;t read I decided to continue with the non-fiction.  I was watching Top Gear and they mentioned Stiggy&#8217;s new book and how it got him fired and in trouble with Top Gear so I decided I had to read it.  Being a car fan and a Top Gear fan why wouldn&#8217;t you?  Well I am extremely happy with this choice and highly recommend this book.  It talks about Ben Collins life and how he grew up wanting to be a race car driver.  After a few false starts he makes some key appearances on some race teams but always runs into an issue.  Then one day he is called to an interview on a airplane runway to drive a car around for a few laps and ends up taking what everyone who knows cars would think to be the dream job.  It also talks about Ben going through the Army in his free time off the set and having to keep the secret of who he was on the show.  It talks about specific episodes (all of which I have seen a few 100 times) so that was fun hearing how they really went down.  It was interesting to hear how the piece together footage for the show which makes sense but I never really thought about how they did it.My only complaint was that the book seems to jump around a little bit and is a little hard to follow, but that might have been me just being slightly distracted when I read it or something.  After reading this I want to read a lot more non-fiction stories in this area and there are a ton.  Actually each one of the TG guy&#8217;s has their own book or 3 so that might be making the short list on things to read next!
5 Very enjoyable book. If you are a fan of the British television program &#34;Top Gear&#34; you will enjoy this book. A lot of behind the scenes information about Ben Collins who was the second, and longest Stig racing driver. Well written and very readable. I liked it a lot. Only wish it had a little more info about after he revealed himself and the reaction. Highly recommend this book to fans.
5 This was a great read for anyone that has seen the show & wanted to know more of the inside story on how they did things. Fun for me from cover to cover.
4 For the most part, I greatly enjoyed the book. As a driving enthusiast, I really appreciated his in-depth explanation of how he handled various cars on various surfaces. The details of how he drove in races, stunts, and for TG came to life thanks to his fascinating revelations. His life story is well integrated into his experiences all the way to the end. While the unique attitude-based persona he had created for the Stig will be missed on TG, by the end of the book, I empathized with his career change decision.His tales of TG activities were very entertaining. I do wish he had lessened his stories on his military activities and added more TG stories. His military involvement does shape who he is, but he could have summarized instead dragging the reader through the intense details. This is why I granted the book a 4-star rating.I do hope TG will bring him back on the show in the future for guest appearances.
5 A fun read from Stiggy. He has some fun stories about his life as the Stig and it was fun to go back to the episodes he discusses and re-watch, knowing the items he shared.This biography is also a good reminder for anyone looking at a career in racing that life in motorsports can be pretty rough. You can go from comfortable to broke in just one race... Ben was juggling an Army career, racing career and life as the Stig at one point in the book and he shares the challenges in doing this in a good humored way.Great for Top Gear fans and want-to-be racers alike.
5 Everything I hoped and more! I couldn't put it down. It flowed smoothly, and highly entertaining. Some of the stories with the celebraties going 'round' the track were hysterical.Quite a bit of 'behind the scenes' at Top Gear. I absolutely loved it. Read it in one day, and quite upset when I arrived at the end (although my son was extremely happy).New respect for what the racecar drivers, and pit crews go through. Will never watch Le Mans the same way.My 'bucket list' includes a ride flat out in a Zonda.If you're a Top Gear fan(BBC),Stig fan, love cars, or a 50 something mom- who enjoys going a 'wee' bit over the speed limit- this is the book for you-  and the man (men) in your life.I'm awaiting your further adventures Ben!Nice job. Great read.
4 Ben Collins gives great insight into many of the most interesting Top Gear episodes, and the competitive spirit of race card driving.  The book does reduce a bit of the Stig mystique, but worthwhile nevertheless...
4 I enjoyed the book. I wish Ben had spent more time on why he decided to leave the show. So many of the races, which I thought were staged, were apparently real.
4 I wrote this review a while ago, but I'll post it here:Spellwright has been praised a lot and there's been a lot of hype about it. I was especially interested in this book, because Robin Hobb, Daniel Abraham, Kate Elliott and Tad Williams have praised it. That's why it was interesting to read a PDF version of it before its publication.I think it was refreshing to read classic and traditional fantasy, which contains lots of magic, because most modern fantasy books contain only a small amount of magic and lots of realism. I know that many readers are fed up with traditional fantasy books and they don't want to read traditional fantasy, because they think that traditional fantasy is trash. This is a shame, because some traditional fantasy books are fascinating and worth reading. Blake Charlton's Spellwright is one of these fascinating books.Because Spellwright is a traditional fantasy adventure, it contains all the possible fantasy clich&eacute;s from demons and wizards to gods and prophecies, but fortunately Blake Charlton uses these clich&eacute;s skillfully and manages to avoid mistakes that other authors have made. Spellwright is a story of a young man's struggle to come to terms with who he is and what he can do with his magic. It's clearly inspired by Charlton's own struggle with dyslexia and his own love of fantasy - this adds depth to the book.The magic system in Spellwright is refreshingly original and imaginative, because spellwriting is an ability to write spells and create things with magic. Using text and language as the basis of magic is a fascinating concept. It's interesting that spellwrights can create cognizant and living spells called textual constructs (gargoyles), which are able to talk. Magnus, Numinous and Language Prime, which are related to spellwriting, are thrilling concepts, but I won't write about them in this review, because I'd reveal too much information to readers. In Spellwright's world words can hurt people, because they can cause severe injuries and even death - this makes Spellwright an original fantasy book.Spellwright reminds me of the books by Brandon Sanderson, because Blake Charlton has created an original and unique magic system. At this moment Sanderson and Charlton have been able to come up with truly original and fascinating magic systems (other fantasy authors have usually used less original magic systems).Spellwright contains only a small amount of worldbuilding. Most of the events take place in Starhaven, which is an ancient city built by the Chthonic people and an academy for spellwrights. The characters and the magic system play an important role in this book. I have to admit that I would've liked to see more worldbuilding, but fortunately the character-driven prose worked well, so I didn't miss worldbuilding very much. It was actually good that Blake Charlton didn't waste time trying to describe all the possible things, because the reader has a chance to use his own imagination when he reads the book.The main character, Nicodemus Weal, is a young man who was once believed to be the hero of a prophecy. He loves knightly romances and dreams about heroic deeds. What makes Nicodemus an interesting character is that he's a wizard with a severe disability, which causes him to misspell all the complex spells - he's a cacographer who can handle only simple spells. It's also very interesting that Nicodemus isn't the only character who has a disability, because other characters have also disabilities. This is very refreshing, because too many fantasy characters are perfect and they don't have any disabilities. A flawed hero is a much more interesting character than a perfect hero, who doesn't have any disabilities and problems.Spellwright moves along quite fast and the prose is easy to read. Towards the end the events become more interesting and many fascinating things are revealed to the reader. I especially enjoyed reading about the history of the world.I think it's great that Spellwright contains a good map of the world. The map is excellent and all the places are marked well - it's a textbook example of a perfect map.Because there's been a lot of hype about Spellwright, it's possible that some readers may feel uneasy about reading Spellwright. From an experienced fantasy reader's point of view Spellwright may not be a perfect book, because many experienced readers are used to reading more complex and different kind of fantasy. Although some readers may feel this way, I'm sure that everybody who reads this book will most likely say that it's excellent entertainment, because that's what it is - entertainment with a big E.I think I have to mention that this book must not be compared to epic fantasy series like George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire and Steven Erikson's The Malazan Book of the Fallen, because it's totally different from these series. The unique magic system makes this book special, because Blake Charlton uses almost mathematical accuracy when he writes about spellwriting.Many readers will probably want to know if Spellwright is worth reading. I can say that it's definitely worth reading, because it's an interesting and solid debut book. It's a good old-fashioned fantasy adventure and the unique magic system will be of interest to many readers. Don't be afraid to read this book, because it's an enjoyable and entertaining fantasy book.I'm looking forward to reading the next book, Spellbound, because this book was a good start. I'm sure that the next book will be interesting, because the story has just begun.
4 It's obvious from the very early pages of Spellwright that Blake Charlton is a child of late-eighties and early-nineties Fantasy. It's full of dastardly villains, righteous youths and hidden destinies. Like contemporaries Brandon Sanderson and Peter V. Brett, Charlton is doing his damnedest to bring back the type of fantasy where the good guys are good, and the bad guys are bad (barring a few genuinely surprising twists in the final pages) and the fate of the world's at risk of being overrun by demon hordes.And that's not where the comparisons to Brett and Sanderson end. Both of those novelists are known for their intricate, imaginative magic systems, which are not only cool spectacles and a catalyst for visceral battle scenes, but also intimately woven into the plot and world of their stories, and Charlton's work is no different. Spellwriting, which gives the caster the ability to `write' complex magical formulas-much like a computer programming language-and manifest nearly anything they can think of (including cognizant, living spells called constructs and golems), is at the centre of Charlton's story, with the main hook being that the protagonist, Nicodemus Weal (who was once thought to be a hero from prophecy) is a cacographer, a dyslexic Spellwright who can neither write his own spells nor come in contact with another's spell without causing disastrous results.The history of this character's disability can be traced directly back to Charlton's own struggles growing up with severe dyslexia, and this gives a real weight to Weal's struggles, as one might consider the novel to have a semi-autobiographical nature, though surely Charlton never had to face the idea that only his disability was standing in the way of saving the world from certain doom. Spellwriting and Weal's struggle to come to terms with his disability are certainly the meat of the story, given the generic overall plot of the novel (demons are bad, want to take over the world, et al.), and for the most part gives the reader a compelling reason to stick with the novel.This all comes at a price, though. Unlike Sanderson's and Brett's magic systems, Spellwriting requires a heavy does of explanation to give the reader enough of a basic understanding of the system, and much of the early part of the novel is full of jargon and long conversations between various Spellwrights as they explain to each other concepts that they (but not the reader) should be more than familiar with.The result is that Charlton's magic system,with its almost mathematically logical underlying ruleset, does not weave itself into the story as naturally as that of Sanderson or Brett, and some effort must be made by the reader to understand the nuances of Spellwriting. Still, once the reader is comfortable, it shows its depth and the Charlton's storytelling really begins to take advantage of Weal's disability. We so often see the illiterate boy whisked off his farm and turned into a magical savant within pages, so it's nice to see a young man (Weal is twenty-fiveish) who is raised in a breadbasket of magic, but struggles mightily with with his powers and the expectations thrust upon him by others. One might assume that, with the rules of the magic system laid out in Spellwright, the the two sequels will flow more organically as Charlton shifts focus from setting up the magic system and the world to telling the overarching story.Speaking of which, world-building and setting are light in Spellwright, with most of the novel taking place in the confines of Starhaven a magical academy for Spellwrights, but with a more grown-up, academical air than Harry Potter`s Hogwarts, and a shadowy, ancient history not unlike that established for Green Angel Tower in Tad Williams' Memory, Sorrow and Thorn trilogy. Though ostensibly an Epic Fantasy from the outside, Spellwright`s narrow setting, intimate plot and tight cast of characters reminds one of classic Sword & Sorcery novels, including James Enge`s recent novel,Blood of Ambrose(minus the foreskin jokes, of course).Spellwright moves along at a decent clip, thanks to short chapters and breezy dialogue. I'm generally a fan of short chapters, but there were a few instances where it seemed like Charlton artificially chopped a chapter off, in the middle of a scene, leading to an odd feeling of transition when the next chapter picks up, literally, a word away from where the previous one left off. The pace is also dampened now and then by infodumps, generally doled out through the aforementioned conversation between characters (again, often relaying information that should already be common knowledge to the two speaking). But, still, Charlton's writing improves chapter on chapter, and by the final third I was having a damn hard time putting it down. The final chapter, just before the ominous epilogue, was particularly satisfying and sets up the next volume in interesting ways.Charlton might not win over the Abercrombie/Martin/Lynch crowd, but there's certainly something there for fans of you-know-who-to-root-for Fantasy, and those who grew up on Brooks, Williams and Feist will certainly find a lot to like about Spellwright. Though not perfect, Charlton's inventive debut is comfortable in its tropes, but also willing to turn convention on its head and remind us of that sense of wonder than drew us to Fantasy in the first place.
5 At first glance, SPELLWRIGHT may appear to be a relatively ordinary fantasy: a young student of magic, overlooked and struggling with his studies under the tutelage of a wise mentor, begins encountering hints that he may be the answer to a secret prophecy - but some exceptions leap out right away: first of all, magic is built from words, not figuratively but literally. The reason why the main character struggles is because he's dyslexic, and it's not just played for laughs. And the universe is, on many levels, subtly more than it appears.For those of us with a background in science, it's even better: there are some delightful secrets hidden in this book, and they aren't mere throwaways either. Around page 143 of the hardcover edition, the truth begins to come out. I literally stood up and laughed out loud when I figured out what Charlton was getting at - and from there, it got better still.  The true wizardry of this book is in the deeper understandings the author brings to it from his background in science and medicine.That background isn't required to understand or enjoy the book; a reader with no idea of what the hinted secrets of Language Prime might be will still have a ripping good yarn in front of them, a carefully crafted fantasy story that runs the gamut from light and fun to dark and serious. But for those of us who do catch the references, the read is downright exhilarating. A lesser author might toss out those ideas as clever quips and throwaways. This one follows through on his promises, and the endgame just about took the top of my head off. Well played, Mr. Charlton, well played.
4 Only some people have the gift of seeing and being able to cast magical runes, even fewer can learn the complex languages of higher spellcasting.  Nicodemus Weal had come to be trained at Starhaven as a boy and had showed promise, some people even thought he might be the powerful spellwright of prophecy, the Halcyon who will aid humans against demons.  But then it was discovered that he was a cacographer, a magic user crippled by his inability to spell, to literally spell spells correctly, something that would alter a spell drastically and dangerously.  Spells were language-based, brought up in muscles and sinews and cast.  Nicodemus, now in his twenties, would be fortunate if he could earn a position doing janitorial duties.Nicodemus' mentor, Magister Agwu Shannon, still cares for him and keeps him as apprentice, doing tasks where he will help with spells, which Shannon will correct before they are cast.  Nicodemus still dreams of high romances and adventure, when he isn't truly having strange nightmares that begin to seem prophetic... or even sinister.  Then a convocation of wizards is held at Starhaven, and news comes of the destruction of a distant city, and a member of the faculty is found dead...  and Nicodemus finds adventure, but not the kind he wished for.The magic system is what will delight many people, as it is definitely different than the usual undefined workings of some magic.  Having a magical disability is also interesting, although not quite as unique.  The idea of a Prophecy is, of course, over-used, but at least here there are several prophecies, often conflicting, and Nicodemus might be the One or he might be the antithesis or he may be a fake, or none of the prophesies might be true at all.While we will know a lot more by the end of the book, this is still the first in a series and the story is left uncompleted (and the last part of the book seemed a little rushed, as well).  Nicodemus is a sympathetic character, although I would have liked him to have a bit more depth.  I suppose that will come in time.  Shannon had more back-story, but his characterization could have been a little more detailed, too.  The secondary characters were barely there.  But all felt as if they had great potential and at least didn't come off as amazingly flat or stereotypical.  Bits of history and the wider political world also adds to the interest, but weren't quite enough.  There's lots here to build upon, though.  And I am definitely intrigued enough to want to read more.
5 I'm one of those readers that doesn't want to feel as if I'm journeying through The Lord of Rings again, only with different costumes and names. These concerns left me when I began reading Spellwright. Blake Charlton has managed to write something new and original within the accepted framework of Epic Fantasy, and he does it flawlessly. I was enthralled with the magical world he created; its history, cultures, gods and demons. The intricacies of the different magical languages was like nothing I'd encountered before.Not only is this novel filled with magic, action and adventure--but it leaves you second guessing every character's motives. I experienced several OMG! moments throughout the book. Nothing is fully revealed till the end! I did feel a pang of disappointment for the main character, Nicodemus, but I know his journey has only just begun, and now I can't wait to read more!
4 Blake Charlton's Spellwright is a fantastic, entertaining entry into the genre that has been fairly well received throughout the lit world, and for good reason. Charlton has put together a wholly original fantasy novel, changing up a couple of familiar elements, then replacing them in a familiar environment and letting the story go from there.The story's plot is probably the weak point in the entire package, but to be very honest, that's something that I'm more than fine with - the fantasy story of a learner in school, guided by a mentor is something that's a pretty resilient story, and its something that works well between different books and authors. Spellwright is no copy of Harry Potter, but the similarities in setting would most likely appeal to a lot of people out there. With the opening of the book, a wizard is murdered during a Convocation in Starhaven, a wizard stronghold, setting Nicodemus Weal and his master, Magister Shannon, into a story that has been orchestrated by ancient forces, bent on returning to power. Nicodemus had been thought to be a sort of savior magician, for is abilities as a spell caster. The only issue was that he was afflicted by an inability to spell - Cacography, which makes him dangerous. As Nicodemus's friends are targeted by the killer, he has to uncover the motives behind the murderer, and the prophecy behind him.There are a couple of elements that really impressed me with this read, primarily the world-building, and Charlton's use of his own personal experiences as subject matter for this book. In this world, Cacography is akin to dyslexia, which Charlton himself is afflicted with, and in a couple of recent interviews, he's talked about how that affected him, and how fantasy literature gave him a sort of path and direction to take. There's a real amount of attention paid here to words, and the magical system that has been invented here is really fantastic, almost like a sort of programming language for magicians. Here, words have power, but like any set of directions, the spells and abilities of magicians depend upon the correct components in order to get the right effect. It makes quite a bit of sense, and it gives Spellwright a very different feel throughout, which sets it apart from similar books.In particular, Nicodemus as the central character, proves to be an interesting protagonist, as someone who's suffering from a disability, especially when considering how Charlton's magical system has been set up: words, sentences, paragraphs and prose make up the magical effects, and it's quite something to imagine being attacked by words themselves, or imagining the core of existence essentially complicated magic composed of words. The end result, especially for someone who loves books, is thrilling to read about.The book isn't perfect - there's a little too much repetition, and the last couple of chapters seem like they've been dropped in, with too much showing over telling, but that doesn't really detract from the rest of the book. By the end, it seemed as if I had read through a six hundred word book, rather than a three hundred page book, and at the end, I felt that I wanted quite a lot more out of this world. Spellwright, in a way, is a bit of a tease, considering the world and history that has been set up for it.This is the other major aspect in which Spellwight shines brightly: the world has been pretty well conceived, with a background history, traditions, societies and magical environment. But, while these sorts of things are good, what's better is that this background information is directly used and impacts the story as a whole, turning it from pretty scenery into a plot point, which is very good for a novel like this, and it more than makes up for the issues that I do have with the book.I'm very eagerly awaiting for the next installment in the larger story - Charlton's hard at work on book number 2, and that will certainly be something to look out for.
5 This is yet another multi-volume series. Spellwright is a great book, but the jury is still out on the series overall. For what it's worth, I've read the first two books and anxiously awaiting the release of the next volume!
3 Nicodemus Weal is a student at the magical academy of Starhaven, where students are taught how to use magical languages to forge spells of great power. However, his grasp of magic is uncertain due to his cacography, which corrupts his spellwriting and distorts sorcery. When a powerful magician is murdered, suspicion falls on Nico and his mentor, Agwu Shannon, a former radical. As the authorities continue to question Nico and Shannon's loyalties, they in turn learn of a threat stalking the corridors of Starhaven...Spellwright by Blake Charlton is the opening volume in a trilogy which is based heavily around the use of magic. Many fantasy novels use spellbooks and sorcerers muttering incantations in mystical tongues, but few go deep into the languages and techniques used. Here it is a central theme of the novel and Charlton's use of cacography (a real term, referring to deliberate misspelling for comic effect) as a sort of magical dyslexia is inspired. Certainly this magic system, with its use of spelling and English Lit. terms to describe how it works, is the book's greatest triumph. I can certainly picture Brandon Sanderson reading this book and thinking, "Damn! I should have thought of that!"Elsewhere, the book is more of a mixed bag. At its heart the book is an attempt to subvert standard fantasy tropes about prophecies and chosen ones, with the introduction of counter-prophecies and some musings on the reliability of prophecies in the first place. None of this is particularly new, but some of the ideas are well-presented and followed up on.The book's biggest problems focus on pacing and characterisation. The former is problematic as the entire book (more or less) takes place in Starhaven and there's the definite feeling of wheels spinning as the characters run around the place learning more about history, magic and backstory in a fairly expositionary manner. This isn't helped by some breakdowns in logic (particularly the secret of a certain bridge, which should be fairly obvious to people who've looked at the thing for more than ten minutes) and some wince-inducing dialogue (the villain's tendency to explain his key weakness - he can't cast spells within Starhaven's walls - to everyone he meets). The prologue gives the impression that the book might be a long, tense hunt thorough the academy to uncover the villain, but instead he fairly turns up every few pages to mutter some cartoonish threats and then vanishes again.Nico has the makings of an interesting character. In his youth, certain birthmarks indicated he might by the Halcyon, the prophesied saviour of the human race from the demonic hordes lurking on the western continent. However, his cacography and the marring of the birthmark has convinced the authorities that he isn't the Halcyon after all. Nico, who loves stories about great warriors saving the world from evil, is frustrated by this thwarted chance at greatness, which makes him prime material for manipulation (by both sides) and leaves him a conflicted character. His mentor Shannon is a shady figure with his own agenda and dark past, not quite the typical benevolent teacher-figure normally beloved in fantasy. As our primary protagonists, they succeed in capturing the reader's interest. Other characters, unfortunately, fall a bit flat, such as the druid Deirdre who never really seems to develop, despite major character revelations about her late in the book.Spellwright can be a frustrating novel. It has all the ingredients of being a successful, if not hugely original, fantasy piece. Unfortunately the mix isn't quite right. Enormous chunks of the book are given over to detailed descriptions of the magic system which is original and interesting, but these bog down the pacing elsewhere. There's an enormous amount of story and background that we are told about in major info-dumps rather than learning about organically. The villain is cliched and uninteresting. On the flipside, the book's take on prophecy is an interesting minor subversion on standard fantasy tropes and some of the revelations towards the end of the book open up the story to something more interesting.Spellwright (***) ultimately overcomes its shortcomings to end up as an enjoyable fantasy tome, intriguing enough that I'll be giving the sequel Spellbound a shot when it arrives next year. The novel is available now in the UK and USA.
5 First, our main protagonist Nico, although young in terms of being a spellwright, was a man in his mid 20's. This is not a story about a youth growing into an adult, though it is about an adult that definitely comes of age. Our hero suffers from a disability; you see he is a cacographer...Dictionary.com lists this noun as:"ca*cog*ra*phy' '[kuh-kog-ruh-fee]noun1.bad handwriting; poor penmanship.2.incorrect spelling."This impediment is really significant for one that strives to perform spells that are nothing more than words...spelling counts. Cacographers not only misspell, but when they touch words, books, spells, or other writings, they can cause them to become misspelled. Charlton treats this disability like any other and we get to see a world filled with prejudice, misconceptions, and bigotry. If not for our heroes mentor Shannon (He is a champion of cacographers), he and the other cacographers would be imprisoned, mentally destroyed, or even killed.Nico' mentor Shannon believes him to be the Halycon, a linguistic champion that is prophesized by his people. As a result he has taken a special interest in his growth and development; he makes him into a "pet project". They have a relationship that we can see has resulted in the two men becoming very fond of each other and they genuinely care about each other's well being. Their relationship is the heart of the story.Second, Charlton has created a beautiful world that is easily visualized through his wonderful prose. This is a place that I would wish to see. He dedicates time to worlbuilding and backstory to make this place seem real. Charlton's prose is detailed, colorful, and often of a very high quality. I love the fact that in a book about words themselves that the author demonstrates what a grasp on vocabulary that he himself has. I was reminded of a China Mieville book at times when I would have to stop to look up an interesting new word to me...I love that. There is some great witty dialogue in this book as well. The scene with Nico and the Chimera is one great example. I love how through their dialogue together they were testing each other and saying wry remarks like: "Is that supposed to be profound or cynical?" The plot moves forward quickly and it builds up the tension to palpable levels. The book has a good ending point as this is the first book of this new series. There are not many plot twists, and some outcomes are apparent early on, but that is all ok, because you end up really caring about our heroes.Third, the magic within this book is among the best I have ever read. It ranks up there now with the allomancy of the Mistborn trilogy, the source Saidin/Saidar, of WoT series, and of course "The Force" from Star Wars. Charlton has crafted a system of magic that to me works on so many levels. We all know about tomes, scrolls, and spells. He has found a way to take them and put them into a system where they really mean something. I loved it... Parts of the magic also reminded me of Peter Bretts the Warded Man series and could easily fit in to that world as well.Finally, this is a story that had me vested in our characters outcome. Nico, Shannon, and Deidre are all memorable, and I look forward to reading more about them. Nico learns a lot, grows a great deal, bears witness to many atrocities, and comes to grip with his place in the world. Nico is a very different man by the end of this book and we the reader are better for it.So, enough of my gushing for one day... This is a book that I will make my wife read tomorrow. I will tell my fantasy friends and family to buy it. I will preorder book 2 today...Great fun, Great read. Although there is a great deal for the YA crowd to like in this one, I actually think much of it would be lost on them, but overall it would still be an appropriate read.
4 "Spellwright", the first novel by Blake Charlton, is a fun and often inventive read that will remind many extensive fantasy readers of writers such as Brandon Sanderson and Raymond Feist. Charlton combines a unique magical system with an interesting cast of characters to create a story that, while sometimes afflicted with "new writer" issues (like some troubles with pacing), is still an entertaining addition to the fantasy genre.Charlton sets his novel in a fictional world where words have power, and spellwrights (the wizards of this world) can use magical languages to change their environment and even imbue inanimate matter with life and thought. In the world, he sets his main character, Nicodemus, a boy once thought to be a prophesied savior until it was discovered that he is plagued by a condition familiar to Charlton and one that is utterly devastating for magic based on the written languages - dyslexia (called "cacography" in the novel). However, there is more than meets the eye regarding his condition, and as other forces converge on his home (the academy of Starhaven), Nicodemus uncovers truths about himself and the rest of the world that will change his life and that of others forever.As mentioned above, this is Charlton's first novel, and it shows at times. The beginning of the book has some issues with pacing and structure - chapters end a little awkwardly, the characterization varies a bit in quality, events don't entirely seem to flow. It's not bad, but it is noticeable. That said, the book noticeably improves in quality as you continue reading it, until by the end of the book the prose and characters are a match for more established fantasy writers like Brandon Sanderson (who shares a similar style of prose in his "Mistborn" trilogy).Nonetheless, it is a solid read, and a particularly accessible one - I would especially recommend it to those looking for fantasy novels for first-time fantasy readers, young adults (Charlton's book does not have profanity or any real sexual content), or both. While it is not the equal of some of the fantasy "greats" (like George RR Martin, or Robert Jordan), it is a good fantasy novel, and well-worth your purchase.
3 As a first novel it is a solid home run. The prose starts strong, with great characterization and flow. The plot unveils at a good pace and there is some great intrigue between competing factions (in which I would have liked to see more). The magic, as you have no doubt already heard, is different and interesting.As the novel progresses, the magical languages broaden a bit much for my taste, in a way cheapening what came earlier. I think more focus on a few would have been a stronger choice.There is a great reveal towards the end, in which I was certain--despite the number of remaining pages--was the ending. It was too perfect of a stopping place though and for whatever reason the book continued to build for events that will probably occur in the sequel. It doesn't kill the story, but it does weaken the impact and the great setup. (If you want to know which reveal I mean, it has to do with the Beastiary--there, now you'll know when you get there.)If I was to draw a line-chart for the quality of the story as it progressed, I would start high for almost half of the book before a dip which continues till about two-thirds with intermittent turbulence. Then there are some extreme dives, turbo boosts--through what could have been interesting parts of the story--then a sharp rise back up to finish at a decent ascent.I should note that a new author is often inconsistent in their story telling. It takes quite a while--as you can imagine--to master your prose, story and characters. So, with that in mind, he does an outstanding job. As examples: Sanderson's first attempt, Feist's, Eddings', Farland's, and probably many more all had the same issue (more or less). I know of few, like Rowling, that manage to maintain consistency throughout. It's all about practice, as is everything in life. Even a master like Jordan was hit with much criticism as his epic The Wheel of Time became mired within itself about half way through the series.Overall, I give it high marks as a first endeavor by a very busy man and will be checking out the upcoming sequel Spellbound. Blake Charlton, if you don't know, is also a medical student and hopefully one day he will extemporize a cure for cancer with Language Prime fluency (don't know what I mean? Read the book). He's an interesting, easy to talk to fellow and you can follow him on twitter if you are so inclined.I could talk more about the book, but I have to get back to my own writing. What did you think? Come visit me on my blog: [...]
1 The book is basically info-dump, backstory, info-dump, backstory, story. Not much actually happens here. The author is so busy setting things up that it feels as if you are constantly slogging through endless explanations of the (yes very original) system of magic and bits of backstory needed to set up... well, very little IMO. I give the author credit for overcoming a disability to such a degree and for finding a way to write about it in such an imaginitive way but that doesn't detract from my criticism. I felt this book should have been twice as long with much more actual story. I also felt that the editors should have gone to the author to make this a YA fantasy. It definitely has that feel. There are definitely some very cool ideas in this book, some very original concepts but the execution deosn't read very well. I seem to be in the minority here but I had a hard time finishing the book and won't be checking for the next in the series.
3 but really not enough there for me to buy the next two books... good plot, boring characters... I lost interest halfway throught
4 I read Spellwright a couple of weeks ago and found it not only exciting and fresh, but also a far more mature read than many of the other "magic-school" novels.As a fan of the more in-depth fantasy, such as Feist, GRRM and Weeks, I found the mythology believable, interesting and completely immersive without distracting from the equally fun plot.The protag feels much more real than many characters of late, and his day-to-day coping of "magical-dslyxia" was only the more inspiring because the writer based it on his own life.Admittedly this is Blake's first novel and it does show at times, but this is by far one of the better fantasy debuts I have read in a long time.Overall, fun, witty and immersive with great world building and a truly unique magic system.So move over Rowling, Charlton is Headmaster now.
3 I think only the most demanding of readers wouldn't enjoy it.  It's a complete story with good potential for a continued storyline.  The way magic is used and practiced is fresh and interesting, if sometimes a little confusing.  The author's style is fluid and well paced; I didn't feel as if the story bogged down at any point.  Characters felt a little thin and I would have liked to have seen more archetype busting to go along with the very innovative magic use system.  Overall, I'm glad I read it and will read the next.
1 Right off the bat the beginning of the book I was lost. I didn't understand how written words could be used to be physical objects or used to cast spells. The action and dialogue appeared to be written at a grade school reading level.
3 This book is not an exciting read, but the system of magic is interesting. If I had to score Spellwright on its originality, imagination and creativity alone, I'd give it 5 stars.  Blake Charlton's interpretation of magic is new and fascinating. However; there is a flat note to this adventure, which is why I scored it 3 stars.  Just not strong in drama or intensity.
4 Read Blake Charlton's [COLOR="Blue"]Spellwright[/COLOR] today.  I read it and I gave it 4/5 stars for the following reasons.  The book has a cool model for magic, where grammar and spelling are vital for authors to cast spells.  The first page of the book reveals a portion of how magic works in this world; amazon allows you to read the first couple pages, so you may look there if you are interested.  The story takes place in a very localized area, but hopefully in future books (this is a series) there will be traveling and the experience of new places.  However the book does create an interesting history, and hopefully in coming books that too will be expanded.  The book does not have much humor which is another way it could improve.  The book was good, and I will get the next one, but this one is nothing amazing.
4 In this universe, magic is language. So if you are unable to spell, all your magic is likely to be miscast, and who knows what kind of havoc that could wreak? Poor Nicodemus Weal is a cacographer (by touching a written spell, he causes it to misspell), which means that unless he concentrates very hard on correct spelling, his magical spells don't always work as intended. From that simple premise, Charlton constructed a world, a magic system, and a plot that keeps the reader wanting more from the first page to the last. I found myself reading long past the time I should have gone to bed, and wishing I had bought the electronic version so I could read it surreptitiously on my phone at work instead of having to wait until I was at lunch or home to haul out the hardcover.That being said, the writing itself has a few rough edges, but I'm not sure there's a debut novel around that doesn't have a few. Some of the exposition has a little bit of an "As you know, Bob..." feel, and more than once I was a little too aware that the author was telling me, the reader, what he wanted me to know when it didn't make perfect sense in the story for one character to tell another. But since two of the main characters are an instructor (Magister) and his student (apprentice), I was more than willing to forgive that because what I was learning was interesting. And honestly, if that's the only negative thing I can find to say about the book, it's ahead of a good number of others.I appreciated the many language and writing puns scattered throughout the book while at the same time groaning at them. (See 'spelling' and 'misspelling' above.) Purple prose being the most egregious (literally purple), but others reared their heads from time to time. I do appreciate a good pun, but your mileage may vary. :)As an aside, I was amused by the character agonizing over misspellings that he had caused and obsessing over the fact that "conscience" just had to be misspelled because it has letters that don't make sense. It is a funny scene, and intended to sort of lighten the mood. But then I realized. . .that must be what it's like for a person with dyslexia pretty much every day. It's nice when an author can make you laugh and teach you something at the same time.The characters were nicely developed and didn't seem flat or cookie-cutter at all, in spite of the fact that for a 350-page novel, he has quite a few characters with not only speaking parts (who didn't all sound like each other or the author speaking by proxy), but POV chapters, as well. His villains are villainous without being Snidely Whiplash: mustache-twirling evil for the sake of being evil. Everyone has agendas, and all the agendas made sense, at least within the context of the story. Not everything was revealed about every character, but this is a good thing because it makes me eager to start the second book. The world itself...has me a bit confused, but I think I'm supposed to be at this point in the saga, so I don't find that frustrating. I just want to read more.One thing I enjoyed in particular: In too many fantasy novels, the young protagonist who is Destined to Save the World or who is The One Who Is Prophesied is disbelieving or reluctant. "I can't possibly be He Who! I'm just a nobody!" Not Nicodemus. He's quite eager to be the One Who or the Destined because he seizes on a goal as soon as he realizes what it means if he is actually somebody instead of a nobody. I suspect that will not end well for him, but I'll wait patiently to find out.There were some nice surprises as well, which I won't go into in detail so I don't have to mark this review as containing spoilers. Suffice it to say that the nature of Dierdre's problems, Simple John's backstory, and the nature of the Prime Language all surprised me, but shouldn't have, meaning that all the clues were right there on the page and as soon as I read the revelations, I thought, "Oh, right! That makes sense!" No doubt many readers picked up on some of it before I did, but for me, I felt the pacing and the timing of those revelations (and others) were very well done.In summary, this is a good, solid debut novel, and I look forward to reading more by Blake Charlton.
5 At Starhaven School for young mages, Agwu Shannon the great Magister thought the lad Nicodemus Weal could be the legendary Halycon of the ancient prophecy who will prevent the magical apocalypse Disjunction that is coming.  However, though powerful with just a finger touch, Nico's spell casting never works properly.  Instead what he touches turns into a misspelling disaster; leading to others fearing he might be the other side of the ancient prophecy, as the Storm Petrel who destroys magic.Now twenty-five and still at the school, Nico is a janitor apprenticed to Agwu.  Someone murders Nora Finn the grammarian who was Agwu's fiercest academic rival.  Amadi leads the investigation as to whom used a misspell to kill the dean.  While Agwu fears his enemies from Astrophell have arrived to arrack him and his apprentice indirectly, others believe Nico killed Nora accidentally.  As Nico dreams of a city under attack that proves accurate, others die mysteriously inside of Starhaven.  Authorities believe Agwu and Nico went rogue.This is a terrific fantasy with a supporting whodunit amateur sleuth subplot.  The story line is fast-paced, but the magic behind this delightful tale is the cast as every key player seems real and in turn makes the Charlton world feel genuine.  Especially critical is Nico as his misspelling plays a double purpose.  First it makes him the prime suspect in a strong storyline and second his blundering re gargoyles, chimneys, and other ilk enhance the believability factor as he is the magical Murphy's Law, but now must prove his worth.  Fans will conclude that Blake Charlton is a gifted Spellwright as he enchants his audience.Harriet Klausner
4 Blake Charlton has taken the magic element in fantasy novels to a whole new level.  The system he has come up with is so innovative that it makes his debut novel somewhat difficult to read and understand at times.  That is not necessarily anything to be concerned with if you enjoy having your mind fully engaged while you are reading.  Personally, I did enjoy the challenge.Charlton's magic system shows what magic there is in words, literally.  The characters in this novel use words strung together in sentences to actually physically become the magic spell or the magic weapon.  Any spelling which is incorrect within the sentence itself will negate the spell and render it useless.  That is a huge problem for Nicodemus Weal since he was born a cacographer, someone who misspells words.  But is this the way Nicodemus was meant to be or does he have this handicap because of what someone did to him in his childhood?  This is the story of a young man who may be the Halcyon figure long awaited to lead the battle in the War of Disjunction.  Or, because of his misspelling, he may be the Storm Petrel who was sent to cause chaos and confusion leading to demons returning to power.The information about this author reveals that he suffers with severe dyslexia.  This problem has had a major impact on his life and is reflected vividly in this book.  The character Nicodemus is described as cacographic.  Within the book Charlton calls that a handicap, retardation. He took quite a chance to use those words and I must admit to being somewhat surprised when I first came upon them.  I thoroughly enjoyed the challenge presented in reading this book.  Sometimes the prose was a little confusing and I found myself having to read over a passage to be sure I understood what was going on.  That is definitely a point in the author's favor from me.  There are, however, some points not in his favor which made me chose to assign this book a 4 star rating instead of 5 stars.**I would have liked for Charlton to have given me more information about this world he had created a little sooner.  Just small reveals would have helped a lot.  As it is, please don't give up on the book until you have read at least through pages 80 -110.  That is where most of the explanations are regarding this fantasy world and where I became completely comfortable with what was happening.**I would have liked for Nicodemus to have been more fully fleshed out as a character.  This was a 25 year old man and yet he felt like a young boy to me.  He is concentrating so completely on his cacopgaphy that it almost excludes all other aspects of his personality.  Only within the last pages of the book did I see growth in him.  And even then I didn't actually see that growth, I was told by other characters that Nicodemus had grown.  In future books this character really does need to be more well rounded.I enjoyed this wonderful, innovative book and highly recommend it to others.  This is the first in a trilogy and I must say Charlton has given himself a wide area in which to set the next adventures.
4 I actively disliked the first half of this book.  The main character is a cacographer, a 'disabled' magician who uses his inherent magic to form spell glyphs in his muscles, and then puts together spell sentence constructs using those glyphs.  A cacographer is basically a dyslexic wizard who can't spell their spells.  Now look at that title again.  "Spellwright" or if you prefer, 'spell right.'  Did I mention I hate stupid puns?So anyway the reason the first half is terrible is the author is overly reliant on dreams.  Bad dreams.  Dreams which come true.  Nightmares which are really a form of quaternary cognition in which the protagonist is somehow simultaneously asleep and directing disasters.  The dreams are an attempt to dramatize a lacking and generally boring introduction to the world and magic system.  A better author could pull it off without resorting to such an over-used device.  A better author could pull it off with needing perspective scenes telling us the villain's plan to keep us reading.The other reason I disliked the first half is the overuse of prophecy.  Various factions say the protagonist might be some form of messiah or anti-messiah.  He fits their vague prophecies and has been watched for this all his life.  Charlton portrays this in a whiny adolescent 'not this again' though the main character is supposed to be in his twenties (just like the cacographic girl who swears and acts fifteen is supposed to be fifty?).  This later changes to an 'I am messiah' power trip, which is thankfully brief.And that's why I found the first half amateur and horrid.  How could I like it?The second half (starting around chapter 24) honestly feels like it was written years later by the same man.  It has an intricate plot with a great deal of twists and a great climax and epilogue.  I won't ruin it for you, but it redeems an otherwise bad novel.  Charlton still has a bit of living nightmare-style deus-ex, and a ghost is simply written out of the story (what happened there?).  However I enjoyed the constant redefinition of what exactly was going on plot-wise.I can see why the author was able to get so many cover blurbs, he does have good world building and strong internal logic in the world.  The ending was even elegant, and a great ending can often pave over the early flaws.Edit:  After reading the sequel and also being disappointed, I recommend the library copy for this series.
3 For some odd reason I simply couldn't take to this book. It is a smoothly written fantasy where a crippled magician who was the former hope to fulfil an ancient prophecy finds himself mysteriously being attacked by creatures from myth. Both the apprentice and his mentor then find out how little they really know about magic and the cost that knowledge will have for them both.This story takes place in a well thought out world with a rather strange and new form of magic...but the characters come across for me as a little flat and the wizards seem strikingly uncurious about the world around them. I wanted to like this book but found myself put it down and picking it up increasingly slowly as the story went along and now think I probably won't get book two in the series, which is a pity as I was hoping I had found a good new series when I started the book.  Having said that though, I'm sure this will still appeal to many readers of fantasy.
4 I love the world the author has created. The system of magic is unique and well described. This is one of those instances where it contains more world building than character development which i'm okay with.I'd love to see more of this world.
2 This book, while having certain merits, needs a lot of work. Charlton did a decent job of creating a world, characters and a new magic system. Then, he proceeded to bludgeon the hell out of the mess.As an avid reader, I refuse to write anything that could be a spoiler. Please excuse me if my following list of complaints is a little vague.1) The characters:- I can tell he put time into developing them, but he quit too early. At the end of the book, I just couldn't bring myself to care about almost any of the characters because they were a little too one-dimensional. The characters did have potential...they just fell flat.2) Explaining why things happen:- I don't need to know why a character wears a certain color robe - unless it's pivotal to the plot or underlies some central quality in the character. Especially don't explain the color of a robe 400 pages after it's been introduced.- In several instances, Charlton explains something that needs to be explained, but without answering all the underlying questions.- For example: Character A wore only blue robes for ten years, but suddenly wore a red robe just today. Everyone is shocked. Character A explains he only wore blue robes because the antagonist made him, but the antagonist no longer controls him. Most readers would want to know why this blue-robe wearing person changed clothes...but what's so important about blue robes that the antagonist forced Character A to wear them?3) The ending:- I won't give it away, but the ending crams an entire book's worth of ideas into the last 40 pages. Ideas almost completely detached from the central plot of the book.  I've never wanted to quit reading a book in the last 40 pages before reading Spellwright. To say I hate the ending is a vast understatement; it is the worst ending I have ever read.
4 As I'm sure most regular readers know, I'm not really a fantasy kinda guy as science fiction is my preferred reading genre, but every now and then I do like to dip my toes and see what I find. This depends a lot on what I hear about - with everyone always on the lookout for the next big fantasy debut it's always nice to find one that appeals to me. Spellwright by Blake Charlton fits perfectly into this category and it was the US artwork that originally made me take a closer look. What I found within the pages was a great character driven story with a superbly realised magic system. This delivered in a big way and has set the bar for fantasy books I read this year...The story follows Nicodemus, a young wizard who is also a cacographer - someone who instantly misspells magical text when he touches them. Living in Starhaven, an old city originally inhabited by the Chthonic people a long time ago but now a magical university for wizards young and old, Nicodemus must struggle through life with the distrust many wizards have of cacographers. When a senior member of Starhaven is murdered, events start to unfold that relate to a prophecy - that of the Halcyon, a wizard of immense power - and Nicodemus' history relating to this. With evil rising and secrets from the past coming to the fore, Spellwright is much more than you're average tale of swords and sorcery.I guess the first place to start with is the magic system. Charlton has created an intricate and masterful system here, with all magic taking the form of written text that can only be written in the muscles (usually the arms) of wizards and then transferred to anything needed. This ranges from gargoyles magically bought to life to spellbooks with vast and powerful spells ready for a wizard to peel off and use when the moment calls. While this system is hugely inventive and allows for so much diversity, it does take a little while to get used to. The intricacies of spellwriting are immense, and with many magical languages in the world - each with different uses - there is so much to get a grasp of, especially in the latter half of the novel.When you add Nicodemus and his misspelling disability to the mix, Spellwright becomes a very character orientated story. Nicodemus is a nice character to read and is one that lives with his disability and learns to control his cacography as much as possible, but not always to great success, as we discover early in the novel. Despite this he is exceptionally skilled in magical languages and his link to the prophecy is an area many debate about. Nicodemus' master, Shannon, is the experienced wizard and mentor of the cast and his guidance and council help no end in some of the situation that arise. There are also plenty of other characters that join the story, both for good and bad reasons, but Spellwright is the story of Nicodemus and it hits the right notes because of it.With a world and magic system as deep and varied as it is in Spellwright there was bound to be some worldbuilding going on. Most of this takes place through descriptive expositions and conversations with characters and is mostly done in a subtle and non-intrusive way. However, the spellwriting explanations do suffer from some info dumping and sometimes feel clunky early on in the story while this system is described. One of the best ways that Charlton does this is when Nicodemus takes a class of new students in his masters absence - this was a joy to read and explained much of the system and history behind the magical languages.Blake Charlton has written a hugely enjoyable novel in Spellwright - the good guys are good and interesting, the bad guys motivated and mysterious, the magic system is unique and impressive, and most importantly, the characters are relatable and a joy to read. There isn't much wrong here and Spellwright should be a must read for any genre fan. Highly recommended!
4 This is a strong opening to a new fantasy series which takes the power of language literally.  One of the things I most enjoyed was how complete the worldbuilding is and the many different cultures that populate the novel. Nicodemus is a deeply sympathetic character whose cacography (think of dyslexia but with magical ramifications) not only keeps him from being able to cast spells but also makes it difficult for him to even handle magical artifacts. Too often a character is given a disability which is unrelated to the larger quest, but in Spellwright it is deeply connected to the larger quest.If you are looking for a new voice in fantasy, give this a try.
4 Blake Charlton's fantasy debut came highly recommended, and I was looking forward to see what the buzz was all about. Spellwright is definitely a throwback book, reminiscent of epic fantasy and sword & sorcery novels from the 80s and the early 90s. Indeed, this is the sort of story that brings us back to a time when authors such as David Eddings, Terry Brooks, Raymond E. Feist, and Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman dominated the bestseller lists. And given Brooks and Feist's popularity, it appears that there is a huge market for books like Spellwright. Though they differ in style and tone, Charlton's fantasy debut reminded me of Feist's Magician: Apprentice.Here's the blurb:Nicodemus is a young, gifted wizard with a problem. Magic in his world requires the caster to create spells by writing out the text . . . but he has always been dyslexic, and thus has trouble casting even the simplest of spells. And his misspells could prove dangerous, even deadly, should he make a mistake in an important incantation.Yet he has always felt that he is destined to be something more than a failed wizard. When a powerful, ancient evil begins a campaign of murder and disruption, Nicodemus starts to have disturbing dreams that lead him to believe that his misspelling could be the result of a curse. But before he can discover the truth about himself, he is attacked by an evil which has already claimed the lives of fellow wizards and has cast suspicion on his mentor. He must flee for his own life if he's to find the true villain.But more is at stake than his abilities. For the evil that has awakened is a power so dread and vast that if unleashed it will destroy Nicodemus... and the world.As a throwback book, Spellwright embraces a lot of the traditional tropes of the fantasy genre. Which, in the end, will either please or put off readers. Fans of the "New Grit" movement and the school of hard knocks established by George R. R. Martin, and which includes writers such as Joe Abercrombie, Scott Lynch, Brian Ruckley, and Richard Morgan might have a hard time getting into this one. In Spellwright, the heroes are good, the villains are evil. The forces of good always beat the odds and manage to come out on top, with secret knowledge or power falling into their lap in the nick of time. The good guys are all handsome and beautiful, while the bad guys aren't. The whole good vs evil shebang. Which is not inherently a bad thing, mind you, provided that you are prepared to read such a work. On the other hand, readers who prefer subversion of these same tropes and clich&eacute;s and love authors known to do that like Steven Erikson might not like Spellwright. Personally, although I much prefer grittier SFF books and series, as a child of the 80s I mostly enjoyed this homage to the works which made me fall in love with the genre.The worldbuilding is classical and we only get a few glimpses at Charlton's universe. It will be interesting to see more of the world as the story progresses in the upcoming sequels. I'm looking forward to learning more about the Solar Empire, Language Prime, the Chthonic race, and a number of other concepts, as well as the ancient history of Charlton's world.What truly makes Spellwright stand out is the imaginative magic system Blake Charlton created. Just when you think you've seen it all, like Brandon Sanderson in the Mistborn trilogy, the author came up with something fascinating and unique. Spellwriting allows magic-users to write spells using magical languages. It takes a while to fully understand how it's done, but once you do it allows Charlton to be quite creative and make Spellwright something special.The characterization is a bit uneven and there are various bumps along the way. Nicodemus Weal, a dyslexic spellwright suffering from cacography, is the principal protagonist. Believed to be either the prophesied savior or destroyer, he is a likeable main character. The problem is that he is at times extremely naive and not necessarily the sharpest tool in the shed, while sometimes he appears to puzzle out key pieces of the mystery in a way that feels contrived. The same can be said of the cast of secondary characters, though Deidre and Shannon have a few surprises up their sleeves. Another detail which did not always work out well was when random conversations were used to cover info dumps.The pace is good, and the short chapters keep the rhythm moving steadily forward. Despite the tropes, Blake Charlton wrote an engaging -- if not the most original -- story. Spellwright makes for a good reading experience that does bring back memories.It's too early to say whether or not Spellwright will be the fantasy debut of the year. And yet, I would hazard a guess that Charlton's debut probably sits in the pole position at the moment. It will be interesting to see if Tor Books will attempt to market this one to the Terry Brooks and Raymond E. Feist crowd. Their fans are legions, and most of them would likely enjoy Spellwright quite a bit.There is no doubt that Spellwright has a lot of potential, which bodes well for the rest of the rest of the series to come. I'll be curious to read the sequel, Spellbound.
3 Blake Charlton's debut novel, Spellwright, is a mixed bag, with some particularly strong points to be found in its characterization and its heavy, almost hard fantasy focus on an often ridiculed method of producing magic: language. While the novel is not without flaws, Charlton makes up for it with strong action sequences that often result in a little of the gosh-wow that many have argued is sorely missing from fantasy's cousin, science fiction.Spellwright follows Nicodemus Weal, a wizard in training at an academy. He was once considered to be the Halcyon, a mythical figure prophesied to return to stop the Disjunction--a battle against the demons of the old world from across the ocean.  The only problem is that Nicodemus is a cacographer, whose dangerous misspells of common languages makes him potentially dangerous to any other magic user.  His cacography makes him anything but the "one." When a grand wizard at the academy is killed by a powerful misspell, Nicodemus and his teacher, Shannon, are the prime suspects. And as politics and prejudice play out in the academy, something with intimate ties to the forgotten, blasphemous magical languages from the old world sets a plan in motion that could destroy the academy and bring about the Disjunction, an event the Nicodemus will be a part of, whether he wants to be or not.What sets Charlton's novel apart from other fantasy works is its magic system. Firmly rooted in the author's dyslexic past, the magic system ofSpellwright avoids spoken language and instead places all of the power in the written word. Spells have to literally be written within the body and then passed down through the arms to be cast.  Likewise, you have to know the language(s) to be able to use them effectively (and there are many languages). The great part about this is that it creates a lot of fantastic limitations: particularly large and powerful spells take a long time to cast, not knowing how to spell properly can be unintentionally deadly, as is the case with Nicodemus, and magical languages become protected entities from other groups, because without knowing a particular language, you can't see or cast against it.Taking a detour from the magic, I think it's important to note that the characterization in Spellwright, while not as well-developed as I would have liked, does show a lot of promise. The fact that the main character and Charlton share a common origin shouldn't be misconstrued as a kind of Mary Sue (or Gary Stu, since Charlton is a man), but instead seen for what it is: an intimate portrayal of a character with a mental disability who must battle against a world that views him not as a person with some value, but as kind of disease. Nicodemus is not difficult to like. His struggles, motivations, and outbursts all make sense. I suspect that many will identify with Nicodemus, even if they have no disabilities (for lack of a better word) themselves; we can empathize with people who have been ostracized for one reason or another. To be critical for a moment, I do think that the characterization that exploded in the last third of the novel should have come more gradually throughout. The ending does feel somewhat rushed in terms of the characters, and it would make more sense for them to develop less abruptly.The action, however, will likely be seen as the novel's strongest point. It becomes clear early on that Charlton has thought through how his wizards will fight. A standard wizardly slug match where users just toss fireballs and the like at one another won't do, namely because spells that can do the most damage can't generally be put together on the fly (though some can). We see only a glimpse of the potential in Charlton's magic as a combat system, because the novel itself is not set within the Disjunction, but in a somewhat peaceful time. That glimpse is enough, though. The fights are exciting, the magic equally so, and all the creations that come as a result make for a very fast-paced book.The novel's weaknesses seem to be more within the realm of continuity and genre trappings than anythingels. The magic system, while unique and quite intriguing, often isn't set in stone. For example, it's mentioned numerous times that characters cannotspellwright within the walls of the academy, and yet we see numerous characters do just that. Either I missed something, or the author didn't make it clear enough that he meant only certain characters (or something else).Finally, while I understand that fantasy is often repetitive, I have to wonder when we're going to see enough of this prophesy business. I like Charlton's novel, but the prophesy subplot plays a crucial role in the overall story, and I feel as though this takes away from the potential of the novel. Here is a book that has a great magic system, an interesting past, and interesting "races," yet it finds itself stuck using the all-too-familiar furniture of a genre burdened with familiar furniture. Prophesies are sort of like the cheap bookshelves you get at Walmart: a lot of people have them, and they're all the same--cheap, colorless, and weak. Move away from prophesy. We need more characters who rise up to the occasion on their own, without prompting from people who think they are something else. There's nothing heroic about someone fulfilling their destiny; it's just...expected.Spellwright's prophesy subplot does have a twist in it and much of the novel is spent dispelling the belief that Nicodemus is the Halycon, but the prophesy bit is still there in the background. Fantasy has sort of built up its foundations on recycled themes, and it continues to do so, because that's sort of how it's done; some of these themes, I think, should simply disappear.But moving away from that, I'll try to get back on a positive note, because I don't think it's fair to point all the fingers at Charlton, or to try to take away from what works in the novel. Charlton has a lot of potential. He could take the concepts of his novel very far: so much can be done with thecacography and all the unique languages he has created for his magic system. If he keeps pressing the details in his future novels, I think he'll become a strong player in the fantasy realm. Right now,Spellwright is fun, unique, and engaging, despite being a tad cliche. Hopefully we'll seem some improvement in the second book.
4 Blake Charlton has done the extraordinary with Spellright. He has managed to use all the tired tropes of classic Epic Fantasy (magical books, dragons, a school for wizards, and a boy who didn't fulfill his destiny) and make them all feel fresh and engaging. Plus he does it with a main character, Nicodemus Weal, who you can't help but to root for.The dragons, although they happen off screen, are quite inventive as are the various animated helpers that swarm the keeps and grounds of Starhaven, which is the school in question. Nicodemus is an apprentice spellwright also known as authors who suffers from a form of magical dyslexia known as Cacography, which is based off the authors own battles with it. Of course the story also involves prophecies about a special Wizard who could be a a great hope to the land or harbinger of the demons of the past who wish to control the world.There are a few bumps in the road, but most are forgivable in the name of fun escapist Fantasy. The pacing was a little stop and go, especially in the first third. The magic systems while also the strongest and most original part of the book are initially a bit confusing, but about 100 pages in a much clearer explanation is given. This could have come a tad sooner, but it probably would have slowed down the pacing of the story if it had. Also, at one point the main villain comes off a a little too much like a bad Bond nemesis by over explaining himself and the plot, which was on the excessive side. More than one soliloquy happens like this. This problem may stem from the author trying not to drag things out. Lastly, the fight at the end of the story was worth waiting for, but the very last section felt a little tacked on and Eragon-like. Still Charlton at least condensed a fairly long time frame in a short number of pages instead of stretching a training story into a whole other book as Paolini did.There are many different wizard factions each with their own view points and magics. The histories shared from each group were quite fascinating, although there is plenty left to reveal in future installments. Charlton has also sneaked in one of my favorite and criminally underused mythical constructs, which I'd love to mention but he went through pains to make it a big reveal. The style is heavily influenced by the likes traditional Epic Fantasy from Feist, Le Guin, and Tad Williams so don't go expecting some gritty, harsh Fantasy. Blake is being evocative of something more playful yet every bit as Epic as all the aforementioned names. A whole lot of foreshadowing goes on, which was expected given it is planned trilogy.Even though Spellwright is Charlton's debut it certainly doesn't show many freshman jitters, but he has left himself room to grow.  If you're a fan of classic style Epic Fantasy this will be a must for you.  I give Spellwright 8 out of 10 Hats. Spellwright is definitely in the running for debut of the year so far and it would be surprising if it wasn't still near the top by the end.  Now he's gotten me all in the mood to read some classic Robin Hobb.
5 I like to let books stew and swirl around my brain when I'm done reading them before I decide how much I really liked them.  It's been a day or two since I finished Spellwright, and I'm happy to report that it left a delightful aftertaste.I may have read more reviews of this book before reading it than I had ever read for any other book.  So I knew going in what the consensus was regarding its strengths and flaws.  But I had no idea how it mood and voice it created would sit with me.Blake Charlton obviously loves language.  He loves books.  He loves fantasy.  And he unabashedly created a world where he could have all of his favorite things come together.  You will definitely find here all of the common fantasy tropes: orphaned boy with strange abilities, wise old mentor, prophesies of the one who will save the world, big bad baddies who are unequivocally bad.  And I won't say that he makes them fresh or new, which to me is pointless.  Really, if you make an old trope new then it's no longer the same old trope.  But what Charlton does do is infuse his enthusiasm and love of these things into his book so it can't help but be contagious.  I couldn't help but smile a few times when his protag, Nicodemous, did something that Charlton must have lifted straight from life.The plot itself was pretty straightforward, which not a bad idea for a first novel.  It's a bit of a mystery wrapped up with a fantasy.  I could have done without the scenes from the bad guy's POV.  I always enjoy the baddie to be a complete unknown, but that's just a personal preference.  I think it robbed the book of some of its suspense.Much is written about his magic system in other reviews, so I'll just leave it to say that I found it challenging at times to follow.  And that I liked.  I had to reread several passages to grasp what Charlton was saying, and I found that very different for a fantasy novel.  In many ways it struck me more like sci-fi in the way the magic was presented.  I'm sure I won't be the only one reminded of The Matrix or Snow Crash.I will say that the book is a little heavy on exposition, especially in the beginning.  But it's not so bad as to turn off a hard core fantasy fan.  We're all used to exposition, and most of us enjoy it to an extent.  Charlton uses it to keep the pace of the book going at a good clip.  For only ~350 pages, a lot takes place.  He could have eliminated much of the exposition, but then we'd be looking at a 500 page book.  However, it really picks up toward the end, turning into one of those "can't put it down" reads which kept me up til sunrise.  (And frankly, I'd like to see any author create a totally original magic system and then present it in the course of a short novel with little exposition and without slowing down the plot. Can't be done.)The biggest praise I can give Spellwright is that it left me wanting more.  He's currently working hard on the sequel, and we can all only hope that he quits med school and devotes his full energies to writing.
5 You can read the review also in Ripostee.***Probably I should not be so frank, but the first thing that caught my attention in the description of "Spellwright" (besides the cover art - majestic!) prior to actually reading it was, quite unexpectedly, the author's biography. It is a rare feat to successfully combine writing fantasy fiction with the demanding life of a medical student (seriously, how does Blake Charlton manage?), and even more so to overcome dyslexia.In fact, it should not be surprising that the main character himself suffers from the impediments of such a disorder, called cacography. The author has imprinted the protagonist with a great woe and has thus given depth to the character of mature and disillusioned Nicodemus Weal, who once was believed to be the savior of mankind, the guardian of human languages and the scourge of demons. All changed, though, when his inability to spell magical texts correctly was uncovered, resulting in his being virtually ostracized from the all-powerful magical community and sent to the tower where other dangerous cacographers reside. His greatest power - magic - becomes a perilous, disobeying and likely catastrophic force of nature when Nicodemus spells even the most elementary of magical prose.However, wicked things start occurring around the main character, while the future of mankind is decided upon by representatives of all magical academies. A respected and influential master has been murdered; a white-clad figure lurks in the shadows; unspeakable horrors haunt the dreams of all... Some even go as far as accusing Nicodemus of being the Storm Petrel, the man to unleash the destructive power of demons by corrupting the magical languages. A close friend is accused of a number of atrocious acts, while strangers claiming to be druids strive to entangle Nicodemus in their own disputable prophecies. Vicious deaths follow the protagonist in every step he takes, while he tries to uncover the truth about himself."Spellwright" is an action-packed fantasy following the growth of Nicodemus and his reconciliation with himself and his talents. Although the book can hardly be classified as a coming-of-age novel (as the main character is beyond the age limit) I definitely got that unmistakable feel of self-doubt and low-esteem, so cherished in literature. Do not draw the wrong conclusions, though, as Blake Charlton's debut is certainly a must-read for everyone who cannot breathe without a healthy dose of magic, wizards and... lots of magic.To my astonishment, Charlton's magical system is even more thrilling than Brandon Sanderson's bizarre (and cute by comparison) experiments. The world of "Spellwright" is heavily suffused with magic that is written in the form of prose in a variety of languages. There are those that influence material objects and those that shape the metaphysical. The possibilities are endless and the author has fully and successfully exploited the concepts of written magic. Gargoyles that are equivalents of magically-rendered robots, clay and metal golems carrying their creator's spirit, voracious magical dragons, creatures infesting the imagination of a child, disembodied gods - all are here and wander the streets of Starhaven. It is impossible to fully explain without giving away too much, but I believe that Blake Charlton has created one of the most unique magical systems in fantasy fiction.Besides, "Spellwright" features a cast of some mature-acting and convincingly shrewd heroes whose adventures are thoroughly enjoyable. The characterization of author is excellent and his main protagonist, Nicodemus, is extremely amiable. Moreover, I found the compact and intelligent prose of Charlton very satisfying. All in all, the first installment in Blake Charlton's trilogy is well-worth the time.There are, of course, flaws with the stereotyped plot and the infodumps that practically litter the pages of the book. These I can easily let pass as insubstantial, but the biggest disappointment in the novel was the ending. After the climatic and epic battle that can be anticipated from the very beginning, Charlton has decided to add a dozen or so totally redundant (in my humble opinion) pages that hardly contribute to the story. Nevertheless, "Spellwright" is one of the best fantasy books I have read this year. An intriguing main character, a badass villain with more power than it is healthy, a totally original magical system that allows for epic power struggles and a couple of unexpected plot twists - this book will sweep you away.
4 Spellwright by Blake CharltonIt is always refreshing to see a new take on fantasy.  This book focuses on the magic ability to use proper sentence structure to alter reality.  The protagonist is effectively dyslexic and suffers in a culture that demands perfection in the interests of safety.One of the more telling aspects of the story is that the author is dyslexic.  He has used his familiarity with the condition to craft a unique tale.  I Nicodemus Weal is portrayed as having enormous potential made unreachable due to his tendency to mis-spell spells.  His spells often go awry sometimes with dramatic consequences.The characters are fleshed out with suitable color and foibles.  The scene is beautifully crafted to the point where you can see the spires touch the sky.I really enjoyed the premise, it reminded me somewhat of  computer code writing and the ill that can occur with a single misspelled line.I recommend the book.
2 The prologue set this up to be an epic story, but unfortunately by 100 pages, I was beginning to struggle to get to the end.The book felt overly long and dragged in many places, yet not really much happened.  Some plot threads seem to come to nothing.  The villain is very unoriginal and his dialogue was often cliche enough to make me wince.  There was a lot of info-dumping in order to explain the (very original) magic system and its world.Overall, Spellwright has the feel of being a book for young adults, and yet the magic system itself is actually very complex and deep.  Initially, I thought it was wonderfully interesting, but after a while, the original ideas actually started to distract from the story.  I felt the characters spent too much time running around looking for answers or avoiding monsters.  It all got a bit tedious after a while.I did manage to finish Spellwright, but I won't be buying the next book in the series.  I'm giving this book two stars because the magic system and world is so original.  Unfortunately, the plot and characters themselves are not quite as interesting.  There are some neat plot ideas, although it did feel like the author overly foreshadowed a lot of the twists so that they were a bit obvious by the time they were finally revealed.
5 My husband and I both thoroughly enjoyed this book and we can't wait till Blake Charlton writes more. This is one of the most original and creative fantasy stories I've read. We are not widely-read in fantasy fiction, but that's partly because we'll start reading some and quickly get bogged down in the overdone stories and stop enjoying them. This writer is very skilled at crafting an interesting and succinct tale, the characters are likable, and it keeps you guessing throughout. His whole magical concept surrounding language is very intriguing. Charlton is creating a different type of magical world here, and I cannot wait to read more about it! Very enjoyable. Highly recommended for anyone...not just fantasy-lovers.
5 I wish this isn't the end of the series!!!!!!! I loved the drama that kept me on the edge of my seat, and how you need to care for horses. I also like how it shows how these girls gain there confidence at blainford academy!!!!!!!! For those of you who liked this series I recommend the Canterwood Crest Series!!!!!!!
5 This was a good book. These girls are good friends and seam to be there for each other. Must read.
4 I really loved this book!!!! It was really nice. I always wanted Georgie to stay with Riley they are so nice together. Please will you write some more!!!:-)
5 I loved this book from the start to the very end! I don't think there is a better way to end the series! This book is full of amazing things! The young rider finally spreads her wings and flies! There is also the good regular dosage of drama in the book as well! This book really goes to show that you should never underestimate the capability of you and especially your horse! You need to look deeper than the first shell because underneath could be something amazing! Great book Stacy!
5 It can't be! The last book of stacy gregg s book series. I hope she is going to write more.  Be quick!  Write more! Your readers can't wait. She is a really good author and writes the best books. Also read pony club secrets. I cried 2 times! Best two series EVER! And I MEAN IT!!!!!!!!!!!! Read and find our!!!!!!!!!!
5 I absolutely LOVE this book! What I like most about it is that instead of just reading it for the sake of reading it you actually feel like your a part of the story, my favourite part is when Georgie beats Blackwell in the Grand Prix, I also like the part where Tara goes to Allegra's stables and stops Alice's apprenticeship because of the rollkur. 10/10
3 A cross between a historical novel dealing with the quit rent ceremony in England and once again the idea that the fayre, fey, whatever are like the rest of us.  They have sex for instance.  A bit juvenile.  Jane Gaskel did this better years ago.  Not a bad read, but not a great one.  Overworked and too wordy, not enough action or magic.
5 I totally enjoyed all three books of the series. The author keeps getting better with each book. The entire series is real "brain candy". It gives you lots to think about as you read. Lots of mystery and suspense set in a modern day British world of fantasy. Great books!
4 Niall is an average man, divorced with a teenage daughter. After surviving a heart attack in the tube, his whole life is turned upside down. Suddenly he is faced with the truth of his existence: he's not entirely human. Blackbird, a magnetic middle-aged woman will be helping him to cope with his new life, but the trouble is someone, or better something, is looking for him. To stay alive and keep his family safe he will have to give up everything and run. In the meantime a dark force is threatening London. Will our heroes be able to stop it? A fairly good mix of thriller and urban fantasy. To be continued...
5 Niall Petersen was in London's Underground on his way to work when he suffers from a heart attack. When he comes around an older lady is over him wanting to know if he is from the Other Lands. The older lady, Blackbird, introduces herself as part Feyre. She proceeds to tell Niall that she saved him to keep something darker, the Untainted, from crossing over the borders. Niall, now named Rabbit, and then learns that he is part Feyre too. Now to keep alive, learn his powers, and follow his path, he needs to follow Blackbird and do as she says.Rabbit is very confused until he learns that his daughter's life is in danger to. Since he is part Feyre, that means his daughter Alex may have some Feyre traits or none, this is something that she is going to show in the next couple years. Now, Rabbit is looking for a way to get accepted into a court for protection for both him and his daughter.Rabbit and Blackbird learn that the boarders keeping the Untainted from spilling into our world and making it theirs. There is a ritual that has been taking place for several hundred years and it looks like it is linked to the border. Blackbird and Rabbit need to figure out what is wrong with the ritual and try to fix it alone with keeping themselves alive.I really liked this book. It was fast paced and I could not put it down. I felt for poor Rabbit, he is thrown into this seemingly crazy situation but he sucks it up and just keeps going, even when it seems that he is going to be killed at every turn. I cannot wait to read the second book, Road to Bedlam.
4 Bottom line, I liked this story.  The concept was very similar to Neverwhere written by Neil Gaiman, but different enough to stand on its own.  The story is one of a hidden world in plain sight in today's London.  While magic plays into the plot as do magical creatures, it doesn't over-power the story and isn't really what the story is about (it's more of the backdrop against which the story takes place).My litmus test for whether I like a story is generally if I can remember the names of the characters... meaning do I form an attachment to them in some way (be it respect, hate, etc) and whether I felt compelled to finish it.  In the beginning it felt a bit unpolished and took a few chapters to get going but as the began to unfold I was hooked.  I wouldn't expect any major surprises as you can generally see where it's going but like I said, I enjoyed it.I'd say it's solidly GOOD not great and I'd rate it around 3.5 stars (4 being stuff I really like and 5 being my favorites).  I paid $4 for it (looks like it's free right now) and I'd do so again.  It was enough to make me purchase the second in the series.(Note: There are issues with the formatting as others have described).
3 I'm about 10% into the book and I like it a lot.But.There are a LOT of formatting mistakes, mainly of the "new speaker = new paragraph" variety.  It's a little difficult to see who's talking when a new person starts speaking, but it's in the same paragraph.Other than that, what I've read so far is pretty good.
4 I was pleasantly surprised by this book. Having read several Fey-themed books, I thought it may be rather adolescent. However, this is not a Young Adult book (though I'm sure many YAs would like it a lot). I thoroughly enjoyed how skillfully historical elements were woven in throughout the story. Also, the author created characters, such as Niall, that experience an array of emotions that make them easy with which to relate. One of the primary themes is that of adapting to constant change, which I found to be timely & relevant given today's society. I will definitely be recommending this thought-provoking book to others as well as reading the next one in the series.
5 I truly enjoyed this book.  There are some errors but they are easily overlooked because the story is so engaging. I also found myself staying up late to read it and didn't realize how late it had become.  Great book, expect to be throughly entertained.
2 I just couldn't get into this book.  I read the first hundred pages, but found the two main characters too unlikeable to continue.  Rabbit is very bland.  He doesn't seem to have any personality or a backbone, letting his ex-wife and Blackbird, the other main character walk all over him while he meekly does whatever they tell him to.  Blackbird runs hot and cold, occasionally being helpful to Rabbit, but mostly making it clear that she doesn't like him and doesn't appreciate that she has to help him become familiar with the world that he's living in because of her actions.  She is constantly freaking out at him when he asks questions that she considers insulting, but then never explains anything to him - how is he to know that something is insulting unless she explains things?
2 I wouldn't normally review a book I quit halfway through, but in this case the novel's failures point out the strengths of two very similar authors. Sixty-One Nails is in the urban fantasy genre, the urban in this case being London. The protagonist is Niall, a nobody-in-particular until he collapses on a Tube platform with what looks like a heart attack. It turns out he's just survived an attack by the Untainted, the name given to pure blood fairies, or Feyre, as they're called here. It seems that Niall is some kind of half-breed fairy and the Untainted want to kill people of his ilk. Niall is saved by Blackbird, a fairy woman, and she explains that there are seven Feyre courts residing in London, and Niall must seek the protection of one of them.I threw in the towel on Nails for two reasons: one, the plot kept slipping back and forth from first to neutral. Two, Shevdon is vanilla all the way when it comes to prose and world-building his magical London. The pedestrian prose isn't a major problem (J.K. Rowling has made billions with an ABC writing style), but when it's allied with a second-rate imagination it creates a fatal problem. Shevdon's attempts to describe magic and the magical world are weak and infrequent; they all feel like slightly reworked bits from Harry Potter and Star Wars. He also succumbs to the curse of many fantasy writers: prolixity. Rowling was one of the worst offenders in this regard in the last four Potter books, but she's far from alone. I know from having shelved books at the library for five plus years that sci-fi/fantasy writers are the pulp and paper industry's best friends. In Nails, a lot of the excess paper consumption stems from the characters spending far too much time debating their every move and option. Poor Niall can't open a door without having a long natter about it. And London, as a setting, is not used to full advantage. A few place names are mentioned, but other than that the action might as well be taking place in Chicago.Shevdon is working the same side of the street as Mike Carey and Ben Aaronovitch. Both of these authors write urban fantasy series set in London. Carey's features a private eye/exorcist named Felix Castor, and Aaaronovitch's hero is Peter Grant, a young copper and apprentice wizard. Both writers keep their stories moving at a brisk pace, and their magical elements are clever and believable, not just add-ons to liven up a standard adventure story. Both of these writers make London come alive in their novels; in fact, in both series London qualifies as an important secondary character, not just a location. Carey & Aaronovitch have their faults (Carey's books could use some pruning), but if you want to attempt an urban fantasy series they're the boys to measure yourself against.Read more of my reviews at JettisonCocoon dot com.
5 I REALLY ENJOYED READING THIS BOOK. THERE IS A LOT OF MAGIC, SUSPENSE AND ADVENTURE. EVERY THING I LOVE IN A BOOK. THE STORY AND CHARACTERS ARE WELL BUILT.
3 (2.5 stars)I am usually a pretty fast reader, taking 1 to 2 days to finish 500 pages, but this book took me a good 6 days to get through. I wasn't able to really get into the story for nearly 250 page.. It felt wordy and overworked and I found that I was pushing myself just to get through it (I am not a quitter!). The overall plot was fine enough in itself; there was just so much description of every little thing, with so many tedious details that seemed unnecessary and then a lot of history of ceremony.  A bit more action and a lot less description would have been a better balance to keep the pace of the story moving. In regards to the characters, I did really like the main character Niall Petersen (aka Rabbit). I found him endearing, relatable and well rounded.  I did not care much at all, for Blackbird, for most of the story. She just.. bugged me, for lack of a better word. I only finally warmed to her near the end.All that being said, SIXTY-ONE NAILS ends strong with a promising set-up for the next book, THE ROAD TO BEDLAM, leaving me in a bit of a quandary.  So, reluctantly and not without hesitation, I will check out the next book of The Courts of the Feyre series..  because the ending was strong enough intrigue me.  Lets just hope that Shevdon will step it up in the next book.
2 I was really excited to read this, but I ended up being very disappointed. It was slow, but started out relatively interesting. By the end, things were hard to follow and where he went with the characters was terrible! I think the author tried to put way to much into one book. Would not recommend.
5 i am somewhat wary of free kindle offerings. however. the flu makes beggars of us all. i took a nibble and was hooked and read it through. i have been reading in this genre for over 50 years and have gotten truly tired of elves. lost magic whatevers and the lot. This author has respect for language and real ability to pace  and plot. I went ripping along and was disappointed when it ended. So I brought the sequel. ow where's the next one?
4 A first book in an urban fantasy about the Feyre half-breeds and Feyre pure breeds and the one unsuspecting man, Niall Petersen, thrown between the two and forced to find a way to survive.I found this book fascinating, as much from the British bent of the story, which takes place in London, to the delicately layered fantasy world backdrop. Some parts go on just a bit, but the seven courts of the Feyre emerge like etchings from the story, each detail working into the next. The main protagonist, who we follow as Rabbit (no not his real name or his final nickname), won me over with a kindhearted persistence that I found compelling. His partnership with a half-fae, Blackbird, develops over a plot of mystery and suspense adding a secondary layer to the plot. If the two succeed in their quest, Rabbit survives. If they fail, the world we know might likely fall.Once the drama plays out, the ending goes quite quickly. I look forward to the next in the series, Road to Bedlam, to see what happens with Rabbit and Blackbird. Though I may take my time reading that one since book 3 isn't out until Spring of 2012!
5 I read another book years ago using the anvil and nails legend, but this book rides the legend swiftly to a win. It shows what a great author can do with the material.
5 A very good read. Just got it Thursday and have read right on through it. Is a neat base idea on how the fey world has stuck around and interacts with the modern world.
4 The writing matured over the three books. I enjoyed them all. recommended by Ben aaronovith, what more can I say.
4 This story follows Niall as his world is ripped to shreds and he along with newly acquainted "friend" Blackbird run around solving a mystery to keep the rest of the world inhabitors from having their lives ripped to shreds. There are some important items that are set in a ritual that is performed every year called the Quit Rents. The ritual was made to keep the Untainted from coming in and out of the worked as they pleased to kill what they considered the tainted. Even with their adversity to iron and losing their own lives, we follow these two along their path. There are some interesting characters met along the way and some cool tricks that these two can do.Overall, I liked the book and characters. Sometimes there were too many tidious details that seemed unnecessary, but the characters were developed will enough. Hopefully, as the series continues it will only get better. Next in line will be The Road to Bedlam which should continue about where this one left off.
5 This is one of those books that sorta found me, as they sometimes tend to do, and generally when that happens the books are great. I love this mix of London and fantasy, Niall's acceptance of all this seems a little to blas&eacute;, but then again I guess when your life gets flipped upside down you really don't have a choice.Niall, and Blackbird are our main characters and they feel real and well developed. I could relate to a lot of Niall's feelings and struggles and felt lime I was discovering new things along with him. Blackbird still feels like a mystery to me, and there is a lot we don't know about her but I guess she wants it that way.I've heard that Sixty-One Nails has been compared to Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere and I would have to disagree. I loved Neverwhere and I feel like it too is an amazing story but the only similarity between the two is that they both take place in London. Neverwhere takes place in the underground where as in Sixty-One Nails it takes place all over London, in historical places and events I might add that are quite real. Mike Shevdon takes his historical knowledge and makes this story believable, this is one of the things that I love about this story. Mr. Shevdon takes these historical facts and fills in the gaps creating a realistic story, why couldn't there be fantastical and frightening other race just beyond the vale?I like how the first book ended, it is also a beginning and one which I can't wait to see. What will happen to Niall, Blackbird and the rest, I can't wait to see. Read this book, just pick it up like I did, you will enjoy this urban fantasy, I know I did.
3 DisclaimerI'll state up front that I'm not a fantasy reader. Occasionally, I tiptoe through the fantasy genre if I find a book that appeals to me for some reason or other. The hook sentence in the product description made me think 61 Nails might be a fantasy novel I would enjoy.I believe, as Danielle Steel once said: "A bad review is like baking a cake with all the best ingredients and having someone sit on it." I never want to demolish anyone's best effort so I carefully compose a book review. Though I can't give this 5 stars, there's still a lot to like about this book."There is a secret war growing beneath the streets of London."That hooked me so I downloaded the book which some reviewers described as epic.Plot DescriptionThis rendition of the Fae or Fey, or Feyre, as created by the author Mike Shevdon, has a high concept premise: dark magic will be unleashed by the Untainted, the darkest of the Seven Courts, unless hero Niall can recreate the ritual of the Sixty-One Nails. If he fails, all mankind will suffer.The book's description goes on to say that this is: "the smarter, faster brother to Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere. While I know who Mr. Gaiman is, I don't read him so that didn't tell me much about the book. (I don't care for book blurbs that try to push a book by casting aspersions on another author's work.)PraiseThe author has a good initiating scene and some interesting plot ideas peopled with interesting characters. Though it's not what you'd characterize as a page turner, I did stay with the book to the end because I wanted to see how everything would work out. I believe if Mr. Shevdon hones his narrative skills, he'll be able to do justice to his high concept premises.Room For ImprovementHaving said that, I must say 61 Nails didn't have the pacing and the sense of immediacy one looks for in a book that leads you to believe it's a thriller, albeit in the fantasy vein. Some of the reviews labeled this book as epic. The length could certainly be said to be epic. 61 Nails would have been much stronger with the judicious guidance of a good editor.PacingPacing can be improved by removing much of the bits of business and the awkward movement of the characters from one location to another. Some good transitions could cut through the step-by-step narrating of a character getting from one scene to the next.DescriptionThough detailed description is good in a scene, there can be too much of a good thing as is evident by the pages of minute details that seemed to accompany every scene. I found myself skipping page after page, looking for some action that a novel should be moving toward. The novel is characterized by forward motion. When one attempts to relate every detail, the story bogs down.Characters and DialogueThe dialogue was bothersome in that a character would say something to another character then one of those two would say it to another character who was already in the scene. Once I noticed this, it seemed to occur more and more frequently. Just say, "Jane told him what Jack had said." A short summary like that was direly needed in many scenes.The characters didn't seem to have much emotional reaction to the things going on around them. If an author tells you a character was stunned or frightened, you won't believe it. The character is revealed by action, speech, emotional reaction, internal thought, etc.Formatting NoteAccording to the webpage, the early version of this file had a small number of formatting issues, but this has been fixed. I must have ended up with the early version because the formatting problems drove me crazy. Be sure you get the cleaned up version if you buy this book.In ConclusionI did keep reading in order to see how the Quit Rent ceremony played into the end of the world scenario. So the author does know how to create a riveting premise that makes you want to know how everything works out. With experience, Mike Shevdon should be able to deliver one heck of a good read. I'll probably sample Book 2 since with Kindle, you can download a sample for free and then purchase if you like it.
5 I really, really enjoyed this book.  The whole premise of the book was really very well done: an ancient mortal ritual carried out to this day holds a whole world (or rather dimension) of magic at bay.  The writer was able to unveil the story one step at a time and it was done masterfully.generically speaking,johnnygeneric
4 It even had some original twists!  The characters were well identified that were easy to care for.  Read it today!
4 OK, excellent is a bit strong. But it is extremely good. In fact, except for one part around 15 to 25% into the book which dragged, I loved it.Put it this way, it took me a week to go through the slow part, during which I took breaks and read 3 other books and spent a ridiculous amount of time tracking my progress (OMG, only one percent more read, are you kidding me?). Then once he left Blackbird and went home, the story picked up pace and I couldn't put it down for silly things like sleep, finishing it in less than 24 hours.All in all, I highly recommend sticking around.The formatting was atrocious though and that may have been part of the problem with the drag. As several others have said, new paragraphs signifying a different speaker are lacking. As a result you struggle to follow along with what is going on and who is saying what.I disagree with those who claim that the tale of the Quit Rent ceremony dragged on. It was light and interesting and well woven into the tale. There wasn't any long section of history that dragged. Though maybe that is also because I enjoyed the tale and how it was woven into the story.It is unfortunate that book 2 has received such poor reviews because I was looking forward to it. But I tend to believe the negative reviews, if only because the excerpt says 'Nine months later and the baby is due any day', when in fact we have been told the Feyre gestate for a year. Such a major continuity error is not a promising start.
5 Despite the formatting problems noted by others (which really are not that bad, I've seen a lot worse, mostly just strange line breaks ever so often, usually in dialogue) it's a book well worth investing time in, if you like fantasy.  Most of the reviews were written by fans of urban-fantasy, I am not very familiar with the genre.  However, the story was great and the characters better.  And, since I immediately bought and read the sequel, I can tell you that it continues well.  Each story can stand alone, but this is best read first (reading Road to Bedlam 1st will spoil the plot).
4 ...a good series...not repetitive, a unique idea... I've read all of the series w/o regret...Will reread. Nice mix of historical and current
5 When Niall Petersen has a heart attack on the tube he is healed by a lady called Blackbird who tells him that the healing woke his latent Feyre powers and now he will be hunted. She'll help him some more only if he can survive the night.I thought this book had a slow start but once it finally got underway I was surpised at how much I enjoyed the novel.  A soon as I was finished I went out and bought book 2 in the seriesRoad to Bedlam: Courts of the Feyre, Book 2and I was subesqently please to read that there will be a further 2 books to finish the series over the next couple of years.  I think this could be classed as urban fantasy and it's another one of the contemprary titles coming out of the UK that I have been pleased to find and I'll be reading the rest of this series.
5 I really enjoyed this story about Niall Petersen, a 42 year old project manager who suffers a heart attack and finds out he's got magic.Set in London, we get to follow Niall around Trafalgar Square, the tube, the Australian house and much more, while Niall attempts to save himself and the rest of us from the Untainted.I enjoyed everything about this book. The characters, the action, the history and descriptions of the Quit Rent ceremony and the authors twist on why it's been around for the last 800 years.  Well done for a first novel. Highly recommended.
3 I liked this story... it was told with a good voice.  The characters were told with images which were understandable and Fae like.  The problems were more of introspection, that is the main character seems nave and not very intellectual.  Finally it seems odd that he would sell himself into indentured servitude for an indeterminate period of time, with no limits, for his life.  Slavery for safety is not a bargain to most people, or even a palatable choice, why would he accept such a deal?  I like the world created in Sixty-One Nails but Mike Shevdon has created a character in Niall Peterson whose actions just don't feel right.  A man who lives into his 40s such as Niall would have better problem solving skills.  The lack of verisimilitude brings a work which I would have rated at about 4-5 stars down to a 3.  Good luck finding good literature.
5 Mike Shevdon's SIXTY-ONE NAILS is a dark fantasy centered around a growing secret war happening beneath London's streets. A dark magic will be unleashed to devastate the world, unless someone can stop it. A fine saga evolves!
5 Sixty-One Nails begins when Niall Peter Petersen suffers a heart attack in one of London's tube stations. He is saved by a woman who calls herself Blackbird, a woman who then reveals to him that the Feyre have been living amongst humans for centuries. Not only have then been living amongst us, but they've been breeding with us as well and Niall shares blood with the Seven Courts. But all of this is just the beginning as Niall is sent on a quest that might be the only hope in maintaining the balance between the Feyre and humankind.Mike Shevdon's blend of historical fact and folklore make Sixty-One Nails a true stand out. This first in the Courts of the Feyre series sets the bar high for Shevdon, but I've no doubt he can live up to expectations after such a strong beginning. A wonderful new voice in the urban fantasy genre!
2 Found this book an incredibly hard slog.Our protagonist suddenly finds that he's part Feyre and we are introduced to a hidden London populated by the fey folk.His partner in crime "Blackbird" is fey to the extreme , a woman who goes from one emotional extreme to another with him over the course of a few days.And the plot just happens without any deep psychological insight into the characters and why they might act this way:-For instance, you are having a heart attack, some woman looks after you, then tells you its because you are a Feyre and , with minor evidence, suggests you need to immediately leave your job , your family and your home. She tells you ( you're 46 years old by the way way) that your new name is Rabbit. You do exactly as she says and head home to pack. Really ??!!If somebody decided my new name was Rabbit I might have a few anglo-saxon expletives to pass their way.Blackbird's role is hugely expository. She exists to tell us the facts about the Fayre and make our hero feel stupid for not knowing this info. She's smug and volatile and hugely unsympathetic.He to be frank is a middle-aged moron who goes along with it all.Between them they are the two most forgettable characters in the history of Fantasy Fiction.
5 The book is very well thought out. The mythos is interesting and detailed. I love how it keeps in line with traditional Gaelic/Anglo Saxon folklore. I love Shevdon's writing style and I love how he articulates characters. Very clear an interesting voice. My only issue with the book is editing. There were several typos, inconsistencies between English and American English forms for words, and a few lines of dialogue weren't closed, example: (&#34;Hi, how are you, said some guy.) A few lines weren't closed, like this. But a liberal copy-editor aside, it is no reflection on Shevdon's story telling ability. It was just a distraction, one that I hope Angry Robot corrects in the future. It is a disservice to their authors not to have a good copy-edit down, especially between UK and American releases. (I had the American release.) Shevdon is a great storyteller,I look forward to the rest of his series, I just want to see publishers doing right by their client's work.
4 Just a quicky review commenting two things:  1) This is just a fast, fast page turner.  The plot gets moving in a hurry and I found myself staying up half a night almost finishing the thing in one setting.  It's really an urban, gothic thriller with the author's knowledge of contemporary London very obvious.  Unique twists on a tried and true story line...ancestry of another race inbred with humans, trying to 'cross over' but I'll leave it there and not spoil the story.  It's a quick, good read.But:  The e-book formatting is one of the worst I've seen.  It took me three pages or so before I began to trust my own eyes that it wasn't a one-time occurance, rather it runs throughout the book.  The characters will reply to each other and there's no break between the replies; the 'other' character's reply will be right after the first and you catch yourself re-reading a bit to figure out 'who' is talking.  It's not a killer to the experience, overall, but pretty darn close.Word of advice to Amazon on their ebooks; proof read them just like you do a paper book.  Jeesh, you'd only have to read two pages and see the formatting is dorked up!  As a group, readers, authors and publishers alike, we have got to start demanding that ebooks take on a real book experience if we're ever going to get out of being a 'niche' in my opinion.But, it's just that...my opinion.  The book, however, is a fun, quick read and I'm already wanting more of the series.  Highly recommended if you'll amp yourself up to knowing you may have to fight the text a bit.
5 "Sixty-One Nails" is the first in the 'Courts of the Feyre' series by Mike Shevdon. This book is 528 pages in length.*SPOILER*An unexpected incident has resulted in a series of unusual contacts between humans and the Feyre. The Feyre are a race whose genetic make-up is slightly different than mankind, resulting in beings that have magical abilities; beings that are sometimes human-like...sometimes not.This urban fantasy takes place in modern day London, with Niall Petersen and 'Blackbird' as the protagonists...unwillingly pitted against  a group of 'Untainted' Feyre. This is a group of genetically pure Feyre, long suppressed in their quest to destroy mankind (and especially the half blood Feyre whose genes have become 'corrupted'' by  human inter-breeding).  Finally, after millennia, a rare window of opportunity has presented itself that would allow them to break a magical barrier and return to Earth to continue their assault upon the human race, (and of course the 'tainted' Feyre).  And it's our heroes job to stop them.*END SPOILER*What an unexpected find...a true fantasy gem. Let me explain...This book had a continuous sense of tension, the unexpected and maybe most importantly, pace. I've found most fantasy authors, even those whose works I've liked over the years, have not been able to write their tales without some areas (and sometimes extended segments) where little seems to happen and you end up with reading fill and fluff. i.e. you tend to get a little bored...restless. Not so with Mike Shevdon...his plot always seem to have something of interest going on...there's a minimum of 'down-time'.About the only minor complaint I have occurs when the two main protagonists start to become romantically involved. At this point, I found that this sensational and uncluttered fantasy experience was somewhat lessen by decision making that was influenced by love and  concern for the other person in the equation. Too bad, because before love reared its ugly head, this was a fantasy tale of the absolute highest order.  And it's not that the rest of the story was bad...it just lost some of it's 'intensity'...kind of like when you were young and went to a Western movie and everything that was so wonderful, changed dramatically when the cowboy found out that there was something better to love than his horse...you know what I mean.Conclusion:An intriguing tale scribed by a talented fantasy writer. I look forward to the second book. 4 1/2 to 5 Stars.Ray Nicholson
3 The fantasy was kind of uneven.  At times, it was creative and brilliant, then would lapse back in to long passages that were mundane.  This was my first book by this author.  I'm undecided if it will be my last.
4 Sixty-One Nails is an enjoyable read. The author tells a fine story, however the editing was not as thorough as it could have been which is somewhat detrimental to the over-all rating. If you are looking for a good urban fantasy with a unique story, this should fit the bill. It was what I was looking for.
5 I got this book for free (Kindle edition) and enjoyed it immensely. A great premise, a really good story, very few flaws,  and overall entertaining, which is ultimately what I'm looking for, right?I liked this book so much that, after getting it for nothing, I actually paid for the sequel (The Road to Bedlam), which was also really good. The editorial reviews on these books are not hyperbole, but quite accurate.The idea is that there are Fey beings all over the place, and they have at one time or another bred with humans, to create a human-Fey hybrid. The humans generally don't know about their heritage until they come into their powers, and often not even then (which precipitates the storyline in book 2), so they are generally unaware of the other kinds of people they are meeting up with in the world.  When Niall Peterson (our protagonist) dies of a heart attack, he is revived by a half-Fey, half-human woman and discovers that he, too, is part Fey.  He also discovers that "the Untainted" (a class of Fey who have never bred with humans and who believe that human blood pollutes the Fey race and that all the half-breeds should be eradicated) are out to get him, and that he has a special kind of power that most other Fey find frightening.  Not only is his entire world turned upside down by all of this new information, he has to go on the run to protect his daughter and his ex-wife, and he learns that the Fey - the ones that have been protecting humanity from the Untainted all this time - may not take him in, either.I am really not doing the plot justice.  It's a very good read.  A lot of action, a good mythology, a story that progresses logically, even a little romance, make this book more than worth your time.  Shevdon is a good writer, if given to a bit more description and introspection than I normally like.  His London is peopled with all manner of creatures, Fey and human, and it's utterly believable.  He's crafted a very worthwhile story and very relatable characters.  Niall and his Fey rescuer, Blackbird, have the same motivations that we all do, and the things they do are sensible within the context of the story.There has been mention that there is at least one sex scene in each book, but I barely remember them; they were neither graphic nor page-consuming, and I wouldn't let concern over that cause you to miss these books.You don't have to be a fan of urban fantasy/sci-fi to enjoy this book, although it might help, but you do have to be willing to try a new writer.  Give it a shot, though; Shevdon is creating the foundation for an enjoyable and potentially long-running series here.There were issues with the Kindle formatting, but that isn't the fault of the author, so didn't enter in to my rating.
4 This was an interesting, very readable, very unique, take on modern urban fantasy.  The main character has a near-death experience (actually, never mind the 'near' part - he died and was brought back) which brought out latent power in him.  The reader is introduced to the shadowy Feyre and their Courts - another world with it's own customs, rules, and creatures, but which coexist and interbreed with humans.  All except for one Court, which considers humans to be the enemy.  No spoilers...  I enjoyed this, and plan on picking up the sequel.One note on the Kindle formatting - as said in other reviews - it's bad.  Not bad enough to reduce the enjoyment of the story, but it does slow you down some.  A paragraph break is in order when a new speaker begins, but multiple speakers (with no identification) are often run together into one paragraph so it's easy to lose track of who's saying what unless you're paying close attention or you pick up on the different 'voices' of the characters.  This could definitely have been prepared with a bit more care.The story rates 4 stars, but the formatting for Kindle only 1 or 2 stars.
3 You know it's going to be a bad day when, first thing, someone steps in front of a moving subway train right next to you; and next, when you have a major fight with your ex-wife about your daughter, it's hard to believe things will get any better. When the third thing that happens is you have a heart attack and die, it can't really get any worse, can it?But maybe it can get better. Maybe you can come back to life with the aid of a passerby. Things might get confusing in the immediate aftermath -- why is the old lady who came to your aid so intent on making sure you don't get to a hospital? How did she manage to transport you from the back of an ambulance to a grassy plain and back again? And why is she calling you "Rabbit"?It must be hard, after decades of a normal life, to find that you are not entirely human. When you get that information on top of the morning you've already had, well, that's the stuff novels are made of. And it's quite a beginning to Mike Shevdon's first novel, Sixty-One Nails.Shevdon introduces his protagonist and first-person narrator, Niall, in a flurry of action. The opening is dramatic, but it immediately points up one of the problems with the novel: a lot happens that has no connection to the rest of the plot, and therefore gets in the way of the story. For instance, the suicide with which the book opens has no relationship to anything that comes after; it is merely a device used to get the narrator moving through the underground hallways of the London Tube with a huge crowd of people intent on getting to work. The extended opening sequence introduces Niall to Blackbird, a principal character, but puts her in a guise that makes later events in the relationship between the two of them difficult to accept. And it fails to make either of the two particularly likeable, tempting the reader to put the book down.It's worth hanging in, though, because after the reader wades through all this exposition, an interesting plot pops up. Blackbird instructs Niall in what it means to carry Fey blood in his veins just in time to save him from a Fey assassin, one of the Untainted. More importantly, she reveals to him that the Untainted - those who are pure Fey -- have a serious vendetta going on with the majority of the Fey, who have interbred with humans. This war has somehow come to be centered on Niall, who soon finds himself enmeshed in ensuring that the Ceremony for the Annual Rendering of the Quit Rents, an obscure rite that is the oldest legal ceremony in England with the exception only of the Royal Coronation, comes off without a hitch. That's more complicated than it sounds, for one of the knives used in the ceremony is not true, and must be remade. If the ceremony is not properly conducted, the Untainted will somehow be granted greater access to the world, and the lives and futures of the Fey and of humankind will be at risk.Even when Shevdon finds his historically fascinating plot, though, the pace remains a serious problem. There is a fine novella hiding inside this novel, as if Shevdon did not trust his idea sufficiently to set it out straight instead of cloaking it in a great many unnecessary words. Was Shevdon pressured to expand his story to trilogy length? Many problems remain unresolved at the end of the novel, to be taken up in the next in the series, The Road to Bedlam. I'm intrigued enough by Shevdon's plot in Sixty-One Nails to purchase the sequel.
5 A great page turner that kept my interest until the last word.  I can't wait to read the next one.
3 Niall Petersen died one morning in the London Underground as he scrambled to make it to work. Fortunately for him, it wasn't a permanent condition. Less fortunate, his new life has takes a turn to the surreal. Rescued...resuscitated...re-something by a mysterious and slightly querulous older woman who calls herself Blackbird, speaks of incomprehensible things, and spouts dire warnings at random, Niall can hardly wait to get away from her and get back to his average, normal life. Until the proof of Blackbird's wild admonitions becomes irrefutable, Niall intended to do just that. But about that proof...Blackbird isn't strictly human, and neither is Niall. Blackbird gives him the quick and dirty bone up on his true heritage as a Feyre/human hybrid. Along with that magical yet dubious heritage comes some inherent and grisly risk, namely the threat of the Untainted, the Seventh Court of Feyre, who hunt down and kill half-breeds such as himself out of a deep arrogance and disgust for the mixed race children.Niall's life as he knew it was over, and now, as Rabbit, he would spend the rest of his life hiding from those who would kill him, hoping one of the other Courts would allow him to swear allegiance. He figured life couldn't get much grimmer than that...until he and Blackbird stumble onto a plot by the Untainted to bring down the barrier that keeps most of the Untainted in a different world, unable to wreak havoc on the Courts and the humans alike. If the barrier falls, more than just Niall's life would be over - so would everyone else's.WhileSixty-One Nails: Courts of the Feyre, Book 1is normally the sort of book that's right up my alley, I had a very hard time getting into, then through this one. Technically sound, with an interesting concept and well developed world, I kept getting mired down in the plodding pace and lack of emotional expression of the characters.I applaud Shevdon's creativity and the blending of historical and fantastical, which lent the book a weighty sincerity and sense of realism, but the combination of bland characters, overwhelming description, and excessive detail kept me from really enjoying the good points.Niall was pretty solid as an Everyman bloke; he was about as mundane a character as I've ever read. Normally, that would be an appealing trait as he gradually became more and more aware of the full nature of the world around him, but he was so intensely lacking in almost all emotional expression, I couldn't quite connect to him or feel much for his plight. Even in situations when terror would be the expected response, there just wasn't all that much offered in the way of his feelings. Admittedly, part of that could be the British stiff upper lip and intended for that character, but it didn't make my reading any easier. Blackbird was the more flamboyant of the two, but again, there just wasn't much in the way of emotional expression for her either.What the book lacked in emotional expression, though, it more than made up for in an overabundance of description. Every step - some racing, most plodding - of the journey that Blackbird and Rabbit embark on is laid out in sometimes excruciating detail that slowed down the pacing of the plot and leached the impact from what could have been the action-packed moments. And I felt like I was plodding right along with them. No more effected by their increasingly dangerous circumstances than they seemed to be. With just as little sense of urgency.There were some plot points that I struggled with, like why - if it was so important that the Untainted stayed in their own dimension - didn't the half breed Blackbird go to her Court when she realized what the problem really was and how over their heads she and Rabbit (Niall) had gotten? I would think a potential world-ending disaster would be something for which you'd request help, especially as they were the other six Courts set up that barrier in the first place. And I'm still not sure how Rabbit's responsibilities shifted so significantly from "stay alive" to "save the world," and never quite bought into the convenient plot thread of prognosticated images given to him by a mysterious Feyre with little backstory guiding him on his ill-defined path. That seemed a little cliched to me.Rabbit's ability to wield his magic so effectively on more than one occasion also gave me pause once or twice. He seemed just a step or two behind Blackbird, when in truth he was several hundred years her junior and didn't even believe in magic just a heartbeat or so ago. It also seemed like there was a contradiction in how difficult it was for members of the Seventh Court to get to our realm and at their victims, even taking into account the weakening of the barrier. At the beginning Blackbird was pretty sure about what the Untainted could or couldn't be able to try in their killing quest for Rabbit, and the results of her actions seemed to bear that out, only to have that break apart just a day or so later when the two Untainted come and go with apparent ease down in the tunnels. If the weakened barrier was solely responsible for the change, then I'm not sure why they had to check out what was down there. There were a couple of other, similar but smaller plot holes - or questions about potential plot holes - that that stuck out as I was reading, as well.In truth, though, those issues were relatively minor for me and I would have easily overlooked them if not for one thing. Despite the deft world building, and Niall being a likable, if a bit bland character, and Blackbird being uniquely coy and at times mercurial, the overall impression I got from the book was feeling overwhelmed by the sheer, seemingly interminable length of it. A length that bordered 'epic' but didn't garner the same visceral response as such.Had the volume been ruthlessly paired down to summarize or quick-step through the less significant parts of the trials and tribulations of Rabbit and Blackbird, the action sequences more closely spaced, and the emotions of the characters incorporated into their definition and development, I would have felt far different about this book and anxious to read more. As it stands, I just don't know if I can.Reviewed for One Good Book Deserves Another.
4 I enjoyed this book a lot though I must agree with some of the other reviewers. The formatting leaves much to be desired. Because there are no line breaks after some of the dialogue it's very difficult to know who is talking. I did find that to be a bit distracting but over all this was an excellent book.The only other problem I have with it is a misquote. Not a huge deal but just something that irks me. Blackbird says "All that we see or seem..." and Rabbit asks "Shakespeare?" Blackbird responds with "He knew what he was talking about." Shakespeare did not write that. Edgar Allan Poe wrote that in his poem "A Dream Within A Dream". As an avid reader of Poe from a young age, this drove me crazy.Nit picking aside I would certainly recommend this book. It's well written and fast paced. I love the characters. Blackbird being my favorite. Definitely give it a try.
3 First off, the one thing that needs to be said that has been said already but bears repeating..The kindle formatting is terrible and does greatly affect the flow of this book. There were many, many times the author did not tag the conversation line and I was left wondering who said what. Normally, an author will drop the conversation tags when only two people are speaking and the characters are strong enough to stand out in dialog. Sadly, the author did this during conversations that included 3 or more people making it exceptionally difficult to follow along...It was a rather large failing.The good points of the book is that yes, its fast, I read it in about three days time. The plot is good, engaging and well thought out. For an urban fantasy, it is well done! I am not certain it credits a link to Gaiman, but certainly, with a bit more style and experience, this could author could be on the level of Charles De Lint.The bad points were only really a couple. The first being the relationship between Naill and Blackbird. Sadly, the sudden jump made me go, "What?" there was no build up, no interest and seemingly no reason these two ever got together...It was not credible and just left me wondering why.The other point, which this author isn't the only one guilty of when it comes to writing urban fantasy that involves fairies is the lack of explaining. That the Fey creatures just seem to act on these unspoken rules that we just have to accept. Which, it true to myths, however, authors often use it as a crutch so they don't actually have to think out the details. I found this example a lot in the book and found it frustrating. While the author obviously wants to "hide" the plot so it's a mystery, just burying it in Fairy lore is not the best way to go.All in all, the book was good and while I won't be reading the next one, I certainly do hope the author ventures out in writing more urban fantasy! They have a knack for understanding it and will do very well with a bit more research into myth and lore.
3 As the first reviewer, I hate to give this book a poor rating. I read Sixty One Nails as a paperback and was kicked to find another author similar to Neil Gaiman and Ben Aaronovitch. I loved this book and when I saw it as a Kindle book, I had no hesitation in buying it. But the poor formatting has made this edition disconcerting to read. Gone is the fluid writing and easy immersion in the story line. The paragraphs are disjointed and the dialogue is now confusing. Often it meant rereading a passage several times to understand who was talking. Please dont dismiss this author because of this poor format. Try to get a copy of the paperback. His next book "The road to Bedlam" can be read on a Kindle and that editing was fine.
3 I'm not typically a fan of urban fantasy, but I fancied a change.The first chapter of this book left me worrying that I wasn't going to see it through to the end. Everything felt very rushed, and I didn't like the characters very much.But, I stuck with it, and soon found my opinion improving. Once you're past the first chapter, things do get better. The pacing is much improved, the characters become more likeable.Sixty-One nails wasn't one of those page turners for me, but I liked it. One thing particularly I enjoyed was that its story is based on an actual real ceremony that takes place in London every year. I rather enjoyed feeling like I was learning about one of the more obscure details of London history - although, of course, some of those details have been changed a little to work with the story. There is a little section at the end of the book about the real Quit Rent ceremony, which I enjoyed reading and found interesting.I did struggle with Rabbit and Blackbird. I warmed to Rabbit soon enough, but Blackbird took more time. I'm still not sure whether I totally like her - but I guess I find her okay now. The relationship between Rabbit and Blackbird bothered me a little, (I can't say more for spoilers) mainly because I felt it didn't seem believable (and was too rushed at times) but once I accepted that was how it is, I was able to get past that problem.On the whole, the writing is decent, and not too overdone. There were some glaring grammar and spelling errors, many of them very noticeable and I'm surprised they were missed by the editor. Nothing is so bad that you can't follow what's happening, and there aren't too many -- perhaps one or two a chapter, at most.
5 This is the sequel to "Blood, Sweat and Tea", and both books are based on the blog "Random Acts of Reality" by a London based emergency medical technician (EMT), Tom Reynolds (a pseudonym, Tom has now revealed himself to be Brian Kellett).  Just as the first book, this is a collection of Reynolds favourite posts from his blog.While it is obviously a book of blog postings, it does hang together as a coherent collection and is very readable; this second volume even more so than the first.  I could spend much longer reading his posts in this format than I could spend reading a screen for.  I think his writing has improved even more as his blog has continued. Just as in the first book his posts show the real-life events of life in the ambulance service, warts and all.Recommended if you enjoy reading about real-life events or want to learn more about working in the ambulance service.
5 Love this account of the LAS, and Tom is easy to read. There are some abysmal books in this genre but this isn't one of them
4 Another glimpse into human, and the occasional feline life from the viewpoint of an ambulance attendant. More than that, it is a glimpse into the heart and soul of the author. I did enjoy both books.One recommendation from me: Grab a good hot cup of tea and enjoy.
4 I got this kindle free book because it looked interesting! Once I started reading though, I almost put it down, because it seemed to not have any beginning, middle or ending. But... when I became accustomed to Tom's style of writing (which is really a compilation of blogs he has written) I really enjoyed it! The great this is, that if you go to his website, you can download his other book, Blood, Sweat and Tears (a prequel to this book) for free!
4 this was a gift given to my grandchild who loves to read.  I wish to encourage the reading skills which will last a lift time.
2 This journal type book is not well written, and not satisfying. It was a kindle freebie and was worth that. Sadly the author hasn't fleshed out any incidents, hasn't provided a theme, or any depth.I am appalled that it got through the editors. or were there any editors?
2 I enjoy reading blogs - generally they are snapshots of a person's life, and rarely look very deeply into that life.  They're a fun way to kill a few minutes.That's OK - most of the blogs I read aren't for their insights into human nature.Unfortunately, when a blog is published as a book all those not-so-deep snapshots are ... boring and unengaging.You'd think the life of an EMT would be more exciting than this, and perhaps it is, but not when the "voice" is flat, bland and detached.Writing a successful blog doesn't necessarily mean somebody is a successful author.Like other reviewers, I'm very glad this one was free.
2 This book is really just series of diary entries. I could not get through it because that's not my sort of thing.
5 This is excerpted from the blog of a London EMS. I was up with insomnia last night, and looking for a fun, light read. This was perfect! Because this is a journal, there isn't a storyline. Just an interesting perspective on life.
4 Since this book is a collection of essentially short stories about the world of EMS it doesn't have main characters, story line, ect. which makes it great for those times when you don't have the time to get engrossed in a long story.  It took me a while to finish it for this reason; I would read it when I had a few minutes before a doctor's appointment or waiting for my daughter to get out of school, that sort of thing.  I did find myself enjoying the stories, some happy and some sad.  It provides a glimpse into the world of that unless you've been and EMS or worked in the medical field you really don't know.The stories about when he worked alone in his car as the rapid response person were very interesting.  I had no idea that people called an ambulance for headaches, colds, etc.  I always thought that it was for major illnesses, wrecks, etc.  It was an insightful read.
4 I really like that this is told in short story form.  You can easily put it down for several weeks, and pick up where you left off with no trouble, and you can also skip around if you like.  the stories are told well by our author.  Some of them are funny, sad, sweet and touching.  Many emotions are invoked b/c each story has a different flavor.  In addition, as an American, I'm not too familiar with London's heathcare system.  Reading Tom Reynolds's book gave me a little insight as to how it works. I would recommend this!
1 I usually pride myself in finishing what I start.  This book?  No way.  I tried.  I really, truly did.  It reminds me of a student I once had.  He had a habit of telling stories which, at the end, required me to say, "Matt, did that story have a point?"  Usually his answer was, "Nope!"  Reading this was like that.  It was just so...random.  If he is trying to get across that being an EMT is boring and tedious, he succeeded.  It felt like a constant repetition of, "So we got called to this guy's house.  But he really didn't have anything much wrong with him.  So we left.  Yup."  Or, "You know, we EMTs just hate it when we have to carry fat people down flights of stairs. I sure do wish they had elevators or lived on the ground floor."  (Those are not direct quotes, by the way.  Just general impressions I got.)  Do not, do not, DO NOT waste your time on this, even if it IS free.
4 I really liked this. It is excellent to read while waiting for an appointment, on the subway, or just anytime when you need to kill a few minutes. The book is a collection or stories by the author, so no need to read it all at once. It was humorous and made you think about a profession that doesn't get a lot of attention. I would recommend this!
4 Ok, I admit that this is certainly not the type of book that I would have paid for but I'm not sorry that I spent time reading it.  I downloaded to my Kindle when it was free.  I'm not totally finished(75%done) and although I will read all of it I am starting to get a little bored.  It's like reading a long blog but I do admit that it is more interesting than most blogs.  It gives an interesting view into the workings of a national health care system.  Anyone that thinks the U.S. would be better off with a national health care system rather than our current system should read this book.  I find it interesting that the author explains why hospitals are dirty implying all hospitals are dirty.  In the U.S we might say that a particular hospital is dirty but I don't think any of us could say they are all dirty.  There are a few unexpected places that you can't help from laughing, along with the sad medical and humam tragedy stories.  I'm generally a really quesy person when it comes to medical stories, shows, etc. but so far I haven't found that to be a problem.
4 Tom Reynolds (a pseudonym) is the writer of a blog about his experiences as a paramedic in London. There are 212 entries that read like they were lifted from his blog, perhaps given a little editing and some re-arranging and then printed. If you like the television showCopsthan this format may be of particular interest to you.There are things to be gleaned from the book:You learn that a blanket is the most important tool in an ambulance.You learn that, like on the show COPS, alcohol creates a lot of trouble.You learn that Britain's NHS is seriously overburdened. Reynolds discusses hospitals filled to capacity, ambulance services that make people wait for over an hour (not always but it does happen), hospitals without basic supplies like pillows and blankets, a boy with a history of collapsing waiting for weeks for an MRI scan (I have had two on an emergency basis in the last 3 years for one I had to wait 15 minutes and for the other I had to wait 45 minutes).You also learn that some people are just nasty. Here's a quote from Reynolds. He is calling his dispatcher: " ' Control, I need to return to station to clean out the back of our motor - we've just transported one of our 'local legends'. Is there any infection control policy for patients who are infested with insects?''Erm...'"Gritty, disconnected, worth the read.
5 Interesting perspective from another county.  Many protocols are the same, some have an interesting twist.  Loved the book.  Would recommend it to any pre-hospital care medic.
5 Prehospital care must be the same the world over.  I loved this.  I was a paramedic in Los Angeles for a number of years and I can tell you that the author's depiction of events on the streets of London is not much different from the silliness and drama experienced on the streets of LA.A kind mixture of cynicsm, drama, caring and reality make this book a wonderfully accurate reflection of the trials and tribulations faced by emergency providers every day.The chapters are bite sized chunks that make it easy to set the book down and then pick up right where you left off.If you're worried about blood and gore, don't let that stop you from getting this one.  There's not much of that kind of thing.  Plenty of human observation and Tom's observations are spot-on.Okay, quit reading my silly review and go download the book, you'll be glad you did!
2 This book was an interesting look into the life of an ambulance driver. However, I found that it quickly got old, and there were a lot of things that were repeated. There is no flow at all with this book. This book read very much like a blog, however, in book format, it should have been adjusted to know who the reader is. Once we've read the definition of why a blanket is so useful, we don't need to read the same reasoning and logic 4 more times. I understand why this is done in blog format, the book should have been edited for this.There were many times I was forcing myself to pick up the kindle and finish this book, which is unusual for me. I'm not sure what it is, whether it's the style of writing or the subject matter, but I just didn't find myself drawn into the book or attracted to the author.
4 Years ago I read the originalBlood, Sweat, and Tea: Real-Life Adventures in an Inner-City Ambulance, thought it was not only entertaining but brilliant, insightful and a disturbing look at the selfishness and stupidity of human nature.  So I was surprised to see this one sitting on a shelf the other day, at first I assumed they must have just renamed it with a catchier title as the back blurb seemed to be saying what I had read before, but it wasn't until I read the bottom blurb paragraph I released this was a sequel. This is another collection of blogs from Brian Kellet (Tom Reynolds is his pen name), an emergency medical technician from the London Ambulance Service.  Like the title suggests, this book is really just more of the same, in fact if you're only going to get one, I'd get the first book as the most interesting stuff was published in that one. That's not to say there's not still a lot of interesting events in this one to continue to open your eyes to the stupid people out there who selfishly tie up the ambulance system, delay ambulances for those that actually need them and basically do whatever they can to hinder the men and women trying to save people's lives every day.Brian tells it like it is, he's not bothered by political correctness, upsetting politicians or his public servant superiors, and you've got to respect him for that. His books are about getting the message through that there needs to be change in the health care industry, and if everyone treated their paramedics with respect and did what they could to help them at the scenes, and got out of the way on the roads, more lives would be saved.  To be honest, Brian can be a little bit hypocritical at times such as he hates people who tie up the ambulances for a free taxi such as those going to the maternity ward who don't need them, or those that live a block away from a hospital, yet in the book he did the very same thing taking a cat to a vet and dumping the corpse of a dead dog.  However he does justify these events.Overall these two books have been an entertaining eye opener to the stupidity and selfishness of some members of society that could well unfortunately one day cost myself or any other reader their lives.  If nothing else it'll make you pull over to as soon as you hear the sirens next time!
4 Anyone that's looking at reading this for a polished, poised account of emergency care should probably move along. What is remarkable about this work is the great off-the-cuff, short bits of real life that each page contains. I believe the book is based on the author's blog entries and it definitely reads as such. However, the short bits make this an ideal book to read while waiting in line or grab a few before sleep. Each short is interesting and engaging. It's works like these that were made for ebooks.
4 Tom Reynolds has given each of us the opportunity to see what life is like for people who drive the ambulances to medical emergencies.  Granted, once he gets to the location, the "emergency" might be an upset stomach or a runny nose, but it might also be a tiny baby who has died in it's crib.This book has no plot, no named characters, no chronology, but what it does have is a realism that can only be achieved by someone who is living these events each and every day of his career.  The incidents related here are from the blog Tom Reynolds writes concerning his job with the ambulance service in a section of east London.  On my Kindle this book is divided into 211 chapters with each "chapter" being devoted to a single entry of his blog.  Each one is very short.  They range all the way from the truly frivolous calls to those where he and his mates are unable to save the patient's life.  Along the way he sometimes indulges in a little fanciful, playful writing about his job and he also vents his spleen about how the government is running the National Health Service.  Also included is a lexicon of terms and abbreviations which will help the reader keep track of the various organizations and functions of the London Ambulance Service and a short note about the author, including his real name.This is the second book utilizing information from Reynolds' blog.  The first wasBlood, Sweat, and Tea: Real-Life Adventures in an Inner-City Ambulancewhich is also available in book or Kindle form.  Highly recommended for anyone who wants to see real life situations on a daily basis through the eyes of someone who is there and keeps going back.
1 I realized after a short while  that this is a blog - I just had to put it down as I found it so uninteresting and boring and a waste of time to read . . .
5 Bottom line more of the same and how can it get any better than that.  If you love england and you love EMS, this is the book for you, but alas you will have to buy it from Amazon.co.uk becuase the regular Amazon doesn't stock it (now how wierd is that)?
4 Lots of short stories about the adventures in health care of an ambulance crew.  I enjoyed the short stories as quick reads at work.
5 I love to read stories that actually happened.Blood, Sweat, and Tea: Real-Life Adventures in an Inner-City AmbulanceThe memories of a British Ambulance Driver. Stories are true and some are quite whimsical.
3 This book by Tom Reynolds is composed of musings about his job as an ambulance drives. It covers a long period of time and discusses the ups and dows of such work as well as those things that he really likes to those things he doesn't. A vast number of casts are discussed etc.  Don't worry, no names are given or ways of identifying the other paarticipants.  Some discussion of the English health system is naturally involved.I enjoyed reading it because you could drop it at any time and pick it back up without missing anything.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the 'Isms'"
3 I started to read it, then I got depressed about the health system and then I thought if I want to hear somebody bitching about their job, I can call a friend.But I do think that the book deserves a chance -- even if you just read it to understand how deeply flawed our health system is!Wonder what the hero would say, if he would have to work here...
2 I couldn't make it through this book.  Some of the incidents he related could have been powerful, could have been inspiring or uplifting or moving, but the author is not a writer.  He is an EMT who writes in his journal.  This is fine, but doesn't make it worthy of being published.  A series of random journal entries does not equal a work of art.  Good thing I downloaded it for free.
3 I downloaded this book when it was available as a "Limited Time Offer". I enjoyed the book, but probably not enough that I would have purchased it.As an American reader, this book gave me an interesting look at another country's medical system in a very gritty, realistic way. The book has no plot, just a series of stand alone stories about the author's experience as an ambulance driver. From what I could gather, these were collected blog entries, and while the author was extremely competent and brought his stories to life, the collection of stories could have used some more editing. The stories lead you on an emotional roller coaster, bouncing from the heart breaking stories of dead babies and neglected elderly patients, to hilarious stories of obnoxious drunks and over anxious parents. The author's voice is very clear in all of them, and his commentary clearly expresses frustration in the system that he was a part of for so long.Enjoyable read, and interesting look into the UK's medical system. And honestly, for $2.18, what do you have to lose?
4 I'm about half way through this, and I'll definitely finish it.  The "stories" are just snapshots of various ambulance runs and the patients they deal with, but it is somewhat interesting. The free price is what first got my attention.I must mention the Kindle formatting isn't the greatest. There are many screens with only a sentence or two, some only have the chapter heading. That isn't really a problem, just an observation.This takes place in England, so those in the USA might not "get" all the terms. I am still enjoying it for an easy read.
2 I am not sure how a writer can miss the unexpected and exciting in a book about first responders; however, this one has.  It illustrates how blogs and diary entries are not the same thing as well-written non-fiction.  I stopped reading early because the writing is boring, both in content and style.  It is a shame, because I know the author must have had rewarding and exciting experiences.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  It was humorous (dry), sarcastic, sad, touching, anger invoking, hope renewing, and a good snapshot of the life of this EMT.  Through various points I wanted to smile, laugh, cry, and punch people in the face.  It was definitely informative on all the types of BS that Paramedics ( and Police and Firefighters) have to deal with day in and day out, and it has made me appreciate their work even more than I did.It was not (and never pretends to be) a literary classic.  It is a collection of the author's blogs, and some are definitely more interesting than others.  However in general I was able to take something from each of the entries.
4 Tom Reynolds does what most of us only talk of doing. He writes, everyday, the funny, sad, exausting, madening events of his daily routine. As an ambulance driver/first respondant in the poorest part of London, he sees it all. The poor, the drunks, the old, the really sick, the not-sick at all who just abuse the system and above all, the toll paid by everyone for lack of resources and bureaucratic rules.It can be a bit redundant but I did not find it boring. Just keep in mind that this is not a novel nor is it meant as such.
4 Real people going about their life and sharing it has always been ambrosia reading for me. Each entry was a nice dessert for my mind.
2 I thought it would be interesting to read about how the British version of EMS operated, but I obviously didn't understand the difference between a book and a blog.  I was expecting something along the lines of James Herriot's lovely works, and was sadly disappointed in this.  There was no attempt to make a coherent whole out of this repetative string of episodes, and little done to make them anything more than a series of pedestrian reports of activities performed.  Maybe I didn't &#34;get&#34; the author's sense of humor.  Maybe he didn't have one.  My impression was that he hated his work, hated the system, and hated most of the people he was called to assist.  Not conducive to enjoyment of reading - or enjoyment of work, for that matter.  Maybe he should get a different job, and I should definitely read a different book.Not recommended for anyone except masochists.
2 I really looked forward to reading this book based on the description and the book's title.The material the book is based on (the author's life as an EMT in London), could make for really great storytelling. The stories we are presented with are great and entertaining, but often I had to ask myself "then what?" when one of the stories came to and end.The author is sitting on a gold mine of information, so it's sad that it's not exploited better - in fact it's not exploited at all.Even if the book was not free, I would probably have bought it as the subject the book deal with can be quite a read.The Kindle formatting is adequate, except that there is a double line between paragraphs.
3 Please don't think this is a novel.  It isn't.  It reads like what it is, a series of posts from a blog.  There's no overarching theme, no main characters, nothing.Even with that considered, most of the "chapters" are a bit mediocre, of the "I got up, I went to work, I came home" sort.  There a few genuinely funny or sad or insightful gems, but most of them are just another day on the job.  Worth a read if it's still free and you're into blogs, but otherwise, give it a pass.
4 I read this book while my husband and I were driving to pick my son up from college.  We passed a lot of ambulances along the way.  The short stories made it easy to set the book aside when a good song came on the radio or my husband wanted to chat with me.  I enjoyed it.
4 I love this book for light reading. When I am waiting in line, need something to read during a 15min break, this is what I go for. Short stories, most unrelated, so you can put it down at any time. Some are "heavy" but then there will be one that will make you laugh. Good light read. Only lost one star b/c of some editing errors.
4 Very readable and interesting as I have spent time in medical field dealing with the same type of people. Enjoyed this book.
4 First, this is not a continuous story with plot lines (unless the failures of the health care system and constant stupidity of alcoholics and stoners is considered a plot) and characters.  And that's not necessarily a bad thing.  It's a collection of blogs from a London EMT who is also a former emergency nurse.As an American, former EMT, emergency nurse, I could totally relate to this story.  In fact, if you change the terminology and locations, this could be my life.And for all those that think the British National Health System is the perfect answer to our medical crisis, READ THIS BOOK!!!!
3 This book contains lots of short stories and musings from the author's life as an EMT in London.  I found some of the stories to be funny, some sad, some touching, and some to be anger-inducing. It was also interesting to get an insider look at the day to day workings of an ambulance crew. Knowing about the government hoops that they have to jump through and the people that they have to deal with makes me appreciate them a lot more.
2 I was looking forward to reading this book.  It was free and I shouldn't complain so I will just say it was kinda bland.
3 It reads a bit like a blog. Short anecdotal stories. Good for reading in the bathroom! It is interesting insight into a career that is a bit of a mystery to the rest of us.
2 True mediocrity. We kindle owners don't have the time to waste. One of the few books I abandoned.
3 First, I worked for over 10 years in EMS which is what drew me to this book. Add that to the free offering on Kindle and of course I was sold. It's not a bad book, it's actually not a book at all. It's a web log that has not been reformatted in any way before being transferred to book form.The result? Imagine having a friend who works on an ambulance. Imagine that friend is on facebook and posts every mundane detail of his job, as well as the occasional interesting tidbit, while including a little humor from time to time - nothing incredibly witty but just enough to keep it from being too monotonous. He does this every day. If you enjoy this kind of thing, you'll probably enjoy the book. If you just don't get it, you'll probably be bored to tears before reaching the 25% mark.I gave it three stars because it's not really good or bad. It is what it claims to be: typical blog-style musings of a medic. If nothing else, it is an accurate depiction of every day life as a medic.
5 An engaging read by one of the game's true characters. Tennis is the lesser for a dearth of such personalities
5 Not great literature, just a great story of a great player, in a great era, playing a great game.  Nasty was a charismatic tennis player who had the benefit of playing at an incredible time traveling the world and meeting interesting people.  But this book also covers his background growing up in a Communist country and how his talent allowed him to circumvent the tough conditions of most citizens.Maybe the most interesting news in the book is how little he trained early in his career.  This of course could never happen now in the current incredibly competitive and lucrative sport.  But he consistently talks about how little he trained and how inexperienced he really was as he started his rise as a Junior player.Most people will be interested in the personalities and they are all here, Ion Tiriac and their unique relationship, Stan Smith, Arthur Ashe, Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg and John McEnroe.  Of course he must also touch on his personal life of three marriages and children that he loved even though he may not always have been around as a father.Overall this book does an excellent job of detailing the life of a 1970s fun loving tennis pro who was not on the court all day but rather in the discos and bars every night.  Nasty, a true legend, on the court and off.
4 I grew up in the Borg, McEnroe era, with no live TV back in India till the late 70s, so never saw Nastase play. But I still ended up hearing so many stories about him that I had to read and find out for myself. He doesn't disappoint but as he says, many of his stories are unprintable. That would have been even more fun to read. It's amazing that a player who learnt to volley through a photo in a newspaper and who was never taught professionally, became the No. 1 player of his time. Amazing talent and that's why he could fool around and still end up winning.
4 Until you see his record, you don't think he was that good until you recognize the other players that he consistently beat.
4 This book is an honest account of very interesting tennis player. And not just a tennisplayer: clown, womanizer, politician etc. Good read.
5 Like many who served in Afghanistan, the battles of the six mile by six mile Korengal Valley will be remembered for some years to come.  I just ordered the book and will amend this entry at a later date.That said, no doubt the film and the book will become Hollywood material..as did Perfect Storm.I WOULD HOPE THE READERS AND ENTRY POSTS REFERENCE THIS BOOK SUPPORT the PROPOSITION THAT A PORTION OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE BOOK AND OR MOVIE TO BE DEDICATED TO THE FAMILIES OF THOSE FALLEN IN THE KORENGAL VALLY..NOT JUST TO THE SOLDIERS OF 173RD, BUT OTHERS (INCLUDE AVIATION, RANGER SF, ETC) WHO SERVED IN THAT FAITHFUL PLACE WHERE NEARLY 40.... MOSTLY YOUNG AMERICANS LOST THEIR LIVES. ASIDE FROM STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, PERHAPS MISPLACED, TACTICS AND PLACEMENT OF THE COB, THESE SOLDIERS ENDURED.If you support this proposition, please enter a comment or two in support..perhaps others will follow.Received the book (overseas currently:  Addendum to the initial comments as noted below.It is very difficult to bring the power and the intensity of the moment when one is under fire.  Junger does an excellent job of attempting to define the moments in action and the response from those on the ground.  These guys are from all walks of life..not many Stanford or Harvard graduates..but the rock of American young that have continually walked up to the line and said.." I volunteer"..."I will take the load..I will make the sacrifice.."  This is the same type of "personality" that joined the 173rd ABN (the Herd) back during the war in Vietnam..or those who volunteered for airborne duty with the 82nd or the 101st prior to the invasion of Europe.  These are the boys that were...but, the mean "of now".The American public often is lost in so many other personal challenges of making money, raising kids..or struggling to just get by.  But, I sincerely hope thoughts sometime go to these young Americans who risk and have risked ...and who have died for an ideal..which many of us take for granted.Those who "walk the walk" there in the Korengal can always hold your head high...regardless of where you are in years ahead...the glory was yours.Pakita/Khost-2003
5 Result worth every dollar paid. A great book about time so potent in Afghanistan during the war on terror and the Korengal Valley. Should have been longer.
5 The author gets himself assigned to Afganistan and embedded with 2nd Battalion, 503rd Parachute Infantry regiment.He tells the story of the men who are living hell on Earth as we fret about our Apple products or text our way thru life like zombies.  Read this book and you will be transported to the warzone.Cut and dry, that is it.Simple as that.
5 Finally, a book were it's ok for men to admit they enjoy a good gun fight once in awhile. No mental trauma, no PTSD, no pointy headed analysis, just the high that comes from battle and taking out the enemy. Junger also, an quite correctly so, discussed the reality of men who have proven themselves on the field of battle, later find it hard to then relate to lesser men who make up most of the population.
3 The potential for Junger to tell this story was there.  He had the characters, he had a subject and he had a need for this story to be told.  The problem with this book is the way it's written.  Not his best work by far.  I agree with another reviewer that the characters aren't developed and since they're not you're constantly wondering who the individual is that he is talking about.  You only learn the bare minimum of just a few characters and the rest of the soldiers are just names.  It would have been great to have a listing of the characters in the beginning of the book, including their rank, where they were from and where they are now.There is no doubt that there was incredible feats of bravery and that our soldiers are true heroes.  The subject matter that Junger tries to explain needs to be explained to the American people.  For that I appreciate his effort.  The problem with this book is the way it is written.  It is really hard to follow.  Sometimes he explains what he's talking about and other times he doesn't.  Luckily there is a small map at the beginning of the book or I would have been totally lost.  His gross descriptions of the battles leave a lot to be desired.  I found myself reading the vignettes and enjoying them and then the prose hits a brick wall and I struggle to get through it.  The book is certainly worthy of your time but Junger missed a great opportunity.  Also, it would have been great to have some photos of our heroes but for whatever reason there are not except for this odd photo on the back cover of the men basically wrestling with each other.The bottom line is that I'm glad we have men of this character to serve our country.  I just wish the story were told a bit better.
5 To read this book is not like being in combat or war, or even carrying heavy loads a long distance in the tropics, a central feature of modern war as this book points out. However this is an exceptionally honest and thoughtful meditation on battle, what it does to combatants and the nature of courage.Junger frequently allows himself into the story but by and large avoids the "journalist as hero" cliche, using his presence as a surrogate for the reader, trying to make sense, with occasional reflection on social science and history, on what he is seeing and experiencing.The book generally eschews context, both geo-politcal as well as local, with the voices of Afghans barely heard, and the politics of the region largely undiscussed. Junger argues, not unreasonably, that this is beyond the scope of his research focus. Nevertheless the book remains vital for understanding the risks inherent in waging this type of war. If the reader bothers to contemplate this book beyond the fine writing and gripping descriptions of battle, death and survival, they will find an unsettling moral: if courage is love, as Junger argues convincingly that it is, then love may also provide the basis for individual participation in atrocity and cover up.Masterful.
5 Sebastian Junger, best known as the author of "The Perfect Storm," has written once of the best books on war penned by a non-combatant that I have ever read. Based on a fifteen month-long engagement with a unit in Afghanistan, spread among five different trips to that mountainous country, Junger unflinchingly tells about the men of Battle Company in whose unit he was embedded. He recounts their doubts, fears, frustrations, successes, failures and losses. He does not hesitate to turn his unblinking reporter's eye on himself - describing in detail his own responses to stress, deprivation and fear.Over the past year, I have had more opportunities than most civilians to begin to develop a mental picture of what conditions must be like in Afghanistan - for our troops and for those who call that country home. Lt. Rajiv Srinivasan - in his Blogs, e-mails and face-to-face conversations - has given me part of the story. Lt. Sean Snook - through his videos, e-mails and conversations - has given me a slightly different perspective. And now, with this story told so clearly by Junger, I am better able to triangulate these multiple images and develop more of a three-dimensional appreciation of what conditions are like in that alien and remote world.Battle Company spent their deployment from June 2007 until June 2008 in the Korengal Valley in the eastern portion of Afghanistan, close to the border with Pakistan. The unit with which Junger was embedded experienced more combat than any other unit since the Vietnam War.The structure of the book is divided, appropriately enough, into three sections labeled "Fear," "Killing" and "Love." I am tempted to quote extensively from the book, but I will limit myself to only a handful of excerpts. The quotations I have selected are a representative sampling of the lives that the men of Battle Company lived, their very human reactions to the horrors and the boredom of war and Junger's own interpretations of what he observed and felt during his times of living with Battle Company.In this first excerpt, Specialist Sal Giunta had just exhibited extraordinary bravery in saving the lives of several of his colleagues in the midst of an intense firefight:"The Army has a certain interest in understanding what was going through Giunta's mind during all this, because whatever was going through his mind helped save the entire unit from getting killed. A year or so later, several squads of American soldiers conducted an identical L-shaped ambush at night on the Abas Ghar and wiped out a column of Taliban fighters - nearly twenty men. The reason First Platoon did not get wiped out had nothing to do with the Apaches flying overhead or the 155s at Blessing; it was because the men reacted not as individuals but as a unit. Stripped to its essence, combat is a series of quick decisions and rather precise actions carried out in concert with ten or twelve other men. In that sense, it's much more like football than say, like a gang fight. The unit that choreographs their actions best usually wins. They might take casualties, but they win. That choreography - you lay down fire while I run forward, then I cover you while you move your team up - is so powerful that it can overcome enormous tactical deficits. There is choreography for storming Omaha Beach, for taking out a pillbox bunker, and for surviving an L-shaped ambush at night on the Gatigal. The choreography always requires that each man make decisions based not on what's best for him, but on what's best for the group. If everyone does that, most of the group survives. If no one does, most of the group dies. That, in essence, is combat." (Page 120)Junger does a very effective job of showing and helping the reader to feel the psychological impact of the enemy adding the capability of planting IED's in the roads that the unit needed to use in patrolling this remote corner of Afghanistan:"The enemy now had a weapon that unnerved the Americans more than small-arms fire ever could: random luck. Every time you drove down the road you were engaged in a twisted existential exercise where each moment was the only proof you'd ever have that you hadn't been blown up the moment before. And if you were blown up, you'd probably never know it and certainly wouldn't be able to affect the outcome. Good soldiers died just as easily as sloppy ones, which is pretty much how soldiers define unfair tactics in war. Halfway through the deployment, Battle Company took over Destiny's trucks and ran mounted patrols out of the KOP in support of their own men. It was a sensible way to do it, but it put men who were used to foot patrols into cramped steel boxes where there wasn't much to do during firefights except scream at the turret gunner and pray. The trucks reduced war to a kind of grim dice game that was impossible to learn from or get good at; you just had to hope your luck lasted until it was time to go home." (Page 142)Following the bombing of one of the unit's Humvee's by a buried IED, Junger engages in some philosophical musing about the nature of combat and his reactions to it:"I've been on some kind of a high-amplitude ride all day since the bomb went off, peaks where I can't sit still and valleys that make me want to catch the next resupply out of here. Not because I'm scared but because I'm used to war being exciting and suddenly it's not. Suddenly it seems weak and sad, a collective moral failure that has tricked me - tricked us all - into falling for the sheer drama of it. Young men in their terrible new roles with their terrible new machinery arrayed against equally strong young men on the other side of the valley, all dedicated to a kind of canceling out of each other until replacements arrive. Then it starts all over again. There's so much human energy involved - so much courage, so much honor, so much blood - you could easily go a year without questioning whether any of this needs to be happening in the first place. Nothing could convince this many people to work this hard at something that wasn't necessary - right? - you'd catch yourself thinking. That night I rewind the videotape of the explosion and try to watch it. My pulse gets so weird in the moments before we get hit that I almost have to look away. I can't stop thinking about the ten feet or so that put that bomb beneath the engine block rather than beneath us. That night I have a dream. I'm watching a titanic battle between my older brother and the monsters of the underworld, and my brother is killing one after another with a huge shotgun. The monsters are cartoonlike and murderous and it doesn't matter how many he kills because there's an endless supply of them. Eventually he'll just run out of ammo, I realize. Eventually the monsters will win."(Pages 146-7)O'Byrne, one of the men in the unit, begins to consider whether he should re-enlist when his present tour or duty has run its course. Most warriors face that dilemma somewhere along the way in their careers, and it is often a gut-wrenching decision."'Combat is such an adrenaline rush,' he says. 'I'm worried I'll be looking for that when I get home and if I can't find it, I'll just start drinking and getting into trouble. People back home think we drink because of the bad stuff, but that's not true . . . we drink because we miss the good stuff.'O'Byrne is also worried about being alone. He hasn't been out of earshot of his platoonmates for two years and has no idea how he'll react to solitude. He's never had to get a job, find an apartment, or arrange a doctor's appointment because the Army has always done those things for him. All he's had to do is fight. And he's good at it, so leading a patrol up [Hill] 1705 causes him less anxiety than, say, moving to Boston and finding an apartment and a job. He has little capacity for what civilians refer to as 'life skills'; for him, life skills literally keep you alive. Those are far simpler and more compelling than the skills required at home. 'In the Korengal, almost every problem could get settled by getting violent faster than the other guy,' O'Byrne told me. 'Do that at home and it's not going to go so well.'" (Pages 232-3)Almost every book that I have read in the past five years that treats the topic of combat and the dynamics of war has included the conclusion that the unique pressure of warfare forges bonds of love among the combatants that are life-long and inimitable. Junger's book is no exception. He devotes the entire last third of his memoir to this topic."Combat fog obscures your fate - obscures when and where you might die - and from that unknown is born a desperate bond between the men. That bond is the core experience of combat and the only thing you can absolutely count on. The Army might screw you and your girl-friend might dump you and the enemy might kill you, but the shared commitment to safeguard one another's lives is unnegotiable and only deepens with time. The willingness to die for another person is a form of love that even religions fail to inspire, and the experience of it changes a person profoundly. What the Army sociologists, with their clipboards and their questions and their endless meta-analyses, slowly came to understand was that courage was love. In war, neither could exist without the other, and that in a sense they were just different ways of saying the same thing." (Page 239)This book makes an important contribution and addition to the mounting stack of chronicles that thoughtfully examine the human cost of combat on the combatants themselves. For those of us who care about the health and well-being of America's sons and daughters who put themselves in harms way in Afghanistan and Iraq, this is a "must read." The men of Battle Company are a microcosm of the young soldiers, Marines, sailors and airmen who choose to face down the beast of danger and combat. The better we understand what they are facing, the better we will be able to support them with our prayers and correspondence while they are deployed, and with our love and gratitude when they return.Al
4 I fist saw the movie Restrepo, produced by the author of this book and a photographer who accompanied him. The movie was good but rather disjointed.Then I read War. It went into much more detail than the movie, it covered more missions and battles. You could feel the soldiers' boredom, the heat, the loneliness, as well as the fear, aggression and excitement of battle. The author covers a lot of interesting tidbits that I had not seen in other books or movies, such as the supersonic sound of bullets, treating casualties, building present-day fortifications, and the nature of bravery and courage from a statistical and evolutionary standpoint. Interesting stuff. Kudos to the author for staying apolitical. He even mentions the mission described in Lone Survivor (which happened in the same part of Afghanistan) and yet War is a lot more neutral and focuses on soldiers instead of parties or nations.My only gripe with the book is that is seemed disorganized. It wasn't clear to me why the three parts of the book were titled as they were. That said, the stories and anecdotes make War a page turner so I did not mind the lack of structure all that much.My favorite quote: "Each Javelin round costs [eighty thousand dollars], and the idea that it is fired by a guy who doesn't make that in a year at a guy who doesn't make that in a lifetime is somehow so outrageous it almost makes the war seem winnable" :)Good book. However, I liked "Lone Survivor" and especially "Lions of Kandahar" better. You can't beat a warrior's perspective.Recommended.
4 The book was a solid and well written account of troops in the Korengal valley in Afghanistan, which was where most of the heaviest fighting in the war took place. If you are familiar with Junger's other book, "The Perfect Storm" then you know his writing is great, very informative, and with no fat. The only downside is that I had already seen the film "Restrepo" which was filmed basically at the same time and at the same places where the events in this book took place.I actually think the film did a better job of showing you what it was like to be there, with all the excitement, fear, and grief the soldiers experienced. The only think the book really added was a bit more knowledge on weaponry, tactics etc.
5 Ok, I'll start out from the outset that I am a pacifist Christian, and a war resister.  I've opposed the war in Afghanistan from its inception.  And I only occasionally read books from a soldier's perspective  ("Jarhead" by Anthony Swofford and "On Killing" by Lt. Col. David Grossman come to mind, both excellent in their own way).So I am not giving five stars because I approve of the military mission of the soldiers portrayed by Sebastian Junger. I emphatically do not!  Junger's book deserves five stars because of his outstanding writing skills coupled with his exceptional ability to portray the soldiers in their individual and corporate humanness. This book serves as a classic model of how people under extremely dangerous and violence-fraught conditions build interpersonal bonds that are stronger than fear or killing (hence, love for one another as the third section brings out).Fear of death is of course a very strong motivator.  But as Junger's book brilliantly illustrates, fear of contributing to a buddy's death, or fear of letting down the unit, or fear of not coming to the assistance of a wounded buddy, are even more powerful fears than that of death.  For thousands of years men (gender specific here), have plunged into the face of certain death during heightened moments of warfare.  But rather better to die than to embarrass oneself as a coward before one's peers. Therefore, developing group solidarity is of utmost importance in the development of the inner resolve to die for one's fellow "brothers in arms."Junger rarely ventures into the "why" of the war.  For one thing, the soldiers are rather oblivious to the politics of the war.  They will of course intone the expected mantra. "Proctor, why did you join the Army?..." And Proctor responds, "To fight for my country, sir." (p. 259).  Yet by this stage in the book Junger has already written that the soldiers in this fighting unit joined the army for vague reasons. Several of the men were just drifting along in life.  The army offered a purpose, discipline, a cause greater than themselves, and ultimately, as Junger so brilliantly brings forth, the fulfillment of deep,  binding, heartfelt community.  As some cultural anthropologists have pointed out (ie. Rene Girard), tight, binding community develops in the face of a common enemy. Especially an enemy that might start shooting at you at any given time.Junger mostly writes about the men, the units, the action, and army life in the combat-intensive Korengal near the border of Pakistan.  He only occasionally reflects upon the deeper meaning of it all until  near the end of the book in the section titled, "Love" chapter 4, pages 232-246.  For example, page 233, "Civilians balk at recognizing that one of the most traumatic things about combat is having to give it up.  War is so obviously evil and wrong that the idea there could be anything good to it almost feels like a profanity.  And yet throughout history, men like Mac and Rice and O'Byrne have come home to find themselves desperately missing what should have been the worst experience of their lives.  To a combat vet, the civilian world can seem frivolous and dull, with very little at stake and all the wrong people in power....when men say they miss combat, it's not that they actually miss getting shot at--you'd have to be deranged--it's that they miss being in a world where everything is important and nothing is taken for granted.  They miss being in a world where human relations are entirely governed by whether you can trust the other person with your life."Junger is an embedded journalist.  So I cannot say to what level he holds back. For example, he makes vague references to Afghanistan soldiers fighting alongside U.S. soldiers in the Korengal.  Yet nothing is written about what the U.S. soldiers think about the Afghan soldiers.  I'm sure Junger heard their thoughts.  And while  Junger follows up on some of the soldiers upon their discharge,  he tends to infer Post-traumatic Stress Syndrome issues as readjustment difficulties to civilian life rather than deep psychological wounds.  Junger clearly develops a deep loyalty to his assigned unit, and inasmuch as he himself has faced the hyper-charged danger and violence of combat, he is likely wrestling his own soul as he writes.The men in the combat units have some scorn for those with higher military ranks back in safe, low-key environs.  Perhaps they should also consider scorn for the Washington politicians, defense industry profiteers, and apathetic public who so cavalierly send forth young men to far-off lands to fight a people they do not know and who by and large prefer they not be there. As I wrote earlier in this review, Proctor says that he joined the army "to fight for my country."  Perhaps his enemies are also fighting for their country from what they perceive as an occupying enemy force.Perhaps a wiser generation will arise that understands that peace might be fought for by using instruments of peace, justice, and generosity of spirit, and that these methods will also take courage in the face of real danger, will demand discipline and patience and training, and will require forging of deep bonding and unity. Within this hope, and within this framework, I recommend this book.
5 First, I've read lots of war books. Perhaps dozens. Most are from the front line soldiers point of view - not some historical overview. "War" is another front line view - but from a journalists perspective, which makes it just a little different.Junger spends his words not just relating what he and the company he's embedded with go through in the mountains of Afghanistan, but also research into what happens to those men. Research into the war itself. This too sets the book apart from the normal tales of fighting and dying. To me, it makes it so much more interesting. He's interested (not that he says that, but the fact that he researched it and included the research into the book shows he's interested) in more than just the story of war and war fighters. He wants to know why. Why the soldiers sign up. Why they will rush through grenades and bullets to grab a buddy. Why they reenlist to do it again. And what happens to them when they go back to the 'world' and their lives.Junger brought in an aspect of the story of war I've never read before. Once the original Gulf War ended, so did a lot of my interest in reading war books. The last one I read had so many graphic depictions of violence and death that I simply didn't need to read more. Rather than pick up one of the many newer books and wade through the gore, I just didn't pick up any books on war. For awhile. Then I read four or five on the first years of the Iraq/Afghanistan wars. Some were because I knew some of the men mentioned.This book came to me through my Vine account. If it hadn't, I may not have read it. And I would have missed a simply terrific book. One that anyone interested in the conflict, the men or just the facts of war would do well to read. This might even be one of those books that people not interested in war should read.It's that good.
5 I love reading true stories of any of our wars. It was fascinating throughout the entire book. I could visualize the stories in my mind .
5 WAR reveals what few people speak about of their military experience.  Those who have not served their country must read this to better understand what we deal with during and after our service.  Perhaps after reading these experiences, few would want others to go to war on their behalf.
3 Not really a story but a day by day account of events.  It would have been more interesting if Junger had developed the characters more.
5 Some of the negative comments on this book concern what took place during the author's time in Afghanistan.  Junger has no control over that and if one finds the "action" in Afghanistan boring then their barking up the wrong tree.  I have read a lot of embeded reporter books and while some were good, none really grabbed me and I thought I was done witrh them.  I picked this book up out of boredom and I'm so glad I did.  The raw emotions of combat and the anguish that only brothers in arms who suffer a common tragedy can experience through close combat and death came through the pages like I was the one behind the gun sight.  Some passages are so raw with emotion that it's hard to take for those that witnessed the death of friend.  I read this book in only few days because I couldn't put it down and the last thing I wanted to see when I was done was some anti-military DB. This book will not let you forget the sacrifices that the few make for the rest of us.
4 War as an extreme sport?  Junger presents his audience with an edge-of-your-seat account of war in the Middle East.  His writing here echoes that of the Perfect Storm and belongs more amongst the sensationalized, (auto)biographical works of Krakauer and others who have attempted to capture the danger, excitement and drama of conquering mountain peaks, stormy seas, and other impossible landscapes.  If you enjoy that sort of adventure writing, the partially fictionalized (or at least embellished) dialog between the actors, employed by the author attempting to bring the reader into the situation- up close, and personal, then you will likely enjoy and be quite entertained by War.Junger starts the book off with a note to the reader explaining how he diligently recorded the events to follow.  I appreciated the fact that much of the quoted sections were actually quotations confirmed by Junger with the help of some 150 hours of video recorded over 5 trips to Afghanistan where Junger was an embedded reporter among the American troops.Some might say, "Well, yeah- the guy is a reporter and isn't that what reporters do?"  Those of us who have never set foot in Afghanistan nor participated in any military action might have experienced some frustration in trying to decipher the truth from the massive dump our politicians, the government and the media at large took on the American people during the Bush administration.  Much of the detail in Junger's account supports the 'war is hell'sentiment far above, say, any propaganda suggesting there is a moral imperative to overcome terrorism, toppling oppressive, misogynistic, fanatically religious regimes and such.The writing is good- brilliant when one considers the meticulous detail and multitude of references Junger employs to capture his experience on the front.  I enjoyed the intelligence with which this was written while still maintaining such momentum.  The personal lives of the soldiers Junger accompanies are absolutely fascinating."War" is a book I won't soon forget.  I think I can say I would recommend it, but it is not an easy, pleasure read.  Junger does an amazing job of capturing a side of the 'war on terror' that I hadn't encountered except in a brief, abstract sort of way.  Here we read about our American soldiers facing an extreme test of will in an unforgiving land where their very survival is tenuous.  The book evokes the question one might ask a climber having returned from the summit of Everest, "Will you ever be the same again having been there?" and maybe the broader question for us all, "Now what?"
5 Sebastian Junger's no stranger to Afghanistan; prior to 9/11 he profiled the Northern Alliance leader Ahmed Shah Massoud as they fought against the Taliban for a National Geographic special, so his new best-seller "War" is written from a depth of knowledge and experience that few writers possess."War" is the story of 2nd Platoon, Battle Company, 173rd Airborne Brigade fighting at FOB Restrepo. Located in the Korengal Valley's isolated RC East, the 15-20 2nd Platoon soldiers fought in almost 500 firefights in their 15 month deployment - some 20% of all Afghan combat in that time period. Through five embeds, Junger followed this single platoon with the goal of conveying `combat' to the civilian audience.Quickly jumping to # 3 on the New York Times bestseller list, Junger brings the reader directly into the fight at Restrepo. Isolated in a valley so remote that the locals speak a different language (Korengali) than the rest of Afghanistan; the reader is thrown into the firefights, ambushes, and boredom that make up a deployment.  It's in the blend of firefights and boredom where Junger excels; his descriptions of AK rounds snapping past his head to the primitive living conditions and funny, yet sophomoric humor, are amongst the most realistic portrayal of soldiers in combat published to date.Being this close to the fight brings some disturbing observations about war, and comradeship. 2nd Platoon has fallen into the practice of giving each member a `beat-down', where the platoon pummels each member. "It's a form of initiation rite," Junger explained, "It's a way of bonding, as well as reinforcing the concept that the group, in this case 2nd Platoon, takes precedence over the individual." An anthropologist by training, Junger further explained "it isn't about abuse, similar to `Lord of the Flies,' it's about demonstrating group inclusion; knowing that everyone is committed to the unit." He continued "you've got a small group of young men, heavily armed, in 4-5 TIC's (troops-in-combat) daily...no email, little comm with family...their world consists solely of their fellow soldiers. Is it a normal ritual? Probably not - but look at where and how they're spending 15 months.Despite his previous months in combat zones, these embeds in Restrepo were Junger's first embed with the Army, and first extended time with the same unit. Impartiality and accuracy are of paramount importance to a journalist, and especially one of Junger's stature, yet in "War" he writes of the impossibility of remaining impartial. "I'm living in close quarters with the soldiers. I eat, sleep, and go on patrol with them, and too many AK rounds and RPG's have barely missed us all. But remember, I'm not writing an opinion piece; I'm sharing their experiences in order to bring their story to you." He does this very well as he describes life at Restrepo "It's a miraculous kind of antiparadise up here; heat and dust and tarantulas and flies. No women and no running water and no cooked food. Nothing to do but kill and wait."But it's in the waiting that Junger finds himself drown closer to the soldiers of 2nd Platoon and loses any journalist sense of impartiality, yet he needs to find a balance between being a journalist and being a combatant. Press credential are worthless in a firefight, and despite the daily threat of being killed in a mortar or RPG attack, Junger draws his own line at potential levels of involvement "Oh, I'll carry ammo if asked, and they gave me a refresher in combat first aid. But I'm careful not to become like those journalists who confuse themselves with the story they're covering."Responsible combat journalism is a difficult assignment, but Junger threads the partial-impartial question well. Embedded with a close-knit unit for some 35 % of their deployment while sharing the firefights, boredom, isolation, all thoughts of impartiality disappear once the first AK-47 round hits the Hesco over one's head and the soldier next to him returns-fire. Junger acknowledges this conundrum head-on, and in doing so, brings even greater poignancy to the story of 2nd Platoon, Battle Company.In April, as "War" was being shipped to the bookstores, ISAF closed all the Army posts in the Korengal, with a statement that engagement in the Korengal no longer fit into its strategic vision. It would be interesting to see what the surviving soldiers of 2nd Platoon thought of the decision that their 15 months and some 500 firefights had been deemed unnecessary.
5 I highly recommend the book. It took me two days to read it. For starters, Sebastian Junger is the author of the Perfect Storm, so you know he can write. Over an eighteen month period he was embedded with the same platoon in Afghanistan five times. You get to view what the war feels like through the soldier's eyes. He is able to convey the tragedy, the humor, the day to day experiences, and the personalities in a way that draws us into their lives. I believe he does for the Afghanistan War what Norman Mailer did for WWII in "The Naked and the Dead"
5 If seen Mr. Jungar on TV quite a few times listening to his story. He became one with our soldiers in understanding their fears, loves and hopes.
4 Most folks in Maine are familiar with Sebastian Junger because he wrote The Perfect Storm - a New York Times best-selling novel that prominently mentions Linda Greenlaw, a local sword boat skipper and popular author.For this book, Junger spent fifteen months in a single platoon based in the Korengal Valley - a remote outpost in foothills of the Hindu Kush mountains of eastern Afghanistan. His objective was not to write an all-encompassing assessment of the war, but rather a close-up view of what war is like for the men of Battle Company.Junger describes where he was embedded this way:"The Korengal Valley is sort of the Afghanistan of Afghanistan: too remote to conquer, too poor to intimidate, too autonomous to buy off. The Soviets never made it past the mouth of the valley and the Taliban didn't dare go in there at all. When 10th Mountain rolled into the valley in 2006, they may well have been the first military force ever to reach its southern end."Junger's outpost provided minimal comforts."The base was called the Korengal Outpost - the KOP - and was considered one of the most dangerous postings in Afghanistan. It was a cheerless collection of bunkers and C-wire and bee huts that stretched several hundred years up a steep hillside toward a band of holly trees that had been shredded by gunfire. There was a plywood headquarters building and a few brick-and-mortars for the men to sleep in and small sandbag bunkers or mortar attacks. The men ate one hot meal a day under a green Army tent and showered once a week in water that had been pumped out of a local creek. Here and there PVC pipe was stuck into the ground at an angle for the men to urinate into. Since there were no women there was no need for privacy."Because of the large amount of time he spent in Korengal Valley, Junger has the first-hand experience necessary to describe the day-to-day duties of a combat soldier: the anticipation of fighting; the valor during combat; and the confusion during ambushes. He also writes in a simple, declarative style that makes the action seem immediate and conveys the deadly consequences of war on a personal level."The enemy was waiting for them. They opened fire from 300 yards away with machine guns and rocket propelled grenades. A private named Ted Donoho dropped prone and was low crawling to cover when he saw a line of bullets stitching toward him in the dirt. He rolled to one side and wound up near PFC Vimoto. Both men began returning fire, bullets kicking up dirt all around them, and at one point Donoho saw Vimoto open his mouth as if he were about to yell something. No sound came out, though; instead, his head jerked back and then tipped forward. He didn't move again.Donoho started shouting for the platoon medic, but there was so much gunfire that no one could hear him. It didn't matter anyway; the bullet had gone through Vimoto's head and killed him instantly. One moment he was in the first firefight of his life, the next moment he was dead. Donoho shot through all twelve magazines he carried and then pulled more out of his dead friends ammo rack. There was so much gunfire that the only way the men could move without getting hit was to low-crawl. They were on a steep ridge at night getting raked by machine-gun fire, and everyone knew the MEDEVAC helicopters would never dare attempt a landing in those conditions; they were going to have to get Vimoto and another man named Pecsek down to the road to get picked up. Pecsek had been shot through the shoulder but seemed able to walk. A staff sergeant named Kevin Rice hoisted Vimoto onto his back, and the men started down the steep, rocky slopes of 1705 in the darkness and the rain."Junger's talent is allowing the reader to feel what the soldiers are experiencing."Summer grinds on: a hundred degrees every day and tarantulas invading the living quarters to get out of the heat. Some of the men are terrified of them and can only sleep in mesh pup tents, and others pick them up with pliers and light them on fire. The timber bunkers at Phoenix (a close residential compound rented by American soldiers) are infested with fleas, and the men wear flea collars around their ankles but still scratch all day long. First squad goes thirty-eight days without taking a shower or changing their clothes, and by the end their uniforms are so impregnated with salt that they can stand up by themselves. The men's sweat reeks of ammonia because they've long since burned off all their fat and are now breaking down muscle. There are wolves out in the high peaks that howl at night and mountain lions that creep through the KOP looking for food and troops of monkeys that set to screeching from the crags around the base. One species of bird sounds exactly like incoming rocket-propelled grenades; the men called them 'RPG birds' and can't keep themselves from flinching whenever they hear them."This is a look at war up-close and personal. Junger pulls no punches and the reader feels an intimacy with soldiers who face mortal danger on a daily basis as they defend themselves and protect their brothers.
5 I bought this book because I loved the movie Restrepo and wasn't disappointed at all. My husband is also a soldier who has deployed to Afghanistan twice already so I'm interested in learning more about what he goes through during combat. This is a very well written and interesting book. You won't be disappointed.
3 I did not like this book and felt that there was a sustained backdrop of "remember, I am the famous Sebastian Junger"  throughout. His mastery of prose is brilliant and his word-smithing skills allowed me to complete the book. Of course, the title is misleading and to me, he did not provide a sufficient depth of insights into the comrades that he was embedded with.It is an ok book and there are many others that do a better justice to the harsh realities of this war.
5 &#34;I love it&#34; is not the right thing to say about this book.  It requires that you face and comprehend what it is like to be in Afghanistan as an American soldier now.  I do love it, however, because it is beautifully written and very clear in defining the issues and moral choices.
5 This is a well written book... a retelling of witness accounts of our soldiers' experiences in war, and a commentary on the unwitting effects that war has on a soldier's psyche.  Junger writes and presents the story in such a way as to leave you thinking about the juxtaposing of rotations of soldiers in and out of a war zone (for example), and what the implications are of so many of the "mechanics of war".He takes you into the minds of the soldiers, and onto the battlefield as battles unfold.  While reading this, we are reminded that his partner (film maker) in this effort was Tim Hetherington, who was killed last year in Libya.Excellent book!.... one everyone should read out of respect for what these soldiers are doing in the names of others (and the sheer guts of those who document it for those of us who aren't there).  I'm looking forward to watching Restrepo, the film which was the companion project to this book.The book is a surprisingly quick read... I couldn't put it down, and it is available to borrow from the Library.
5 In "War," author Sebastian Junger portrays what it's like to serve in a platoon of U.S. Army combat infantry in Afghanistan. It is much more intense than most Americans realize.Junger made five, one-month visits to the Korengal Valley, where he was embedded in the platoon, which was serving a 15-month tour of duty.  He did not carry a weapon (journalists are forbidden to do so) and was completely dependent upon the troops for his safety.  Junger survived an IED, an ambush and a number of other dangerous situations.  Soldiers never knew when they would take fire; it was usually unexpected.Junger writes that the Taliban seems to have an equivalent counter measure to every technological advantage held by the Americans.  And, the steep hills and mountains of Afghanistan negate every other advantage enjoyed by the modern army.Combat is an adrenalin rush. And while being attacked by the enemy is every soldier's worst nightmare, it's something they also hope for.  It's the ultimate demonstration of their bond and fighting ability.  One of the most traumatic things about combat is giving it up.Junger writes, "Combat is where human relations are entirely governed by whether you can trust the other person with your life.  It offers a profound and mysterious gratification to the reciprocal agreement to protect another person with your life."Junger also has a number of other insightful observations:"There is no stigma in being afraid as long as you don't allow it to affect others.""Giving in to fear or exhaustion are ways a soldier could fail his platoon.""A solider is most scared of failing his brothers when they need him.  Compared to that, dying is easy."Heroism is doing your duty, being a good solider.""Motivation in combat is solidarity with the group and loyalty to the group."Junger writes that combat changes a person profoundly.  And, you'll understand how and why after reading this excellent book.
5 This book by Sebastian Junger is very well written! I am excited to pick up the book and read another chapter! Buy this book and read it!!!
5 Made In Hero: The War for SoapWar may be dehumanizing, senseless, and random, but that it has appealed to young men since the dawn of time is a paradox that fascinates us. And while war is one of the most difficult - and essential - subjects people have ever written about, it would be tough to find an author more qualified to take on the task than Sebastian Junger, whose own fascination for dangerous professions drove him to write THE PERFECT STORM, the bestselling book on commercial fishing, and FIRE, a collection of articles based on the men who fight natural disasters, and alas, wars.Junger achieves something special in this book. As he profiles an elite American platoon deployed to the Korengal Valley, Afghanistan, he gives much of what we like. To begin with, there is something primal, irresistible, even Zen, about what capable men are capable of in combat. Of course, Junger also provides plenty of what we fear and hate - incalculable waste, incomprehensible death, and subtle, nasty reminders of all the societal, political, and human dysfunctions that drive young men to war in the first place. Not least of them is the fact that they like it, and it is the author's attempt to understand that impulse that gives the book its depth. But its gems are the literary moments - bleak, beautiful, bizarre - and operating like a small ambush concealed in the sentence around the bend. WAR evokes a cast of young men from factory towns, brutal, lonely, raging against despair, yearning to belong, and so desperate to live that they're willing to die. Then comes the culture shock, by which the ode to "Stolen Car" becomes "Stolen Cow." In this case, the thieves are soldiers who capture and slaughter a local bovine. When a delegation of Afghan elders demand reparations, the accused refuse to pay in money but offer HA ("humanitarian aid") - enough beans, rice, flour, cooking oil, and blankets to equal the weight of the cow. Junger writes, "It's an inspired bit of Old Testament justice, and one of the Afghan soldiers laughs when he hears it. Even the elders smile." On a more Iliadic note, a beautiful Afghan girl in the valley drives the soldiers mad - though she may be only a rumor. At the base, troops of monkeys converge nightly at the perimeter to screech at the Americans. "It was as if every living thing in the valley, even the wildlife, wanted them gone." No matter from which direction, the menace of death never seems far away.So why do young men like war? Junger suggests reasons that, while profound, may be simpler than we might expect. Without getting political, the book covers what the title says, and in a way that makes us ask why these Americans? why the Afghans? why anybody? A character in Kurt Vonnegut's SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE asked the same question during a big war in a different country more than sixty years ago. What hasn't changed is how, knowing that we won't find the answer, we can't stop turning the pages.
5 After thoroughly enjoying the mystery and despair ofThe Perfect Stormsome years ago (goodmovie, too), I had to check out WAR despite my distaste for stories regarding the very subject. I had to see how Junger presented his findings in Afghanistan.On your television and radio, soldiers who've returned home are often interviewed about what they see and do "over there," and you know how they never really offer detailed answers? Well, you'll find plenty of them in this book. You'll feel anguish for them upon finishing WAR, guaranteed. You truly need to be a brave, bold individual to desire that same experience. And thanks to Junger sitting in the firefight in Korengal Valley with the troops, you'll know just what it feels like to be out there but without the blood on your hands and sand in your boots. Frankly I'm astonished an untrained man such as himself was able to survive his time there with bullets zipping by his head and pattering all around his feet.Reading WAR felt as if it were only 50 pages even though it's a 300-pager, it was that intriguing. It could probably have been a little longer too as I'm sure there was plenty more Junger could have written about. What I enjoyed most was how the soldiers interacted with each other. Even though they are disciplined soldiers, at heart they're ordinary men who joke around and care for each other as brothers.If you want the inside scoop on what it's like for the troops in Afghanistan, get your hands on this.
5 I'm listening to this as a book on tape (book on solid state drive?) and I would highly recommend that.  The author reads the book.This is a superb, first-person chronicle of the war.  The savagery, camaraderie, randomness, bravery of war all appear in the detailed summaries of endless firefights.A sense of the men, as best as Junger can manage, comes through.  How can you describe someone who spent the year prior to Afghanistan snowboarding?I read the NY Times review of the book, which was positive, but noted that Junger didn't focus on the bigger picture.He doesn't.  As he notes, the men on the ground don't worry about the grand strategy.  He likes it to a farmhand worrying about global warming.  He also believes the military picked this valley as much as a symbol of revenge (for a special forces snafu), as opposed to any grand strategy.  So if you want a strategy summary of Afghanistan (if one exists...), then look elsewhere, but I for one simply think Junger is depicting the reality he so very bravely experienced.  One cannot help being proud of the soldiers (as Junger notes, a point-of-view shared by conservative and liberal parents), but I also left proud of a journalist willing to take the risks of months in a base endlessly under attack, and with a real risk of being overrun.  The book reminded me of "With the Old Breed", the superb first-person chronicle of war in the Pacific in WWII.
5 I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who wants to gain a perspective on modern warfare and on the motivations of soldiers engaged in a conflict many people back home would prefer to forget about. The book made me more understanding of the US position in Afghanistan, though the book suggests our impact there may be no longer-lasting than that of many other foreigners. Junger is very good on the feel of warfare, the details that make the reality he depicts come alive, as well as more general reflections on the psychological bonding that occurs in the extreme conditions he describes.
5 This book is a real eye opener on the deplorable conditions our soldiers had to endure while trying to help wage war on terrorism.  This reporter did an outstanding job of describing the emotions the men struggled with on an almost daily basis.You will come away with a much greater appreciation for the unselfish courage our combat soldiers have and your "thank you for your service" will be much more meaningful.
5 Midway through Sebastian Junger's intense and often disturbing account of his time embedded with the men of the Second Platoon of Battle Company in Afghanistan appeared a passage that brought me up short. In it, he describes what he calls "Vietnam moments," ones in which "you weren't getting lied to as getting asked to participate in a kind of collective wishful thinking." For most of us, separated by thousands of miles from the war in Afghanistan, those moments are the kind that sum up the extent of our connection to this remote conflict. One antidote to that sense of separation can be found in Junger's intimate look at the daily lives of American combat soldiers in the most extreme conditions imaginable.WAR unfolds over the course of a year in the Korengal Valley of eastern Afghanistan, "sort of the Afghanistan of Afghanistan: too remote to conquer, too poor to intimidate, too autonomous to buy off." The beautiful, rugged terrain is bitterly cold in winter and blazing hot in summer, the troops suffering in primitive conditions ("a dusty scrap of steep ground surrounded by timber walls and sandbags") through long stretches of crushing boredom punctuated by brief, harrowing episodes of combat. The titles of the book's three sections --- "Fear," "Killing" and "Love" --- capture the elemental experiences that animate the lives of these soldiers more than geopolitics or even patriotism. "Combat infantry carry the most, eat the worst, die the fastest, sleep the least, and have the most to fear. But they're the real soldiers, the only ones conducting what can be considered "war" in the most classic sense, and everyone knows it," Junger observes with the frankness characteristic of this book.Junger was right in the heart of the action. In fact, he's so much a part of the conflict that he's forced as a journalist to grapple with the question of whether to take possession of a gun he might actually have to fire in combat. The essence of this war, fought in such "axle-breaking, helicopter-crashing, spirit-killing, mind-bending terrain that few military plans survive intact even for an hour," is improvisation, usually involving brief but intense firefights with an often invisible enemy. The key to each soldier's survival rests more on his unit's ability to cohere than any acts of individual heroism, an observation Junger supports with historical material and research on the actions of men in combat, along with vivid descriptive passages.In this unsanitized story, men fight and die, quickly and randomly. Junger muses about "how easy it was to go from the living to the dead: one day you hear about some guy getting killed...and the next day you're that same guy for someone else." In his own encounter with an IED while in a convoy of Humvees, Junger recounts how 10 feet separated him from serious injury or death. "On and on it went," he writes, "lives measured in inches and seconds and deaths avoided by complete accident....There was nothing to do about it except skate through on prayers and good timing until the birds came in and took them all home."Able to bring to bear the weight of overwhelming artillery and air power, there's little question that the balance of military might in Afghanistan rests decidedly with the American forces. Yet time and again, small groups of Taliban insurgents ("highly mobile amateurs") willing to fight for as little as five dollars a day (doubled when conditions are deemed especially perilous) are able to capitalize on the support of the local population, their knowledge of the rugged terrain and their willingness to sacrifice their own lives to engage the Americans in fierce, nearly suicidal combat.The unassailable truth Junger demonstrates here with precision, insight and unfailing empathy is that men fight and die, not for some abstract principle or cause but because of the solidarity they feel with their comrades. And he's no less candid in recognizing that any effort to eradicate war must come to terms with the adrenaline rush combat offers young men. "War is a lot of things," he notes, "and it's useless to pretend that exciting isn't one of them. It's insanely exciting. The machinery of war and the sound it makes and the urgency of its use and the consequences of almost everything about it are the most exciting things anyone engaged in war will ever know."Ultimately, the only men qualified to judge the integrity of this book are those whose bravery and loss Junger describes. Their "shared commitment to safeguard one another's lives is unnegotiable and only deepens with time," he concludes. For those of us who haven't experienced combat and never will, there's little to do but marvel at the courage of the men he describes and the unflinching glimpse he offers us into their lives.
5 Excellent book overall.  The battle scenes are riveting, and scary.  Unbelievable what we put our service men and women through.  Afghanistan, the graveyard of Empires, anybody really surprised?  But to read this book just hammers it home.The book is a bit disorganized.  Some factual errors: University of Syracuse Veterans Hospital?  Say what?  There is a Syracuse University, which does not have a medical school; although there is an Upstate Medical Center, along with a Veterans Hospital.  A meaningless pet peeve relative to Afghanistan, but it makes you wonder about some of the other factual information.It is a short book, and hard to follow at times.  Difficult for me to read too much at a sitting, in part because of the intensity.As usual, wonderful detailed reviews on Amazon, that do a much better job of analyzing the book than I can.  Overall, a must read, no matter what the naysayers claim.
5 Another glimpse at the tremendous grit and steel possessed by the men of the Army's 173rd, Battle company and their daily struggles and adaptations in one the most hostile and deadly AOs of the war on terror. I am speechless.
5 Sebastian Junger imbedded himself for year in Afghanistan in one of the harshest and most violent provinces. His aim had nothing to do with politics, and in fact he states this wasn't some kind of partisan mission, but instead to give a real and accurate portrayal of what it's like for the men in combat. The results are simply horrifying, and I feel should be required reading for all Americans. I had no idea how truly awful it is over there. How most times the men-or boys, because frankly some are terribly young, don't bathe for 38 days at a time. How there's so much salt in the their clothes, they can stand up by themselves, or that their bodies no longer give off the familiar body odor smell, but instead reek of ammonia because none of them have any fat left on them from the heat, and their gear. He examines the effects of fear, and the constant surging of adrenaline, as well as the platoon mentality, and how these men as a unit would do anything for each other without a second thought. I was constantly struck by the violence , not just in the skirmishes themselves, but in the moments of near normalcy that are shattered by a stray grenade or bullet.And I finished it shaken at the psychological toll this war is taking on our fellow Americans. The nightmares, the inability to re assimilate into society, and absolute horror of watching your friends die in front of you. This quote from the book kind of sums up my feelings about the whole thing: "Soldiers themselves are reluctant to evaluate the costs of the war (for some reason, the closer you are to combat the less inclined you are to question it), but someone must. That evaluation, ongoing and unadulterated by politics, may be the only thing a country absolutely owes the soldiers who defend its borders."
4 Purchased as a gift & the person is happy with the content. As it was not for me & I do not have it I cannot review item.
5 The war in Afghanistan is one that is not very popular in the eyes of the citizens of both America and the UK; and I'm sure many other countries involved also. But whether you're in favour of the war or not, you have to sit back and offer your support to the men and women that put their lives on the line every day for their respective nations. Whether you believe the political motivations for the war are genuine or not, you can't help but sit back and wonder just how bad it must be for some of the soldiers fighting over there; and this is what Junger does. He manages to give the public a stark and frightening picture of what life is truly like on the frontline of what many have labelled an un-winnable war.The author best known for his bookThe Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea, Sebastian Junger goes on a journey with 2nd Platoon of the US Army. He spends 5 months with them in the Korengal Valley of Afghanistan and essentially becomes one of the soldiers but without a gun as he becomes a target on the same level as the soldiers fighting to protect each other. He lives as one of them and tells that story beautifully and frankly. Death is not something that is becomes a regular occurrence during Junger's time with the platoon, and he explains beautifully and sensitively the true emotion felt by the men in such a difficult situation when they have just witnessed their friends death but must maintain composure as they're battling for survival.I really enjoyed this. Junger captured the emotion and atmosphere of his time in Afghanistan really well. There were moments I experienced genuine tension as he was describing his experiences during particularly intense battles that almost ended his life. Thanks to the book, you become aware of the true stress the soldiers are put under whilst occupying Afghanistan in the name of establishing democracy. Sleep deprivation, lack of hygiene and limited food supplies almost put the soldiers experience on a par with the torture some terror prisoners have been reportedly put through.By no means are all soldiers perfect, and Junger isn't attempting to convey the idea that every soldier is a great guy; but he manages to convey the situation and the personal reaction to that situation well. You understand that although one or two soldiers may rub others the wrong way, they are all in it together and regardless of their personal differences, they would all be willing to take a bullet for one another. Early on Junger poses the question, just how much must these guys hate each other? Perhaps it's the situation these men find themselves in together that forges the close camaraderie that only a life or death situation can create. Junger touches on all subjects, which is the true beauty of this book.Thanks to this I have a new found respect for what the soldiers are going through. Supporting our troops doesn't mean you have to also support the war they're taking part in, but you should show your respect for the courage and perseverance of each and every man and woman currently serving in the country. I know that from now on, thanks to Junger, I'll be offering a more respectful look at the soldiers engaged in battle. Beautifully written and well worth your time.
5 Incredible book and very informative.  Books like this are often dry, but Junger's writing style kept me engaged though out.  I'm looking forward to reading further material on the war.  Next book will probably be Ghost Wars for me...
5 Sebastian Junger brings his sharp eye to bear & use his lyrical prose to describe the infantrymen of Hell (Outposts Restrepo & Korengal, Afghanistan) in such a way that both lifts your spirits & breaks your hearts. These young infantrymen rapidly become your brothers as you turn the pages & your need to know if they live or die makes this a heat-pounding read because they do become so very real to you as does the harsh, ugly, unforgiving land they are defending. And when the attacks come, as they do so frequently, you will find yourself cringing - and counting noses when it's over. And when the book ends, you won't be happy, just sad and so very exhausted, just like the soldiers themselves. This is a book about war; real war. It's dirty, it hurts, it sucks, it's leaves you filthy and it takes away your dignity & humanity. But most of all, you'll discover why it is being so very entrenched in a combat situation for long periods of time that people can & do become feral. It is a simple survival technique. A WWII recipient of the Medal of Honor once said, "You have to be in war to understand its horrors. And you have to die to forget them." Junger has come pretty close to being able to let us take a peek at what some of those horrors are for the average combat line soldier.
5 Junger's writing is crisp and compelling, and his depiction of the soldiers' lives in a remote outpost in Afghanistan was absolutely gripping.  Highly recommended!
5 With 11 years of service in the Army and two deployments, I've always had an interest in books about war, but as a veteran of the current conflicts, I've read many strategic and geopolitical accounts of the campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, but very few personal accounts of war, Doug Stanton's "Horse Soldiers" the one exception until now.I have not been in Afghanistan (only Iraq), but began my career and saw combat as a team leader in the Airborne Infantry. The portrayal of the life of the light infantry platoon and squad in war portrayed by Junger here could have as easily been about me and my hard chargers in Iraq in 2003. I and my brothers had contact with equal frequency though lower intensity (or accuracy?) during our OIF deployment as did the men at Restrepo, but the retelling in WAR had me reliving my own experience and desperately missing it.I have complained often of the portrayal of war as universally awful, and thought that that misconception was the biggest disconnect I feel between myself and civilians--that is, they seem to think my experience of war must have been awful and damaged me, but it's the most valued and positive experience of my life.Junger depicts the fight as it is to the Infantry soldier, and wonderfully portrays how and why we love it. He portrays the culture of the Airborne Infantry platoon accurately with all it's weirdness--the profanity, the good-natured and positive use of interpersonal violence within the team, the channeling of all human needs into the single expressive channel of aggression--things that to an outsider, and even to me looking back, would appear pathological, destructive, or simply insane, but which in that environment, that profession, that purpose, and that culture, serve specific, valuable purposes, make sense, and are not only appropriate but important.Phenomenal book. Anyone wanting to see what life is like as an infantry soldier should read this book.
5 War is a harsh, brutal, unpleasant business, or so I have heard. I have no intention of ever serving in the military (my kind aren't welcome anyhow), and if I were drafted, I would refuse to go and would instead go to jail (it seems to me that part of having freedom is having the freedom to refuse to fight to protect it). Never the less, I have a great deal of respect for our military and the men and women who fight, and too often die, on our behalf.This is a book about the war in Afghanistan. The book is almost entirely devoid of politics; it is, simply, an examination of war and its effects on the human body and mind as told by an exceptionally gifted author. If the conclusions he reaches and the observations he makes are less than original, well, so be it. If seventeen people tell you the sky is blue you hardly deride them for being unoriginal.The author, Sebastian Junger, spent quite a bit of time with a a group of soldiers at a very small outpost in Afghanistan. Like any sort of highly-intense environment it generated all sorts of interesting stories, and Junger does a great job of telling them. He talks about the men who died, the men who lived, and how sometimes what I shall euphemistically refer to as "feces" happens.Junger's writing is very effective and evocative. He paints with words a landscape that many of us would consider to be just this side of Hell, and then populates it with soldiers who are convinced that Hell might be an improvement. He captures the boredom, the stress and the strange attraction that war has for those who participate in it. Terry Pratchett once wrote that war is better than women, for every day it is fresh and exciting. That's a truism made even more plain in this book.Regardless of one's political views and beliefs on the war in Afghanistan, or indeed war in general, this is an excellent book and one worth your time.
4 Junger paid his dues by being a first hand witness to battle while embedded on the front in Afghanistan for several months.  He also has read a lot of the U.S. Army's own studies of men in battle and provides useful data for the reader.In a nutshell, Junger confirms that unit cohesion is everything.  The fighting man is completely apolitical; what matters is saving his buddy's life and counting on his buddy to save his life.  This is a bit chilling when one considers that the same ethic would have applied to the Wehrmacht.  Junger argues that it is the civilian's special responsibility to deliberate carefully about the deployment of military men because the military men will never debate the politics of their deployment.  That's probably a bit of an overstatement given the Vietnam experience, though it's worth noting that the morale and discipline of the American forces in Vietnam were extremely high between 1965 and 1967.The other implication of the importance of unit cohesion is whether it is practical to include women and openly gay men on the front lines.  I suspect that the unit would adapt to the introduction of this dynamic and that, indeed, a sexual relationship between two particular members of the unit would be avoided as a taboo that would violate the code of the group.  Junger does not deal with this issue, other than pointing out the sexually frustrated nature of the men in the field and the amount of homosexual kidding.Unit cohesion and fear of letting a comrade down explain much of the physical courage of the men in combat.  Junger does an excellent job of portraying the bond between the men and the stresses of battle.Junger also dispels the myth of American invulnerability.  The units stationed on the remote fronts of Afghanistan are quite vulnerable to being overrun, and the capabilities of the rebels are demonstrated time and again.The book is a bit jumbled and episodic in its structure, though given the subject this may have been intended by the author.A compelling and interesting book.
5 I've always liked Sebastian Junger - he's factual and precise.  I won't reiterate on what's already been said about "War" in the other excellent, outstanding and comprehensive reviews, other than to say this book is similar to the movie "The Hurt Locker" (insofar as it puts you right in the middle of the REAL action), and ANY article by C.J. Chivers and Tyler Hicks (a reporter and photographer, respectively), both from the New York Times, and both of whom consistently supply superlative reporting and photos from the front lines in Afghanistan.  (You can Google their names for links to their articles and accompanying photos.) Both Junger and Chivers & Hicks manage the incredible feat of showing how it REALLY is for our troops on the front lines by living it WITH them, the intensity, what drives them, the terror of what they live through and what they endure on a daily basis, what their hopes and dreams are, and so much more, sometimes by what ISN'T being said as much as what is.The highest compliment and tribute I can give "War," is that it is like one continuous article/narrative from Chivers and Hicks, only by Junger, of course, and his experience with each and every brave soldier serving in Afghanistan.  It is as if you are there with them in the eye of the storm, sometimes calm, always intense, and all the more harrowing because of its reality.  Highly recommended.P.S.If you liked Sebastian Junger's "War," here is some info on C.J. Chivers and Tyler Hicks that you might want to check into:Christopher John (C.J.) Chivers is an American journalist who reports for The New York Times. He was part of the New York Times team that was awarded The Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting in 2009, for his coverage of Pakistan and Afghanistan.Tyler Hicks has returned to Afghanistan nearly every year for the past seven years. He was among the staff members at The Times who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2009 for "masterful, groundbreaking coverage of America's deepening military and political challenges in Afghanistan and Pakistan, reporting frequently done under perilous conditions."
5 Kindle - flawless technically. Maps are useless of course unless you happen to possess some form of "super-hero microscopic vision".This is a standard Kindle 2 problem. Perhaps the higher contrast of the new Kindle 3 corrects this.  Doubt it though.The book: I'll make it simple. It is great. I think you need to have been a combat infantryman to fully appreciate how accurate this book is in describing the thoughts and attitudes and actions of men dropped into the jaws of combat.I was also amazed by how similar the men of Battle Company were to my own guys 40 some years earlier when Battle Company (B/2/503) was Bravo Company and we called ourselves the Bravo Bulls (the 173rd was the Herd, we were the Bulls und so weiter . . .) and what Battle calls fobbits Bravo called REMFs.Junger has done a great job of documenting the men who have stood up and fought in what is now our longest and arguably toughest war.
4 A good set of stories to explain the soldier's mindset and environment. It's an easy read but think there must have been more to tell about the feelings toward politicians who falsely started the Afghan military actions for their own pocketbooks. How can a journalist really understand what a soldier feels/believes? I'd like to read a soldier's memoir and learn about his and his family's feelings toward people back home and corrupt politicians who put him in unnecessary danger, through tough times ...
4 This book gives a good view of the modern army soldier. I read this book right after I read Matterhorn. Matterhorn is a book about the Vietnam war army soldier. It was very interesting to compare the lives of these two different combat soldiers.If you want a quick view of modern army combat read this book.It is an easy read. Don't expect any story. The book is more like a diary. I liked the author's discussions of both the "combat high" and of combat soldiers' brotherhood.
3 I liked this book better than three stars but there is so much written about American involvement in other countries that it all gets watered down. Junger is a vary good writer and covers a lot of ground in this book. Just a few of the points that he makes I will point our are. 1. What a train wreck our foreign policy is and has been since WWII. 2. Nothing has changed in the pentagon. The Perfumed Princes still are gutless wonders and will not tell the POTUS the truth and stand tall. 3. The new ticking time bomb our 1%, of the people who serve our country, are and we better get ready for what is coming when all the warriors start getting elected to office. There is much more but nothing I write about it will get the Govt to change. It will be changed by the people who have been misused and mark my word. It will never be the same again.
5 This book is about bestselling author/journalist Sebastian Junger's experiences while embedded in an Army unit engaged in heavy fighting in the Korengal Valley of Afghanistan. The Army was fighting local Taliban insurgents and other  combatants who crossed into the region from Pakistan. (Junger's observations do not place our "ally" Pakistan in a favorable light.)Junger describes the fierce fighting that erupts as the Americans try to clear the dense forests and treacherous mountain terrain. The enemy follows a pattern of sneaking up close to American positions and launching a furious attack. The Americans respond with a tremendous barrage of their own firepower and hope they can hold on until Apache helicopters and other air support can pulverize the enemy. Both sides set up deadly ambushes.The major concern of the American troops is protecting their friends, their comrades in battle. The greatest fear of many is not the very real possibility that they themselves will die. (Junger describes the deaths of several soldiers.) The greatest fear is that they might make some mistake, get careless, or show some weakness that results in another soldier's injury.  According to Junger, many of the soldiers are eager, even impatient, to fight because they want to clear the area in order to protect their friends, sharpen their combat skills, and simply break the boredom that is exacerbated by their crude quarters.The book is written very well. It's eyewitness testimony to the toughness of these Army troops who care little about the politics of the war. They want to destroy those who are trying to destroy them.
5 When I finished reading this book today, I lingered on the final words the author had to say to one of the soldiers he was embedded with in Aghanistan:  "You got me there, O'Byrne; you got me there, brother. Maybe the ultimate wound is the one that makes you miss the war you got it in." That kind of deeper understanding could only have come from someone who spent some time with a group of soldiers experiencing the intensity of combat. To read that also made me sad however. It made me think  that some of the war's worst casualties are not necessarily those who were killed but the survivors,who after coming back to the United States, find themselves stuck trying to fit in but feeling they cannot, and are ultimately drawn back to the war, where in the company of their brothers, they find their purpose. Those who do not return to the war oftentimes have their own difficulties i.e. finding a job in a poor economy, adjusting back to family life they left behind, trying to make up for lost time in a world that does not understand them. Sadly too many veterans end up taking their own lives.I think even the reviews written about this book reflect vast differences between the opinions of rank-and-file civilians who never spent a day of military service in their life, those who served in the military and went to combat and those from "Coward's Land" (as O'Byrne called it) "a place where guys who have never done anything but fill out paperwork can boss around guys who have fought for their country." Some past reviewers seem to be criticial of the book because they claim it is "disjointed", "tossed together", not flowing the way it should. To those individuals I would say that war itself is not some neatly organized sequence of events but chaotic, oftentimes ugly and unfair set of events to which applying everyday reason is simply not possible. I grew up the daughter of Lithuanian refugees who saw their share of what war could do to a country. I served in the United States Navy during peacetime but later as a Department of Army social worker have been in a position to try to assist returning veterans of the wars in both Iraq and Aghanistan. I honor and respect their special brotherhood and sisterhood and although sympathetic can never truly know what it would have felt to actually be there. I DO know however of what Sebastian Junger speaks when he describes that "Self sacrifice in defense of one's commmunity is virtually universal among humans, extolled in myths and legends all over the world, and undoubtedly ancient. No community can protect itself unless a certain portion of its youth decide they are willing to risk their lives in its defense".  Junger adds:  "Considering the extreme nationalism of the Nazi era, one might expect that territorial ambition and a sense of racial superiority motivated most of the men on the German line. In fact, those concepts only helped men who were already part of a cohensive unit; for everyone else, such grand principles provided no motivation at all.  A soldier needs to have his basic physical needs met and needs to feel valued and loved by others. If those things are provided by the group, a soldier requires virtually no rationale other than the defense of the group to continue fighting." So we see repeated through history.This is a great book.  It brings the insanity of experiencing a war and the strength it takes to survive it (both physically and psychologically) to light in a way that few books have been able to in the past. (other than perhaps the classic volume THE AMERICAN SOLDIER:COMBAT AND ITS AFTERMATH edited by sociologist Samuel Stouffer and referred to by Junger in this book). You do need to be prepared to think however. It leaves a lasting impression.
5 As someone who has served the US Army both on Active Duty and in the National Guard for some 28 years now and 3 overseas deployments (2-to hostile environments), I am constantly seeking out and reading books on leadership and military/political history.  I just finished reading &#34;War&#34; last night that and it has really given me some food for thought about the business we are in as Soldiers and why/how we fight as units, for and with each other.  I read numerous books with first-hand accounts of battle, but for some reason, this book as touched something very deep and personal about soldiers and why we fight...at the individual level.I want to recommend that you read &#34;War&#34; by Sebastian Junger.  Junger's account as an imbedded journalist with an infantry platoon during a 15-month stint in the Kornegal Valley of Afghanistan is gritty, dirty and all to very real.  I read about 10-12 books a year on various topics, mostly non-fiction, historical biographies or religious work.  I'm a life long student of human nature whether it is at the national/geopolitical or individual level.  I like to know more about why people think and do the things they do.  I believe it helps me be a better leader.Junger's book takes the reader through an &#34;in the fight&#34; look at battle, why men fight, who they fight for, and the physical and emotional trauma they experience.  Junger lived with, humped the same patrols, endure the same fights, ate the same food, sweated with and, at one point, carried ammo in a fight.  His story is a 1st person account of the men he lived and bled with.  Junger was able, though his words, to put me there with the soldiers.  I began empathizing with them.  A rare feat to accomplish with me through any book.From a military leadership standpoint and even though I have myself served, I took away from this book better appreciation for soldiers who have had been through extensive combat and the &#34;close&#34; fight.  It has heighten my respect even more for them and my commitment to be a better leader and trainer of soldiers.  When broken down to its finest point, training at the individual soldier level is the cornerstone of a military unit's success.  Junger, whether he intended that or not, makes that point crystal clear.  It's critical to have that muscle memory built into everything we train and do so when the fight gets real and personal, you react without thinking.  Your body just does what its supposed to do.If you read just one book on combat and leadership, I recommend this book as a way to help you understand soldiers.  If you don't learn something about soldiering, leading and caring for your troops by reading this book, then you weren't paying attention.
4 I hope this is as close as I ever get to combat.  This book is that real, that immediate.  Junger follows the 173rd Airborne's Battle Company into the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan.  Next to the definition of Hell on Earth in the dictionary?  That's the Korengal Valley.  The weather ("Summer grinds on: A hundred degrees every day and tarantulas invading the living quarters to get out of the heat.") and the terrain ("The last stretch is an absurdly steep climb through the village of Babiyal that the men call "the Stairmaster."") would have challenged Atilla the Hun, except that Atilla was smart enough not to invade Afghanistan.As if the weather and the terrain aren't bad enough, they're also fighting the culture.  "Most Korengalis have never left their village and have almost no understanding of the world beyond the mouth of the valley.  That makes it a perfect place in which to base an insurgency dedicated to fighting outsiders.  One old man in the valley thought the American soldiers were actually Russians who had simply stayed after the Soviet army pulled out in 1989."How tough are these guys?  "Battle Company is taking the most contact of the battalion, and the battalion is taking the most contact - by far - of any in the U.S. military.  Nearly a fifth of the combat experienced by the 70,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan is being fought by the 150 men of Battle Company.  Seventy percent of the bombs dropped in Afghanistan are dropped in and around the Korengal Valley."Good thing they're tough, because everyone is shooting at them ("The bullet you dodge will pass you with a distinctive snap.  That's the sound of a small object breaking the sound barrier inches from your head.").  And that's just when they're staying "safe" (hah!) behind the wire of Restrepo, an outpost named for a medic who died in combat.  "Restrepo was extremely well liked because he was brave under fire and absolutely committed to the men.  If you got sick he would take your guard shift; if you were depressed he'd come to your hooch and play guitar."This is an on the ground, eyewitness account of men at war, today, this minute, our guys in Afghanistan at work.  The prose is clear and sharp and while Junger is inevitably a part of the story, he doesn't put himself forward too often and he never makes the mistake of thinking anything but the men of Battle Company are the subject.The larger subject is, of course, war, and Junger does go there later in the book.  Armies have a vested interest in figuring out what makes a man fight and fight well, and Junger cities a lot of studies and makes a praiseworthy attempt at explaining why men fight.  Testosterone and other hardwired biological stimuli come into it, as you knew they would, but that's not all there is to it.  "The willingness to die for another person is a form of love that even religions fail to inspire, and the experience of it changes a person profoundly.  What the Army sociologists, with their clipboards and their questions and their endless metanalyses, slowly came to understand was that courage was love."The men of Battle Company love combat, and this book is as close as most people will get to understanding that.  "Civilians balk at recognizing that one of the most traumatic things about combat is having to give it up."But mostly?  You come away from this book thinking, Okay, if it is biologically inevitable that young men are going to fight wars?  We should pick our fights with more care.  These guys are too good to waste.
3 I make it a habit to read the first two pages of reviews on any book I choose to read.  I don't want to read more because I don't want to be influenced too much.  All of the positive reviews caused me to have great expectations of this book.  Unfortunately, I was disappointed with the volume. The material was presented in three separate "books".  I did not understand the significance of that, since it seemed to me there was about the same material repeated in all three books--different stories but same material.Interspersed in the material were frequent sections of philosophical and psychological material regarding the meaning and impact of combat on individuals.  Some of this material is acceptable and appreciated; however, it is tedious when it is repetitive, which it seems to be.Lastly, it seems the book would be more appropriately titled "Trials of an Embedded Journalist in Combat"--that seemed to be the focal topic of the book.I would have enjoyed much less philosophy and much more detail on the brave men who fought in that valley.
5 This is a great book that shows what life is like out there.  There is no political spin on this.  Its just the facts and just the stories of the soldiers.  You couldn't ask for a better look into the lives of a unit down range.
4 I had seen the documentary when it aired last year and was a little overwhelmed during parts of it, very powerful.  The book, it has a different type of power.  It goes in to greater depth and takes the time for introspection that the film just doesn't have the time to go in to.  While I think at times Mr. Junger may glamorize the brutality of what these men are coping with it is factual and honest...plus he states very clearly in the foreword that despite his knowledge that he should remain objective it's difficult to do when you are immersed to the degree he was.  A great read about the brutality of conflict and what we as Soldiers must accept and do.  Any who advocate for a war should read and ask if they are ready to send their son/daughter to experience this.
5 Sebastian Junger's "War" is aptly titled. With it, he manages to accomplish what few journalists ever do: describe the intense emotional reality of modern combat. It has been written that anything one can say about war is true; so total is the emotional intensity of modern combat that it encapsulates the entire range of human emotion. Repeated embedding with Battle Company (Bravo Co., 1st Bn, 173rd Airborne) allowed Junger to experience some of the most intense combat engagements the US military has fought since 9/11, and to portray with his writing just how intense and all consuming modern war is. The result is a stunning portrayal of young men at war and their incredible devotion to one another.His style is only partially narrative, and it can at times be hard to tell exactly where one is in the story in a chronological sense, but therein lies its brilliance. Combat veterans regularly attest that time itself is fluid in war; depending on the situation, seconds can last an eternity or whole days can go by in a blur of sudden movement. Junger's style conveys this timelessness extremely effectively.Junger's book exposes all the different sides of war: the horrific, the thrilling, the boring, the heroic, and the hellish. Few works have been written that so effectively convey the totality of the experience.
5 I've finished Sebastian Junger's War and I have to say: this is the book we've been waiting for. It's the best account of Afghanistan, the best portrait of the modern American infantryman, and the best book about combat in many, many years. It's likeThe Iliadwithout the officers.At the foot of my blog is a quote from a poet whose name I never did catch, and which I came across by accident during one of my first research projects for an MA "programme" at King's College London: "What truth soldiers would speak / None would hear, and none repeat." Well, the soldiers of Battle Company spoke the truth, and Mr. Junger repeated it. (Note: it's not at all the downbeat, "war is hell" stuff that the reviewers find necessary to parrot. These guys love what they're doing.)This is a wonderful book. Buy it. Read it. Pass it on. Blue skies! -- Dan Ford (author ofThe Only War We've Got)
5 War, Sebastion Junger's fascinating account of American soldiers in the most perilous section of Afghanistan, is not about war.  War affects the lives of every citizen, from infant to elderly, and sweeps up economies, cultures, and laws of the land before it.  In war, civil rights disappear, rape is used on a mass scale as a weapon, borders of countries are dissolved and remade. The geography of the battles in this non-fiction account is often confined to a few hilltops and valleys.  The numbers of men involved are often a few dozen. Junger's book is not about war, but about battle, specifically American soldiers in battle.As opposed to war, battles are discrete and highly personal. In battle men (and increasingly women) that know each other well see each other bleed and sometimes die.  War is a political decision; battle, on the other hand, is a second by second struggle for survival at the most primal of levels.  Junger's accomplishment with this book, and it is a strikingly effective one, is capturing the essence of battle, as well as the anticipation and the aftermath of battle. The detail in Junger's account is down to the level of rivulets of grimy sweat and dirt under the fingernails rather than the macroscopic view of swirling arrows on a campaign map.  Junger's portrayal of men in battle is an exquisitely high definition one, with a level of accuracy that is only achieved by stepping into the boots of the men that fight.  Junger rides in the same transport vehicles that the soldiers do, eats the same food, strains at the same boredom, accumulates the same layers of dirty sweat and filthy clothing that they do.  The soldiers carry heavy gear over impossible terrain, and so does Junger.  The soldiers hear the rasp of bullets flying by their heads, and the impact of bullets and shrapnel within inches of where they are positioned.  So does Junger.  The soldiers often have families waiting for them at home, as does Junger.  Soldiers wonder what made them decide to place themselves in harm's way, and Junger too wonders what led him to place himself in such peril for the sake of journalism.If you are a constant reader of military literature, Junger's description of armaments, encampments, strategies, and harsh conditions will be highly satisfying.  If you are a closet anthropologist, a devotee of the study of human behavior under duress, you will find this account thought-provoking and challenging.  Few, if any, authors have so powerfully captured the addiction (and Junger uses that term) to battle that human males have.  Few authors have been as frank in their observations, e.g. statements such as "Perfectly sane, good men have been drawn back to combat over and over again, and anyone interested in the idea of world peace would do well to know what they're looking for.  Not killing, necessarily--but the other side of the equation: protecting.  The defense of the tribe is an insanely compelling idea, and once you've been exposed to it there's almost nothing else you'd rather do."Junger's book raises far more questions than it does provide answers, but it is an undeniably compelling story about men in combat. The book is largely apolitical, and it will not help you decide whether the U.S.  should be in Afghanistan or not. It will, however, give you a crystal clear window into the soul and mind of the fighting man, a view only rarely equaled by other writers.
5 I read action thrillers, spy novels (Baldacci!), humor and a wide, wild variety of non-fiction (I've written 6 non-fiction books).Junger is masterful creating emotional context to a tricky story.For now, forget your stand on the war(s).For now, forget political opinions related to these conflicts.For now, just get lost in the lives of these soldiers and the two reporters who spend 15 months in the most dangerous place on the planet.It's one of those rare books that I'm lending out with the comment, "Uh, I'll want this back."Fast-paced, funny at times and often heartbreaking.
5 Mr. Junger has written a fine novel. His understanding of combat men is exquisite.He was accepted by the crew he was in combat with. In his position that is one of the hardest things to get over. Acceptance as he comes to explain is a Brotherhood. I have never read and received the understanding we all have with our feelings to our fellow Soldiers,Marines, and Sailors. His writing has cleared the air for me as I am sure it has for thousands of others. The writing also explains just how difficult this war is. Again, the politicians run it all. The ones that have never tasted combat call the shots. That is why this war has gone on for ten years.With our fine men if we were to fight to win it would be over in a matter of a few months.Don't miss this novel,it is the best.
5 This was an intense book!  It does skip around as some reviewers have already stated, but I had a hard time putting this down nonetheless.  Junger does a great job of brining combat to life.  While not shying away from the difficult parts, Junger also does a good job of describing the almost drug-like allure of combat for many of the soldiers.  Junger also does a great job of describing the brotherhood among the soldiers fighting together.  Many books have said that soldiers fight for each other, not for political reasons, but Junger shows this.  I highly recommend this to anyone with interest in learning more about the Afghanistan war and for any soldier that is getting ready to deploy.
5 Read it quick (within a week) which says something for me...you will really like it and now I can't wait to see the documentary Restrepo!
5 There are plenty of long and very well thought out reviews here that I can't possibly top.  Just count me among the hundreds of people giving this book five stars.
5 This book deserves all the high praise it receives.But first, what this book is not.It is not a history of Afghanistan, a discussion of high level policy, or even a history of the US war in Afghanistan.  The author, Sebastian Junger, followed a company of US soldiers around during several embeds over a year deployment.  Junger spent a significant amount of time with the soldiers, going out on missions and living with them at their remote outpost on the Afghan-Pakistan border.  He describes the travails the soldiers experience, including firefights, and describes how the soldiers experience the death of their comrades.The high points of the book are the descriptions of how the soldiers deal with casualties and how they survive life on the outpost.  On the former, repressed feelings in combination with strength in numbers and no time to contemplate the death of a friend and fellow soldier allow the soldiers to persevere, at least while deployed.  The latter requires the soldiers to adapt to the constant threat of attack from a well armed enemy.This is a fantastic book that should be required reading for anyone who dies not know what combat soldiers exposed to constant threat are going through.  I highly recommend this book.
5 Sebastian Junger is a gifted writer and this book did not disappoint.  During five trips over a fifteen month deployment, Junger followed a single platoon deployed in a remote part of eastern Afghanistan.  He didn't hang out with the officers and operatives in Bagram or Kabul.  He lived with and went on patrol with infantry soldiers in one of the most active sectors in the country.  By taking the time to get to know the soldiers, he demonstrates a keen understanding of what motivates them and what keeps them going.  If you want to understand the war on a fundamental level, this is an excellent place to start.  At times, this book is really funny but it can also be heart breaking.  Having never been in combat myself, it made me extremely grateful for an all-volunteer army that serves to protect freedom for all of us.  This book doesn't contain a detailed examination of the political aspects of the war, because infantry soldiers don't ponder those issues much.  While they are clearly fighting for their country to some extent, this book makes it clear that they are fighting out of a sense of loyalty and love for their fellow soldiers more than anything else.Junger's prose is tight and lucid.  The story lines are compelling as well.  I would note, however, that this is an unvarnished account of combat.  There are disturbing accounts of bloodshed along with quite a bit of profanity.  Under the circumstances, I wouldn't want it any other way.  In a word, this book is phenomenal.
5 I bought this for my son and he really enjoyed it! It got him reading again, he loved it! Great book!
5 Want to understand what really goes on at the tactical level of this war in Afganistan?  Read this book.  A must read for every American regardless of their view on the war.  I couldn't put it down.  After all, young American men and women are risking their lives everyday in this operation.  We need to understand what they are experiencing. Enough said!
5 A great read! The author gives us a look into the lives of the men of a single platoon who served 15 months straight on an isolated outpost in Afghanistan. Despite the fear of being in constant mortal danger,  their dedication to the cause as they saw it, and especially the mutual regard held for one another, demonstrates the heroic character of every soldier in the platoon.
5 After reading this book, II am more than convinced that we are lossing the war in Afganistan. We sh ould get out nolw !!
4 Sebastian Junger followed a platoon of soldiers through their 15 month deployment in Afghanistan.  _War_ is his retelling of their experiences.  To his credit, Junger is forthright in stating that journalistic objectivity goes out the window when one lives and works alongside the soldiers he is writing about.  He is also clear in stating that in spite of this, he is as honest as he can be in his relating the details of the deployment.The first chapter set my teeth on edge as Junger explains how this platoon is "the tip of the spear" - the best infantry unit in the theater, the best company in the regiment, the best platoon in the company, et cetra.  Having served in the military, and having served in a combat zone, every line unit says this; I felt Junger was laying these details on a bit thick.  Once he began writing about the young men he lived among though, the book got better by yards and miles.There seems to be a perception that journalists have a hidden agenda, that they "don't support the troops" (whatever that means), and that they intentionally seek to report only the negative without highlighting the real and lasting good (whatever that means) that the military is doing in Afghanistan.  I found no evidence of this in Junger's book. Rather, his focus was on the young men serving, detailing what their lives were like.  To give you a feel of this, Junger writes,"Combat was a game that the United States had asked Second Platoon to become very good at, and once they had, the United States had put them on a hilltop without women, hot food, running water, communication with the outside world, or any kind of entertainment for over a year.  Not that the men were complaining, but that sort of thing has consequences.  Society can give its young men almost any job and they'll figure out how to do it.  They'll suffer for it and die for it and watch their friends die for it, but in the end, it *will* get done.  That only means that society should be careful about what it asks for,"Junger is an astute and close observer of human interaction, and his insights about these young soldiers were dead-on with my own experiences in a line company.  Among those that would suprise most who have not served is the apolitical attitudes, the open and "salty" language, and the depth of the bonds between men.  It is a powerful and moving narration that neither condones nor condemns the war, but rather puts a human face on "the troops" of whom are so often referenced by politicians and pundits alike.  Highly recommended.
5 "And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life." -- 1 Kings 15:6 (NKJV)Sebastian Junger's War is the most chilling nonfiction book I've read about 21st Century war. Whether you favor or oppose American military involvement in Afghanistan, you need to read this book to understand the nature of what violence is being waged there.The combat units that Mr. Junger describes are in essence sitting ducks, located deep in "enemy" territory where a single sniper located higher up in the hills can wreak havoc on the military outposts. Once an engagement starts, the Americans can bring in overwhelming fire power, but there's a delay before it arrives. In the meantime, the pinned down troops can blast away . . . probably not doing much damage but at least forcing others to keep their heads down. The effect is similar whether it's a local boy hired to fire a couple of shots for $5 and then take off or whether it's the beginning of a serious assault. Fear goes through the roof. Men die. Deep bonding occurs among the survivors. Combat teamwork improves. Gradually, it becomes a preferred way of life. That's probably the most surprising message of this book. Terrifying combat becomes something to be sought out for its highs.Mr. Junger balances a riveting tale with many valuable perspectives on how frightening it is, crossing the accustomed barrier into being someone who kills, and the deep love that develops among comrades.It's a lot to ask of anyone to serve in such perilous conditions. It's more than doing your duty and risking your life. It's taking on a life that you may not be able to put down, even if you survive.Thank God for the brave warriors who have taken up these seemingly overwhelming duties so we can be safer. The next time you see someone in an armed forces uniform, be sure to thank them for their service and ask about what they have been doing in a caring way.
3 I was thrilled to see Sebastian Junger come out with a book on the impossibility of the Afghan conflict, even more so when I saw the book compared by some to Michael Herr's Vietnam classic, "Dispatches." Ironically, I think (sense) that Junger may be a big fan of "Dispatches" as well and has tried to emulate Herr's style in his own book. It doesn't work. Where Herr's voice and style accurately reflected the widening cultural gap tearing apart the nation from which the draftees hailed, I came away from "War" with very little sense of the men or what it feels like to be in combat. The encyclopedic knowledge on meteorologic and Northern Banks fishing upon which Junger built his marvelous "Perfect Storm" never really materialize in "War." Yes, he touches on the history of the Afghan conflict, yes there are many anecdotes about the soldiers with whom he spends time, and yes there are depictions of battle, but all of it feels a bit 'flat.' There is no real caffeine to the thing.So today we are still left with "Dispatches" and Stephen Crane's "Red Badge of Courage" as - in my opinion at least - the very best books on war written by Americans. Not for nothing did "Apocalypse Now" and "Full Metal Jacket" borrow heavily from "Dispatches." Consider this single passage from "Dispatches," which is awash with such beauty:"Going out at night the medics gave you pills, Dexedrine breath like dead snakes kept too long in a jar. [...] I knew one 4th division Lurp who took his pills by the fistful, downs from the left pocket of his tiger suit and ups from the right, one to cut the trail for him and the other to send him down it. He told me that they cooled things out just right for him, that he could see that old jungle at night like he was looking at it through a starlight scope. 'They sure give you the range,' he said."
5 Funny.  Sad.  Thoughtful.  Whatever.  A great book.  I'm glad I bought it.  Of the last twenty or so books I've read on my Kindle this is one of the best.  If you saw Restrepo, you have to read this also.
5 Excellent stuff and the reader is immersed in the experience.  A very different viewpoint which was insightful and interesting at the same time.  I appreciate the fact that the author seemed to have a purpose/theme in mind and did not deviate to sermonize on larger topics or politicize...at least in this readers mind.  I will recommend this book.
5 Mr. Junger's book is a stunning achievement. This is the finest and most accurate account of modern American fighting soldiers that I've ever read. It accords precisely with my own experience during the Viet Nam war, as a member of the 101st Airborne, '67 - '69.Some reviewers here disliked the seeming lack of plot and structure; some accuse Mr. Junger's writing as simple stream of consciousness. I emphatically disagree. A soldier in the field does not think in extended linear terms, day-to-day. Life for him is piecemeal and fragmentary; snapshot-like. For example, climbing a mountain and concentrating on getting to a particular terrain feature fifty meters up ahead; reaching a mountain stream to fill canteens; digging in for the night; getting some sleep; carried away by thoughts of home-and, of course, firefights, fast and violent.Furthermore, Mr. Junger's book is descriptive and explanatory. Wonderfully, those explanations often treat the reader to very important insights about men in war.The highly vulnerable tactical position of the units Mr. Junger served with, and so ably describes, caused me to feel a white-hot contempt and anger for the American high command that placed those units. Mr. Junger's subjects and friends were highly trained assault troops, yet they were confined to exposed and static positions. Virtually all of the initiative was held by the enemy. It's reminiscent of the way the Marine Corps was used in Viet Nam, a long time ago.The soldiers described by Mr. Junger could easily be interchanged with the soldiers that I served with 40+ years ago. Same sense of humor, same general attitudes, same aggressiveness, same oddities. Interestingly, the light weapons and equipment are essentially the same too. Of course, those weapons have different nomenclatures now and there are a couple of new ones (based on the old, naturally), and some improvements. Fundamentally, however, they are the same as in the earlier war.Startlingly, Mr. Junger reveals that soldiers used sleeping pills. Early in the book, too, mention is made of a whole unit (platoon or company, I can't remember which) suspected of being on Army-prescribed medication.Also, surprising to me (because it's at odds with my own experience), was Mr. Junger's description of the intensity of feeling for a comrade killed in action. High emotion for a fallen soldier seemed widespread among the men described by Mr. Junger. In contrast, in my unit a death was rarely, if ever, dwelt on.I can't resist mentioning a trivial matter: Mr. Junger often uses the word COMBAT when referring to soldiers fighting. Certainly, it is a properly descriptive word and widely used. Still (trivially), in my experience, the only people using this word were field grade officers, civilians, and REMFs (rear echelon MFs). COMBAT was, in my day-I'm showing my age now-referred to as making contact, or some variant of "being in the s (ugly word)".If the reader thinks that I have allowed my personal details to intrude too much in this review, I apologize. In any case, please take the time to read this remarkable book.
5 I thought about this book for days after I finished reading it. Extremely well-written account of the author's observations while he was embedded with the US military in Afghanistan in 2007. He is telling the story from the soldiers' perspective, rather than an armchair philosopher or news-watcher's perspective. He does a great job conveying the soldiers' experiences in a non-judgmental way. Highly recommended read.
4 Certainly conveys the sense of terror in Afghanistan.  The coping mechanisms of the soldiers are remarkable.  An important story to be told...will feel differently (even greater respect) next time I see a soldier or marine in uniform at an airport.  Felt the story was told in the first half of the book, with same themes then repeated.  It is for this reason for four rather than five stars.  Great appreciation to the author and certainly the service personnel
5 Ordered for student's English Class. Arrived by the scheduled date in great packaged condition. Can't say anything about its content as I am not the one reading the book and they have not read it yet in class. It was ordered with about 12 other books for this one class.
3 When you've read a couple books on Afganistan, they all start to look like the same. Here an implanted reporter documents the battles and struggles of soldiers. Good story and well written.
5 In War, Sebastian Junger takes the readers on a journey through the lives of a platoon that is stationed in one of the most dangerous parts of Afghanistan. The narrative of the book is just great, and although this book is not a novel it definitely reads like one. The writing of Junger is engaging and, in my opinion, he was truly successful in passing the feeling of combat. However, this book is a lot more than a mere account of war. The author also makes an attempt (and succeeds) to analyze from his first-hand experience and his impressive research (1) what motivates soldiers to participate in war and why some men actually enjoy it  (2) how do soldiers cope with fear before, during, and after combat (3) the human connection/bond between the soldiers.Bottom line, this book just has it all. It has a great story. It also has deep insights on the psychology of war, and above all, it shows how the human spirit is able in various different ways to cope with the difficult reality these soldiers face daily. I can't recommend this book enough.
4 On certain days I despair to think that our entire country--especially its youth--isn't reading this book and others like it.I imagine it secretly held under the desks of students across the country; I imagine them clustered in their cafeterias, discussing its somber evocation of life in Afghanistan for a handful of common American soldiers. In short, I imagine them seeing their destinies as indistinguishable from the destinies of the men and women in this book.But then I remember that everything has changed. We are now a nation with a professional army. Our soldiers aren't us, really, but people who are merely doing their job. In a fashion that has transformed American political and moral life, our military now basically has nothing to do with our private ideas of citizenship and social responsibility.So we don't read these books, most of us, and the war goes on, and some soldiers die, and it's all seems about as important as Sarah Palin's latest tweet.But for those who care, here it is: War, a book about a single platoon that's been asked to hold a section of the Korengal Valley, in eastern Afghanistan.For reasons that belong to them, these guys have signed up for war's deadly work. They are extremely well trained and live in desolate conditions. We pay them accordingly. In part, we pay to keep their tragedies--which once belonged to all of us--to themselves.Junger, who has made a career of writing about dangerous work, has given us an updated Perfect Storm. The men are at least as brave as deep-sea fisherman and by all appearances as economically--and perhaps psychologically--desperate. War, like most forms of hard labor, is tedious, dreary, often boring, occasionally lethal, addictive, sometimes thrilling, and usually hopelessly sad. (It's violence, of course, is uniquely grotesque.) The soldiers, we are told, really just fight for each other. They don't care much about politics; they aren't especially patriotic; their fraternal love might be the most intense love of their lives. And Afghanistan is an impenetrable mystery, as it should be to the Western, 21st century mind.The writing is very good. It's not as good as Orwell'sHomage to Cataloniaor Finkel'sThe Good Soldiers, which it echoes in its accounts of war's unromantic suffering and sudden, irreversible violence. But it's an important contribution to the literature of war--especially our war, which is too often, it turns out, with ourselves.
5 I enjoyed "The Perfect Storm" by Sebastian Junger, so when I saw that he wrote a book about his experiences as an embedded journalist with an Army unit in the most dangerous part of Afghanistan, I had to check it out.  I was not disappointed, as his insights into how war affects those who fight in it were quite fascinating.In the interests of full disclosure I must admit that I never saw combat.  Sure, I served for six years in the Marines and am a Gulf War One-era veteran.  But I had to settle for watching its festivities on CNN.  With that in mind, when I review books like this I feel like a virgin writing about the Kama Sutra.  So I can't say for sure that Mr. Junger isn't full of crap when he discusses his experiences as a journalist in modern warfare.However, the book rings true as far as my pogish military experience can validate, and also jels with other memoirs of actual combat veterans both of this war and previous conflicts.  As a virgin may read the Kama Sutra to gain second-hand insight, a non-combatant can read books like "War" for the same reason.  And as one who has read many books on warfare, this one stands in the company of those dealing with the subtle and internal facets of the warrior experience.Although the setting is within the Afghan conflict, "War" is not a detailed historical regurgitation.  Instead, Mr. Junger focuses on how the experience of war affects those who engage in it.  The book's three parts each deal with an elemental aspect of warfare: Fear, Killing, and Love.  We see how the boredom and terror of combat welds men together, brings out their best and worst qualities, and alters them forever after."War" reminded me of the movie "The Hurt Locker [Blu-ray]," with its demonstration of the old saying, "When you dance with the Devil, you don't change him - he changes you."  Of course, Mr. Junger didn't actually fight, so the book isn't quite a first-hand memoir of combat like "Helmet for My Pillow."  But his journalistic (and risk-taker's) perspective provides compelling insights into how America's young men are faring in our latest and longest-running war.  Recommended.
5 Also required reading for our son by his Air Force Liason Officer.  He enjoyed the book  immensely.  He said we might want to read it but wasn't sure about Mom.  lol
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read.  It will grab you by the throat almost immediately and you're going to LIKE the way that feels!  I realized that I knew less-than-nothing about what was really going on in Afghanistan.
5 Picked this book because I had a Marine pen pal and wanted to get better educated about what he did. Wow, did this open my eyes. It takes you into the life of a soldier. The bad and the horrendous. I clearly live a cushy life, but this book took me into another world.Everyone who doesn't have a loved one in Afghanistan should read this to gain a better appreciation for what the soldiers do. War has human costs that go beyond the body and into the mind and the spirit. After reading this book my main question was about how do these soldiers make the transition back to an uninterested world if they are fortunate enough to leave the battlefield. I think the consequences of battle will be a long term issue we all have to deal with.
5 One of the best books I've read on the war in Afganistan! It is well written and really gives you a perspective of what our soldiers on the front lines are going through. Once you pick it up and start reading, you won't want to put it down!
5 This book is the most definitive book I've ever read about soldiers in combat. As a former Marine combat photographer in Vietnam who had to be with line company Marines to capture the action, Junger's account of living with the grunts are as accurate as can be -- short of actually being there.  What impressed me most, which pushed this book to the top of my A list, was his portrayal of the psychological effects not from some clinical perspective. One can see -- and feel how close the men became as their combat tour progressed, and they morphing into some of the most bizzare behavior with each turn of the page. The intensity of combat can do this to soldiers; their action can horrify the most immuned, yet the human affection and bondage amongst them is so tempered in steel that it cannot be broken. Readers who have been in combat will quickly grasp this; those who have not will have a rare opportunity to experience -- albeit vicariously what combat is without having to shed blood. It seems so vulgar to say this, but combat is a "triple E-ticket" ride which cannot be duplicated. Like a drug you can become easily addicted...the highs are the highest and the lows are a bottomless black pit.  That's why some veterans, regardless of which war, will never come home.  Superb read.F. LeeVice PresidentU.S. Marine Corps Combat Correspondents Assn.Los Angeles Chapter
5 Sebastian Junger's War depicts life on a remote outpost in the Korengal Valley of Afghanistan. Junger, as an embedded reporter working alongside the troops, gives the reader a gripping portrayal of what life is like for the soldiers serving in this particular area of the country.Junger gives a very raw portrayal of the soldiers and how they cope with life at their deployment. It is a life that includes the constant danger of being overrun by the enemy, and that sense of danger is made very real for the reader.This book also does an excellent job of portraying the particular frustrations of war in this area of Afghanistan.Junger approaches his writing without a particular agenda in mind, instead concentrating on giving a realistic depiction of what it is like to be soldier at this outpost. He even acknowledges the difficulty of staying an unbiased reporter when the enemy is shooting at him as well. In a very telling piece of writing, he acknowledges that there may be situation where he himself has to pick up a gun out of self preservation.That is how authentic the sense of danger is depicted in War. There is also some background on what defines courage, and it becomes very well served by some specific stories from the men in Korengal. This book and the related documentary Restrepo may be some of the most moving footage of a war ever created.
5 When it comes to Junger, I am biased. I have read, and reread, all of his books except A DEATH IN BELMONT (no interest in reading about a real-world killer), and eagerly pick up each new book because, simply, Junger delivers the goods. THE PERFECT STORM, for example, is a book that recreates what it must have been like for the doomed men on the fishing boat, The Andrea Gail. Given that he had to reconstruct what happened and come up with a compelling narrative that essentially ends halfway through the book (the deaths of the fishermen is recounted on page 146 of 236 in the book), he did a superb job.For WAR, Junger did not have to reconstruct what happened: he was there. In the Armyspeak: "embedded." He and a photojournalist humped with U.S. infantrymen in Afghanistan, and the result is a sobering, thought-provoking examination of the nature of war, organized in three broad sections: fear, killing, and love. It's really about the inextricable bonds that are formed between men who have forged a friendship borne out of mutual respect and hardened in the steel of battle: He who has been in combat, or served in the military (i.e., those who have not been in a war theater) know what I'm talking about; civilians really don't, and can't, understand. You have to be there. This is why, when you talk to vets from World War II, if they talk about their military experience, and if you talk to them long enough, they'll tell you that their greatest fear was not dying but letting down their buddies. That's the fate worth than death. To live with the knowledge that you blew the big one, that you let your team down, and perhaps someone got wounded or killed because of it.On the shelves in my library, I've got thousands of books. There's a goodly number of them about the military, not only because I love the subject but I know a few things about the Army, its traditions, and how it's evolved in terms of doctrine. (I was on active duty, in the National Guard, and in the Reserves.) So when I read any book about the military, It's either going to pass muster, or it's going to be unreadable because the military culture is depicted wrong. I can't, for instance, read Tom Clancy's books--he's never served, and his books show it. In one instance, in RED STORM RISING, he talks about an F-15 pilot who was frustrated after a mission, and the pilot banged his fist up against a rubberized wall. Well, I've spent many years at Langley AFB (my father was career Air Force, 30 years), and the last time I was there for two weeks of flight orientation prior to being attached to a fighter wing in New Mexico (TDY, temporary duty), I recounted that to an F-15 pilot who laughed his head off when I asked him about the rubberized wall. There ain't no such wall at Air Combat Command. Clancy is a good man, but when it comes to his books, it's pure fiction--he can imagine what it's like, but he can never know. To know, you have to be there.Junger's a civilian, but he was there, and he knows--just like all the journalists who previous wars who went to see for themselves and come back to give us fresh perspectives on what it's really like, and lessons learned. What Junger has done in WAR is first-rate, straight reportage, and it rings true. The young infantrymen don't see themselves as heroic or as liberators or anything else; they've been in the field long enough to know that war isn't, as some would want to believe, a John Wayne gung-ho movie. The nature of war, they know, is so utterly confusing, complexing and unexplainable that they rely on the shorthand that all combat veterans use: "War is hell." You think about it, they suggest, and you figure it out.The last book about war that I enjoyed reading as much as this one is Michael Herr's classic, DISPATCHES, which so perfectly captured the tone of the Vietnam war (my generation). So much has been written about the U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan, including many first-hand accounts from soldiers in the field, but WAR is the one I'm going to read again and again. And so should you.
5 Sebastian Junger's War is destined to become one of the defining books on the American military experience in Afghanistan. Junger writes about war and warriors that leaves nothing out: the inhospitable terrain, the soliders' isolation and frequent boredom, the intense adrenaline rush of combat, the deep sorrow over the loss of a buddy, and the bonding of men who share gut-wrenching, life-threatening experiences as a matter of daily routine.Junger was there, following a platoon and experiencing what the soldiers saw and felt and shared. He writes with precision and power, and his insights into the hearts and minds of the young American combatants is simply first-rate, without being overly gratuitous or harshly judgmental. Junger's skillful coverage of the remote outpost in eastern Afghanistan will no doubt provide the reader with a clearer view of the otherwise minimally portrayed American military effort there.Highly recommended.Gerald GillisAward-winning author ofShall Never See So Much
5 I am not usually interested in military history and a recounting of battles.  I read War for a book club I am in which seems to like military so I started the book with less than total interest.  As I read it I realized that it was a in depth study of human connections.  There was points about battles and eye opening scenes about fire fights, guns melting and descriptions of logistics, but that was minor. The questions considered which were so interesting was why are people courageous, what is a team, why do people fight, etc.  Also serious issues such as the nature of a volunteer army where men fight because they need the excitement or the inclusiveness in a group.  Then there are  characters like Jones and O'Byrne.  I should point out as others have that this is totally apolitical.  However, the US did pull out of the valley where this action took place.As this gushing review indicates, this rates as a book I will never forget and will probably reread.  I also will be sure to see the documentary.
5 Sebastian Junger was no neophyte to covering war when he climbed the steep slopes to join the men at FOP Restrepro in the remote hellish mountains of Afganistan. But the mental torment that develops after 5-6 fire fights a day, for weeks on end is something his mind could not prepare for. Junger does not preach - he takes no political stance or makes his personal views of war known other than as to how his own fear at times crept into his psyche. He describes in unique prose the fighting bases, the men, and the war there that appears to have no end unless you die. Above all he stresses the brotherhood - the strong bond that forms from being in combat and depending so much on the man next to you for your survival. He delves into some of the men's histories - some boys who signed up to prevent going to jail for minor infractions generated out of sheer boredom living in a small town. One Soldier's own father got drunk and shot him twice.I found that by watching the documentary "Restrepro" by Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington (photographer) I was better able to see the moonscape the soldiers were fighting to hold, as well as give the men a true identity - I could accurately know  what these soldiers looked like. The documentary compliments the book so well and I was glad I could compare the two while reading the book. I will say  that the descriptions in Junger's book stand alone and are written so well that the documentary is not necessary to enjoy the book.Junger captures a lot of the action, but also goes into what makes the boys tick. "House to House" by David Bellavia (fierce fighting in Fallujah 2004) and "The Good Soldiers" by David Finkel (the 2007 surge directed by GW Bush in iraq) are two of my favorite books on wars in the Middle East. Both authors cover the battle scenes with such a fine eye for detail and action, and touch briefly on the mindset of these soldiers. Junger covers more of the mind  and the emotional side of war, and by book's end, those who never experienced war will have a better understanding of those who have. I highly recommend both the book and the documentary "Restrepro". Since the book's release, Tim Hetherington was killed covering the civil war in Libya (April 20 2011) Knowing that helps you appreciate more the dedication and serious threat these two men exposed themselves to in order to get their story. An excellent read that goes fast.
5 WAR by Sebastian Junger is a challenge to read - especially for those who have served in action in a war.  It is real, it is raw, and it is true.  A recommendation would be to read it in small sections over a period of time.  There is no 'novel' that would lose the line of thought if left by the bedside without opening.  This reportage is from the time Junger spent embedded as a journalist in Afghanistan  - his purpose was not one to show the accomplishments of encounters, but instead to live the soldier's life, growing into and understanding of why we make war and how war affects the men in the front lines.As Junger writes '..I'm not interested in the Afghans and their endless, terrible wars; I'm interested in the Americans.  I'm interested in what it's like to serve in a platoon of combat infantry in the US Army. The moral basis of the war doesn't seem to interest soldiers much, and its long-term success or failure has a relevance of almost zero.  Soldiers worry about those things about as much as farmhands worry about the global economy, which is to say, they recognize stupidity when it's right in front of them but they generally leave the big picture to others.'  And elsewhere he writes 'The US military tends to divide problems into conceptual slices and then tackle each slice separately.  Wars are fought on physical terrain - desserts, mountains, etc - as well as on what they call 'human terrain'.  Human terrain is essentially the social aspect of war, in all its messy and contradictory forms.  The ability to navigate human terrain gives you better intelligence, better bomb-targeting data, and access to what is essentially a public relations campaign for the allegiance of the populace.'Placing fragments of Junger's writing before the eyes of those who have not read the book hopefully will encourage more people to read it.  Once read, you will never view war in the same way again.  This is very fine writing by a gifted observer and a brave one at that!  Grady Harp, September 10
4 A great insight into the background, beliefs and day to day experiences of what would be typical soldiers in the hottest spot in Afghanistan.My slight quibble with this book is not its content, which is interesting and engaging, but more the disjointed writing style.I've no idea why a quality journalist like Sebastian would put his life at risk to research and share the experience of the soldiers, and then (it appears to me) not hire an equally brilliant editor to make the writing flow in a more readable way.Still definitely worth a read and the jumpy writing style usually only disoriented me for a short time.
5 I'm 55, have been a student and hobbiest of war literature since I was in college, there are many fabulous accounts of battle available but this is the best. The other reviews give some in depth analysis but just let me say. If you like stories of battle, adventure, human experience under dangerous conditions, then buy this book. Do it fast they might sell out.Somebody please ask Junger to go embed himself in a platoon again for a sequel. It would even be fascinating if he became part of a supply support division, just so we can see through his clear eyes exactly what is happening.Thanks to the author for the risk he took and the skill he used to write this book, it will undoubtably become a war classic.
5 Sebastian Junger, probably best known as the author of A Perfect Storm, spent  months embedded with soldiers of the Second Platoon, Battle Company, 173rd Airborne, in the Korengal Valley, the most hostile area of Afghanistan. The result of this is War, an absorbing, if uneven account, of the men sent to intercept Taliban fighters as they move between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The mission is difficult and costly, fought in terrain that is unlike any other in Afghanistan, and is performed by young, highly trained men bonded by the ties of brotherhood, a word that is much more meaningful and important than you might imagine.War is not an examination of our involvement in Afghanistan, it is not a treatise on politics or strategy, nor is it a profile of the people of the Korengal Valley. There is no connection to anything else that may be occurring in Afghanistan or the world, the focus is solely on the front line soldiers of Second Platoon and the effects of combat on them. They are the heart and soul of the book. Through them, Junger examines the effects of intense firefights, living in very close quarters in extremely difficult conditions. As for the outpost that Second Platoon occupies, Junger writes, "It's a miraculous kind of antiaradise up here: heat and dust and tarantulas and flies and no women and no running water and no cooked food and nothing to do but kill and wait." This is a view of the war in Afghanistan that you cannot find anywhere else, it is unique and interesting.Junger divides his book into three sections; "Fear," "Killing," and "Love." Each section shows the boredom and terror, monotony and excitement, and the madness that have been a part of combat since the first time groups of men took up arms against one another. Junger's narrative shows the strengths and weakness of the men of Second Platoon, but he also explains the reasons for their behavior. He relies on an incredible but fascinating amount of research; military history, Army and university psychology studies, biology, and his first hand experiences. War is an accessible, enjoyable, heartbreaking, and overwhelming account of men facing an often invisible and driven opponent.Where War falters, it is with the men of Second Platoon. Junger provides thumbnail sketches of the members of the platoon and spends the most time with Sgt. Brendan O'Byrne, a soldier that "seemed to have a knack for putting words to the things that no one else really wanted to talk about." Other than O'Byrne, none of the other men are discussed much beyond certain anecdotes. While there are several intense firefights, Junger explains what he was feeling and seeing, however he does not include the images and thoughts of those doing the actual fighting. War could have been much improved by including more from the perspective of the soldier and less from the reporter. Further, Junger could have connected the reader much more emotionally with soldiers of Second Platoon.War has always been a part of our lives. It is easy to sit thousands of miles from the frontlines and believe that you know the men that do violence against an enemy. Junger has not written a book filled with cliche or Hollywood glory; it is about comradeship and brotherhood. Even though it isn't perfect, War is a book that brings the realities of combat home, allowing the reader to better understand the men that fight and die, and to understand war. Highly recommended.,Disclosure:Obtained from: LibraryPayment: Borrowed
5 Despite all the death, injury, pain and frustration a surprisingly high percentage of our soldiers in Afghanistan re-enlist.  If, like me, you did not understand why before, you will after reading this book.  The book is an account of the author's five months embedded with American forces in one of the hottest spots in the Afghan War.  It is also an attempt to understand what is universal about the experience of war.There have been many books that have done a good job of showing the horror of war.  I have never read another that was as effective at showing the appeal of war to the fighting man.  Junger does not sugarcoat the ugly side of war.  He just  focuses on why men love it so much even as they hate it.  It's not just the adrenaline rush, though that is a part of it.  It has more to do with being a member of a group where each man would lay down his life for the other and everyone knows it.  The fear of death is powerful but far weaker than the fear of having to live with being responsible for the death of one of your comrades.  This is a world where everything matters.  The smallest mistake might get you,  or worse your best friend,  killed.  This kind of intensity is addictive and makes everything else pale in comparison.  Junger says that the trauma of losing the experience of that is a big part of PTSD.  It's the part no one talks about.Those seeking a political analysis of the Afghan war will not find it here.  Regardless of why they signed up, when the bullets start to fly men fight to protect their brothers in the squad not some abstract political idea.  Those seeking a well organized story with a beginning, middle and end will not find that here either.  Junger is interested what is timeless about the experience of war.  You could scramble the chapters up and it wouldn't read that differently.The book does come off the rails a little when he discusses altruistic self sacrifice in war in terms of natural selection.  He concludes that humans are the only species that display this trait and that is because it requires language.  He clearly has not heard about ants.  Ants often conduct war and are far more reliable than humans in being willing to sacrifice themselves for the group.  But this is a quibble.  This is not a science book.  It is a book about what war feels like.  Judged by that standard it is a triumph.
4 If you're looking for another "Perfect Storm" this isn't it. In fairness to the author it might not be possible to do that with the subject at hand. I have never served in the military but read a great deal of military history. My father served as an infantryman in the ETO in WW 2 and I have a son who is currently serving his second tour with the 82nd division in Afghanistan. I did appreciate the descriptions of day-to-day life on the front lines and the author's descriptions of being under fire. Personally, I could have gone for a bit less of the off-color incidents. In my opinion the author could have gotten the point across with less detail in several cases. In any case hats off to those who serve!
5 This book works on two levels.First of all, it tells us about the war in Afghanistan. What are out boys doing on a day-by-day basis? By the time you finish, you will swear you can smell the sweat and taste the salt.But, just as importantly, the author shows us the ancient truths of war. Men fight not for flags and crowns, but for each other. Killing does not go hand-in-hand with hatred. Love almost always overcomes fear.Without a doubt the finest book to come out about the war on the ground in Afghanistan.
5 I read this book and it read like fiction but had to keep reminding myself that it was all real. It's amazing what our soldiers are doing for our way of life, keeping the fighting out of our streets, and what little is being reported on. I highly recommend this book.
5 With Sebastian Junger's "War" and David Bellavia's "House to House" the reader is presented a gritty realism that hits the reader the face with the force of reality that cannot be denied.Junger's  "War" is perfect.  Are the men perfect?  Is their situation perfect?  Is their war perfect? Is the author perfect?  No, no, no and no.  But again what Junger reports is reality with all its imperfections.  What a book!
4 This book tells a story of being scared and bored during warfare.During firefights there a a real feeling of fellowship when you depend on your fellow soldiers in order to survive.During "down" time there is restlessness and boredom.When a veteran returns home there are a lot of psychological adjustments that have to be made.
5 One of the best books delving into life in the wars in southwestern Asia. Well written. Well researched. Hard to put down.
5 Sebastian Junger is the well-known author ofThe Perfect StormandA Death in Belmont. He is also a world-class war correspondent with over a decade of experience. This book is the product of five months spent embedded with a platoon in U.S. 2nd Battalion in the Korengal valley, Afghanistan. For five months, Junger existed like a regular soldier in the U.S. army: He ate MREs, went on patrol, took cover when the bullets started to fly. As Junger likes to explain in the book, he was the target of the same bullets as the other men in the platoon, and he had the same responsibility to Army rules. Even one broken minor rule risked lives. Junger remained vigilant, won the companionship of these soldiers, and garnered enough of their trust to record their thoughts and beliefs about what it's like to be in combat. That's what this book is about. The war in Afghanistan happened to be just a convenient location to do field research. At one particular scary moment, Junger was in a Hummer that got hit by a roadside bomb. The bomb exploded under the engine block, ten feet away. The blast shook Junger's emotions for days. Needless to say, this book was almost never written.Good thing it was. Junger provides excellent war correspondence, describing combat as a first-hand observer. Junger's prose remains apolitical, his goal to show the reader what it's like to be in battle, not make a political statement. The book is broken into three sections: "Fear," "Killing," and "Love." All three sections describe combat, but each section is loosely structured around its theme. In "Fear," Junger loosely analyzes why or why not soldiers might be afraid to fight; in "Killing" we learn why soldiers kill, how they feel about ending the life of an enemy combatant, and how they feel when one of their own receives that fate; in "Love," Junger makes an attempt to learn why soldiers would die in combat for their comrades. In fact, this section talks about bravery probably more than the first section. In one particularly long chapter, through interviews with soldiers and references to Army studies, Junger tries to figure out why one young man barely out of his teens (yes, let's not forget that these men are practically still boys) would jump on a live hand grenade. Junger's prose reads like amazing stuff.I suspect that this book will receive mostly positive reviews, mainly for its reporting. Certainly it deserves it. But the book is not without its faults, and I'd like to point out a few. The faults are mostly literary and organizational, however, and none hampered my reading pleasure. If you're a normal guy who just wants to read about fighting, or if you loved A Perfect Storm and just want another good read, then you'll probably not notice or care about these little problems. Without reservation, buy this book. If you're more literary minded, then maybe you'll prefer to read more this review.Embedded with Junger was a photojournalist named Tim Hetherington. Between them they shot over 150 hours of video, which was made into a recently released documentary called "Restrepo." (This name comes from the name of a fallen American soldier and the name of an important military outpost in the Korengal valley where Second Platoon spent a lot of their time.) Some (not all) of the combat scenes in the book read like he was watching video, and describing what he saw. This is not bad, but the strength of prose over video is that a writer can slow down time and stretch emotionally charged moments into pages. The writer can dig deep into the thoughts of his characters or himself, set up suspense, tackle fear, do whatever it takes. The best parts of the book are when Junger writes about his emotions and other fighters' emotions, when he writes philosophical about combat, and how he and the soldiers cope with the combat (conveniently recounted a few pages earlier). Much of the philosophy and memoir-style introspection jumps back and forth with combat scenes. Rarely do I recommend that a book be 50 to 100 pages longer, but I wish this book was. I wish that Junger combined his introspective musings and thought provoking observations, while he was describing the action. This type of writing style would have slowed down some of his action scenes and made his writing perfect. As it is, it's pretty good already.The one other minor complaint I had about the book was organizational. Chapter One describes a very specific start date for Junger's embedment (Spring 2007), but then in subsequent chapters I got a little confused about the chronology. Besides a few references to the heat or snow, it was difficult to get a feel for the exact chronology. Not that it matters too much -- this book is about fighting, and to the men stuck at outpost Restrepo, in the mountains of Afghanistan, far away from home, both physically and emotionally, it doesn't really matter what part of the year it is. Maybe Junger was trying to convey this.The book has an extensive bibliography that includes up-to-date literature on killing and combat. Junger spends some time philosophizing about fighting, killing, and cognitive processes during battle, and he backs up his writing with multiple studies. PTSD and other "mental casualties" are acknowledged, as well.Not only does WAR try to describe what it's like to be in combat, but it makes a serious attempt to try and figure out why men actually enjoy it. (Yes, believe it or not, my feeling by the end of the book was that these men do.) Towards the end of the book, Junger provides a neurological explanation: "The dopamine reward system exists in both sexes but is stronger in men, and as a result, men are far more likely to become obsessively involved in such things as hunting, gambling, computer games, and war. When the men of Second Platoon were moping around the outpost hoping for a firefight it was because, among other things, they weren't getting their accustomed dose of endorphins and dopamine." Then there is the sociological perspective. The men profiled in this book did not necessariily join the Army to die for thie country (although some do). Above all, it's the strong personal bonds, almost love, between young men who have been through challenging training and hardship, drive much of what takes place in war -- courage, bravery, willingness to die -- it all comes down to personal bonds. Men will die for their friends.
3 Sebastian Junger has undoubtedly rendered great homage to our fighting men in Afghanistan by writing this very graphic, gritty text, and narrative that conveys quite successfully the feel of comradership, honor, and bravery in that ungrateful land, as well as the resourcefulness on which combat and subsistance in hostile terrain so much depends.  The documentary "Restrepo" being shown selectively throughout the country and now available in dvd and blu-rayRestrepo [Blu-ray] is really a companion piece to this book and illustrates the overall hue of the work. The emotional impact of the book is undeniable.  It succeeds because it isolates the platoon, and the point is to convey the feeling of this peculiar War, hence the title. I cannot fault the author for writing a different book than the one he wrote, but part of me wishes he had.  There is no context to this platoon.  It's day-to-day survival.  I would have preferred a more complete picture, discussing matters of military relevance such as strategy and tactics into which the plattoon was drawn.  It would have been a different book.  But for me, a more satisfying one.
4 Sebastian Junger's "War" is an extremely solid look at the company and platoon level grunt experience in Afghanistan.  5 stars for the research, with a half star off for going slightly out of his depth in trying to explain the motivation of the soldiers and a half star off for organization.Junger's previous work is well-known and properly appreciated, but "War" doesn't do for the average grunt what "Perfect Storm" did for the fisherman.  That's not to say "War" isn't a superb book, as it's more the plethora of platoon level combat sagas prior to this means the bar is far higher him.  (It's harder to add new ground to explaining the life as a grunt than it is to illuminating the life of fishermen, since a lot more people are familiar with the former.)  Junger should be commended for his research here; 5 mini-tours as an embedded reporter over the course of a year while living under full Army regs and enduring the same risks as troops is an amazing commitment to journalism.There are two minor drawbacks.  First is that while the three sections do make some sense, the chronology can be somewhat confusing as he appears to jump around a bit.  Most war books tend towards a single timeline, and Junger's decision to try to analyze things a bit more isn't necessarily the right one.  Second is that Junger's strength as a writer tends towards really putting his reader in the shoes of his subjects (which he does quite nicely here), but he takes away from this a bit by trying to take his subjects apart.  Some of the 10000 foot level view here works, like when he does a quick literature review of the Army and the Israeli army figuring out what makes more effective grunts, but when he starts getting into such arcane subjects as dopamine rewards Junger takes away from his strengths.  The bottom line is these men fight for each other, something that we knew before the book began.Still, a very powerful look at the small unit experience on the ground in Afghanistan.  4 stars and recommended.
4 This book focuses on what the War in Afghanistan is like for the combat troops who fight it everyday.  In my view, the author presents a mostly objective look at the way of life of American troops fighting the Taliban.  The book is written as a progression of anecdotes and stories about a small unit of soldiers, both their day-to-day existence and the adrenaline dripping combat itself.  The author seems to have really captured what combat is like and portrayed it in a way for the average person to start to understand.  This book is not cheerleading for the U.S. Army but it does give you an appreciation for the sacrifices our soldiers make.  I highly recommend this book on its own merits but also as a way to remind us of our troops that are in harms way on a daily basis.  The only aspect of the book that was weak was the author's attempt to analyze the psychology of combat and try to tie it to the theory of evolution--it just didn't seem to fit.
5 In WAR, Sebastian Junger notes that while pure objectivity is hard enough to maintain while covering a city council meeting -- let alone in the middle of a war -- he committed himself to writing "honestly" about the American soldiers he lived (and very nearly died) with as an embedded journalist in Afghanistan's Korengal Valley. Junger gives a raw, real, gripping and insightful account of life and death in "The Valley," but in WAR he never comes across as pretentious, preachy or even particularly political. Instead, Junger aims to get across what it feels like to be a man at war in a place where firefights often happen several times a day.It is common to see soldiers portrayed as "victims" of war. Even as politicians and the media mechanically display a reverence for combat veterans and speak vaguely about "heroism" and "personal sacrifice," it is often clear that many are uncomfortable with the idea that there are men who willingly kill for a living. Junger's take on it is that they kill to keep on living, to stop someone from killing them. But back home many people speak of war as if it is something terrible that happened to soldiers who were in the wrong place at the wrong time.Junger refreshingly admits that "war is a lot of things and it's useless to pretend that exciting isn't one of them." Like Sergeant First Class William James in The Hurt Locker (2008), a lot of men apparently end up missing combat when they are sent home.Junger occasionally frames his powerful revelations about human -- and especially male -- nature as something we are going to have to be honest with ourselves about if we are ever to "solve the problem" of war. However, if the tendency to make war, to get caught up in the excitement and the drama of war, and to vigorously protect defend your tribe to the death is such a powerful force in men, is it truly something we can "solve"? No matter what we may say, when I look at the kind of entertainment and activities men find themselves naturally drawn to, I have to wonder if men would really know what to do with themselves in a world where that kind of masculine conflict has become mere "history." I suspect they'd read a lot of history books.At the remote outposts, Junger says the soldiers don't talk much about politics or the broader implications of the war. Soldiering is a job, and they do it at a human scale. The big picture is a distraction far above a soldier's pay grade, anyway.  Nationalism gives way to a sort of brotherly tribalism. Talk of God and religion are also vague and many of the soldiers seem to quietly agree, unofficially, that if God or Allah or Zeus exists, he doesn't live in the Valley. Junger observes that most of the real acts of courage are not based on ideology; instead, he sees them as acts of love, based on a sense of interdependence within platoons or companies. Men risk their lives to save each other, usually out of a desperate fear of failing a friend in need.This brings us to the ongoing discussion of honor. Junger writes that honor and bravery in the most traditional sense probably went out with the invention of the machine gun, because one heavily armed man can kill many from a safe distance. This puts the real beginning of Western honor's decline around World War I, which echoes James Bowman's assessment." ...much of modern military tactics is geared toward maneuvering the enemy into a position where they can essentially be massacred from safety. It sounds dishonorable only if you imagine that modern war is about honor; it's not. It's about winning, which means killing the enemy on the most unequal terms possible. Anything less simply results in the loss of more of your own men."Honor: A HistoryA convoy that Junger was travelling with to one of the outposts was hit by a roadside bomber, and he makes the point that burying a bomb in the road isn't particularly honorable either.At the same time though, Junger reverently describes the soldiers he knows as being "honorable."  It is difficult to tell exactly what he meant, but in light of his other comments and my own thinking and reading about honor, I'll take a stab at it.Junger explains in the quote above that the combat itself is not about honor. And we don't offer the soldiers who risk their lives the sort of public esteem or glory that they might have received at another time in history. We don't spend much time "singing their songs," because Westerners have officially nurtured a civilized horror of war. The most basic form of honor, reflexive honor, is definitely evident in Junger's stories from the Korengal -- especially when members of the group are killed in action and the group retaliates. Bravery and strength are evident in all of the men, and it seems to me that the sort of honor which best matches their deeds is public honor, but in the most insular sense. The outside world doesn't understand the soldiers, outsiders can't know what they've been through, but they understand each other. Their honor is public within the context of their small honor group -- the tribe. They don't want to be shamed by the group and fear failing their brothers-at-arms. Their honor is a reputation for courage, strength and masculine virtue as it is defined culturally by the other men who they respect and depend on at these rugged outposts in the graveyard of empires.(Longer review originally posted to AlternativeRight.com.)
5 I really enjoyed this book.  Sebastian Junger is a journalist who spent a considerable amount of time with the U.S. troops in Afghanistan, where the majority of this book is based.  He chronicles the daily life of the soldiers, a mix of long periods of boredom broken up by the intermittent frenzy of combat.  Soldiers die.  Soldiers become heroes.  But all of them are changed forever.  "War" is a book that can really open the reader's eyes to why soldiers keep going back to war, even if they have a perfectly fine home life.  I found it enlightening and a great read.  I highly recommend this book for anyone who has friends or family in the military.An interesting movie that could go along with this book isBrothers, a little-seen but critically-acclaimed movie about two brothers, one who goes to war and is captured.  His brother at home then comforts his wife.  This is a horrifying but sobering movie about what war can do to a person's psyche.  It's gripping and affecting.  Highly recommended.
5 I know a few of the soldiers' that fought in the 173d Airborne Brigade in this battle and being a former Skysoldier who served in Vietnam I can say without doubt, this has to be one of, if not the best account of our troops doing what soldiers' always have done.The book is bareboned, it states combat the way it is, it tells of all the little idiosyncracies soldiers' in war do. If no other book is ever written again, this one book should be required reading for our old politicians still thrusting young men into harms way. Buy it and you'll gain a new understanding of what we ask our soldiers to do and to endure for decrepit policies.
5 War reportage doesn't get much better than this I'll bet. Mr. Junger and his cameraman lived with Battle Company in the mountains of Afghanistan and somehow lived to tell the tale. You must leave this recounting wondering why the U.S.A. continues to get itself -- no, to get its young men and women -- into such decidedly unwinnable messes decade after decade. Look out! Wow, that was close! We didn't even hear it coming...
4 WARby Sebastian JungerBook Review by Jay GilbertsonFor over fifteen months author Junger (a Vanity Fair contributing editor) shadowed a single American army platoon in and around the Korengal Valley located deep in a remote part of Afghanistan. This is NOT an easy read, but one of the most compelling accounts of something most of us know very little about. This is not the kind of information you will ever see or hear in the media--this is what it's really like out there--and it's not what you think.It's worse."The core psychological experiences of war are so primal and unadulterated, however, that they eclipse subtler feelings, like sorrow or remorse, that can gut you quietly for years."Junger lives the life of combat in an area so humanly unfriendly it's often hard to read; let alone imagine. For the entire duration of their tour there is no running water, no cooked food, no women or booze or internet.  Their time is filled with constant stress so palpable it will change them forever. How could it not?This is not a diary, nor is it a case-study of how a soldier lives, nor is it in any way political; it's a collection of brutal experiences. From intense gun-fire and grenade tossing and road bombs that tear up young men beyond recognition to a myriad of horrible injuries and death all tied to the fact that this particular platoon fights as one unit.That theme is what powers this entire piece. This group of incredibly well-trained men would rather die themselves than be the cause of any other soldier's demise. There's a little known practice called blood-in and blood out to cement this into each and every soldiers psyche and to break the boredom."...you got beat on your birthday, you got beat before you left the platoon--on leave, say--and you got beat when you came back. The only way to leave Second Platoon without a beating was to get shot."One of the more interesting (as well as frustrating) techniques that Junger weaves into his narrative is the reference to many old studies on the behavior of men in combat, as well as current-day neurological research and psychological studies. These commercial-like inserts are on subjects as varied as the biological effects of an adrenaline rush to the weight each individual can carry and though they perhaps serve some fact-checking purpose, they drove me a little crazy. You can appreciate the validity of peppering a difficult subject as war with facts that explain human reactions but I couldn't help but wonder if Junger was in need of `fill.'The sad truth that Junger drives home is that no matter what side you're on, no matter what you're fighting for; oil, land, honor, revenge, religion--fill in the blank--no one seems to win.After reading WAR it's clear to me that once a soldier returns home, there is a part of that soldier--that never returns home.
4 In 2007 and 2008, journalist Sebastian Junger spent five month embedded with the U.S. Army's Second Platoon, Battle Company of the 173rd Airborne Brigade in the Korengal Valley in eastern Afghanistan. This is the front line, on the border with Pakistan, right smack dab in the middle of it. The platoon was charged with keeping the valley out of enemy control, a campaign that was part "hearts and minds" and part brutal violence.We get vivid depictions of the firefights, the frustrations, the loss, camaraderie, the intense boredom. The daily physical grind of moving sandbags, of lugging heavy weapons up mountains in high altitude, the daily mental grind of not knowing when the next bullets will snap past. The fear brought on by the fate of other soldiers in the valley--the fort that was overrun by insurgents and the eight-man squad that took 100 percent casualties in an ambush. And the frustrating interactions with the local Afghanis. In one incident, the soldiers chased a cow into some concertina wire. Unable to free it, they shoot the cow. The owner of the cow demands payment, calls are made up the chain of command and it is agreed to that the man will be paid in food equaling the weight of the dead cow. It is one of the many moments in which the soldiers wonder what the hell they're doing there.If you put any group of guys alone on any mountain for several months, you're bound to get some strange behavior. Now throw in unpredictable swings between extreme boredom and intense combat. Everyone is on edge, all the time. The men entertain themselves by dancing, drawing (one soldier repeatedly draws the valley, because he says, "It's all I know how to draw") and fighting. New members of the platoon, even ranking officers, are "beat in," meaning they're held down and beaten, sometimes severely. A fun form of entertainment is to sneak up on another soldier and choke him unconscious.Junger isn't concerned with the politics, military strategy or bigger stories of this war, but he does spend a fair amount of time delving into the themes of War. The book is divided into sections titled "Fear," "Killing" and "Love," and although much of the book oozes machismo and testosterone and smells like hot machine guns, these side meditations are insightful and well-researched, examined from physiological, sociological and philosophical angles. It's these meditations that elevate the book above a story about a specific group of soldiers. It's why the book is titled War. These insights are universal to war, as true of the First Punic War as the war in Afghanistan.  War succeeds because it places these soldiers in the context not of the American mission, but of the long history of the soldier.But even as the context gives the book import, it is still the individual soldiers that give it impact. You feel for them, are appalled by their madness and admire their courage as they face up the valley, staring down their deepest fears. As Seargent Brendan O'Byrne said: "God, Allah, Jehovah, Zeus...wasn't in that valley. Combat is the devil's game...That's why our prayers weren't answered: the only one listening was Satan."SIDENOTES:In April of 2010, just as this book was heading to bookstore shelves, the U.S. retreated out of the Korengal.I also highly recommend Junger's documentary, Restrepo, about his time in the Korengal.
5 This book is raw and bare in it's writing, subjects and "story".Sporting a generic title and cover art, I had skipped past "War" repeatedly in recommended lists. However, this book is anything but generic. It is a personal, dark and written in language so Spartan and exhausted, it really puts you in the headspace of what American infantry are going through in parts of Afghanistan.I cannot recommend it enough to readers who are sick of editorial pieces that pass for non-fiction these days.
5 The product of 5 month-long trips to Afghanistan over 15 months, "War" is Sebastian Junger's incredible chronicle of the fights and fears of America's "point of the spear" in the war against terror. Junger places himself in deepest peril, with the men who patrol the Korengal Valley - half-owned by America and its Afghan allies, half-owned by the Taliban and foreign fighters. Junger tells of the cat-and-mouse games played by both sides to gain advantage. The forward fire bases - Restrepo, Vegas and others - are constantly besieged by fighters who use stealth and the cover of the terrain to harass the Americans, raining mortars and automatic weapon fire on the GIs. The Americans for their part are backed by almost real-time access to enemy communications, by superior firepower and by Apache and Warthog gunships. It's a seemingly uneven fight that is fought to a draw, with little advance by either side.While the almost constant firefights give the book its urgent edge, Junger gets into the hearts and minds of the men doing the fighting. He explores the complex bond of soldiers to each other and to the group. In truth, once in position, any larger political rationale - the fight against terror and the Taliban -- is largely put aside,. All that matters is one's personal honor, which comes down to not screwing up and getting someone else killed. To die oneself is nowhere near as worrisome than losing a brother in arms. Junger also discusses the war's human "terrain" that is just as real as the geography. Winning the hearts and minds of the people --  by building schools and roads and compensating for civilians casualties - has to go hand in hand with winning ground. There is also humor in the book, as GIs administer a rough "welcome" to their new comrades and deal with the locals. The story of a cow that wandered into the camp and ends up as steaks is hilarious."War" is not about whether the war in Afghanistan is worthwhile or just or useful. It brings the war in Afghanistan into view, with its terrors, exertions, brutality and filth. It is replete with the vulgarity and jargon of the soldier - including TICs (contact with the enemy), Hescos (rock-filled fortifications) and Kerlix (used to stuff wounds). The men who subject themselves to the squalor, bad food, sleepless nights, scary bugs, dirt and loneliness are a breed apart, or become so out of necessity. The soldier's addiction to warfare makes his sacrifice acutely psychological as well as personal. Junger's description of the altered mindset adopted by soldiers makes it understandable why their homecoming is often so difficult and dangerous."War" is a wonderful addition to the library of those who are interested in the experience of front-line soldiers in all wars, and of the Afghanistan war in particular.
5 The title is simple but true.Junger presents the reality of modern anti-guerilla warfare.  He does it with heart and style and at great risk to himself.  The soldiers he bonds with - Junger recognizes the impossibility of pure objectivity in an `embedded' situation - are neither caricatures nor stereotypes but whole people.  They may be painted in an overly sympathetic light but he pulls away from his direct experience to examine many things.  For example, he studies the brotherhood felt by the soldiers and the interesting group dynamics that arise when you isolate a group of young men and you feed them poorly and keep them bored and then punctuate that life-threatening terror.Overall this is one of the best long-form first-person looks at the current war I have experienced across media.  The only drawback is that Junger is a writer who was also an observer.  He did put himself at risk and did nearly get himself blown up for the cause of his journalism but he was not a soldier.  The accounts of soldiers who became writers are more true because the words have one less layer of interpretation.  We may have to wait for this generation's  _The Naked and the Dead_ or _The Things They Carried_.
2 This account of the war in Afghanistan rather reminds me of when some left-wing reporter was sent to cover a conservative conference and wound up producing unintentionally-funny prose which spoke far more of the pathological insularity of the Left than the state of the Right.  You can always tell when an outsider tries to cover something alien to them as their accounts invariably resemble works of anthropology. That is the case with Junger's book---highly disappointing as "The Perfect Storm" managed to draw readers into the world of fishermen so effectively.Junger keeps the men he covers at arm's length here.  Having had the privilege of serving myself for some 9 years, while also having studied military history extensively, one great truth I am sure of:  soldiers in a combat zone talk about anything but war.  They do so because they are invariably stationed in hellholes.  They do so because they're steeped in it and want a respite from it.  They do so because the boredom drives you mad otherwise.  One indicator that Junger was kept out of the fold (as opposed to, say, Michael Yon, who gets American troops on the record all the time, no doubt in part because he was Spec Ops himself) is how few of these moments make it into his account.  Indications of his bias against the war and against those who fight it may be found in the fact that those few which make it in are the most scandalous.You won't learn much about the war in Afghanistan here. Junger gives precious little information as to why the firebases in question are important, as to how the war is ebbing and flowing, as to the impact of a larger military footprint and revised counterinsurgency doctrine are impacting operations on the ground.  I suspect it is because he couldn't get anyone but the misfits to talk to him.  He also doesn't seem to know much about his subject.It is thus narcissistic folly for him to title his book "War".  He has nothing to say about war which hasn't been said better and in Technicolor by Oliver Stone in his antiwar movies.War is hell, but the inability of modern Americans to understand it is even worse.  We are recreating Spartan society, where citizens fought and helots slaved to support them----only in reverse.It is a situation our enemies will not enable us to enjoy for long.
3 Having read a number of books about Iraq and Afghanistan, I was prepared to enjoy War by Junger.  After all, I really enjoyed The Perfect Storm, which was well researched and compelling.  I have to say War felt more like a set of small vignettes and stream of conscious writing than it did a book.  Rather than one unifying theme (other than Afghanistan) the book is broken into three sections:  Love, War, Killing, but even those sections aren't necessarily coherent.Instead of following a chronological timeline or drilling deeply into one battle or timeframe, Junger recounts his interactions with solider who serve in Afghanistan over a long period of time, in heavy firefights and in absolute boredom.  I'll tip my hat to him - unlike a lot of people who have written about the recent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, he's been with the troops, under fire and in some fairly serious action.  Yet a lot of this book falls flat.The reason is that there's no one person or concept that unifies the story and holds it together.  While Junger writes about individual soldiers, it's hard for the reader to identify with the soldiers.  Often the most compelling figure, and the one that seems to draw the most empathy is Airborne, the adopted puppy. Junger jumps from scene to scene, with different soldiers in different locations, so no one person or group forms a nucleus of the story.  Perhaps he is trying to suggest that its the uniform that counts, but we can't get too interested or excited about the uniform, especially when we read about the command issues and lack of supply for the troops.Others have given this book high marks, and I can't say I didn't like it.  But unlike other books written recently, like Joker One or House to House, I won't be coming back to this one.  It feels too abstract, too distant from its subjects and too disconnected from the reports we've received in other books and movies.  Maybe Junger is intentionally trying to distance himself from that kind of writing and reporting.  If so, he may have discovered a new way of writing about war, but it's one that I found disconnected and ultimately uninteresting.
4 It has been incredibly difficult to find meaning in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan at the political, strategic, and tactical levels. That is why Junger's gritty proximity to some of the worst fighting in the latter country has resonated both with this book and the documentary, Restrepo. As he found, "The moral basis of the war doesn't seem to interest soldiers much, and its long-term success or failure has a relevance of almost zero." That is because they are living in the moment at an incredibly heightened state of awareness of their own mortality and the pressure of not letting their buddies down.This book is quite simply about what drives men to wage war on the front lines or "Stripped to its essence, combat is a series of quick decisions and rather precise actions carried out in concert with ten or twelve other men." I was amazed to find that the soldiers Junger became so close to "never talked about the wider war - or cared." What drives them is the loyalty between that small band - the desire for all to support each other and to survive.The environment is claustrophobic even though the fighting took place in the sizable Korengal Valley. That is because the U.S. troops were confined to small camps that were constantly surrounded and harassed by the enemy. Conditions are extremely difficult, the tension palatable, and the futility ever-present. Their lives are boring but unexpectedly punctuated by action of great terror, confusion, and loss. This difference between garrison duty and real combat have been a solider's lot for centuries and Junger depicts it well.The ultimate cost of these conflicts will not be known for years, however, Junger ends the book with a concern carried by many who have fought that "The ultimate wound is the one that makes you miss the war you got it in."
4 I am the first to admit that I am not particularly a fan of Sebastian Junger, but I do see a lot of genius in his writing.  Also given the fact I am a sucker for military non-fiction, I thought I would give War a read.The concept for the book is the author spends a period of time embedded with an Army unit in a remote outpost in Afghanistan.  The outpost was known as the Korengal Outpost, Korengal Valley in the Kunar Province of Afghanistan.  The author describes the area as the "Afghanistan" of Afghanistan.  The area has traditionally an area where foreign armies can not infiltrate, making it a site for some vicious battles.  The author makes 5 trips into the valley as an embedded journalist, following the 15 month tour of a group of men in Afghanistan (my apologies, I did not write the unit down when I was reading the book).  The idea behind the author's trips was to become part of the unit.  He carried his own supplies, he lived with the soldiers, he ate with them, and he went on patrols with them.  He was there during the fun times and there dodging bullets and feeling the effects of an IED.In my opinion, the title is not right for this book.  When I heard the title War and read about the concept behind the book, I was picturing a book along the lines of "The Killer Angels".  I was picturing almost a "diary" of a sequence of events in the field, the blood, the pain, the tears, and the killing.  In a way, I was pleasantly surprised.  War covers two of what I would call the forbidden topics of battle, fear and killing.  The author lives and learns about the men.  He discusses the concept of fear amongst soldiers.  The book talks about what the fear is like (or the lack of it) and how it is addressed by the individuals.  There is also a fascinating section on a study the military did on how some individuals act in the best interest of the "group" versus their own self-preservation.  I thought the "Killing" section of the book was a bit weak, but still well done.  There is excellent dialogue on how soldiers prefer the idea of fighting and potentially dying versus stilling idle in relative safety.  There is also discussion on how individual soldiers see the death of soldiers through their own eyes, whether it is death at their own hands or themselves.  There is a final section on love that unsurprisingly talks about the bonds soldiers have with each other.  This is a topic covered in many other books and well done in this one.War is a great book that talks about the people behind the battles, not the battles themselves.  The one downfall of the book in my opinion is that the book rambles on seemingly aimlessly, much like talking to a toddler.  While individual concepts and stories in the book are outstanding, in some parts, they just do not flow together well.  The book is filled with great stories and many supporting studies and stories not directly related to the war in Afghanistan.If you are looking for a book talking about the battles in Afghanistan, this book is not what you are looking for.  While the author did experience some firefights and close calls, the focus was not on charging the enemy and valiant victories.  Rather, this book focuses on the men who fight the war.  I would highly recommend this book for people who want to know what the life of a deployed soldier is like.  I gathered that the remote location of the outpost contributes to the primitive living conditions of the soldiers who were the subject of this book.  I have to say the sacrifices they make for the military, our country, and each other is astounding.
5 A really well written book. I thought it was insightful and imaginative. I served two tours in Iraq, never in Afghanistan, but I have a new respect for all the Soldiers who serve in that country. I think that every American should read this book, to understand the sacrifices and hardships our service men and women go through on a daily basis for our freedom.
5 Really enjoyed the book, which i read while serving in Kandahar.  I saw Restrepo later and was quite moved by that as well, though it's a great reminder of how much more challenging it is just logistically to be with the men in the field, get the shot, as compared to the writer's task of sitting down with the people who were there and getting it all down.  The movie had some remarkable scenes but did not hang together quite the way the book did.
5 War! War is Hell! Over There, Over There! Band of Brothers! These are words I have seen, heard and read many times but never truly understood until I read this book. I was never fit enough to pass a military physical, I had the knees of a crippled football player before I reached high school. But I grew up wanting to go to war and in the long run I am glad that I did not. I had friends who did and they just told me that I would not understand when I asked them about their experiences.This book tells you just what they went through and how they felt about it and it makes me jealous that I was not able to experience those feeling for/about a fellow human being.I was impressed with this book and with the young men whose story it tells, they are truly Heros!
5 In "War," Sebastian Junger spends fifteen months on and off with America's fiercest combat unit in Afghanistan as they defend desolate hills that have neither wealth nor strategic value, and seem to do nothing except make young American soldiers easy visible targets for the insurgents.  "War" does not examine why America is in Afghanistan or the ethics/morality of America's military; what it does is examine the psychology of young American men at war, and what it says is certainly disturbing, provocative, and true:  that certain men are drawn to war, that war gives them meaning, and in war these men finally find love and peace.There is little doubt in the author's mind that today's American infantry are the finest, most effective soldiers the world has ever seen.  Even when trapped in a hopeless ambush, they're able to pull together and escape.  What makes American infantry so effective, in the author's estimation, is their brilliant teamwork, the way they communicate, the way each knows his part and plays it out so well, and ultimately that each man is willing to sacrifice his own life for his unit (the author compares an American platoon to a football team executing plays as opposed to a street gang randomly brawling).  Why this is so is a consequence of both American democracy (where soldiers are encouraged to communicate with each other) and the nature of war (where soldiers, driven by human instinct, naturally bond, and love and seek to protect each other.The author has a lot of counterintuitive thoughts, and one of them is that in war soldiers fight so fiercely not out of of an instinct to kill but to protect and defend those closest to them (their comrades).  Spending so much time with one particular unit in Afghanistan, Sebastian Junger concludes that love (more than fear and hate) is the overriding emotion among soldiers in a platoon, and love dulls and nullifies fear and hate.War is scary and crazy, and that's also why a lot of young men are drawn to it.  If they had money they might play high-stakes poker or try base-jumping, but they don't so they join the Army, and seek their highs and thrills in ferocious firefights.  Some of the men that Sebastian Junger profile are literally addicted to war, and when they return home they cannot cope, and immediately join back for another tour ("The Hurt Locker" is about one such army arendaline junkie).Reading Sebastian Junger's book it's easy to see why war is so attractive to people, and why it'll be an eternal part of the human condition.
5 As always, Junger brings reality in his writing. You connect with the guys he is following and understand what they are experiencing. Some very sad, some very funny. Great book.
5 It's sad to admit but I had no clue of what our soldiers are/were going through in Afghanistan. This is a must read for everyone regardless of your position on the war. We need to do everything in our power to support our troops while deployed and once they come home. Fantastic read!
4 I am not a vet but a former Peace Corps volunteer. This book gave me a better understanding of what a combat soldier goes through than anything I have heard or read. Started a bit slowly for me but once I got into it could not put it down. Very insightful writing _ highly recommended!
1 Liberalism has created several generations of parasites who think their country can be at war - that they can stand beside soldiers at war - and not take sides. The world is the way it is because of them. The only hope we have for a better world is with the soldiers he thinks he is better than.
5 Amazing book of a journalist embedded with troops in Afghanistan. I saw the documentary first, but the book is better than the documentary.For one thing, the documentary lasts only 90 mins but the book lasts much longer, it is a much longer experience for the reader and furthermore, the video is a visual experience but the book is a much more visceral or cogitative experience. The author can express much more to us about what he is thinking in words than he can show us on film.Some of the reviewers are right in that the book isn't very organized, but that doesn't matter, you are so caught up in the feelings of the men in the Korengal Valley that you just read on no matter how the book jumps. In fact, it may even reflect the chaos of the war there.In summary, Junger does a very good job of depicting the war in Korengal Valley from the front line grunt's point of view. You experience what he experienced, you are there when the bullets come in and when the soldiers get hit. You experience the dirt, the food, the noise, the downtime. One major point of the book was how the men would die for their friends and how they bonded together, this has been proven true war after war. This is front line journalism at it's best. I highly recommend it.
4 No new ground is broken, but a powerful reiteration of why men fight. Some interesting insights in the Afghan mind and situation. Tough guys in a tough place. Good reading. More proof Junger needs to live on the edge. Otherwise we wouldn't get to see this stuff.
5 The Perfect Storm was an inspiration for me to join the merchant marine and start a life at sea. Not that I ever wanted (or want) to see a storm of that magnitude but I was fascinated by the science and adventure of life upon the ocean. 15 years later I am a licensed captain of large ships and continue to be fascinated by the ocean... but not by war. Wars fought on land never interested me so I was, at first, reluctant to purchase this book but, considering the source, I gave it a try and was hooked from the first chapter. This is the story of the real battle on the front line of terrorism. Not the fox news version of the story but the hard faced reality of life on the front line of hell. This book is Journalism at it's finest, a rare window into the hard reality of modern combat.
5 When my friend told me that this book was a `good read,' I bought it on a whim. I vaguely remembered reading an article about Junger's travels to Afghanistan and his attempt to write a book that reveals what it "feels" like to be in combat. Though this is a great goal, it is nearly impossible to describe anything well enough to where everybody experiences the same thing. That aside, the writing style is fun and candid. I found myself laughing at many of the things that the soldiers said, and I felt myself upset during some of the more depressing passages in the book. Junger analyzes the relationship between the men, and contrasts the differences of views between the front line men versus the those of the "fobbits." He makes many observations, many of them funny, many insightful. At times the story is inspiring and other times the reader may become slightly disgusted with combat.The fact that Junger holds the power to make the reader go through so many different feelings and still allows the reader to see the viewpoints through a relatively objective writing style, is simply profound. One of the most impressive observations Junger makes is how little the men on the front lines care about the reasons, and even more insightful observation is just how much respect both the Taliban and the US Army have for each other.There is a message in this book, though it is likely better for the reader to interpret it himself. Overall, this is a fantastic, can't-put-it-down type read. Highly recommended!
4 ...with no light at the end of the proverbial tunnel.America is entering its 10th year of war in Afghanistan, and Sebastian Junger has written the most essential book on the actual fighting in this forever war. He is the author of The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea an expression that has now entered the American language; I've read it, and think it is truly excellent. Thus, when I saw this offering via the Vine Newsletter I had no hesitation in hitting the "send me a copy" button. And I was not disappointed, since Junger, "walked the walk," a rarity for journalists who prefer to "talk the talk." Junger, at the age of 45, though not required to carry the same loads, kept pace with the soldiers half his age in the rugged terrain of the Korengal valley; on a global scale, a postage stamp size place 10 km by 10 km, east of Kabul, near the border with Pakistan. As he said about one of the bases he was on: "The base is a dusty scrap of steep ground surrounded by timber walls and sandbags, one of the smallest, most fragile capillaries in a vascular system that pumps American influence around the world. Two Americans have already lost their lives defending it." The author ate the same food, slept in the same vermin-infested bunkers, and walked the patrols with the "grunts," and definitely took the "in-coming" with them. He did this over a 4-5 month period, between June, 2007 and June, 2008. It was the ultimate determinate--dump blind luck--and in his case, of the 10 foot variety, that permitted him to live long enough to write this book.Junger's book is NOT a description of the typical experience for troops in Afghanistan (or Iraq, now, for that matter.) He placed himself literally and metaphorically "on the cutting edge" of the combat experience. "Nearly a fifth of the combat experienced by the 70,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan is being fought by the 150 men of Battle Company. Seventy percent of the bombs dropped in Afghanistan are dropped in and around the Korengal Valley" (p 55). (Battle Company is part of a 600-man battalion called "The Rock," in the 173rd Airborne Brigade.) Junger forms friendships with the men who routinely protect his life, and as he says: "Pure objectivity--difficult enough while covering a city council meeting--isn't remotely possible in a war; bonding with the men around you is the least of your problems." He has also done a fair degree of academic research, which is referenced, as to why soldiers fight - no surprises here; they fight for their "buddies." The author has some excellent descriptive passages on the clinical aspects of that tremendous "rush" that one can receive while in combat, and why it can literally be addictive.For the last four months of 1968 my unit was "op conned" (military lingo for "under the operational control of") the 173rd Airborne, when it was based out of LZ English, in northern Binh Dinh province. Thus, I experienced some affinity in the read. Is Afghanistan Vietnam redux, as so many right-wing think tanks proclaimed when it was the Russians who were fighting the Afghans? Junger does not mention Vietnam much, and I would have appreciated a "differential diagnosis."  Clearly airborne troops who have volunteered for military service are more `gung-ho' than reluctant conscripts, and perhaps less interested in the "bigger issues" of the war; which suits the "brass" just fine. When the men in a unit all train together, and deploy together, there is a far higher degree of cohesion; of being willing to die for your buddy; but the downside, which Junger briefly describes, is when a year's worth of combat experience transfers out at the same time, to be replaced entirely by a unit of "cherries."One of the central issues in all wars is censorship, truth famously being the first casualty. Junger perhaps describes his own book inadvertently, when he says: "The public affairs guys on those bases offered the press a certain vision of the war, and that vision wasn't "wrong," it just seemed amazingly incomplete... I thought of those as `Vietnam moments.' A Vietnam moment was one in which you weren't so much getting lied to as getting asked to participate in a kind of collective wishful thinking (p 132). On the next page he says: "Once at a dinner party back home I was asked, with a kind of knowing wink, how much the military had `censored' my reporting. I answered that I'd never been censored at all..."I wasn't at a dinner party, and I didn't wink, but I was in a van rolling down Highway 1, on my first return to Vietnam, in 1994, when I had the opportunity to ask one of the "big name" journalists of that war the same question. He huffily replied that he had never been censored. I gently probed, OK, maybe not "censored," but how about not reporting a story that "was too hot to handle." Again I received a `negative', and so, perhaps uncharitably, since his wife and daughter were also in the van, I reminded him of some of things we didn't talk about. He grudgingly "surrendered."After "The Perfect Storm" there were a couple of people who would not speak to Junger, because of his portrayal of some individuals, none of whom he had known prior to the event. You don't have the sense the same will be true of this book; as he states in the introduction, he did share sections with the men involved to "make sure they are comfortable with what I wrote." Much of the book is the combat, the "exciting" part of war; but what of the non-combat; the boredom of not being attacked for weeks? It is discussed somewhat, but the solace of alcohol is only briefly mentioned, and of hash, never. Can this be true? Also missing were some of the other "universal themes" of war, at least for front line troops, which were depicted in classic accounts of combat, such asErich Maria Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front (Bloom's Modern Critical Interpretations)Specifically, the dangerous, mind-numbing incompetence of some of the officers, and the enormous disconnect with the civilians on the home front who are "criminally" indifferent to the experience and fate of the grunts. Also,  Junger says there were no "comfort women" (to use that term we seem to reserve for Japanese WW II use of Korean women) in the Korengal, and that may actually be true, though Bernard Fall reports of them at Dien Bien Phu, and they were generally at even remote fire bases in Vietnam during the American deployment. Are they anywhere in Afghanistan? Like the "secret" bombing of Cambodia, THEY know, it is only the home town folks who are kept in the dark. But the ultimate in "you don't want to go there" was covered by one sentence: "The men know Pakistan is the root of the entire war, and that is just about the only topic they get political about."  In Vietnam we knew the origins the weapons that the NVA and the VC were using: Red China and the Soviet Union. But where is all the weaponry and ammunition coming from for the "Anti-Coalition forces"? Who makes it, and how does it get there?  After all, Pakistan is an ally of the United States, and a beneficiary of billions in financial aid.e.e. cummings visited this issue, concerning the "Good War," WW II, with his poem about American soldiers being killed by pieces of the 6th Street El, a reference to the scrape iron the US sold the Japanese just before the commencement of the war. Time for a re-visit?My nephew is in the Marines; and departs for deployment in Afghanistan's Helmund Province today. He will be in a vastly different area that the one depicted in the book, though the foe will be similarly ill-defined. He is under no illusions about the war, and hopes to make it the 8 months to the end of his enlistment. But will his children, and my grandchildren be given the opportunity to fight in this graveyard of empires? Will we be able to afford this opportunity?  I disagree with Colonel Ostlund's assessment (p 171): on economic arguments, we lose - we simply cannot afford endless war.One of the best books on war written by a journalist; a solid 5-stars for what is included, all of which was meticulously fact-checked. It is the "blue pencil" omissions, the topics "too hot to handle" that cost it a star.Update:  On April 14, the New York Times (as well as others) ran an article stating that all US Forces would be abandoning the Korengal valley. Another impossibly remote outpost, like LZ English, in northern Binh Dinh province, that was not really necessary for the security of the United States, and whose ownership was returned to the people who lived there.Plus ca change... plus la meme chose.A Thanksgiving update... truly in more ways than one, and an assessment from another person who "has paid his dues." My nephew survived his tour of Helmund province, and is whole of body, but carries concerns for what he has witnessed. He will be receiving his honorable discharge from the Marines on Dec. 13. In regards to his concerns, he said the following: "But I really do need to find myself again. I no longer support any type of war, and only support the people in the military, not the suits that send the young men and women over there. Too many young lives have been lost for a meaningless cause, and some of the people that do make it are changed forever. So, I have got some soul searching to do."Plus ca change, redux.Junger covered the case of the soldier who felt compelled to go back... but what of all the others?- JPJ
4 Just understanding what Sebastian Unger went through to bring us his perspective of war and combat in present day Afghanistan is amazing. He literally risked his life almost every day to allow the reader to begin to comprehend the everyday life, the fears, the thoughts and the challenges of our fine young American soldiers. He explores many aspects of war itself - what combat is like, what it means to young men who are sent to fight and live, at times, like animals - trapped, frightened yet vicious animals. This is a must read for anyone who seeks to understand what combat is like, how young men cope with the horrors of war, how humans live on the battlefield, what they think about, talk about and how they form indelible bonds with each other that are very much like love and family - how young men will fight and die to save each other.
5 One of the best books written about the early days in the Afghan war. I had seen the documentary about O.P. Restrepo and this just adds to that movie. Gives the reader a look at the daily life of a solider up high in the Hindu Kush.
4 If author Junger had continued on with his story another couple of hundred pages to inform the reader as to what happened to the young men after their return home he may have been able to write the best book about the war in Afghanistan.  Something along the lines of "The Long Grey Line."  Instead he ends the book with the soldiers return stateside, and the problems adjusting to civilian life are only briefly touched upon.The book as written is riveting, though I could have done with more reflection and less of the macho posturing by both the author and his subjects.  All in all a hard book to put down and short enough to be read in two sittings.Highly recommended.
5 Wow. Between the muddy, dusty, discomfort of one of the world;s biggest hell holes comes a story of humanity, bravery and absolute frustration of being in Afghanistan.  Great read!
5 This certainly is not as entertaining as Junger's other books. But it's an important book to read and provides a very clear idea of what these guys are going through. Its hard to relate, but I think that's the point.
5 I was not sure what to expect from this book when I picked it up. I knew author's politics was not really of my liking but I read anything about the fighting men. The book is full of stories of heroism and sacrifice. It is divided in chapters and is pretty easy to read/to absorb. The story of men in the Korengal valley makes you appreciate the sacrifices they made on a daily basis. Putting up with the terrain, people, chain of command and stupid ROEs is difficult and yet these men had done it every day. My hats off to them. And I appreciate the author's effort in bringing their story to our attention.
5 Loved this book for its realism, journalistic accuracy, and raw power of what an observer would see in the Valleys of Afghanistan. Junger's courage and devotion to these men, along with his photographer, is the most admirable firsthand account I have ever read.The story is a constant adrenaline rush! Rare, unique and firsthand, a white knuckled account of everyday life for US troops, special infantry soldiers facing an invisible enemy of insurgents, Taliban and locals alike. The US forces have overwhelming modern technology, fierce firepower, physicality, bravery and unyielding brotherhood---countered by the enemy's religious fervor, hatred of the alien American presence, unequaled knowledge of territory, fluid finances from terrorist regimes, and the surprise of ever changing tactics and weapons.As a reader, this book distinguishes itself from the rest because you learn what it means to be a foot soldier in modern times. These types of encounters are still occurring, which only makes this book more stunning in its story. One is exposed to all the horror and trauma of war, the skirmishes, ambushes, slaughters, courage, and casualties. The heartbreaking losses and the harshness of war's aftermath on human beings...unable to shed their animal skins...the survival instincts that kept them alive, but whose traits are incompatible with civilization....a MUST READ!
4 Loved the book. Junger is an amazing author and uses various writing techniques to convey emotion and show-don't-tell events. I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in combat or a good story.
4 I first watched the movie Restrepo several months ago and then I read the book War.  I found the sequence of events hard to follow in the book and I wish there was an index with definitions of all the acronyms (Warrior Soul had that and it was very helpful).It is the philosophical and sociological aspects of war I found most interesting.  The book is broken down into three main "books":  Fear; Killing and Love.FEAR:  Combat jammed so much adrenaline through your system that fear was rarely an issue; far more indicative of real courage was how you felt before the big operations when the implications of losing your life had a chance to sink in. ...don't let fear affect the others...KILLING:  The enemy now had a weapon that unnerved the Americans more than small arms fire ever could:  Random luck.  Every time you drove down the road you were engaged in a twisted existential exercise where each moment was the only proof you'd ever have that you hadn't been blown up the moment before (in reference to IED's).LOVE:  As a solider, the thing you were most afraid of was failing your brothers when they needed you, and compared to that, dying was easy.  Cowardice lingered forever.  Heroism- is a negation of the self-you're prepared to lose your own life for the sake of others -so in that sense, talking about how brave you were may be psychologically contradictory.This is an important book not just about the combat mission in the Korengal Valley but on the make-up of an infantry soldier and how they get through the mission by always watching out for each other.  It is when these guys go home that it gets really scary for them.
5 It follows a lot of the restrepo documentary, and even adds some new details and goes more in depth. I've seen restrepo over a dozen times by now and this book definitely lived up to the doc
4 I'm a big Junger fan, but who isn't.  His style just keeps me focused and even in his opinion pieces like A Death In Belmont he doesn't have that arrogant "I'm right!" tone to it.  This is the main reason I thought WAR was great; for the most part he really left his feelings about the cause and politics of war out of the narrative.  His focus on that of the soldiers was on point and never strayed.  The background on the psychology of war and the means of groups really gave me a full understanding of what he was getting across.  There are points where it can be little confusing with so many bases and areas of Afghanistan and keeping track of the soldiers can make your head spin but a lot of times the specifics aren't important.
4 War" is another of those books that I wasn't sure if I wanted to start. I've read a number of "soldiers at war" books in my day and they're typically hard reading for me. It is hard to read about young men living in the harshest conditions--daily risking their lives--while seated comfortably in an easy chair at home. Though I'm grateful for their sacrifice, it is unsettling to know the price others are daily paying to defend the things I hold dear. It doesn't seem right or fair. It is a gift I don't deserve and a debt I can hardly repay.That said, I was glad I read this book. The story of Mr. Junger's time as an imbedded journalist among our brave soldiers fighting in Afghanistan is well worth any discomfort. The author does a great job of bringing you right into the action. It is a page-turner from start to finish.Be warned, though, no punches are pulled here. You will see the war the way the soldiers see, hear and live it--with both the imperfections and strengths of humanity represented. Their language is explicit, the situations are often tense, and there is little comfort in any of it.This book is a good reminder for us all. Read "War" and remember the true cost of freedom.
5 I watched the acclaimed and award winning documentary "Restrepo" and held on for dear life from start to finish. Perhaps the most realistic (afaik) and gripping tale of an active war-zone as I have encountered. The scene in the movie where the road-side bomb blows up the Humvee the producers are riding in is perhaps the most physically jarring thing I've ever seen in any movie, fiction or non-fiction (that is, my heart literally skipped a beat and it absolutely fascinates and terrifies you simultaneously).If you haven't seen the movie Restrepo, rent or buy it now and watch it.  It gives a visual picture of this book, but does not supersede this book - it is a true compliment.Having seen the movie, I had to read the source/accompanying book. WAR is that book. Brought to you by the same author who wrote the tale of the true story of the Perfect Storm (made into a similarly gripping movie), Sebastian Junger and his photographer Tim Hetherington are embedded off and on over a couple years with front line infantry in the most violent place in the world: The Korengal valley in Afghanistan during the height of US military operations in the area.[Note: On an extremely sad note, Tim Hetherington was later killed while covering (as a photojournalist) the Libyan uprising and eventual ousting of Kadafi.]This book takes no stance on right and wrong, it takes no political angle. It is a book about the procedure and life-on-the-ground of front line war. And make no mistake, you are taken into this war by reading this book: You will know your buddies on patrol with you, you will see them hurt or killed, you will defend them with uncommon valor, you will experience the unsettled sleep of the front line, you will learn the proper way to shoot a large caliber fully automatic machine gun, even when it is glowing hot (hint, bathe it in oil constantly).The point is that the reader is brought kicking and screaming into this terrible predicament and you live it on every page.I finished this book and thought, "Thank goodness I'm back from that journey!"  I do not know how these embedded reporters do it (they refrain from all combat and are not trained like the soldiers they are next to), and I feel the sorrow and pride of the soldiers covered and described so brilliantly in this piece. It will be a long time until another book (fiction or not) so skillfully makes the reader feel the rigors of live combat.100% recommended.
4 With "The Perfect Storm," Sebastain Junger crafted a harrowing and heartbreaking story of men in danger--cut off and reliant on one another for survival.  It is the ultimate non-fiction story of man versus nature, and as we know, that's not always a fair fight.  It is, quite literally, one of my favorite books.  So it is with much excitement that I picked up Junger's "War," a document relating his personal experiences as a reporter while being embedded with American soldiers in Afghanistan.  Junger has already enjoyed success on this topic in a series of articles as well as a documentary film "Restrepo" (an award winner at this year's Sundance).  I thought if anyone could understand the hearts of men in conflict it would be Junger.  And "War" does prove to be a fascinating and intimate look at how individuals come together to form a collective unit.One of the pleasures of "War" is its surprisingly apolitical agenda.  Anyone hoping that this book is a comprehensive examination of the American presence in Afghanistan will need to look elsewhere.  Junger wants to keep things at a more personal level and "War" is really his homage to those on the front lines.  Much like "The Perfect Storm," it is a study of camaraderie and brotherhood under extreme circumstances.  Junger does an amazing job capturing the specifics of what it was like to be stationed in the Afghani conflict.  From the battles to the boredom, this is an unflinching look at the realities of modern warfare.  Along the way, Junger also studies the sociological and psychological influences present.  It is the unusual and extraordinary bonding within the group that leads to altruism and, ultimately, heroism (although the men themselves never consider their acts heroic).As much as I admired "War," however, there was an element that kept me distanced as well.  Junger's intent to honor the soldiers he knew and lived with is evident--but, unfortunately, the men aren't really distinguished as individuals.  In "The Perfect Storm," the power and majesty of the action is enhanced by the full-bodied and thoroughly three dimensional portraits of the men involved.  That's how I wanted to get to know these soldiers as well.  But aside from one or two instances, we might admire or be intrigued by what someone has said or done--but we never fully get to know them.  It's what keeps "War" from being a truly great book, in my opinion.  Still, Junger's "War" is a compelling look at male bonding.  Told from an unusual and refreshing angle, "War" is a noteworthy look into a situation that many of us have only seen from afar.
5 The author is facing the readers with individuals in direct battles and made it clear, what war is nowadays. For me it was shocking to realize for which reason young soldiers are throughing their lives away and die. It. also shows, what modern kind of wappons are used and how much costs are involved. And finaly The reality for the soldiers when they come home, mentaly ill, wracks for their future live. This Book should read everyone who believes in wars and are proud of their soldiers, who are risking their lives for what and whom.
5 I purchased this book because of friend who had served in Afghanistan. Being a civilian who had never been a member of the military and certainly had no possible reference to compare with that experience, I was looking for something to aid me in understanding. What I found was an eye opening look at some of what it is to be a soldier at war.Mr. Junger's narrative stays as close to journalistic as can be expected for someone who spent months in the same perilous situations as the men of Restrepo and Korengal. Some might see the attempt at professional aloofness as a negative; I did not. The harsh realities and the stark situations take enough of an emotional toll on the reader that the use of flowery prose would detract from the truth and honesty of the story he is trying to tell.There are no politics in this book. It passes no moral judgment on the morality, leglaity or necessity of war. That is its primary strength as it reflects how far removed such things fall from men's minds when they are faced with death while walking to get a cup of coffee.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who strives to understand a friend or loved one serving in the Middle East or anyone trying to make sense of a decade in Afghanistan.
5 Read this and watch Junger's documentary "Restrepo." Both reinforce and illumine each other. I know one of the guys who served in the unit in the valley. He's my student this term. I knew him before he left and I know him now. He says this is the way it was/is. I can't add more than that. Get rid of preconceptions and just read it and watch "Restrepo." Both together will hit you hard. Alexander the Great cut down the trees there and they didn't grow back. Think about that too.
5 This is an well written account of a year long deployment in Afghanistan.  Junger does an excellent job relaying what it is like to spend a year in a war zone (lots of boredom occasionally interrupted by moments of terror and excitement).  This is not just a book that recounts the events though. Junger peppers it with historical information about how men react in combat (both physically and psychologically).On a side note, I'm currently serving in Afghanistan and I recently ran into members of the unit that Junger covers in the book.  The people I spoke to said the book is accurate and highly recommended it.  As do I.  This is one of the best books covering modern combat and the men who take part in it.
5 Here's a view from a non-American reader of "War". I'm a Swede, living in the Arctic part of Sweden - which may sound as remote from the war in Afghanistan as is possible. However, I had plenty of reasons for picking up this book. Aside from being a member of the Swedish Military History Commission, the Swedish regiment that is now the one most engaged in Afghanistan is the one that I was trained at, up here. Some weeks ago a guy from the regiment was killed in Afghanistan and just the other day an officer I know was badly wounded in action down there.So, understanding the war in Afghanistan is something that really interests me - and a lot of other Swedes. But so far, I would say, there is no book in either Swedish or English as good as Sebastian Junger's "War" if you want to know about the nature of the most intense combat down there - as seen from the perspective of US frontline soldiers. I of course know that Junger was not there as a soldier himself, but I do believe he has been able to transmit their reality as closely as is possible through words.My one negative comment about the book is this one: the title gives the impression that the book could be about war in general. It is not even about the current war in Afghanistan in general, it is a book about the fighting in the Korengal Valley, seen almost exclusively from an American perspective. On the other hand, Junger in "War" also goes to impressive lengths to understand what war in general does to man. But I still think another title, like "Combat in the Korengal" would have been better.I have recently done a comparison between "War" and some other books about Afghanistan at war. Here it is: [...]
5 This book is very well written, and should be required reading for all Americans. It shows the war from the grunt level, dirt and all.
4 Sebastian Junger's reporting on Afghanastan pre-dates September 11th; he profiled Northern Alliance leader Ahmad Massoud for National Geographic in March 2001. Massoud, you may recall, was assassinated by al-Qaeda just two days prior to their attack on the U.S. Junger is best known for writing The Perfect Storm, but for years has reported from other hotspots like Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Kosovo, often in advance of their becoming known to the wider public. For War, Junger embedded five times over a period of fourteen months with a platoon in the 2nd Battalion in the Korengal valley, Afghanistan, describing events not from a geopolitical perspective, but from that as a front-line soldier in a war most of us pay little heed. For me his book succeeds where Marcus Luttrell's Lone Survivor did not. While Luttrell's book begins brilliantly, his politics soon take over. Junger is more interested in what drives young men to fight, how they survive - not as individuals but as a unit - on a day-to-day basis in danger, isolation, and primitive conditions, and describes the nearly sexual thrill of combat. He rarely writes of the larger picture because the soldiers he lives with don't focus on it. He does, though, write poignantly about his own fears and struggles, as well as his concerns over the difficulties these young men will face if they survive combat and  are able to return to civilian life.Junger's matter-of-fact style serves him well whether he's describing a near-miss with an IED, the smell of amonia in a soldier's urine because he's no longer burning fat but instead is burning muscle, or the somewhat bizarre sight of watching soldiers beat the crap out of their new lieutenant to see if he's got what it takes. Readers get a strong feeling of geographical location throughout the book, and through this setting of scene we are able to see more intimately into the world he joined. Junger reveals his ever-present internal conflict of reporting as an embed - how he can pass ammunition from one soldier to another but cannot fire a weapon, and how at one point he wages an internal dialog that leads him to agree to wear a uniform offered to him (rather than his own clothes) because to not do so might endanger the men.He hits readers right between the eyes with the horrors of war and never lets up. If you've seen Band of Brothers, The Pacific, or Saving Private Ryan, you know how it looks to be in battle, but with Junger's War, you feel it in an even more visceral sense because he's eaten with these men, slept with them, smelled their farts, and heard their belches. He's watched men, younger by a generation than those who sent them, fight bravely. The daily dread, boredom, and fear they live with vividly translates from book to reader, as does their youth and the excitement that comes out of being Boys with Big, Loud Toys. Junger doesn't shy away from sharing the rush involved with firing destructive weaponry, nor does he avoid the disconcerting feelings he experiences when these young men express joy upon killing the enemy. He worries about their return to a life that can never provide such an extreme rush, and pays homage to the bravery of the fallen, as well as their strong sense of duty.War is broken into three sections - Fear, Killing, and Love - during which Junger focuses on the three elements involved in fighting a war. Unfortunately, what works thematically doesn't always work chronologically, and this is the only complaint I have about the book. It's not much of one, though, as his thematic structure generally holds up. And because Junger writes in both short and long form, a fear I had - that he would repeat his themes ad nauseum, which can happen when article writers attempt full-length books - was completely unfounded.Sebastian Junger may never have killed a member of the Taliban, but because of the powerful experiences he shared during his time with a platoon in the 2nd Battalion, the rest of us can begin to understand what it's like to actually fight a war.
5 I am indeed lucky not to have suffered the never ending daily tension from being exposed to snipers day after day after day. My war was vastly easier on the psyche.Junger does an even better job of describing the grunt's thoughts and anxieties than he did with his seminal book, The Perfect Storm.The man can write and he has the guts to expose himself to the real world of which he is writing.  Reading this was a truly visceral experience.  I highly recommend it to both combat veterans and non-vets.  It accurately depicts the price a few are willing to pay in the defense of our country.  The All Volunteer Force brought these guys to serve, and they have not failed us.Their story as told by Junger should be required reading for all politicians and others who have the ability to waste our treasure and send our youth in harm's way.A great read!
5 Junger writes about a subject that has been covered by many writers through history. But his book is closer to describing the terrible dichotomy of war, with its cruelty and horror, and the incredible heroics and bonding which combat brings. It is no oddity that it forges "bands of brothers" and this book describes how the bonds formed in combat become life-long emotions that are seldom, if ever, felt by those who have not experienced the intensity of combat.
5 Don't have alot to add about the book.  It was good.  The politics of why the military would put men into these kind of situations is sick.The book reminded me of Michael Herr's Dispatches years ago about Nam.The ending of the book at the White House is especially poignant.
5 This is an outstanding book-- and an unusual one, too.Sebastian Junger and a photojournalist spent five  months embedded with a front line combat unit in Afghanistan's Korengal Valley beginning in the spring of 2007.  He shared all of the experiences the troops had, including the primitive living conditions, the MREs, the horrible weather, the long patrols on nearly impassable terrain, and most of all, getting shot at.  But this isn't a book about THE war; rather, it's a book about WAR.  Junger is a world-class journalist (think about The Perfect Storm) and he uses his perceptive powers and his writing skills to deal with a question that not many people have tried to answer:  What is it that makes men fight wars well, to the point that they actually prefer the fighting to civilian life?According to Junger, the answer boils down to a balance among three factors: fear, killing, and love.  In the book's three divisions, he deals with what each of them means in the theoretical context of warfare and in the specific context of the 2nd Platoon.  He mixes scholarly analysis with the firsthand accounts of what the men are experiencing to create an unforgettable analysis.  In some ways, the book is an academic study, but one that's explicated with shocking accounts of combat, which in the case of the 2nd Platoon, is up close and personal-- and frequently lethal.He also does something that I would think is very difficult.  On the one hand, he is studying the men and what they do; on the other hand, he bonds with them because he shares the danger and privation they experience.  The result is a deeply sympathetic, personal account which, at the same time, is very objective.  I think that's because he shares their emotional reactions to what's happening, but he's not really one of them.  That is, he's not a warrior, and they are, which makes them part of a tight group he will never really enter.The book isn't flawless.  After the specific beginning point in Chapter 1, the book contains virtually no other organizational signposts.  It seems to jump around, and I had some difficulty following exactly who was doing what and when they were doing it.  After finishing the book, I think this might have been deliberate.  Part of being in combat almost literally at the ends of the earth is the disorienting combination of intense terror and feverish action with stupefying boredom and confusion about what they're doing.  That is, the book is somewhat confused because the men are somewhat confused, too.If you're looking for war stories, this book will fill the bill.  However, if you're looking for something deeper-- an examination of what makes warriors different from the rest of us-- this book does that even better.  I finished the book feeling much more respect and sympathy for the less-than-1% of the US population that we periodically send into danger to do the things that the nation feels the need to do, things that most of us can't do, and really don't want to do.They do it, and it's important for all of us to understand why they do it, and how they're changed by doing it.  I recommend this book most highly.
5 This is an exceptionally compelling work.  Junger doesn't just tag along, he immerses himself with his comrades.  He explains carefully and explicitly why he as a journalist can't pick up a gun, 99.9% of the time and why a journalist might in .01% of situations.  He also explains eloquently why young men and women go into combat and how they injured, sick, tired... will fight on despite their physical limitations -- for the love of their fellow men.  For those of us who have not served and not been in combat, he draws a picture that is so explicit, one feels as if he was there.  I'm in awe of his courage for being deep in the sh(t without a weapon but 100% trusting of his young comrades. Thank you SJ.
5 I only bought this book after seeing Junger on the Daily Show and am surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I'm not really interested by books about violence or wars but this really was a study of individuals, character portraits and its through that lens that I became hooked and read the book in one day. Some of the passages about actual fighting didn't really appeal to me (maybe it's a gender thing?) but I kept reading because I felt so emotionally invested with the soldiers. Can't wait to see the movie now and I hope it will update what's happened with the men from that platoon.
4 So, here you are. You're a reporter who's long since proven he has the guts and the physical stamina to outlast most people, and now you've decided to tell the story of the war in Afghanistan -- the story of all wars, really -- through the eyes of soldiers on the front line. So, you pick the fightingest company in the most actively engaged battalion in the whole goddam U.S. Army. In fact:"Nearly a fifth of the combat experienced by the 70,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan is being fought by the 150 men of Battle Company. Seventy percent of the bombs dropped in Afghanistan are dropped in and around the Korengal Valley," where the company is stationed, close to the Pakistan border. And, as if that isn't enough, you decide to embed yourself with Second Platoon, Battle Company's toughest and most combat-hardened unit. And you spend 15 months with these guys, on and off, until their deployment is up and the survivors depart the country.And what do you learn from all this? It isn't pretty. You learn that war, as experienced by the young men who do most of the fighting, is most assuredly not "the continuation of politics by other means," as the military theorist Karl von Clausewitz famously asserted. And it's not even mostly about surviving: killing the enemy before he has a chance to kill you. War, Junger shows us, seems to boil down to obsessive attention to keeping your buddies alive. That's why soldiers dash through waves of bullets to drag a wounded comrade to safety, or even fall on a grenade that would otherwise kill the guys around you as well as you yourself.War is much more than the honest, unvarnished account of men in battle that I was expecting. From time to time, Junger turns from straight reporting to analysis, relating the findings of his research into the psychology of combat, the psyche of the ideal soldier, and the psychic consequences of experiencing combat. It turns out, Junger reports, that some of the "behavioral determinants" that are typical of an effective soldier "- like a willingness to take risks -- seem to figure disproportionately in the characters of young men. They are killed in accidents and homicides at a rate of 106 per 100,000 per year, roughly five times the rate of young women. Statistically, it's six times as dangerous to spend a year as a young man in America than as a cop or fireman, and vastly more dangerous than a one-year deployment at a big military  base in Afghanistan. You'd have to go to a remote firebase . . . to find a level of risk that surpasses that of simply being an adolescent male back home."(From Mal Warwick's Blog on Books)
5 As the review title suggests, this book does a great job (in a quick read) of displaying great snapshots of combat in a modern war and the humanity in the men fighting. Slightly different than what I expected, but always intriguing, you begin to understand why some soldiers never want to leave the war (which we as members of a very war-driven society could gain a lot of value in studying more).
4 As the son of a World War II veteran, but never having served in combat, I have always wondered about combat and whether I could handle it without going insane. I would like to think of myself as a man with a conscience and someone who would not willingly take another life unless it were justified. The idea of killing for sport gives me no pleasure whatsoever. Still, I have always been fascinated by men who defend this country, or any country. Are they a particular breed finally put into their proper environment, or are they normal men injected into an abnormal situation?Junger seems to argue, at least in the area of war he describes, that they are the former: they are a particular breed of men who somehow enjoy war and fit in less in a civilized world. They are risk-takers who very well could be the men Hobbes describes if civilization breaks down. They put aside any remorse for killing the enemy --- and have very little empathy --- and focus on their own safety. Often they play with weapons (Junger describes one soldier putting a pistol to another's head for fun) and never quite seem to release their energy except when firing their weapons. The horror of war becomes entertainment.While this description could be confused, almost, with psychopathology, Junger does describe a difference: the soldiers, although generally volunteering for this duty, recognize that the tour is temporary. They will return to normalcy at some point. Some welcome it; others fear it more than combat.As Junger also points out in his quote of Churchill, without these men, none of us in "civilization" could sleep well. These soldiers are violent men who defend the rest of us so that we can function in a less violent environment.Junger writes well, of course. I read Perfect Storm and thought it was a masterpiece of writing.  This book, however, seems less a masterpiece, than a trip into the minds of the young soldiers who tolerate an almost prison like condition for a year. They don't care about the politics as much as the support and love of their comrades. Still, the book seemed to lag at times and seemed too short at times, as if Junger was afraid to say what he really felt. As one of the earlier reviewers noted, Junger's organization seemed to reflect the view of a videographer rather than a writer. Perhaps this reflects the modern world where instant gratification camouflages the hard work behind the scenes. I would have preferred a harder story line --- perhaps of O'Byrne --- to carry the reader through the year. While O'Byrne did provide many useful narratives, he got lost in the partial stories of others. The book became a patchwork of fighting, thoughts, narratives, psychology, and literature that did not quite work in the end.Still, overall, the book was well worth reading and it will become, I believe, a fundamental study of men at war. It just did not feel complete in some way.Frameworks: Conflict in BalanceSuper-Aging: The Moral Dangers of Seeking Immortality
5 Regardless of how you feel about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, I hope that we can all agree that the men and women serving in these countries face daunting and dangerous challenges.  Sebastian Junger's book War provides a first person account of these challenges and their experience at one of the most active combat areas in Afghanistan from June 2007 and June 2008.This is a five star book for its realistic coverage of the events, relationships and actions of troops serving in a combat zone that is presented as it is with limited interpretation.The book is compelling as it tells the story of these soldiers in a clear, realistic and comprehensive way.  Junger does a terrific job writing a book that matches the pace that the soldiers faced the slow periods and the frenetic combat.  He does this all in a transparent and non-political way that allows you to draw your own conclusions about their activities.The book is very realistic in terms of covering the full range of sensory experiences, language and situations of living and fighting in a war zone.  Much of this material comes from Junger and his cameraman's direct recording while they were embedded with U.S. Forces.  The amazing thing is how Junger takes the recorded record and effectively reflects this in a book form.Highly recommended for anyone wanting to understand what life is like and the challenges faced by troops deployed into a combat area in Afghanistan.  Junger's account provides a view into that world and experience beyond what you see on CNN or other media.
5 Brutal. Rugged. Gripping. Tough."War" takes you into the trenches of Afghanistan.  The reading experience is powerful--and powerfully taut.  The war doesn't become someone else's experience, it becomes yours.No matter your politics, "War" is a gripping read. The book isn't about the right and wrong of the fight or whether the strategies are working, it's about the human, entirely male experience of fighting with your brothers on the front line. If Afghanistan is now an abstract concept, if you only scan the short updates in the newspaper because events seem so distant and hold little chance of impact here, "War" will bring everything into sharp relief."War" is about the battle--and style of battle--required in the challenging terrain in Afghanistan. But it's also very much about how a man can endure the mental and physical punishment (okay, the sheer terror) of being in the middle of war. It's about what it takes to fight and what kind of person it takes to fight. It's about how small changes in technology have altered combat and how men bond, how they survive--and die--together.  "War" is not for the squeamish."War" is crisp and to-the-point. I'm sure Junger could have doubled the length of the narrative, but he cuts to the essence of each scene. He makes sure we see that the war is happening in real communities with real citizens and amid distinct cultures.  He survives a near-fatal roadside bomb and makes it painfully clear--unless we had any doubts--that the difference between living and dying is a lucky inch here, a fortuitous extra second there.  "War" shows us the required equipment and weaponry, but the Junger seems fascinated more than anything by the mental state required to fight.Writes Junger: "Soldiers themselves are reluctant to evaluate the costs of war (for some reason, the closer you are to combat the less inclined you are to question it), but someone must. That evaluation, ongoing and unadulterated by politics, may be the one thing a country absolutely owes the soldiers who defend its borders."By any measure, "War" succeeds with that evaluation as well anything I've ever read.
4 Junger delivers an interesting and thought provoking description of the people and events of the war in Afghanistan. The book gives insight insight into the people who fought the war and the missteps that th he government made in trying to make the world a better place. It makes you wonder why we sacrifice Americans in a war we probably can't totally win.
3 I know Sebastian Junger has a very high reputation and I will concede that I wasn't there with him during his time in Afghanistan.This said:  I was in the Army (reserve and active) for eleven years, which included service in Panama (Operation Just Cause 1989), Saudi Arabia and Iraq (1990-1991, and Yugoslavia (1994).  Some of that service included time with an infantry brigade, so I think I have some credibility here about what is believable and what isn't.  I'm left wondering if mixed in with some first class reportage is some exaggeration and stories.  Here are some of the things that made me say, "huh?"1.  A soldier talks about his drill sergeant shouting profanities at him and his fellow recruits. Drill sergeants aren't allowed to use profanity at recruits any more (it's been years since that policy allowed that.  Do they still swear?  I'm sure they do, but if some recruit gets his nose out of joint because of it, the drill can get in trouble.2.  Uniform discipline:  I remember uniform discipline being extremely tight even when we were out in the field.  Imagine having to shave with camouflage paint on your face! (I had to).  So the image Junger paints of the soldiers looking a bit like out of the cast of "Platoon" rings a bit oddly for me.  So does him claiming soldiers taking part in firefights while wearing only PT shorts and unlaced boots (maybe if they were at their base and got attacked while they were sleeping but otherwise, I don't believe it.).  Whatever way the soldiers wore their uniforms out in Korengal (and it seems like looking at the pictures they got to not wear their tunics when it was really hot), I'm sure it was a uniform policy.3.  Rock fights:  Junger talks about how the platoon he was with was constantly brawling ... to include hurling rocks at each other.  I find this hard to believe and if it is true, something was seriously wrong with the command environment in the unit he embedded with.  Why is that?  Because a soldier could get seriously hurt by a rock or in a fight.  If he showed up hurt to the aid station, he'd have to explain how he got hurt.  There'd be an investigation, and if the injuries were deemed not in the line of duty, he could get severely punished.4.  "Blood in/Blood Out":  Junger's platoon apparently has a tradition of beating up new recruits to the platoon when they arrive and beating them up when they leave (hence "blood in/blood out".  That sounds like something out of the Soviet Army (where hazing of recruits was horrific).  I find it very hard to believe that someone wouldn't write to his Congressman about getting beaten up as some sort of initiation ritual.  I remember right before my unit went into action in the Gulf in 1991, our battalion commander specifically banned any hazing of newbies (promising there'd be hell to pay if there were).  Why?  Because they're bad for morale.In short, I'm left thinking that either Junger let himself get told fairy tales by some of his subjects and engaged in some exaggeration.  Either that or things have really slipped in the Army since I left it and there were very serious problems in the unit he embedded with.
5 If I had the $$, I would send a copy to every lout in Congress and especially the big phony baloney himself, Obama.  A superb book.
5 Sebastian Junger is one of those writers it seems everyone talks about these days.  And with good reason.  His nonfiction books are written with an engaging narrative that is reader friendly and causes pages to turn in rapid succession.  Moreover, Junger takes his readers into the unlikeliest of places, fishing in freezing waters, to the top of the world's most dangerous mountains, and now to Afghanistan with a group of soldiers that know each day might be their last.Junger's strength in this story comes from the men he met.  They're all people most of his readers already know:  brothers, fathers, and sons who have been pulled into combat in Afghanistan and Iraq.  The stories comes from front page news and television stories, only Junger weds them all to the heart of the men in ways neither of those other media can.I expected some of the emotional drain that I got from the book, but Junger simply shines in this story.  He brings his readers close to the men, puts them firmly in their world, and makes us mourn the loss of those that fall in battle -- and afterward.  If you want to know what it's like to be in one of these Army fire teams, Junger will take you there.  But the book isn't for the faint of heart or those afraid of the dark side of humanity.
5 Sebastian Junger is a war reporter and also possibly a genius. He was embedded with soldiers in the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan nine times in 2007 and 2008. In telling the story of these soldiers, he also manages to tell a lot about modern warfare in general and what it does to our men, all with as little politics and gore as possible. He describes strategies simply and understandably: "Wars are fought with very heavy machinery that works best on top of the biggest hill in the area and used against men who are lower down. That, in a nutshell, is military tactics, and it means that an enormous amount of war-fighting simply consists of carrying heavy loads uphill." Junger does a good job of describing why these men get into the military in the first place, how they feel in the middle of battle, and how they feel on the quiet days. Highly recommended.
4 This is as good as anything I've seen for reporting from the war in Afghanistan. You get a real feel for daily life with the troops, and you understand the challenges they face. Indeed one can understand why the US is losing this war and why it may never have really been winnable in the first place.Let me explain the four stars though before going further. Though the writing was excellent and I felt that I was almost there in the dusty valleys of Afghanistan, there was something missing, some connection between the large scales and the small scales. There is a fair amount of effort expended in the book to make those connections, but they weren't always successful. I found myself looking at maps and photo essays (not included in the book) that I found online to really understand the text. I honestly think this would be a better book with a bunch of large and small scale maps, photos of the terrain, and shots of just what the villages look like. Failing that, and it would be a very different book with those additions, do read this alongside your computer so you can look up those photos and those maps. Most every location cited in the book brings up a huge batch of images with a quick online search.With that out of the way, let me praise Junger's writing. There's an empathy with the soldiers with which he's traveling that is quite obvious (ignore the reviews that harp about liberals traveling around with the troops, there's no fawning here, but there's never a hint of either condemnation or condescension here) but the hard, factual story is also on the page. The two coexist beautifully together and that's the mark of an excellent journalist or documentary writer.
5 There aren't many books that really tell the reader what it means to be in battle. Those that have been there don't feel comfortable trying to explain it to those that haven't. As more than one combat veteran has told me, "you just wouldn't understand." Most reporters, even those embedded in a war, haven't really experienced what it means to bean active participant in battle- trying to kill someone before he kills you. There are some very good books about what it's like to be in the middle of a war, like Bernard Fall's Hell in a Very Small Place; Fall was a French reporter who was there at the siege of Dien Bien Phu. But even though Fall could describe what it felt like to survive the incessant shelling and attack on the base, he wasn't a combatant. He was still a reporter, an observer.Sebastian Junger is a writer of rare skill who can paint a frighteningly real picture of places few of us would ever think of going. His first book, The Perfect Storm, gave readers a taste of what it would be like to be on a doomed fishing boat in the North Atlantic, at from home, at the mercy of the sea. In War, he takes the reader to an Army outpost in Afghanistan, where Junger and  filmmaker Tim Hetherington spent five months over the course of a year and a half with a platoon of young soldiers, fighting a war that we've all read about, but that few of us can imagine.This isn't the tourist war reporting we're used to, where the embedded reporter rides along at the rear of an armored column; Junger puts himself in a situation where he runs all the risks of the soldiers he's reporting on, including getting blown up by an IED that is detonated under the Humvee he's riding in. He manages to survive only because the Taliban soldier triggering the bomb pushed the button a fraction of a second too soon, and the blast is absorbed by the engine rather than the men riding in the Humvee. We're with Junger- and the soldiers of the platoon- as they go on a night time patrol, walk into an ambush, and fight off an assault that nearly overruns their little camp.Junger does not moralize on the war itself; as he explains, to do so would distance him from the men he's writing about, who aren't terribly concerned with politics or the geopolitics of the war. They're concerned with only one thing- survival- which means killing the man out there before he kills you. Isolated in mountainous terrain, with air support a good hour away, the men of Second Platoon, Battle Company, have to rely entirely on one another. Each man knows that every other man in his platoon will (and often do) die for him- otherwise there's no way they could survive where they are. War is full of stories of what seem like astounding heroism in the face of deadly fire- but what are to then men of the platoon, simply what they do. As one solider puts it, going out there to this lonely outpost is what takes bravery; everything after that is just doing your job.Junger goes into some detail asking the question of why men willingly go into battle and sacrifice their lives for each other, quoting studies from WWII through the Gulf War. There's a good deal of interesting data and hypothesis, such as the curious fact that the largest  sustainable hunter-gatherer community is about the size of a platoon-  anything larger, and things like self-sacrifice and acting for the good of the community appear to break down. Or that chimpanzees, with whom we share 99% of our DNA, don't exhibit the same kind of self-sacrifice we see in humans. When neighboring groups attack a smaller, weaker group, they don't band together for aid- instead, those who can run away, leaving the slower and weaker chimps at the mercy of the invaders. Self-sacrifice in battle is a uniquely human behavior.What it comes down to in the end is that soldiers do it out of love for their fellow soldier. As one remarks to Junger, who asked why he says he'd throw himself on a grenade to protect his squad, "Because I actually love my brothers... Being able to save their lives so that they can live is rewarding. Any of them would do it for me."
3 First, an upfront disclaimer...none of the comments that I'm about to make are in any way, shape, or form a disparagement of our troops and the bravery they display on a daily basis.  The criticisms I'm about to make are strictly about the book.Shortly after finishing War, I watchedThe Hurt Locker.  While the movie is a work of fiction (albeit based in real events) and the book is non-fiction, it was during the movie that I realized why I didn't find War particularly moving or informative.  The reason is that war lends itself more to the visual than the verbal.  For example, viewers barely know the Hurt Locker's characters when the first bomb goes off.  Yet, the viewer feels an emotional response toward those characters, because they can see the bomb's material damage and the physical/emotional pain the characters experienced.  To put it differently, the now-famous picture of the soldier in his boxer shorts and flip-flops returning fire (taken at a camp in the same valley where Junger's book is set) is much more effective in conveying that soldier's bravery than Junger's description of a similar scene. I suspect that Junger realized this fact as well, which is why he made a documentary movie of this book titled Restrepo (I'm looking forward to viewing Restrepo to see if my suspicion is correct).The best books about war get around this limitation by centering their story on one identifiable character.  Junger started down this path by opening the book with a description and background information on O'Byrne.  But, shortly after introducing O'Byrne, Junger took a different tack: making the platoon the central character and focusing the narrative on the chaotic nature of the battlefield.  Junger's primary method for showing this chaos is to have platoon members come in and out of the story, sometimes just a few pages before they are killed.  More disconcerting for the reader is that characters (O'Byrne is a good example) appear in one part of the story, and then disappear for many pages, only to reappear.  Again, I think Junger was trying to portray the shifting nature of battlefield situations.  But what Junger seems to have forgotten is that it's easier for the reader to relate to a single person instead of a platoon.  Without that single identifiable character present throughout the story, the emotional impact that Junger tries to portray falls flat.Junger is a good enough writer that War ends up being a readable book.  But, he seems to be reaching for something bigger than readable.  Unfortunately, because of the inherent limitations in the subject and the method Junger chose to portray that subject, War falls short of its author's aspirations.
5 Sebastian Junger is a remarkable writer. *War* doesn't just describe combat and soldiers' lives in a remote and extremely dangerous corner of Afghanistan - it also depicts battles from the point of view of these guys - why they actually grow to like it and how they form strong bonds with one another. Near the end of the book he reviews a lot of research into combat and the structure of close knit groups of soldiers. This was a glimpse into a world I would never have seen otherwise.
5 Great book, see in tandem with Junger's doc, RESTREPO, and find out what the hell our guys and gals are up against out there in AFG. I especially like audio books that I can take on my exercise walks. I really love Junger's work -- all of it.  He's a great writer and a very sensitive soul.
5 WAR receives a powerful narration by the author himself, who for over fifteen months followed a single platoon based at a remote outpost in Afghanistan. His purpose was to write about what war actually feels like - and he does so here, with vivid surveys of the daily lives of those men who fight in modern times. His chronicle joins other memoirs in providing a powerful, more contemporary survey of experience to both military and general-interest collections.
5 Without having served, many of us will never understand what it's like for those who have.  Junger gives an outstanding first person account of the men, their daily lives, and their mentality as soldiers.  It is so compelling that I was disappointed when it ended.  I wanted more and was glad to see that much of the footage is available in a documentary called "Restrepo".War contains the things you'd expect in a personal report of combat operations... a bonding of soldiers, a degree of political ambivalence by the front-line troops, tragedies amidst the platoon, etc.  However, Junger's account exceeds those heavily explored themes by really examining the mentality of these soldiers.  There is a tangible level of addiction that many of the soldiers possess.  Combat is of a level of penultimate excitement and the civilian world can only be exceedingly mundane by comparison.  I was impressed with how many of the soldiers found a balance and discipline in front-line duty that they so obviously lacked at home, as well as how difficult it was/is for those soldiers to go from the intensely magnified feelings of terror/joy of combat to the complete absence of it.Even more so, I was fascinated by each individual soldier's firm belief that the survival of the group was unquestionably more important than the survival of himself.  What is often considered bravery by outsiders is almost considered part of one's job as a member of the team -- unquestionably any other soldier would have done the same.  In the event that a soldier was killed, there was intense introspection by the soldiers... how did they fail to allow this to happen.  It's incredible to see an account of such a powerful motivating force.  I am in awe that so many soldiers can be so wholly committed to the group -- to care more for their survival than one's one.  As an outsider, it's almost unfathomable.This is a great read.  I was completely transfixed.  I highly recommend it.
5 This IS the most powerful non-fiction book that I have read in a long time! Every American should read this book to get a glimpse into war, not from a political perspective, but from the true heroes - the men themselves. It is with tremendous bravery and sacrifice that our young soldiers bring freedom for the rest of us. Sebastian Junger delves into the psyche of what makes these men successful soldiers. The book is divided into three sections, FEAR, KILLING, and LOVE. Ultimately it is the love that these men have for each other that keeps them alive and keeps the rest of us safe. They understand the worst sacrifice of war - the loss of a fellow soldier - their brothers - and they'll do whatever it takes to protect each other.Reading this book brought me to another first. I actually memorized page numbers that had such powerful statements, I didn't want to forget them. Take a look at page 120, 144, and 214! The words on those pages really connected with me, but I'll bet you'll have some of your own! I am a person who often welcomes guests into my home - and I admit that over the last few days I have pulled out this book and shared those sections with my guests. Powerful stuff!This is a must read!
4 What I liked most about this is that he really captured the day to day lives of soldiers fighting, without injecting politics into this, like most authors would have.  He lets us see what it's like on a day to day basis, from the extreme boredom between fights that leads to some odd behaviour, to the actual fights in which the men truly show their heroism.  These men are not saints by any stretch of the imagination, but they would die for their friends and country and we should be grateful for that.
5 I enjoyed reading the book a lot. The author not only shared his personal experience, but he also provided a wealth of his knowledge on the military issues. I liked reading the accounts about fights as much as I got taken away by the back stories. Great book! Five stars.
5 "It is well that war is so terrible--we should grow too fond of it!"  Robert E. Lee, Battle of Fredericksburg, 13 December 1862.  This quote aptly summarizes much of the theme of this little gem of a book by the journalist who wrote THE PERFECT STORM.Sebastian Junger's WAR is a fascinating and fast paced account of his experience being embedded with a platoon in the Korengal Valley of eastern Afghanistan from June 2007 to June 2008.  (The book weaves together his observations from five trips he made there over the course of that year.)  It is not a political book, but presents a grunt's-eye view of the conflict.  Indeed, one of the points that Junger makes is how little the political reasons for the war enter into the conversations of the men fighting.  Another point is that despite how terrible the violence, combat itself becomes addictive to many soldiers.  "War is a big and sprawling word that brings a lot of human suffering into the conversation, but combat is a different matter.  Combat is the smaller game that young men fall in love with, and any solution to the human problem of war will have to take into account the psyches of these young men" (p. 234).  Citing studies made of soldiers during World War II, Junger suggests that the human bonding that develops between a small group of men in dangerous situations compels them to do things they wouldn't as individuals: to fight against terrible odds and to sacrifice oneself in order to save others.Junger is a keen observer of combat and writes of it directly and astringently.  He does not obscure the violence or bowdlerize the salty language of his subjects.  There is certainly much more that can be written about this war, but this account excels for its forthright observations of fighting in a modern context.(Junger also co-directed, with Tim Hetherington, the related and also well received documentary, RESTREPO.)
5 i don't what else i can possibly add that hasn't already been capably covered by my fellow amazon.com reviewers; but i will say this: 'war' is a book that stayed with me long after i read the final page.  be sure to watch 'restrepo' if you have a chance [it's available for instant viewing on netflix], especially considering tim heathrington's recent tragic death.hats off to sebastian junger for giving us an unbiased, unfettered, honest and accurate portrayal of the unbelievable courageous men and women who willing throw themselves in to the fray.
5 Sebastian Junger does much more than describe battles in his book, "War."  Throughout the book, he delves into the mindset of war from the perspective of the fighters, and appears to have done extensive research on this topic.  As you read, up pops, from time to time, interesting perspectives on the mindset of a "warrior," or a "fighter" if you prefer the term.  In addition to this perspective, I thought Junger also described well the brotherhood feeling that exists in combat units, and he explained well how that feeling is dispersed the larger the unit.  Good or bad, these are the men (and perhaps soon, women) who are fighting for us in distant countries.  He manages an even-balanced description of their personalities, foibles, and characteristics - presenting a cross section of Americans.  I came away with a new perspective on our current frontline soldiers and a new understanding of the challenges they face when they come home to the US.  Teach men to kill and they will; expect them to suddenly stop that mindset and reintegrate into normal civilian life is not realistic.  As he points out time and again, the adrenline rush is what sustains them, almost like a drug - how do you come down from that?
5 I read books about worldly conflicts by the dozens!  My main area of interest over the past year, has been Afghanistan.  If you an (on-the-ground-in-theater) account of the war...  purchase this book!  Sebastian Junger, the author... is embedded with the troops; and he doesn't leave out anything!  I found myself smiling in parts of this book ;-))  Read it, and you'll find out why~~~~~
5 Some things you should know up front, I've been associated with the military for almost 25 years since getting out of High School. I found myself Middle East bound before September was out after 9/11 so that influences the perspective I bring to this finely crafted book by Sebastian Junger.Junger's name may sound familiar as he's the writer that kicked off his writing career withThe Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea (P.S.)when man against nature stories seemed all the rage. Another fine book from that time wasInto Thin Air (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition). Both writers have used those books to launch their careers. Whereas Krakauer's Afghanistan war book, "Where Men Win Glory," falls short, Junger's "War" delivers. Krakauer tells the tale of NFL star Patrick Tillman's friendly fire demise early on in the Afghanistan war, Junger takes the time to embed himself through the course of a year with Battle Company in the Korengal valley, gets to know the men there and gets out of the way as a writer and lets the story tell itself. Krakauer inserts himself politically to try to make a point about injustice in an army cover-up...a story that's worth telling, but not finely told.There is a fine accompaniment to Junger's war, a documentary of the year in the Korengal,Restrepo, named after the medic that died in the Korengal. I recommend everyone who wants to gain a better understanding what young soldiers go through in modern messy combat to watch Restrepo and read "War." Together the two paint a picture of all things in combat, love in the face of daily life and death. In the end for those soldiers, it isn't about the politics of the war, nor about a higher calling to God, but about being there in such a way for each other that the worse thing imaginable is to not rise to the occasion in combat and letting down your family man who can be hurt and even die by your actions or inactions. It is fundamental to understanding these soldiers and the sacrifices they make in war and what they face when they try to integrate themselves back in society in the states. It is a near impossible task to ask, but one they face bravely and somewhat haphazardly and many times destructively.We are faced with a world where ideologues who are willing to set aside human kindness in the interest of political and religious beliefs and kill. That must be answered. But how to go about it must be approached with thought and wisdom and many times we will get it wrong and many times we will get it right. What it looks like in the end is anybody's guess. But when Mom's and Father's have raised children who only know of their adult life, 5 or 6 tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, and some of them don't come back the wisdom of fighting for a year in a remote valley in a far off country and vacated should be questioned and analyzed for future decisions. Whatever you get from this book and come away from it with may be a different conclusion but is worthwhile to give thought to, if only to sympathize with these brave heroes fighting our fights, who don't even stop to consider themselves heroes.I'll leave you with a few quotes from the book as they speak for themselves and then my friend, get to reading Junger's "War." "War is life multiplied by some number that no one has ever heard of," and this, "Society can give its young men almost any job and they'll figure how to do it. They'll suffer for it and die for it and watch their friends die for it, but in the end, it will get done. That only means that society should be careful about what it asks for. ... Soldiers themselves are reluctant to evaluate the costs of war, but someone must. That evaluation, ongoing and unadulterated by politics, may be the one thing a country absolutely owes the soldiers who defend its borders."--mmw
4 I was given the opportunity to review this book and I have to say I enjoyed it immensely.Sebastian Junger was the writer of The Perfect Storm, which took events that were known and constructed a factual story around those events.Here, in this book, Junger committed himself (literally) to living amongst American soldiers in forward positions in Afghanistan.First off, the deeper I got into this book, the more amazed and foolhardy I believed Junger was for doing this.  This was literal embedding of a reporter in a war that has probably not produced such writing since Ernie Pyle or John Hersey during World War II.  This gives the book the experience of having a first-class writer describing horrible, mundane and ultimately deadly events for the general reader.Having read a number of memoirs about combat experiences, including With the Old Breed; Jarhead; The Face of Battle (Keegan) and Helmet for My Pillow, I can only say that Junger writes well in describing the nature of combat.  No matter the time or theater, there is something fascinating and macabre about combat units dealing with the mundane hours trampled by the deadly seconds of combat.  Moreover, I think Junger skillfully expresses the way in which men bond as "these band of brothers" in combat in a way impossible in civilian life.Junger organizes the book into three main themes: Fear, Killing and Love.  Essentially, the book describes at its main theme how these men carry on dealing with these topics. It is difficult to imagine how each man deals with the fear and killing.  But, Junger does a great job in discussing how these men deal with their task.  Essentially, the bond of a group and not wanting to disappoint or endanger that group is what allows these men to continue.  As Junger points out, the bond is what is so interesting about combat.  The mission, tactical or strategic objectives become irrelevant.  what matters most is ensuring the survival of the group.  And Mankind is the only species that acts to protect others in the group.  We don't see groups of wildebeests attacking the lion prides preying on their brothers when attacked.  yet, a man will willingly sacrifice his own life for the group by jumping on a live grenade.This book certainly rang true given my other reading in this area.  And why not, Junger was a witness, not a direct participant.  Yet, he risked his life to bring this story.  Unfortunately, as is so often the case, there are few gifted writers who participate in historic events.  WWII only produced a handful of truly great memoirs (including those above).  I have found that though the theaters of was change, the parts played by these men do not, and so the story is often the same.  Horrible deaths, incredible courage under fire, sacrifice, valor and cowardice.This is an important memoir of a war that is waged and yet largely forgotten by most Americans.  It is like British troops waging war in Malakand in some far off reach of empire.  The reasons may be different, but the parts are the same here.  The players play similar parts.  Junger has done a great service of bringing these stories to the public.My only quibble about this book is not the fault of the author.  This book is about the individual soldiers, not about the battles.  But I suppose that is the interesting nature of this war.  We fight an unknown enemy, of indeterminate origin, about vague goals, and who knows what constitutes victory or defeat other than whether you survive or die there?With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and OkinawaHelmet for My Pillow: From Parris Island to the PacificThe Face of BattleJarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other BattlesThe Story of the Malakand Field Force - An Episode of the Frontier War
4 I broke my own rules and bought the overpriced Kindle version on this one.  It got great reviews, and the documentary trailer from footage shot the same time hooked me.I read this while deployed to Iraq on a very cushy base, and every time I got into the book and then had to drag myself out of it to work, it felt like I was stepping into different worlds. My experiences in the combat zone were so far from these guys' that it was astounding. Junger really draws you into the world, and while sometimes his writing style (the punctuation and lack of transitional words) would get on my nerves, for the most part he does a fantastic job of conveying the mood of the situation.What I really love about this book is how it makes you feel like you're there. I think it really ought to be read by all the legislators voting on our adventures in the Middle East, by peace activists, and they type of peace activist who thinks soldiers are bad people. You get the feeling that these are extraordinary soldiers, but that's the interesting part: they're not. They're probably average soldiers put in an extraordinary position. Quite frankly, it does explain why so many combat troops have a hard time when they come home and why men bond so much with people they fought next to.My one wish is that Junger had been able to follow up longer as the soldiers transitioned from their Afghanistan tour to more peaceful jobs, or civilian life. You get a taste of that, but not much, and I think it is a subject that needs the same kind of illumination as the rest of the book gave to the wartime experiences.
4 I've embedded as a photojournalist in iraq several times, including twice with the same unit (separated by two years), so while I could not nearly relate to the ferocity of the combat he described, most of the day-to-day life of the platoon was very well described, and the way Junger keeps returning to O'Byrne reminded me of the two or three soldiers that I always ended up hanging out with.I was also in the Army in Desert Storm, so I can sort of see it from the soldier's perspective too - again, only the daily life, not the combat.There is nothing in the book in his observations or experiences that seemed exaggerated or fictional. Many things he wrote about brought back very similar memories of my own. Speaking from both my observations as a reporter and as a soldier, nothing made me stop and say, "wait, I'm not buying that." With a book like this, which has such grand aims, that's obviously pretty important.I did come into the book with a couple preconceived notions - I didn't like the title at all, but I also expected Junger to provide the reader with the tiny, specific details that can make an otherwise general story suddenly so compelling. I was validated on both counts.First, the title is awful - it doesn't break any new ground at all. It's a dynamic, interesting, informative, sad, funny book about guys at war. But it is NOT the definitive book about war, at all. Does it do great justice to these guys in that fight (and even their Taliban opponents)? Absolutely. But, please, this is simply one more book about war - not THE book.The details and information Junger provides do a great job of making up for that. Just like in Perfect Storm (not so much his other books), he doesn't just tell you a good story, but tells you every little facet of detail and information so the reader feels totally informed. It makes the story of the soldiers that much more compelling, because for me, I felt like I knew everything I needed to know. They were almost never one-dimensional, even those men that Junger doesn't write about that much.But...I just reviewed a book, "Kaboom," by an Army officer Matt Gallager. He does not have any scenes of full-on combat, which Junger fills his book with. And yet, I think "Kaboom" is maybe a more lasting book. "War" does a great job covering the 5 percent of war that is fighting and bloodshed (maybe more than 5 percent in the Korengal), while "Kaboom" covers the 95 percent of everything else that's often ignored. So, that's something to think about.Still, Junger is back at the top of his powers. Definitley worth reading - I blazed through it in one night - though the hyperbole of the title was a little much.
5 I really had no clue what our soldiers were experiencing over in Afghanistan - not a clue! My impression from watching the news was that soldiers sat in well protected base camps  and occasionally went out on patrol to give out candy and food to the locals. The idea of constant, brutal, man-to-man firefights seemed like something that ended back in the Vietnam era. It was a real jolt to read of the terrible situations our brave troops find themselves every day. Under constant watch from an enemy that may or may not be obvious, I gained even more respect for those who serve than I already had. As in his last book, "The Perfect Storm", Junger proves that he is an excellent story-teller, weaving the facts in with an emotion that really makes you feel a part of the story. Furthermore, his ability to weave some of the science of war into the book really helps you get a sense of how complicated war actually is. This book should be required reading in every social studies class in America (although some of the themes might not make it suitable) - it is a powerful look at something that affects us all greatly.
4 This past Memorial Day I saw a graphic reminding us to recall all those who have lost their lives in armed conflicts on behalf of the United States. The bars reflected war dead in the conflicts that we've engaged in since the Second World War. Somehow, the tiny bars associated with the Iraq and Afghanistan wars made those conflicts seem like blips on a larger screen dominated by losses in the Second World War, Korea and Vietnam. The Iraqi and Afghan conflicts have taken place just below the radar of our national lives.Sebastion Junger's War was a necessary corrective. Individual acts of heroism and individual deaths matter. War isn't a statistical exercise; it is the stuff of flesh and blood, one bleeding soldier at a time.I'd missed the book when it was first published two years ago. Last weekend, a friend recommended it. I dove in, and was immediately captivated.The day-to-day tedium and terror of warfare is on display as Junger embeds himself with a platoon in the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan, a hellfire and brimstone kind of outpost that is the site of firefights, ambushes and the terrifying alchemy that transforms ordinary men into warriors drawn together by deep and primitive bonds.The book doesn't really soar until the second half, when Junger waxes philosophic about the bonds of love and commitment uniting combatants. Facing the chaos the unknown, men find a lodestar in the form of commitment to one another. Whatever else is lost when the flesh wearies, blood has been spilled and death has claimed souls, there remains, among the living, a heroic warrior's dedication to the group. Men suddenly become less concerned with individual acts of survival than assuring that the group endures. War, paradoxically, yield the sort of love Jesus bespoke: Greater love has no man than this, that he lays down his life for a friend.Junger doesn't write to glorify war. Far from it. The conflict in the Korengal Valley seemed irrational, even meaningless, to many of the men stationed there. What matters were the human bonds. War becomes a metaphor for everyman's struggle for survival. The warriors, young men with long lives ahead of them should they survive, worry that they will miss warfare, and the bonds they formed in terror.There is much to love in this book. I read the second half as though in a confessional. I earn my living in the high stakes arena of the criminal courts. While I return home each night, my clients sometimes and too often, do not. There is the unknown lurking in the form of each new witness, each verdict. Each new case is a new firefight, a contest ending in the zero-sum form of a verdict. Surely I, a civilian, can summon something like courage to remain in justice's game. Men far younger than I am lose their lives and limbs, Junger reminds. Their courage can teach."Life is strife," Theodore Roosevelt once famously said. Junger sheds a relentless light on the strife we call war. There are truths in what he observed that we can all share and rely upon in our day-to-day struggles. Read Junger's fine book. It teaches the necessity of courage and its close companion, love.
5 Wars are fought by infantrymen, although they do not get the glory. They tend to get the boring, gory, dirty jobs that no one else wants to do. It has been that way since time immemorial, and this book reminds us that it is still that way in the 21st century with a good long look at the current war waging in Afghanistan. The book is a recounting of a reporter's experiences from when he spent time with a single unit of the 173rd Battalion of Airborne troops. This unit deployed for fifteen months in the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan between June 2007 and September of 2008, and over that time, Sebastian Junger (the author) visited them and participated in their patrols. In this book we follow him as he visits the troops and hear their stories of what took place in this duty station and how they had to deal with it. While this time period does not strike me as one that was particularly notable speaking as a citizen being safely ensconced in the mainland of the U.S., this story tells us of the life and death struggles of the unit that was fighting for me overseas.The book is divided into three main parts labeled "Fear", "Killing", and "Love". By doing this, I suppose that the author is trying to distill the experiences of the men involved into the three main components of their lives while out on deployment. Fear is due to their daily contact with death. The part of Afghanistan that these soldiers are sent to is called the Korengal Valley and it is being contested by the Taliban who come out of Pakistan. The Americans are bound by very tight rules of engagement, so even though they know that most of the Taliban fighters come from Pakistan, they cannot go after them at their bases. Also, as long as someone is walking around without a gun or a radio, they are considered to be civilians and cannot be shot - even if it is clear to them that the people are going to a weapons cache! So, the infantrymen watch these people walking up the mountains to ambush points, and know that overnight they will be attacked by them. All they can do is wait until the shooting begins. This is what leads to the Fear part. You know you are going to get shot at, but you do not know when or from where. The book does a good job of putting the reader in the middle of the firefight and gives you the impression of really being there without hearing the bullets pass you by - a good thing - or watching your friends get killed when they are not lucky enough to escape.The Killing portion of the book deals with the fact that during war the soldier's role is to kill other people. True, those people are trying to kill him, so there is some justification for becoming a killer. Yet, as the book makes clear, these soldiers are not killing because they are savages, or because they enjoy the killing. They kill because they are trying to save the lives of themselves and their friends. Similarly, the Love portion of the book makes it very clear that these soldiers are not motivated by any larger motivations about the war, or the progress of it, rather, they are fighting for their friends and colleagues. The love is not a sexual love. The love is one that cannot be described or experienced unless you were in a similar situation. It is a love that allows the soldiers to survive and the author spends some time explaining the source of it and the potential reasons for it. It is the kind of love that leads soldiers to literally sacrifice themselves to make sure that the others in the platoon survive. This is illustrated by the typical example of the soldier who throws himself on a live grenade to save his buddies, not thinking about saving his own life by running away.As the deployment goes on, we are treated to how the various soldiers deal with what they are involved in. Some of them are killed, and some of them take this very hard. The interesting thing is that these soldiers find that being in battle provides them with such an adrenaline rush, that anything else seems boring and deflating and they actively look forward to the next battle. In a prologue and afterword, we meet one of the soldiers that the author was close to over the deployment who has a very difficult time in the civilian world and really destroys himself when he is not in battle.The conclusions that the book reaches are not anything new, and anyone who reads these kinds of books from practically any war, will find the exact same things in all of them. The poor fighting soldier is always subject to this and is always looked down upon by the rear echelon folks. An interesting comment made in the book is that those folks who have a real rough time by being garrison troops and dealing with the normal rules and regulations of military life actually make relatively poor fighting soldiers. It's those soldiers who get in fights on base and who constantly get drunk and in trouble with the law when off base make the best fighting soldiers because they like to fight.If you are interested in learning more about the life of fighting soldiers, or in what was going on in Afghanistan during this period of time, then this is a book for you. Actually, I can find nothing wrong with it at all. Be forewarned though that the language is raw and can be rather strong. So, this is not a book to give your young kids to read, but it is real and it is factual. Definitely worth a read!
5 Sebastian Junger spent the better part of a year imbedded with our troops in the far flung outposts of Afganistan. He graphically captured in detail not only the loneliness of life within these outposts but also the dirty, grittiness of these desolate places and unbroken brotherhood forged among the men in the makeshift living quarters within the fragile protection afforded by the outposts earthen walls.Junger accompanied these troops on numerous patrols in the rugged mountains of Afganistan and was there to witness first hand and  record the sheer fear, determination and will to live while engaged in brutal and bloody combat and the terrible heartache associated with the tragic loss of a comrade."WAR" is a book that you can't put down. If you are a veteran, like myself, you will walk alongside these young hero's and relive the comradery, the pride of service and the horror of "WAR". God bless all those who have gone before us and all of those proudly wearing the uniform today.
5 An absorbing first-person account of a US infantry platoon's 15-month deployment in the Korengal Valley, Afghanistan in 2007-2008.  Junger's work won't give you an overall understanding of Afghanistan today - like the men he was embedded with, his time in Afghanistan became intensely localised and personal.  He has, however, captured the complexity and insularity of small-unit operations and dynamics, and 'War' is is a 'must read' for all soldiers - not just the soldiers and junior leaders who will take part in operations like those of Battle Company, but especially for those of us who occasionally need to be reminded of what life is like at platoon level, and that powerpoint slide shows back at the FOB or at Staff College need to keep taking this ground truth into account.
5 WAR--As Soldiers Really Live Itby: Sebastian JungerMy hope is that when people read my book, they'll understand that emotional territory better.So when a soldier is in some kind of distress back home, I think it would be very helpful for his wife to realize that not only was he traumatized by his service, but is also being traumatized by being taken away from it, by being taken out of a world of incredible intensity and very obvious meaning into a civilian world that is less intense and where the meaning of life is more diffuse and less obvious.The more that civilians -- wives, fathers, mothers, children -- understand the really complex emotional territory of combat, the better our society will be able to re-incorporate these young men and give them a useful and productive role back home.Sebastian JungerSelected Quotes from the Book:"It was some of the most beautiful and rugged terrain in Afghanistan and for centuries had served as a center of resistance against invaders.  Alexander's armies ground to a halt in nearby Nurdistan and stayed so long that the blond and red-haired locals are said to be descendants of his men."Its only on rear bases that you hear any belligerent talk about patriotism or religion....""The problem with fear, though, is that isn't any one thing.  Fear  has a whole taxonomy - anxiety, dread, panic, foreboding- and you could be braced for one form and completely fall apart facing another.""Combat jams so much adrenaline through your system that fear was rarely an issue;  far more indicative of real courage was how you felt before the big operations,...""...war-fighting simply consists of carrying heavy loads uphill.""...exhaustion is partly a state of mind...""Giving into fear or exhaustion were the ways in which a soldier could fail his platoon...""Everything in war is simple, but the simplest thing is difficult," the military theorists  Carl von Clausewitz wrote in 1820s.  "The difficulties accumulate and end by producing a kind offriction"."We sleep soundly in our beds because rough men stand ready in the nightto visit violence on those who would do us harm."  --Winston Churchill"...Combat is a series of quick decisions and rather precise actions carried out in concert with ten or twelve other men.""As soon as our wheels crossed the wire the gunner racks his weapon and we grind slowly through Jalalabad and then head north on the new black pavement that ribbons smoothly along the river.  There are rice paddies along the floodplain and, here and there, clusters of jagged slate gravestones shoved into the ground like spades.  Green prayer flags toil around them in the wind.  The winter sun glances off the wide braidings of the river and make the water look dull and heavy as mercury, and beyond that, rank after rank of mountains fall off towards the east: Pakistan.  An old man stands in a field of stones watching us go by.""The coward's fear of death stems in large part from his incapacity to love anything but his own body.  The inability to participate in other's lives stands in the way of his developing any inner resources sufficient to overcome the terror of death."J. Glenn Gary,  The Warriors"(why appeal to God when you can call in Apaches?}""As a soldier, the thing you were most scared of was failing your brothers when they needed you.  And compared to that dying was easy.  Dying was over with.  Cowardice lingered forever.""Civilians understand soldiers to have a kind of baseline duty, and that everything above that is considered `bravery'.  Soldiers see it the other way around:  either you are doing your duty or you are a coward.""The side effects of Mefloquinine includes severe depression, paranoia, aggression, nightmares and insomnia. Those happen to be the side effects of combat as well.""The men take a perverse pride in this, cultivate a certain disdain for anyone who has it better, which is basically everyone.  Combat infantry carry the most, eat the worst, die the fastest, sleep the least, and have the most to fear.  But they're the real soldiers, the only ones conducting what can be considered war in the most classical sense, and everyone knows it.""The fight lasts ten or fifteen minutes and then the A-10s show up and tilt into their dives. Ninety rounds a second the size of beer cans unzipping the mountainsides with a sound like the sky ripping.""A tired, cold, muddy rifleman goes forward with the bitter dryness of fear in his mouth into the mortar bursts and machine gun fire of a determined enemy,..."Stouffer:  The American Soldier"The men know Pakistan is the root of the entire war,...""You didn't have to be in the army to notice that Pakistan was effectively waging war against America, but the administration back home was refusing to even acknowledge it, much less take any action.""Dawn comes crawling up out of the east with the moon still hung over the valley like a dinner plate and the men wrapped in their ponchos and curled up shivering."
4 TIME recently did an article about the men and women of the US military where they argue that there is a marked disconnect between the soldiers fighting wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the general public in the United States. They've been called "the other 1%," a play on the Occupy Wall Street slogan that points out that less than 1% of the public is fighting the wars in the Middle East. The military is populated by far more "career soldiers" than in the past. Given this, WAR is a fascinating look into a different kind of combat than any previous wars, and this small snapshot can be viewed by the rest of us that will never be shot at in a remote outpost in the hills of Afghanistan.Junger has a particular talent for blending his thoughts, actions, and accounts from others. While I can likely never understand the adrenaline rush from a firefight in the middle of the day, Junger does an amazing job putting you there. While I can likely never understand what it's like to lose your best friend on a patrol, the stories and emotions that Junger captures from the men he spent time with will leave you with a powerful sense of empathy.WAR is also nice in that it largely avoids the minefield of "should we be fighting in Afghanistan?" While this is unavoidable given the topic, he navigates it well. He is honest about his biases, and is clearly a great journalist.
5 If I could recommend a book about our American soldiers to every American, 'War' would be the one. I thought I knew what war was like, I knew nothing. This is the most extraordinary, informative, and harrowing book of life about the men in the trenches, men who really fight the war.Sebastian Junger was embedded with 2nd Battalion, 503rd Parachute Infantry regiment, in Afghanistan for five months. These are the warriors, the men that fight the battle on the ground, in real time. Junger served as a correspondent and journalist, but he lived with the guys. In the ragamuffin quarters, living in their uniforms, boots at the ready, eating MRE's for every meal, no Internet, no booze, no women, just the guys, the battalion. We get to know the soldiers through Junger's eyes and through their words. They hide nothing, they are in this war to fight and to kill. It's either them or us. This is a group of men who love each other, they are all they have out there. They would kill for each other, and they would die for their friends. They may not like each other, but they have become a Brotherhood. They would rather stay in Afghanistan in their primitive surroundings, than go home in many cases. As Junger relates, "Getting the men to talk about fear was very hard because, well, I think they were afraid of it. Their biggest worry seemed to be failing the other men of the platoon in some way, and whenever someone got killed, a common reaction was to search their own actions for blame. They didn't want to believe that a good man could get killed for no reason; someone had to be at fault. During combat, their personal fear effectively got subsumed by the greater anxiety that they would fail to do their job and someone else would get killed. The shame of that would last a lifetime, and they would literally do suicidal things to help platoon mates who were in danger."  The Brotherhood gives them a home, a family. It sounds surreal at first, and then we start to learn and listen.Junger provides informative research and statistics that show us why and how this happens. We learn that our brains can handle and get to know up to 150 people. However, the smaller the group, the more effective the response. The Romans had groups of warriors up to 120, but their most effective were small groups of 20. Research into the minds of men in combat began in WWI, where it was found that in groups of men who bonded, the combat rate was lower. All things being equal some men function better as soldiers than others, and some battalions were better than others. The traits that distinguish those folks are what is known as 'courage'. High performing soldiers are more intelligent, more masculine, more socially mature, and more emotionally stable than other men. Most of the men in the Camp Restpero were like that- they had all missed death by a margin of inches, but what they remembered were the losses in the unit. And, the one they all remembered was Doc Restpero, the man the camp was named for. Combat is a mastery of commitment to save one another's lives. There is so much information to glean that you will become overwhelmed. An insight develops into the minds of our fathers and grandfathers, and why they were so hesitant to speak of their experiences in their wars.We come to know O'Bryne and Stein, Brennan, and Kearney. The soldiers that meant life over death to Junger. He realized his life was in their hands and he came to trust them. He was given his own tourniquet to carry in case a bullet hit an artery and a limb, and his only recourse would be to apply a tourniquet by himself. A roll of kerlix to stuff into an arterial wound to apply pressure so he would not bleed out before the medic arrived. Junger knows his life is in the hands of these men, and he trusts them with his life. They are the Brotherhood, the heart of the war. The high technology, Prophet, the name of the intelligence gathering group who learn all of the Taliban secrets- when the next attack might occur, how many groups are gathering in the valley and what is really going on in the villages.  The drones who fly overhead protecting them and shooting at the enemy. The Apache helicopters who are called in when they are attacked to hunt down and kill the enemy. All of this helps, but it is the day to day drudgery of the infantry who are winning the war. No politics are discussed. Pakistan is mentioned in that this is the country that provides the Taliban men and ammunition. There is a hospital of some sort in Pakistan that cares for the Taliban wounded. But, they are in Afghanistan and this is their job.When a troop leaves on R'n R, 'Blood In Blood Out' occurs. You will be fascinated to learn about this activity. After Junger returns to the states, he follows up with the men who are willing to talk. Many of them had a very rough time at home and some re-inlist. The lives of these men and the friendships they form are the blood and guts of this book and of this war. They are the ones we remember. I hope they are all well and safe.Highly Recommended. prisrob 05-28-10FireA Death in Belmont (P.S.)
2 When I heard the review on NPR, I was excited to get the book.At a high level, it seemed that the author was approaching the concept of war from a totally different angle, living the daily life of the battle hardened soldiers for an extended period of time. Hats off to Junger for spending 15 months with the troops!Yet, I felt that he wasted an excellent opportunity. The book was not able to sustain my interest for the following reasons:- It is loosely written account, and the author jumps from one subject to another throughout the book. Such a style might be passable if you are a newspaper or magazine reporter, but if you are writing a book, it needs to have a tightly knit theme and a cohesive storyline- Grammar and punctuations are often ignored; hence it is difficult to follow without re-reading the sentences and trying to punctuate yourself- The author is writing about a far off land and characters who are difficult to relate to without a detailed map of the place (there is an incomplete map at the beginning) and pictures. Even if the camp location and pictures are classified, I would have liked to see pictures of the villages, the living quarters and key characters like Restrepo and O'Byrne- The logic for dividing the book into 3 sections: Fear, Killing and Love was not apparent while reading the bookI got a feeling that the author and his publishers were in a hurry to get the book out....which probably did not do justice to the theme or to Junger's time spent in Afghanistan.
5 Dying is usually not the worst that could happen to a person -- at least to a person that cares about someone else. How many of us would rather give up our lives than lose a spouse or a child? As Junger illustrates, this is intensified when you are face-to-face with the decision on a daily basis.If you want to jump to the psychological core, I guess it might be chapter 4 of book 3 ("Love"), but take your time. The journey is easy to read. It doesn't glamorize war or death and it doesn't bog down in self-pity. It's a good in-between presentation.The last couple pages are a whirlwind and thought provoking. It's hard to tell if it was rushed or intentional. Based on the earlier writing, I'm inclined to think it's intentional. Good book.
5 Sebastian Junger's 'War' brings you as close to the Afghan war as possible without getting shot at-though his literary skills almost makes you dodge the bullets that whiz past the brave and obscure soldiers who with no particular enthusiasm go about their daily chores.Though Junger does not politicize the war, it is quite obvious to the reader that the soldiers are not particularly motivated by patriotism,civic duty or heroism. They are just there doing their job-and their job is keeping alive at a remote outpost which has little strategic value but is under constant attack.( In fact the army decided to close this outpost several months after the book was written).Junger's book moves at a constant pace and delves into the the psychology of the battlefield where thoughts manifest by the action taken and actions manifest as thought. There are no winners or losers,heroes or villains and even the soldiers with 'Infidel' tattoos on their chest merely react to the 'kill or be killed' philosophy of the battlefield with a sense of resignation and treat the emptiness of death and the loneliness of their outpost with the same indifference.'War' is a must read for those against the Afghan war and most definitely a mandatory read for those supporting it.
4 I have read several books and accounts of both the war in Iraq and Afghanistan and I feel secure is saying that Junger does a better job of taking you inside the mind of a soldier then anything else I have read, even solders' own personal accounts of the war.The author spent time with the same group of soldiers in remote Afghanistan off and on over a period of 15 months.  During this time he went out on patrols with them, was with them during firefights, and endured endless hours of boredom.  And he was really able to translate what it was like to be there with them and what those men were going through.Junger broke down his book into three themes/parts: Fear, Killing and Love.  And each part of the book sort of focused on that theme in the soldiers daily life from fear of dying or failing fellow soldiers, to killing enemies, and the love soldiers had for each other and for fighting.All in all I really enjoyed reading this book.  It can be a little tough to follow at times unless you can get a mental picture of the geography of the land Junger talks about.  As the action takes place in an area of hills and valleys in Afghanistan.  Also the author has a tendency to flash forward and flash back a little bit when telling a story and that can disrupt the narrative a little bit, but other than those two minor quibbles I found the book to be very engrossing, intriguing, informative and overall entertaining.  If you are interested in books about on the ground modern warfare I think you will enjoy this book.
4 Sebastian Junger provides his readers with a gritty, no detail excluded profile of what the war is like for the members of the 173 Airborne Brigade.  This book tells the basic facts of lives for these men. It goes into the nitty gritty and tell what their lives are like and gives graphic details of not only the battlefield injuries, but also what gear they pack and what the climate is like. Junger, also shows what life is like for these men once they leave the intense climate of eternal combat and what type of person lives for this type of intense boredom, punctuated by occasional bursts of intense violence and fear.I only add the one criticism that I find in all of Sebastian Junger's book. He is very weak at keeping names straight for the reader and developing his characters.  Granted, he writes about men of action but it is often very difficult to keep track of who is who when he writes and that makes for a very confusing book at times.  But otherwise this is a book well worth your time and a great read!
5 This fine book is far more than an account of war.  The journalist author was imbedded in a company in Afghanistan that was in the farthest point in the front and seeing the most action.  His accounts of combat are vivid without getting overly gory.Much better than the accounts of the firefights though are the author's insights into the soldiers with whom he is living and observing first hand fight.  He addresses such questions as what makes a good combat soldier good at combat.  What is fear and bravery in battle?  What makes a good soldier overcome fear?  How does the combat soldier get to be a combat soldier and how does he stop being one if he can?  Amazingly, Mr. Junger develops answers to these questions and more.  His answers are reached by using a combination of his observations, comments by the soldiers he is with and studies of combat troops since WWII.  What he finds is extremely interesting and insightful.Perhaps the best part of this book is Mr. Junger's role in it.  Unlike so many books like this one, he is not the main character.  He completely reduces himself to an observer.  The soldiers are the stars, not the journalist who is also risking his life in every battle.  The book is a tribute without fawning.This book is highly recommended for an up close, personal and cerebral look at combat soldiers, be they in Afghanistan, Iraq, Viet Nam or wherever they get into harm's way.
5 A perfect cluster&#*%, the effect war has on soldiers. But it's also one of the most meaningful times of existence for the men involved. For one, "it's insanely exciting" (p. 144), as Junger reports while avoiding even a hint of any gratuitous treatment. In one firefight, where a platoon was ambushed, men caught fire from every direction, ripping up the soil and rocks around them, making it impossible to find cover. Yet in the months after they return to the US, the men can't wait to get back to where their life mattered most, "the most clear and purposeful time" of their lives (p. 234).Then there's the hilarity, like when a new commanding officer asks for questions, and one soldier says, "Ever seen the movie Blood in Blood Out, sir?" (p. 158). The men then jumped the officer and pummeled him with a traditional beating, delivered when men came in, left, and on birthdays. One soldier earns a rep for wildly random and oddly sexual attacks, so that "the guys moved around in pairs" to be ready for the next jump (p. 225).Throughout there's a single overarching value that everyone espouses, that of team regard over being out for yourself (p. 120). In a fight, if a guy thinks only of his own good, and drops and hides, say--it could mean the death of his comrades, even under only a minor threat. But if the platoon works as a team, it can mean everyone lives, even under the direst of challenges.Also awe-inspiring is the combination of physical endurance and mental stress these men endure. Many carry at least 75 pounds of ammo and gear, scampering up steep rocky mountainsides in intense heat. Eventually their camo smells of ammonia, because they've burned their body fat and begun to burn muscle.All the stories and feelings, from the way the let down after ending an engagement wreaks havoc on the souls involved, to the intense brotherhood and love the men experience for each other, remained memorable for me weeks after reading them. I cried at end, as I can only imagine happens to those touched by these harrowing experiences.
5 War is not a John Wayne movie.5+ stars. Sebastian Junger's new non-fiction book War is a riveting read.  As a combat vet I easily related to what Mr. Junger wrote and experienced.  There are so many misconceptions of what war really is that it boggles the mind.  War is dirty, smelly, messy, brutal and all too real to those who live it:  Yet it is exhilarating and next to sex the most incredible of all human endeavors.  Junger's book is gritty realism along the lines of Sledge, Remarque, Crane and other excellent writers of the war experience at the grunt level.  We are indeed very lucky to have such fine writers who are willing to share their war experiences and exploits.  Too bad our politicians do not take such an interest--they might learn something.Mr. Junger's book is the definitive account of the Afghan war today from the grunt's perspective.  No politics, No BS, No grand strategy (some small force tactical discussion), No finger-pointing, just earthy writing about the soldiers and their continuous travail of daily combat.  If you want to know about what is really going on at the grunt level in Afghanistan read this book.  You will be well rewarded.Outstanding work Mr. Junger.  You have captured the essence of men at war and it ain't no John Wayne movie.Here is a sample of Mr. Junger's writing, "In some ways twenty minutes of combat is more life than you could scrape together in a lifetime of doing something else.  Combat isn't where you might die--though that doe happen--it's where you find out whether you get to keep on living."  Nothing more need be said.Must read recommend.  My only complaint was Mr. Junger did not include a collage of photographs of the men he served with at Outpost Restrepo.  I would have enjoyed that immensely.  Map was good.  Looking forward to Mr. Junger's next book.
4 "War" was a gripping book for its intimate details of combat in Afghanistan, but it goes far beyond the usual war story.  Many of these are gleaned from the fading and exaggerated memories of veterans; Junger wrote and videotaped this story in real time on the ground.  Junger also provides valuable insights into what makes young men into soldiers who can endure, and even flourish, in combat.  It has nothing to do with the political or geopolitical purpose of the war.From the safety of my armchair in the US, I can offer my take on those purposes.  The US no longer has the resources to fight endless wars in faraway places to try (and fail) to discourage terrorists who may at worst kill a few thousand Americans.  While we are bleeding dry in Afghanistan, as the Soviets did before us, much more threatening potential enemies are building their strength with the clear intention of using it against us--in conflicts that could kill millions of Americans, not just thousands.  We need to get out of this quagmire before it destroys us, as it did the Soviets.  Yes, bad things will happen there after we leave, just as bad things are happening now while we are there--you saw the shocking Time Magazine cover.In fact the sooner we leave, the sooner things are likely to get better.  Q: Do you know where the Taliban get the few bucks necessary to fight us?  Junger points out that a $5 bill is the cost to hire a local youth to fight against the Americans for a day--who sometimes respond with weapons that cost over $50,000 a shot. The answer may shock and surprise you as it did me.  A: To a great extent they are getting those $5 bills from US.  We are dumping billions there: some goes to warlords, corrupt local officials, Afghan contractors, et al.  Guess what they do with that money?  They buy protection, of course. And you know whom they buy that protection from.Finally, I read last week that we are making a strategic withdrawal, from the Pech River region, connecting to the Korengal Valley that Junger's comrades fought so hard to take--earning it the name, "Valley of Death."  We retreated from the Korengal last year.  Of course, we hope that the Afghan army can take our place in keeping fighters from all over the world from coming to Afghanistan from Pakistan.  Good luck.
4 If you ever wish to gain insider's look at the war in Afghanistan, look no further than Sebastian Junger's "War." After being embedded with a single platoon for 15 months, Junger came out of the experience with detailed stories of firefights and life in Afghanistan's Korengal Valley. Beyond his vivid depictions, Junger goes into the effects of war on the platoon members' military and civilian lives. Filled with the adrenaline rush of war and the heartbreak of attempting to adjust to civilian life, the author brings the reader into understanding as to what is happening on the inside of the complicated conflict."War" is not just another military account where author attempts to make readers "feel combatants' pain." The book is an essential volume in history for its in-depth examination of war's psychological impact. Junger goes above and beyond in his reporting to study the human mind in situations where extraordinary comradeship displaces individual survival.  The phrase "we all go down together" couldn't be more true when Junger of these braves souls. With an armload of research, Junger argues that it is only the human who possesses the character traits of "sacrifice" and "courage." One never sees other species sacrificing for one another because they do not have humans' communication skills.With so much of popular culture and even our own hectic lives occupying so much of our time, I highly recommend picking up a copy of this book to get a real sense of what much of America's military experiences in this region.
5 I first experienced the realism and writing acumen of Sebastian Junger when I read "The Perfect Storm" some years ago.  Needless to say Mr. Junger did NOT disappoint me with War.  Again, he showed what a true journalist does... he wrote an amazing story about a truly amazing group of young men, most barely out of highschool who shipped off to Afghanistan and spent their tour of duty in the rugged and deadly Korengal Valley.  Junger himself spent time living side by side with the men, and his viewpoint is exquisitely captured in the pages of his book. I enjoyed it so much I read it twice.Our young heroes are proving themselves in a very trying war.  Read their tale and read of their service to our nation.  This book is a must read in my mind... a modern day Red Badge of Courage.Retired USAF Gulf War Veteran
5 Even if War was written by a reporter embedded with troops in the Korengal Valley, it reads as if it's a memoir by someone packing an M16 and fighting the enemy hand-to-hand, suffering the boredom of downtime and the terror of action. This is a book filled with the exploits of America's finest battling some of the world's worst, the Taliban. Junger is an incredible author who tells a heart thumping tale of life in an Afghanistan war zone. I felt I was there with his descriptions of time and place. I can't think of a better portrayal of war, any war, than War by Sebastian Junger. Highly, highly recommended.Ron LealosAuthor of Pashtun
5 It has been noted by analysts over the recent political campaign that little was ever said or discussed about the war in Afghanistan, and Mr. Junger takes us face-to-face with its cruel dimensions. Anyone considering a serious reflection of what this war really is and what we should do about our position in Afghanistan must read this account. Mr. Junger was an embedded journalist for many months in the bowels of this conflict and reported on the nature of this asymmetrical beast that is fraught with fatal consequences for all involved. The only thing that survives in this conflict is the paramount position of the brotherhood of the combat troops and their willingness to die for each other! God bless these warriors and, on Thanksgiving Day of this writing, I thank them all for their sacrifices so that we can live in our country in some modicum of peace!
4 Sebastian Junger's "War" could be the flip side of Michael Herr's classicDispatches (Everyman's Library (Cloth)).  In that book the utmost emotion is dread, wrapped in a black hilarity that is compulsively readable.  In "War" Junger examines his soldiers lives in exhaustive detail and he finds something more:  that battle can be exhilarating--human experience turned up to astonishing intensity.  The bond between soldiers becomes the paramount thing in a brutally harsh world.  And there is a thrill in combat that almost freaks Junger out when he discovers it.  "War" is a confounding, troubling, fascinating book which may upset your preconceptions.
5 WAR is a reasonably short (320 pages) but succinct account of PERFECT STORM author Sebastian Junger being imbedded with troops in Afghanistan in several different  periods of time.  Junger lives in the camps, lives like the troops and follows the troops most places, risking his life to tell the story of what it is like to be a soldier in Afghanistan fighting the war that is now the longest in American History.Junger's ability to have the reader really "Feel" emotion and "understand" what it might be like rings amazingly true.  He tells stories following the same characters that we get to know and covers some familiar ground for those who have watched Band of Brothers, etc. but what is unique is Junger's perspective as a professional writer.  He talks about how he would position himself within his group of brothers to not be by the crazy guys or the risk takers and that every decision you make-whether you raise your head or sleep in the right position or walk a step too slow, etc., can be the difference between life and death.  He also discusses the psyche of the soldiers and how the most important part of the war is not necessarily killing others, but protecting.  His explanations of what it feels like to be in fire fights are extremely compelling and the book reads quickly for the lay person, which I am.For those interested in understanding what is going through the heads of our soldiers in Afghanistan as well as what it might be like to actually be there, Junger's novel hits right on the money, at least for this average citizen whom those soldiers are so valiantly protecting.
5 Sebastian Junger is a journalist and contributing editor to Vanity Fair magazine. "This book is the result of five trips to the Korengal Valley in eastern Afghanistan that I took between June 2007 and June 2008 for Vanity Fair magazine." (xi) There is a related 2010 documentary:Restrepo. The book is divided into three main sections: Fear, Killing, Love. I read the six chapters of Fear, then watched the film before continuing with the book. See the film. Read the book. Junger doesn't play politics. He keeps out of the way and lets the men's stories tell the story."No community can protect itself unless a certain portion of its youth decide they are willing to risk their lives in its defense." (242)
5 In this blinding, dizzying portrayal of platoon of our modern warriors, Sebastian Junger gives an intimate look at internal aspects of combat.  Unlike many tales of war which either glorify or rebuke combat, Sebastian Junger brings us inside the violence, drama and danger of combat from a personal and journalistic perspective.  The reader is left to draw their own conclusions.In abandoning current  "journalistic standards" of phony objectivity, he brings us his personal experience with fear, hope and pain while trying to remaining an observor from the actual combat.  I am reminded of the great works of war corrospondents in years past that freely provided personal narrative.The stories of conflict, horror fill the pages like a raging firefight and the reader is shellshocked. Some have complained that the story is hard to follow but I rather think it is the point. War is hell and chaos.Junger has created a lasting monument to the modern soldier that should be required reading for every leader who puts our men into conflict.  "War" does not take a political side, it simply records the truth of a warrior's life.Highly recommended
5 "War" is about the 18 month placement Sebastian Junger got with Battle Company in the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan. Battle Company, 150 men, see 20% of the fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. 150 men out of hundreds of thousands! This is because of the Korengal Valley, the most dangerous area in this region. The mountains border Pakistan and many of the Taliban fighters come across from Pakistan into Afghanistan.There are a number of things that strike you about the men in Battle Company. How they all come from disparate backgrounds for instance. One guy joins because he heard a radio advert while working in Subway, quit his job, and joined the army the next day. 6 months later here he is firing off machine gun rounds and calling down air strikes in a valley thousands of miles away! One man used to deal drugs in Reno, crossed some drug dealers, and joined the army to escape them. Another, perhaps the most interesting, O'Byrne, joined after being sent to reform school for taking the rap for his dad shooting him!The other thing that strikes you about them is their loyalty to one another. They really care about each other and look out for one another like nobody else, anywhere else. It's a close knit group that honours their dead and loyalty to their unit. Even when they're on leave, they race back to the front as they don't want to be responsible for not being there if one of them dies. When Doc Restrepo dies, their name the camp after him and fight the Taliban like animals, going out into the valley just to draw fire, then calling down Apaches to bomb the positions.The book is about the soldier's life in this valley and as such violence suffuses the book. From the numerous encounters with the enemy (often with Junger caught up in the middle), to the casualties they inflict and absorb, it is inescapable. One man grills cheesesteaks and then when he calls out that dinner's ready an RPG takes his arm off! One man is shot in his leg while asleep in his hammock - if he had been sleeping in his normal position the bullet would have gone in his head. When a new lieutenant joins the unit the men hold him down and beat him up. In any other part of the army this would be mutiny but here they do it to gauge his reaction - if he takes the punishment then they will listen and respect him; if he can't, he's failed the initiation.It's a brutal world these men live in and the stakes are high. Junger reports all of this with clarity and skill, knowing how to bring the reader into this barely recognisable world and making them understand how these men live day to day. It's fascinating, exciting, absorbing, and an utterly brilliant book, I can't recommend it higher.
5 For a long time, I have been fascinated by the breed of reporter/writer so willing to put everything on the line in order to experience warfare alongside American soldiers.  It is only from these brave and talented men and women that the rest of us get a decent picture of what is really happening out there and what our young soldiers are enduring for months on end.  Sebastian Junger is one of the best of the breed.  I am already a fan of Junger's "The Perfect Storm" and "A Death in Belmont," both of which are excellently written, but I do believe that "War" is his best effort yet.Sebastian Junger spent more than fifteen months of 2007-2008 on the front lines in Afghanistan with a platoon of the 173rd Airborne brigade.  Admittedly, Junger was able to take breaks from the combat zone in the Korengal Valley more frequently than the men of Battle Company but, when he was there, he faced the same dangers, and lived under the same rudimentary conditions, as the professional soldiers around him.  Junger went out on foot patrols, experienced enemy ambushes and sniper fire, and came close to dying when the Hummer he was riding in became the target of a roadside bomb.  Consequently, he experienced the same emotions and trauma experienced by the men he came to know and understand so well.This is not a political book; Junger does not present or argue the reasons the United States has been involved in this war in Afghanistan for so many years.  According to Junger, the men of Battle Company do not seem to care much one way or the other about the politics that placed them in the Korengal Valley.  It is his observation, in fact, that behind-the-lines support personnel are generally more gung ho about the war than those taking fire on the front lines.  The men of Battle Company waste no time worrying about the rightness or wrongness of their fight.Junger and his photographer, Tim Hetherington, shot something over 150 hours of video in Afghanistan, video Junger mined for exact quotes and a better understanding of what he lived through in real-life speed.  His combat reportage, as would be expected, is excellent, capturing the tenseness of U.S. troops who must often expose themselves via foot patrols in order to make the enemy show himself long enough for air support and heavy weapons to be used against him.  As Junger points out, however, the natural terrain of the Korengal Valley offsets many of the advantages one would expect a modern army to have over the few hundred Taliban fighters it faces.  Snipers, roadside bombs, the ability of the enemy to blend in with the civilian population, and having to contend with so much high ground, often force these modern soldiers to revert to old school infantry tactics."War" becomes especially interesting when Junger explores how the experience affects those on the front lines.  The author explains how these young men handle their fear, how and why each of them is so willing to die for any other man in the platoon, and why so many of them wonder if they will be able to handle the boredom of the real world again after having experienced the rush of combat for so long.  For the young men of Battle Company, the courage to fight comes more from love for their fellow soldier than from any sense of patriotism.  No one wants to be the one to make a mistake that will cost another man his life, and all are willing to risk their own lives to save the lives of others.Amazingly, many of these young men "fall in love" with combat and miss it during the lulls between contact with the enemy.  Some of them, in their boredom, even wish for their operating base to be attacked - and they shout in glee when it happens again.  Despite the friends they lose, for some of them, war becomes a game in which they get to shoot amazing weapons and blow up things.  Sadly, it is only when they return home that many of these men will pay a heavy price for what they have experienced.
5 Having returned from Afghanistan in 2002 I pretty much stayed away from reading any books on the subject. I must thank Mr Junger for letting folks back home know the stories and subtitles that one misses with our biased media. There is a bond that exists between soldiers and Mr Junger hit this right on the head.His attention to detail from the smells to a soldier rat fu...king an MRE put a tear in my eye.I believe there is honor in the truth and Mr Junger you have honor and my respect which isnt easy to get. Thank you, Gregory Rendelman (OEF 101st Airborne Division, Afganistan 2002)
5 It is easy to put out of our minds that there is a war being fought in that distant, harsh land that is Afghanistan.Young men are fighting it.It is a tough war. A mean war. A tactical, psychological, physical, grind-it-out war.The hardest kind.And yet, we know next to nothing about it.Which is why I chose Sebastian Junger'sWARas my reading.Junger was embedded in a battle unit situated in Korengal Valley, Afghanstan. His telling of the story of these men is sparse and to the point. His goal is to write how these men see and experience their situation.It isn't pretty. It isn't romantic. It is hard and brutal and eye-opening and unsparing of the reality of a battle soldier's life.I read this book in sections. I couldn't do it otherwise because of its intensity.I read this book slow. I wanted to absorb it without being overwhelmed.I read this book.Every American should.
5 This book is the result of Mr. Junger being "embedded," for five months, in an Army infantry platoon in the Korengal Valley on the edge of Konar Province. The platoon and the location are the setting for Mr. Junger to present a microcosm of a war lacking in direct similarity to most other American involvements including Vietnam and Iraq.Mr. Junger, did not seek to build complete biographical sketches of the individual platoon members but rather, very effectively, to place the reader in the position to gain some basic understanding of the "tip of the spear" soldiers life in a totally hostile and unnatural environment. An experience that takes young men, many of which came from  troubled backgrounds in our home front society, straightens them out and then puts them in a situation that puts many of them at serious risk, if and when they reenter normal society.While the book jumps around and requires the reader to knit together his vignettes he has admirable succeeded in his mission.  While staying well clear of political lean or drift there is much for the reader to learn both about "war" in this modern age and this war in particular.If learning about the horrors of this, or perhaps any war, is your cup of tea this book is a strong five. If one desires to feed their patriotic fervor or even to immerse in human interest drivel leave it alone.
5 In 2007, I re-enlisted in the United States Army Reserves after a 15 year break in service.  And since that time I've struggled to find the words to describe why I went back, why I could no longer ask young men, barely out of high school to go and fight for me.  For my children, for us.  I still really don't have the words to explain that.Since my return from a deployment to Iraq in 2009, I've further struggled with the words to describe what it was.  What it is like to take and return fire.  What it is like to get hit by an IED.  What its like spend each day knowing it could be your last.  What its like to force one foot in front of the next on a seemingly endless prowl through the ruins of an abandoned village looking for IEDs and wondering just where that sniper disappeared to.  What its like to lay in your bunk listening to incoming rockets as they explode around you.  What its like to treat a sucking chest wound, the feel of the blood and dirt as a fellow solider lay gasping and moaning in pain.  The brotherhood.  The passion. The enjoyment.  The energy.  Life at war.Sebastian Junger gets it. He's found the words I've struggled with. More than anyone else I've ever read (with the exception of Ernie Pyle of the Greatest Generation). More than Michael Yon (who's scalp hunting colors and taints everything he writes), more than Michael Totten (prose too high handed and introverted), more than Larry Kaplow and Joe Galloway (axes to grind and agendas to advance), Junger really gets it.  He walked the walked.  He's visited the "Valley of the Shadow of Death" and he's seen the evil that good and bad men can do.Most importantly he did so and let his experiences there change him.  Any preconceived notions he had about war, soldiers, and fear were set aside as his experiences dictated and replaced with a far closer truth about combat and soldiering as a whole than I've found anywhere else.  Unlike the others mentioned above, Junger didn't twist and use what happened to justify his world view, rather he learned from what happened and sought to understand rather than pushing an agenda.  More simply put he came, he saw, he reported without editorializing.He found the words and I highly recommend "WAR" to anyone who wants to understand.
5 I spent a year in eastern Afghanistan with the U.S. Army, though as a female soldier I never got to see such places as Korengal Valley.  I was not a Fobbit (a person spending their entire time on a base), but I was interested to read Junger's account of following an infantry platoon through their deployment in this violent part of Afghanistan.  By the time I was done, I was left open-mouthed and with immense respect for my brothers-in-arms who served selflessly in Korengal.Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington created an exceptional account of modern warfare as seen not just through their eyes, but through the eyes of the young men they followed through months of their deployment.  I was pleasantly surprised at the level of respect Junger and hetherington showed for the soldiers and the amount of responsibility to the country, as well as their profession they constantly had to balance.  Vivid descriptions, unedited conversations, very human interactions, all place the reader in the thick of things."War" is very easy to read (as far as the flow), and I did not want the book to end.  The soldiers in the book are portrayed as the true unit, and Junger easily defines courage and bravery, while going over inevitable death that is so foreign and unimaginable to most of us.  And on the other end of all of this are the soft spoken individuals willing to put their lives on the lines for one another and for their country, regardless of big politics.  In fact, politics are not even a distant thought in all this.What a fantastic account by a great journalist and author.  Highly recommended!
5 Great chronicle of the 173rd ABN Soldiers while deployed in the Korengal valley.  For those of us in military service, this eyewitness of the close combat in the Korengal and the ups and downs of combat operations was further validation of the noble task of being a Soldier.Sebastian does a great job of arranging the topography, the names, weapon systems, the enemy and the ever-present fog of war in a heartwarming and endearing way so that by the time the deployment year is over, you feel for the "joes" who come back to Vicenza and get in trouble.  You sense their love of comaraderie, being part of a team, that certain characteristic of bonding which belongs only to those who protect each other during hostile fire.  But especially weighty is the care for one another that belongs to true Soldiering. As he states, "they miss being in a world where human relations are entirely governed by whether you can trust the other person with your life."War helps us to understand that what is always required in our services is this elusive trait of "shared privations and dangers" which force us together to care for each other in uniform over ourselves--part of the Army Ethic that is forged under fire in this Platoon.  Must read now.Looking forward to the movie Restrepo which is currently opening in cities in the USA.
4 You will never get the sense of what it was really like &#34;over there&#34; from network news.This pulls you in as if you were there.
5 This is a challenging book to read but well worth your time. The author takes us right into the proverbial trenches, gives us a nitty gritty down and dirty picture of what it is like to fight a war in Afghanistan. It ain't pretty, but the story is very real and gripping. Definitely five big stars.
5 Wow!  What a book.  This really covers the type of information that 'civilians' wonder about concerning war and killing and death, etc.  I believe he really understands what a soldier fights and sometimes dies for!  Aa a veteran, but without combat experience, the nagging question is: how will I react if I was placed in that situation?  He seems to have received the answer form the troops he lived with for that year.This is not so much an action book as a psychological research into the psyche of typical soldiers.
5 I enjoyed this book very much. The writing is interesting and detailed. Gripping and painful. Amazing author. I would highly recommend this to anyone who wants to understand war.
4 One outcome from embedding journalists with troops in Iraq and Afghanistan is that the stories published can provide those of us thousands of miles away with some insight into what the situation is like on the ground. Sebastian Junger was embedded for five months with the U.S. Army's 2nd Battalion in the Korengal valley, and the book he wrote from this experience is titled, War. Packed with vivid description of the setting, the people and the action, this book soars when Junger explores the many ways in which the members of a platoon subordinate their self interest for the good of the unit. From a society that rewards and encourages the pursuit of self-interest, these soldiers epitomize the greatness that comes from self sacrifice. I finished this book with a renewed appreciation for the actions of individuals engaged in the hell that is war.Rating: Four-star (Highly Recommended)
5 No one can explain what seems to be the serendipity of combat, one is Taken and another is not. Mr. Junger reports it well. The statistics from Stouffer become the foundation of his foremost conclusion -- I.e. that, in the last sense,  men fight for their  brothers and not some broader ideal. And it helps to explain why it is that coming home, for us combat veterans, is so hard to do, and why it is we don't talk--- both because it is sacred and because we have no language to convey it to those who have not been there.
5 Anyone looking for a detailed review of life as a member of our nation's army fighting in Afghanistan needs to read this book. Written in a manner typical of Junger, I found it fascinating.
4 Sebastian Junger's "War" is an unvarnished account of what was the most deadly front in the ongoing Afghanistan War, seen from a ground level soldier's point of view. Junger's familiarity with the country dates back to its pre-9/11 days and his writing bears an air of authenticity and understanding that few other journalists, if any, could achieve. Junger's writing transports you to the mountainside outposts in the impregnable, yet strangely alluring, terrain that has stymied foreign invaders throughout history. It is easy for the reader to wonder aloud why the U.S. is even there, and for the most part it seems the infantrymen stationed there and indeed Junger himself are not entirely sure themselves. What they are sure of is that they have a job to do and how well they do that job is literally a matter of life or death. The stakes could not be higher and Junger illustrates that clearly, creating a persistently uneasy feeling for the reader. Along the way, we bear witness to not just the grim realities of combat, but also the "magical thinking," as Junger puts it, that arises among young men in such a situation. This magical thinking is something civilians could not possibly understand and Junger takes his best shot at explaining it to us.This is not a political book and for that I am grateful. Junger was far more interested in the experience of actually being there than the domestic dispute of whether we should be there not. However, he does take a few opportunities to make some very sharp points that are hard to argue with - the most notable being that the mission in Korengal Valley was woefully undermanned to make any real impact, the war in Iraq undoubtedly distracted the U.S. from finishing the job, and that Pakistan is providing robust support to the Taliban with virtually no ramifications. The details about Pakistan's involvement were particularly revelatory and sickening to me.My only criticism is that at times the book could be repetitive. Towards the end I started saying to myself "OK, OK, I get it, I get it." But ultimately these minor frustrations were far outweighed by the eye-opening observations relayed to the reader. After reading War, you will have a greater understanding of what war is really like and a deeper appreciation for the soldiers who fight it. I recommend watching Restrepo after finishing the book - it was filmed at the same time and puts it all in full color context. The film combined with the book provide a glimpse in to war that feels all too real, which in a world of CGI and sound stages, is exactly why they are worth watching and reading.
5 Sebastian Junger is a journalist who spent a year in the Korengal Valley, eastern Afghanistan, embedded with the men of Battle Company.  This book - pretentiously titled but unpretentiously written - is an extremely fascinating recounting of some of the events of that year, as well as some ruminations on the nature of combat, and what it does to young men: psychologically, emotionally, chemically and physically.  Junger never gets preachy; this isn't a book about whether the Afghanistan conflict is justified, whether America is winning, whether the war can or should be won, what victory would even look like.  A big part of the reason, as Junger notes, is that such big-picture concerns don't make any difference to a squad living in a remote outpost for months at a time.  The only concern is doing your job and protecting the team.I said the title is pretentious: war is about shooting, of course, but it is also Congressmen debating policy in from of television; Presidents meeting with generals and then with pollsters; the logistics of moving MREs from one side of the world to another; lonely wives praying for their husbands' safety; propaganda and psychological warfare; economics and profiteering.  War is huge, all-encompassing, and few wars more so than America's War on Terror.  Junger's book ignores most of that, and focuses solely on the microcosm, on the smallest possible unit.  The Taliban fighters are totally faceless.  Even the Afghan National Army troops are nothing more than scenery.  Villagers and elders have a very few speaking parts, but no personalities of their own.  Junger also leaves out any sort of historical context.  There is no discussion of how the Taliban came to power or what they represent, no mention of 9/11 or President Bush's preparations for war, very little reference to Pakistan's role in the conflict, no real exploration of why foreign (mostly Arab) fighters are flocking to the region.  I recommend the reader have at least some familiarity with basic geographical and historical background.Enough about what isn't in the book.  What's in the book is excellent.  We see all the shock and adrenaline of firefights (complete with RPG attacks, close air support, predator drones, machine guns that melt from continuous fire) punctuating vast swaths of boredom; walking for hours through rarified, knife-edged mountains; hyper-sexualized horse-play and jaw-dropping vulgarity among the troops; bad food and intense weather.  It all comes to life through vivid writing and detached vignettes.  I very strongly recommend this book.
5 This is an excellent book to understand what our current young veterans are going through in combat.  I especially appreciate the research into the physical and psychological impact of combat on a person.  If I were going to recommend a person only read one book on the current War on Terrorism, this would be it.
5 War is a cruel invention of the human mind, one that plagues us even today.  War provokes death, misery and intolerable physic harm to both sides in the cataclysmic events that end up classified as wars.In his book, WAR, Sebastian Junger adds another valuable resource in man's feeble attempts to understand war.  In providing an explanation of war and its ensuing combat, Junger provides an essential guide to the psychology of war, one that all national leaders should be required to read before - not after - they instigate a war.  I'm specifically talking about George W. Bush and Barrack Hussein Obama - neither of whom have had one ounce of experience in this barbarous activity that we call war.  Yet they both presumed to lecture us on the importance of waging war.There are, to be sure, times when a war is necessary. But wars should be the exception not the rule.  Alas, for much of the last fifty years, the United States has spent much of its time waging wars that were both unpopular and unjustified.  Vietnam is the boldest example, of course, but there were other questionable wars, including combat activities in Iraq and Afghanistan.Junger's book is based on one platoon's experience in the American war in Afghanistan in 2007. Over a period of 15 months, the author spent five months with the Second Platoon of the Battle Company of the 173rd Airborne Division in the Korengal Valley in northeast Afghanistan.  The Korengal Valley is located on the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan, near the Khyber Pass.  It is one of the hottest areas in the Afghan War.Junger patrolled with the platoon, got to know its members intimately, both officers and grunts.  He witnessed their triumphs and their tragedies, and he reports on their reaction to what they did.Not surprisingly, Junger found that most members of the second platoon were dedicated, professional soldiers.  They didn't give a lot of thought to why they were in Afghanistan; they had been sent by their Commander in Chief, and their job was to fight the Taliban in their efforts to regain control of Afghanistan.  It was a bloody, nasty business, and the platoon took heavy casualties during their year.  Like all grunts, they complained a lot, but that didn't mean that they didn't do their job; they fought well and honorably in accordance with the so-called American policy in the Afghan/Pakistani War.In his narrative, Junger gives us all the bloody detail in deadly fighting, and as such, his book ranks with other classic studies of war, including the Red Badge of Courage by Stephen Crane, which documented the horror of the Civil War;  We Were Soldiers Once - and Young by Joe Galloway which documented one of the most ferocious battles of the Vietnam War; and Dispatches by Michael Herr, which described the lives of the grunts in the Vietnam War.But Junger also weaves into his narrative some thoughtful observations about war, including such emotions as fear, death, love and courage.  He draws on studies of World War II that explain why men are able to surmount their fears and display bold acts of courage.To those with no experience of war, including deadly combat, Junger provides an explanation of how the mind reacts to stark fear. He explain why men of a platoon or even a company have intense loyalty to each other - to the extent that they would rather give their own life in order to protect the lives of their comrades.  And he explains how a military force develops its own cohesion that allows it to survive, even when the war it is being told to fight has no real justification.War is not a simple proposition, and Junger's masterful book goes a long way towards explaining the intricate issues that arise during combat.  He quotes Brendan O'Byrne, one of the squad leaders of the Second Platoon as saying:"Combat is such an adrenaline rush. I'm worried I'll be looking for that when I get home and if I can't find it, I'll just start drinking and getting in trouble. People back home think we drink because of the bad stuff, but that's not true...we drink because we miss the good stuff."Junger also provides some useful insights into the role of the press that attempts to cover a war."...We reporters had our own issues.  Vietnam was our paradigm as well, our template for how not to get hoodwinked by the U.S. Military influence, and it exerted such a powerful influence that anything short of implacable cynicism sometimes felt like a sellout....Afghanistan, on the other hand was being fought by volunteers who more or less respected their commanders and had the gratitude of the vast majority of Americans back home.  If you imagined that your job as a reporter was to buddy up to the troops and tell the `real' story of how they were dying in a senseless war, you were in for a surprise. The commanders would realize we were operating off a particular kind of cultural programming and would try to change you mind, but the men wouldn't bother. They'd just refuse to talk to you until you left their base."To his credit, the men of the Second Platoon did more than talk to Junger. They barred their souls, and to the extent they did, Junger has given us a marvelous tool to understand the brutality of the wars we instigate - in many cases, questionable conflicts where we leave it to our troops to do all the fighting.Note:  the author not only fought in the Vietnam War, he went back to cover it as a correspondent.
5 Even though Sebastian Junger went into a fair amount of detail in describing the day to day routines of an elite group of U.S. Army Infantrymen and subsequent combat operations, I found that in some instances, his narrative in "WAR" sometimes seemed to lack a simple direction.A few hours after I put the book down, I was able to find and read Junger's article: "Into the Valley of Death," with accompanying photos by Tim Hetherington on Vanity Fair magazine's Web site.In "Into the Valley of Death," Junger gave a slightly different perspective of the combat operations that took place in and around Wanat in Afganistan's Korengal Valley during July of 2008.  The text was simpler, more to the point. After reading the VF article, I understood a little better what Junger was attempting to explain in "WAR".Hetherington's photos also put the text of Sebastian's "WAR" into a much larger perspective.  His portraits of the soldiers Junger so thoughtfully wrote about brought these personalities to life.If at least some of the photos and the article itself could have been transposed into "WAR" - just for simplicity's sake, it would have been a better work.  However, I will say that "WAR" was written as a fast read, as journalism, not as an epic novel.For the most part, "WAR" is well-written, well crafted and well thought out.  Although much of the material about why soldiers fight, and what differentiates a modern cohesive tactical unit from a troubling debacle has been discussed a litany of times by military historians for decades, it is interesting to see these issues applied to combat operations in Afganistan.I'm sure that at least some of Junger's observations would be taken to task by some of the US Army's unit commanders and senior NCO's.  However, it's evident that the author has a great deal of respect for the men he was embedded with for the better part of fifteen months. He makes it clear that the soldier's issue with journalists was one of commitment.  I quote Junger:"Vietnam was considered a morally dubious war that was fought by draftees while the rest of the nation was dropping acid and listening to Jimi Hendrix.  Afganistan, on the other hand, was being fought by volunteers who more or less respected their commanders and had the gratitude of the vast majority of Americans back home. If you imagined that your job, as a reporter, was to buddy up to the troops and tell the "real" story of how they were dying in a senseless war, you were in for a surprise.  The commanders would realize you were operating off a particular kind of cultural programming and would try to change your mind, but the men wouldn't bother.  They'd just refuse to talk with you until you left their base.""They" were the men of Second Platoon, Battle Company, Second Battalion (Airborne), 503rd Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team, during combat operations in Afghanistan's Korengal Valley.While Junger was able to maintain his distance from the action in order to preserve his integrity as a journalist, he clearly was able to chronicle the reactions and feelings of the men he was with.  That's what makes the text of "WAR" interesting. If you haven't read "A Perfect Storm" or any of his other works, I would describe Junger's writing style as similar to Tom Wolfe's earlier nonfiction, fairly lean.However, while military slang, such as the phrase "Get some," is easily understood, some of the other acronyms and terms used are peculiar to the war in Afganistan.  Unfortunately, the glossary and accompanying index must not have been ready for print by the time my advance copy went to press.My only other criticisms has to do with the editing of the text itself: The author evidently had brevity in mind when he used concise language in order to convey some concepts and his experiences.  However, much of the text itself could have been broken up into smaller paragraphs.  That way the flow of the narrative would have been a little bit easier on the reader.Even so, it's a small sacrifice to make for such good reading.Also - One other thing I's like to know... Where in the hell was the platoon segeant during the stomach slapping incident?
5 WAR is a great book about the War on Terror is Afghanistan.  The author spent 14 months with a platoon and he brilliantly portrays their environment and mindset, along with excellent research from history and military studies (as well as psychological sources) that doesn't clutter up the narrative for a second.I loved Junger's THE PERFECT STORM and his ability to collect the information and present it in WAR is just as masterful and compelling.  You will learn far more about what our troops are doing than a year's worth of nightly news reports.Definitely check this out.(I've wanted to read Jon Krakeur's book about Pat Tillman, WHERE MEN FIND GLORY, but I've been put off by all the complaints that that author too frequently indulges in political attacks on the Bush Administration instead of sticking with Tillman's extraordinary story.  That is not a problem with Junger's WAR.  WAR is a book firmly planted and entirely focused on the soldiers on the ground fighting this war.)
4 In contrast to certain frauds and betrayers *cough*Micah Wright*cough*Kevin Sites*cough*, this is an altogether excellent piece of embed reportage.  Sebastian Junger gained the confidence of a squad of American soldiers, stationed far up in the wild valleys of Afghanistan.  The portrayals of these warriors is honest and unsentimental but also quite respectful--seemingly a miracle in this age of Wikileaks journalism.The prose is hypertrophied, almost too punchy at times, but still there's an insight on almost every page.  For instance, this fair-use excerpt of collective punishment for a breach of discipline:"There was carelessness and then there were real mistakes, and once itcrossed that line, discipline came down from above and wasrelentless.  Once I woke up in the middle of the night to grunts andshouting and went outside to find Staff Sergeant Alcantara smoking hisentire squad.  Whoever was on guard duty had let the batteries rundown on a thermal sight called a PAS-13 that allowed them to  scan thehillsides at night.  On a dark night the PAS-13 was the only way theycould see if the enemy was creeping close for a surprise attack, anddead batteries could literally put the base at risk of gettingoverrun. The best way to ensure that no one @#!*% up was to inflictcollective punishment on the entire squad, because that meant everyonewould be watching everyone else.  Al had them out there in stresspositions lifting sandbags and essentially eating dirt for so longthat I finally just went back inside and went to sleep.  The nextmorning I asked him if the punishment had wiped the slate clean--orwas there some residual stigma that would take longer to erase?"There are no hard feelings after everyone gets smoked," he said."They're more @#!*% that they all let each other down.  Once it'sover it's over."The only real drawback to me is the cover photo, which looks like nothing so much as Jan Vermeer's Girl With A Pearl Earring to me.  But it is made up for with the back photo, showing the young soldiers rough housing on their base.  It's a surprisingly sweet image, affectionate even.  Affection which seeps through in the book's pages, the year's best on this subject.
5 This is it.  This is war.  This is the book, for me, that was purely and simply about being in the battle of a war.  It was real. It was honest.There are two passages in the book that I will always remember:"We're not going to win the war until we admit we're losing it," one of theseguys told me in the spring of 2008. He was in a position of moderate influencein the U.S. military, and his pessimism was so refreshing that it actually mademe weirdly optimistic. (page 134)"Civilians balk at recognizing that one of the most traumatic things aboutcombat is having to give it up." (page 233)President Obama, PLEASE READ THIS BOOK.
5 Sebastian Junger is one of the best writers of nonfiction out there today. His ability to describe with crystal clarity the ordeals of men in extreme circumstances is unsurpassed. He has the ability to put the reader into the middle of the action, seeing and feeling what his subjects are experiencing. I can still clearly visualize dramatic events that he describes in 'The Perfect Storm' even though it has been over ten years since I read it.I particularly enjoy anything that Junger as written about Afghanistan. He was on the ground with the Northern Alliance writing about this war before most Americans had even heard of Osama bin Ladin or the Taliban.'War' does not disappoint. Junger's description of soldiers fighting an intractable enemy in this 'axle-breaking, helicopter-crashing, spirit-killing, mind-bending terrain that few military plans survive intact even for an hour' is magnificent. In 'War' we come to know the soldiers who serve, fight, and often die in the Korengal Valley. He also gives us insights into the enemy we are fighting there and the civilians who live in such isolation that some can't tell the difference between American soldiers and Russians. In their minds, invaders are invaders.The third section `Love' provides one of the most insightful psychological assessments I have read of men in combat and of the concept of unit cohesion. What those outside the unit consider heroism, a soldier simply considers his duty. To do less is to let down his brothers.Junger does a very good job of keeping any opinions he may have about the war out of his narrative. His job is to tell the story of the men of Battle Company and their tour of duty in the Korengal Valley and he does it very well. In fact, he does it so well that I felt like I was on a see-saw. In one minute he describes the valley and I really want to be there to see it. In the next minute, he describes troops under fire in a devastating ambush and I'm glad I'm on the other side if the earth.If you want a 'boots on the ground' description of life at the tip of the spear in Afghanistan, then this is the book you must read. Great job, Sebastian.
4 Having read some dozen accounts from both soldiers and journalists on the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, I cannot say this volume presents anything above the average.  Almost always one will find interesting stories and memories of war in any account of battle; less often you'll come across an occurrence that seems to defy imagination and reality all at once.  You'll find both here, which makes for an interesting read but nothing that makes this text stand out from the rest.  Personally, there is a cognizant disconnect that occurs when someone mentions 'war' and 'soldiers' to me, never will I imagine them as 18 year old boys running around in flip-flops, with body armor and guns in hand trying to locate the enemy on a ridge a mere few hundred meters away.  But that, for all its worth, is a part of war, and something the author witnessed on a regular basis as a few dozen men attempt to hold back droves of enemy fighters on a daily, and at times hourly, basis.  The basic needs and activities of everyday life take a backseat as soldiers reevaluate their environment and make the required adjustments.  Hearing that soldiers hate each other but will give their lives trying to protect one another exemplifies the atmosphere of both war and unit camaraderie.  But journalists writing about war is nothing new, in many ways this book for me is average in content.  Men finding themselves regularly under fire, harassed, left to defend a worthless piece of territory is a banality in the annals of military history.  On the one hand having some psycho-analysis and philosophizing thrown in might make this interesting for some.  On the other, I can't say, as other reviewers have attempted to point out, that Junger has done all the necessary research for this volume.  More than once the reader will encounter "as told to me by a local."  Really getting down to hard fact journalism there.
4 Author Sebastian Junger spent about 5 months embedded with infantrymen in the Korengal Valley region in Afghanistan.  He ate, slept, patrolled, and fellowshipped (to a limited degree) with them.  So does "War" do for soldiers what Junger's "The Perfect Storm" did for fishermen?  I'm not sure.The book is better than most in this genre'.  Junger is a talented observer and describer, and he was living the life at a level exceeding what most journalists take on.  It's enlightening, frightening, and heartbreaking at times.But, accounts of some of these soldiers (maybe) seemed to not necessarily always ring true.  Having read some of the other reviews, and having had some life experience "on the front lines", I would pose a qualification to some of the raves of "realism" that other reviewers have offered.  It's an old paradox that has been posed in science.  It goes something like . . . the scientist alters the outcome of his observed subject, simply by the swaying effect of his having observed.  So, Junger's foray into the abyss is well described - but is is still an abyss with "that writer guy hanging around".  Some subjects will reserve and hold back.  Some will posture and embellish.  So the author's war observations are pretty candid, but methinks not necessarily what sometimes goes on without him on-scene.  Let your imagination run.And . . . as we are still at war in Afghanistan as I write this, I can't help but note what an interesting and informative read this will be to the enemy.  It will doubtlessly find it's way into the Taliban camp, adequately translated into their language.  This is a valid concern and one that I'm not sure how to deal with.  The Army was eager to accommodate the author's access needs, and we now have the 21st century censorship taboo to honor.  I hope this book doesn't result in cost of American lives.Still - War is unusually candid.  Timelines jump aroung and are hard to follow, and the personalities become likewise jumbled.  I wish the author/publisher would have included some maps of the Korengal Valley.  I eventually constructed a mind picture that seemed to jibe with the narrative, but it was a continual distraction.  But it's a safe way to vicariously live in the Korengal and patrol with the U.S. soldiers there.  I also appreciated Junger's side trips into the mentality and basic psychology of warfare and fear, along with some infantry tactics 101.It's a good account - educational and reasonably non-judgemental.  Well written and was worth my reading time I think. Kudos to Junger for being willing to walk the walk to a great degree.  What he did was dangerous.
5 This book is not a laundry list of military jargon. Neither is it intended to be prose filled rendering in the vein of Vonnegut, Tolstoy, or Hemingway. It is as described and stands with the more definitive novels of war; sharing sensations of combat against backdrops of possibly unfair and crazy conflict.It seems I've spent portions of my life debunking concepts that certain people (even those claiming to have endured heavy combat) insist as being true. Example: hardened combat vets diving for dirt at the sound of loud noises or sudden bangs; looking for cover and crawling beneath parked vehicles. The concept, by and large, belongs in the realm of nonsense. There is no startle and there is no shake; at least in the sense of blindly reacting to sudden harsh noise. The sound of a shotgun being ratcheted will draw attention, as will the sounds of Roman candles leaving sky rocket assemblies on the 4th of July (even then its more a shudder of sense-memory than a reminder  of actual incoming). In both cases unconscious reasoning takes over and you are transported through time via sounds and sensations reminiscent of death and dying.Mister Junger explains the chemical reactions in the brain when certain of these assaultive events occur; how the actual sense of being attacked is reduced to reaction-time involving fractions of seconds. The explaining of the `snap' of a round breaking through the sound barrier as a slug passes inches from your face may seem a preposterous notion; as though describing sounds of small arms special effects from a Bond movie. But the describing is on point and accurate.First book on combat I read was The Red Badge of Courage. And I didn't understand it until I witnessed it. Then For Whom the Bell Tolls; Hemingway's tome to captured inhumanity and the claustrophobia of the Spanish Civil War; events strangely familiar to persons experiencing war up close and personal. Somewhere in between I read The Iliad; stark renderings of events and descriptions of combat seeming ancient in context but proving ever so true. Most strongly and strangely felt is association with the broken spirit of Yossarian. Anyone surviving events by way, shape, or form as Heller describes, would agree.I place Mister Junger's novel of war among the best of these. He is offering strong narrative combined with accurate describing of visceral reactions to combat. Mister Junger invites the reader to join him as he plunges to the depths of the soul of the warrior and places the wary participant of narrative where fear, excitement, and glory reside alongside sorrow, anxiety, and gloom.While at a book signing at Borders, near Downtown Crossing in Boston, I listened to Mister Junger describe events witnessed during fifteen months of embedding alongside troops serving at a remote outpost in Eastern Afghanistan. Mister Junger proved engaging and interesting; sharing the placing of personal security aside while describing events of war; gathering knowledge and experience while ignoring risk of life and limb; the whole while joining a fraternity of brothers willingly placing their lives on the line. Add to the experience the day-to-day boredoms encountered in residing in a place of gloom, where there is nothing but dirt, rock, and incoming rounds, and you arrive at the heart of complete narrative.Listening to Mister Junger's personal recollections of war, and of being surrounded by enemy intent on overrunning your position, murdering every breathing creature that walks or crawls, brought up memories of personal experience of being pummeled by mortars, artillery rounds, and small arms; every direction possible and inside a landscape of screaming and killing and dying. The experience is closely akin to what a small animal must feel when trapped inside an inescapable container, while imprisoned by lunatic children intent on taunting and torturing and finally crushing the very life.The rendering by Mister Junger is apolitical; as it should be and in the sense that the author does not take sides and does not spout politics or use words or phrases demeaning to the efforts of the warrior.  He avoids furthering any sort of political opinion or cause.  That said, he doesn't prevent people from attempting to draw him out. He responds to any and all questions posed by his audience.One reviewer in Amazon mentions `chronological timelines' and lack thereof; painting a picture of disconnect of opinion from truths supplied by 'other reporting sources on war'.I always get a kick out of these sorts of literary critics; climbing the high road while highlighting lacking details of literary structure; chastising the author for avoiding high brow sentiment. The effort reminds me of a dinner party where the host's shaggy animal is dry humping your leg.Reviewers like these always claim to be `getting it 'right' while at the same time getting it all wrong. Mister Junger provided insight and accuracy through retelling of events. He describes gut feelings of warriors and the horrors submitted to willingly and on a daily basis.
5 Read Junger's "WAR" over the course of several weeks.  This is one of the few books available that discusses the war in Afghanistan from the American soldier's perspective, and probably the most realistic and uncensored.  It will certainly upset a lot of folks, across a wide spectrum of demographics, for numerous petty reasons.  War is ugly, and it twists people, and then, after experiencing combat for months at a time, they are expected to take abuse from bureaucratic automatons and be immersed in the dull, bland, unreality of modern civilized society where they need to interact with the general public in a socially acceptable manner.  Many fail.There are a few bizarre scenes, like the cook who made his way to a remote firebase for the sole purpose of earning his CIB.  Soldiers beating up their newly assigned LT for "fun."  Reference to a rumor that 50 caliber bullets will wound an enemy that they miss by over a foot because they are so hot, which I do not think is true but apparently a lot of soldiers believe it.  And apparently pain medication is available from medics in lollipop form now, which is something new.  But Junger was deeply immersed in that unit and apparently reported everything he observed truthfully with no oversight whatsoever from Pentagon censors . . . and that is probably the most unbelievable thing of all.Great book.  Important book.  Shows us all exactly what the combat troops are dealing with and how they cope.  It is deeply disturbing at times, and I'm sure a number of rear echelon generals will be shocked into gibbering disbelief at some of the goings on.  This will probably result in new rules being passed, such as: combat troops must shave and keep their boots highly polished at all times, and someone will probably think it is a swell idea to start delivering ice cream in the 110 degree heat to boost morale.  But I digress.The only technical error of any significance I spotted was on pg 20 of the uncorrected proof, in which is written, "Another man carried an M4 that also fired big fat rounds called 203s."  That should be changed to: "carried an M203 which is an M4 that also fires 40mm grenades."  Minor error, but it would be good if it were corrected before it goes to press.
5 What a well written, insightful book not just on fighting, but the psychological effects on men before, during and after combat.Although a very different kind of book; if you liked The Perfect Storm, you will want to read War.  A monumental and brave endeavor by Junger!
5 I wish this would have been available on Kindle when I purcahsed it. If you're looking for a book that delves in to Warriors thought process this is it. I say warrior as opposed to soldier since anyone can be a soldier if they have the inclnation, however being a warrior carries a mindset and a responsibilty difficult to explain. Junger does a fantastic job putting you in the world. Walt
5 Sebastian Junger can write. His ability to move a story forward was well demonstrated in "The Perfect Storm," and is the big reason "War" is a good read.Less of a narrative than "..Storm", "War" follows a platoon of American 101 Airborne Infantry on the front lines of Afghanistan in the Korangal Valley. Described as "Afghanistan's Afghanistan", The Korangal Valley is close to Pakistan and full of Taliban. Rugged, remote and with an indifferent population, the valley is dotted with American outposts aimed at ......??? The best that can be said of the mission is that the Taliban were there, so our infantry followed in an attempt to demonstrate to a local population that they could be protected and the enemy punished.There is not an overarching mission to follow, or a crescendo event built to in this book. It is a chronicle of Junger's frequent insertions over a year period with soldiers who spend their time waiting for sniper fire, mortar attacks or infrequent perimeter rushes.  Sometimes our troops go on patrol to even more remote outposts or set traps and ambushes for the enemy. Sometimes these movements result in fierce firefights and raging battles; sometimes their offensive efforts are met by silence or mere harassment.  Always it is an environment that is stressful, either waiting for an enemy that may not come for weeks or participating in an adrenalin rushing feat of arms where that may remove a soldier from his family of comrades.What Junger does well is let the reader come to know these young Americans in combat. Their ferocity, policy ambivalence and, most importantly, love for each other are the themes that carry these infantry through their tour (I say infantry because even though they are with the 101st, they don't jump during this tour but are used exclusively on the ground.)The theme of the story is the bond these men form with each other.  As other books have done, Junger demonstrates very well the effect that shared danger and hardship have on creating for these men a close knit brotherhood.  These men rely on each other and are by and large prepared to lay down their lives for any member of their unit.  It is a relationship that can only be forged in battle and Junger does an excellent job of illustrating how these men come together, live together, perform together and are joined in a way that not even their families will probably ever be able to fully understand.The book feels real. Junger spends enough time with the men to earn their trust and learn their stories and motivations. He does a nice job of presenting their story and experiences without trying to justify or knock the policy that placed our soldiers in harm's way. The result is a book about American warriors and the American way of war that feels as intimate as one could expect without having the experience directly.
4 I also watched "Restrepo" the documentary film after reading this book.  I find it very hard to even discuss about this book, and every time I start to form some type of opinion about it, my heart feels like sinking with the enormous weight that the soldiers carried and (will carry) before, during and after their duty. I am so touched by their youth, so moved by their love for their brothers, and extremely worried about their life after the war.  ( one of the soldiers, interviewed in the movie, Cortez is his name who looks 16 with beautiful/nervous smile that looks so out of place when he is talking about losing one of the most loved soldiers, and how he himself is on 4-5 sleeping pills and can't sleep.)  The author talks about the cost of war that our nation/society needs to analyze, not in terms of politics as the soldiers were not about politics, but in terms of the lives of the soldiers after the war, and I can't agree more with the author.  It is also about the people of Afghanistan, their sufferings caught between two fires, and the author who was willing to take risks to educate people like me. ( and the photo journalist, Tim Hetherington who died in Lybia in April, this year)  I recommend this book to everyone.
5 This book really touched me to the point that i have to write a review about it. I don't like writing these things but if it helps someone read this book then it will be worth it. This book really opened my eyes about why men fight. Fighting for there Country is the big picture, but these guys are fighting for each other. The bond that these men share is amazing. I never served, and always regretted it. After reading this, a simple "Thanks" can't even begin to make up for the sacrifice these guys and everybody else in every war, conflict, etc. made.
5 Sebastian Junger's attempt to capture the essence of war in his latest work is highly successful and he does so brilliantly. Rather than report from a general's TOC or the relative safety of a green zone, Junger goes to where the action is, the Korengal Valley, "most dangerous place on earth", where the vast majority of firefights  were happening when he embedded himself with the 173rd Airborne.  That War is, like the soldiers themselves, almost completely apolitical is a major bonus.As a non-combat vet I can only speak from past readings and discussions with friends and Junger captures the "feel" of combat like no other I've ever read.  Via multiple embeds with the same unit, over time the author reduces what real combat (versus Hollywood or even cable news footage) is to its most elementary definitions.  At any moment he is discussing the physics and geometry of modern firearms, the realities of patching a gunshot wound or studies about adrenaline in combat and in the next we get a gut check with junior soldiers crying at the sight of their favorite sergeant killed or the author's own terrifying experience hitting an IED.Drawing on his previous war journalism we get a narrative which combines a soldier-like eye for detail and perception with a Twain-like gift for turning a phrase.  Junger pronounces the nuances, ironies, glory, and absurdity of war in a succinct but eloquently graphic way which strikes us viscerally,  "...modern military tactics is...maneuvering the enemy into a position where they can essentially be massacred from safety."  Later he keenly observes the ironies of a junior soldier firing a weapon which costs more than his annual salary in an attempt to kill a man whose lifetime income will not approach that cost.While much of the book is his own keen observations and translations of combat footage (taken by the combat photographer he teamed up with) using the words of the actual participants gives life to the piece, which at times feels more like a great long magazine article than a book.  Whether he's describing the routine and relatively familiar to us civilians--the boredom, the hypermasculine camaraderie, the combat prep--or explaining the atypical, things most civilians don't know--wearing flea collars, watching life literally ebb out of a fellow human being, or the fact that soldiers don't think all war is hell--we get an honest and politically incorrect insight into what happens and is said at the lowest level of military units.The shortcomings of the book are small and mostly structural.  I only found one military term inaccurately defined, a rarity in any book in which the author is not a subject matter expert.The chapter organization was a bit unwieldy if one is used to chronological approaches. Rather than go from day one to the last day, Junger opts to break the book into three sections: Fear, Killing and Love. I was barely aware of them as I read, as all chapters seemed to address each aspect to one degree or another.Because it is not chronological, there is a dearth of maps, and there are no photos, we sometimes have a problem with situational awareness.  We frequently cannot tell if it is summer or winter, if this is his first embed or last and if the action is next door or down the valley.  A few more maps might have made us appreciate us distance and location a bit better.  And while Junger has no shortage of descriptive ability, photos of the area might have given a better impression to those not familiar with mountainous terrain, more so that Afghanistan is notoriously extreme in variations.Additionally, Junger had the somewhat annoying habit of introducing something, whether a person or an acronym after mentioning him/it, sometimes much later.  We meet the battalion commander early on and only later find out anything about him.  Likewise, there are many characters in the unit, spread throughout the battalion and because their names are usually absent of rank, it is easy to forget if we are talking to the company commander or the machine gunner.Still the absence of detail in combat actions and unorthodox arrangement is intentional and ultimately understandable, as the focus is on the feeling and experience and not necessarily the precise actions of individuals.  Overall, the book is a gripping and enthralling examination of the very basics of war at the most basic military units. These are almost never examined,  as most authors eschew the opinions, observations,  pride and heartbreak in favor of the much bigger picture and Junger seems to break new ground.  For most, War is as close to combat they ever want to get. For others, thanks in part to Junger's insight, it's regrettably as close as we will get.
5 I haven't experienced combat, nor do I wish it, ever. Like many, however, I've been in the military and consider myself honored to have shared the camarderie felt from living close with and being part of a group whose actions may determine your future. My experiences have been very meager indeed when compared to those of the U.S. soldiers on the front line in the Koregal, where Sebastian Junger, the author of "War" was embedded. "War" is an excellent read and Mr. Junger provides the reader, through his experienced observations, with rare insight of the mostly young people who keep us safe through their actions and sacrifices. The every day life of our combatants at war with insurgents in Afganistan, as told by the author, provides a better understanding of the horrors they endure, how they're able to, and the why of the difficulties of their reentering civilian life. This is a no holds barred account of life in a war zone from the perspective of those trying to survive it. A must read.
5 In my opinion Sebastian Junger never disappoints, and this book is no exception.This book is the literary sister to the documentary he produced called Restrepo (phenomenal).  The book gets so many places that the camera didn't.  Junger does a great job of explaining what combat is really like.  Not only does he put the reader "there" but he masterfully dissects the brain of a soldier in combat.  Understanding what these young men go through is incredible and the permanent change to their mind and emotions is powerful.  While the book does catalog many battles, lots of death, and countless injuries...It's easy to see that Junger includes that as the stage, not the plot of the book.  At the end of this, ever Junger is a different man.
4 Amazing content with lackluster writing.  A bit disorganized, which made it hard to follow at times.A couple books I liked better are:  The Forever War by Dexter Filkins  and The Good Soldiers by David Finkel.
5 I have read some info about operational/combat stress, PTSD cases and written a few articles myself.But the author really stayed (not just sit behind a desk and interview)out there with those young soldiers who serve their country in a foreign land, live a hard and boring life without being understood and praised, see their brothers in arms got hurt even killed and each of them has brushed with Grim Reapers quite a few times. Joined them in patrols, got hit by an IED and heard sniper rounds flew right pass through himself. So he is THE ONE who can reveal the truth on a battlefield to us since most soldiers would like to remain silent , serve their own tours and live their own life.If you wanna know how do soldiers think, or you know someone who has served in GWOT and you really care about him/her. This is the book for you.
4 Despite its longer duration than the war in Iraq, its relative popularity, and the "romance" of war in far-flung mountain passes, the war in Afghanistan hasn't produced nearly as many books as the Iraq War.  Nor has it yielded a single book to rival the best of the Iraq books.  Last year's HORSE SOLDIERS by Doug Stanton came close but was somehow too idiosyncratic; the story of American troops riding horses in a modern war, while making for riveting reading, doesn't really connect with the sweep of military history, the generation-spanning brotherhood of combat, in the way that the best war narratives do.  Sebastian Junger's WAR does make those connections, placing the war in Afghanistan in a broader context of Americans at war without losing sight of the experiences that make Afghanistan unique.  It easily stands up to the best of the Iraq books.As with many of the recent war books by embedded journalists, it often feels like Junger is too close to his subject.  Objectivity, then, is sometimes sacrificed for immediacy, which is a tradeoff I'm willing to make here.  I'm happy to get a little closer to combat and to the interesting individuals -- like many a book on the Iraq War (e.g. Wright's GENERATION KILL or Danelo's BLOOD STRIPES), the soldiers here are real characters.
5 I usually don't read books at all, I prefer short articles instead.However, I have enjoyed almost every second reading this book. I don't know why, but I did. In fact, I read this book faster than I've read any other book before it. This book actually convinced me to give the whole books thingy a shot, and I do love reading books now.This book has so much to it that there are no excuses to not reading it.
2 There is some really good philosophical points here about war. Some good analysis and research from other wars. Sometimes it seems like the author is tired of his work. I admire him for hangingout with the guys on the front line. I would query the idea of photographers /  writers  who wouldn't shoot at an enemy who was trying to kill your buddies unless you were going to be overrun.  That's not what war is. If your there you get down to it to save other people.The dirtier war is the sooner it's over. Brining along photographers and writers is a luxury the Brass induge in. Preferable they get their bases coered correctly.
4 A very good book with many detailed characters. You step back in time to the scottish rebellion. The only reason I gave it a 4 stars instead of a 5 stars is because I couldn't understand a lot of the scottish accent that is written. I don't want to slow down my reading pace every page or so. Other than that you will get plenty of action, drama, comedy and sad stuff to keep you turning the pages the whole way through. You get to see the world of those times through the eyes of so many different type of people ( from peasants to knights - british to scottish)
5 Set in the turbulent period of Scottish history of Wallace and Bruce, this book gives an unvarnished and unromanticised picture of the still almost barbarian life in Scotland then. No great patriots here, fighting for independence. The picture instead is of a group of scheming aristocrats, plotting how best to gain more land and wealth for themselves, and willing to destroy both the land and the common people to achieve their ends. Willing also to side with Edward, the English king, against their fellow Scots whenever they thought they could gain by it.I found the early part of this book difficult for a couple of reasons. Firstly, the main protagonists are sometimes called by their name, sometimes their title and sometimes a nickname - for instance, there are two John Comyns, both known as Lord of Badenoch, one nicknamed the Red Comyn and the other the Black Comyn. Frequent reference to the list of characters at the back of the book can help here. Secondly, the author emphasises early on the fact that there were several languages in use at the time, Norman French, English, various Scots dialects and some Latin thrown in for good measure. This is important because it emphasises the class divides in society and the fact that the aristocracy had more in common with their English counterparts than with the Scottish people. However, sometimes the way the author handles this early on can be a little clumsy.But stick with it, it's worth it. As my reading 'ear' got tuned in to the author's voice, I found the writing had sometimes an almost lyrical quality and a distinctive speech pattern reminiscent of the way English is spoken today in the Highlands. The book seems pretty historically accurate to me (having studied this period a little myself) and for anyone who knows only the 'Flower of Scotland' myth of Bruce and Wallace could be a real eye-opener. The murder plot that the book is hung on is really incidental - the interest of this book is in the history of the politics and society it portrays. An excellent read - I will certainly be looking out for the next in the series.
3 First posted on Amazon.co.uk on 26 December 2011Leaving his very successful Oathsworn series aside, Robert Low has started on a new series that takes place at the time of Robert the Bruce, William Wallace and Edward the first. Unfortunately, and along with many other reviewers, it is just not as good. While the story is reasonably well told, the author seems to have gone a bit "overboard" in a number of respects, taking the risk of putting of some of his readers.First, there is the choice of the period itself. While the struggles in Scotland and the North in the last decade of the 13th century and the two first decades of the next century are, of course, fascinating, there are already a number of novels out there on this period (such as the first of the series of Robyn Young, which I mostly preferred to this one).Second, it is also easy to go astray and portray the period as "a nation fighting for its freedom". To be fair, this is not (or rather not quite) what Robert Low does but he is somewhat borderline, almost biaised at times. One of the strong points of the book is to show that the nobility cared more about their own rivalries and interests than they cared about the common men. However, ever this is largely a simplification because both the nobles and the commoners were such mixed bunches that it is rather unsurprising to see them so divided. In fact, many of the Scottish nobles (but not all) were of franco-norman descent (such as the Bruce themselves or the Balliols), just like the "Anglo-norman" nobles. In both cases, their "mother-tongues" would be neither Scottish (and any Scottish dialect) not English, but French. Some of these families also had lands on BOTH sides of the border, in Scotland and in England - the Bruces being a prime - but by no means isolated - example. It is rather uncertain as to whether, after a few generations, the franco-norman nobles in Scotland would be speaking "Scottish", assuming there was a single language for all of the common people, which is also doubful. As to having Bruce speaking Gaelic, as he does early on in the book, this is simply not plausible.This is where Robert Law, who has his characters speaking in "Scottish", goes over the top, overdoes it and may even seem biaised. If the point was to make the story "sound more authentic", then all of his knights on both sides should have spoken French all the time, as opposed to English or "Scottish". So it seems that the author has been somewhat selectively "authentic". Other points that are a bit overdone are the gore and stench. While the author clearly wanted to show the violence and the lack of cleanliness and hygiene and a time when you were old by the age of 40, I did have thge impression that both points were belabored.Having done with all my gripes, there are also quite a few things that I did like with this book. One example was the way Low chose to portray William Wallace (I won't say more otherwise I'll have to give away some of the plot). Another was to somewhat minimize the physical importance of the Battle at Stirling: it was only the English vanguard that was defeated (a third of the total) and the armies were probably no more than 5000 or 6000 strong on each side.Another good point was to show the problems that all kings in Europe were facing in the late 13th century: they could not keep their army together for periods in excess of a few months. Their logistics were rather poor. The feudal levies would largely leave after 40 days. The treasuries were often not sufficient to pay for large numbers of soldiers all year round. There was often also a high rate of desertions for various reasons: the campaign was harder than expected; the troops pay was in arrears or some troops disbanded and scattered to plunder the countryside. All these elements were very well shown on The Lion Wakes.So, certainly a good read and worth three stars, but it could have been better.
4 The obtuse/archaic language at times made this a struggle. The side characters were not as fleshed out as I would have liked and the "mystery" was easily figured out. All that being said--it was an enjoyable read. Mr. Low does such a superb job of putting you in late 13th Century Scotland--he paints such a picture of the times--you almost feel as though you are there. This a rare ability (so well demonstrated in his Oathsworn Series) that many who try cannot accomplish. I am looking forward to the second book in the series.
5 Some of the best historical fiction shows you the past as a rich backdrop, from sights to smells and how people spoke to one another.This involves more scholarship than, say Ryder Haggard, but it speaks to readers who take history seriously, and enjoy a well realized character who seems like a friend who just stepped out for a minute, but still has the wild, stonking surprises.  The past is at least as strange as another country, since McDonalds and Walmart and ATMs became ubiquitous.Lowe has the Wallace and Bruce story, which many met in "Braveheart" and others found from genealogy-rich almost "lives of the saints"style prose, especially from the Tartan revival when strong women reinvented Scots history.  He adds solid scholarship and a war correspondent's experienced eye for the telling detail and familiarity with unpredictable interludes of serious violence.As one comment notes, Lowe uses non-Gaelic Scots language, and at least half his characters simply cannot understand it.  But if you are open to a little guessing, the oddest words are defined by context or paraphrased in English a few lines down.This is the first of a new series, so there's a lot to look forward to.
5 As another reviewer notes, no, this book is not for 5 year-olds...we'll leave it at that.It is somewhat heavy in the life experiences area, but if we remember that there are children who experience these terrible things every...single...day...it shouldn't be too much for our own kids to gain that valuable perspective. Michael Morpurgo leaves the details lighter on the terrible events, while still managing to map out the journey of a young boy living an untenable life in a war-torn land.Most of all, it's how we as human beings learn to survive those terrible, unthinkable moments. My husband was mulling over a quote he'd heard recently - &#34;Hope is not a strategy&#34; - what he took away from that (as a former military guy) was that hope means you have no plan - I disagreed, precisely because of a story like this. Without hope for what might come, better days and all that, Aman certainly would have never made it to a new life. Hope is what feeds our souls when there is no other nourishment.I read this to my 12 year-old, but I'd have no reservations about reading it to my 8 year-old either - but you'd have to judge for yourself if it's too much for your own child. There is nothing graphic, merely realistic - it is a story that might inspire kids to think of others a little more thoroughly as well -
5 personally, this is my favourite book by mr. morpurgo. this book keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time. each and evey page is full of suspense. a++
5 I had heard that this author was incredible, so I decided to make 'Shadow' a read aloud bedtime book for my seven year old. The story is gripping. It challenged her. It is heartwarming, compelling and the first book that has made her cry!We have poured over maps of Afghanistan, tracking the route that Aman took. We have looked at photos of David Beckham. We have discussed language, factions in different countries, Muslims, torture... All good bedtime reading topics! Actually Michael Morpurgo keeps it quite light and there is plenty of humour. The characters are wonderful and highly believable.A classy five star read which I enjoyed as much as she did.
5 Yet another wonderful story from Morpurgo, and dare I say it..... I think it's actually better than War Horse, in a different era, but oh so relevant to our modern times.Morpurgo does not hold back when telling his stories, there is no glossing over the cold hard facts of life for his young readers - the truth is more shocking than fiction. Despite this, his writing is friendly and accessible and will appeal to children and adults alike.This author continues to impress me with every book of his that I read. The story of Aman, the asylum seeker from Afghanistan and his dog Shadow is superb, it is warm and full of humanity.
5 Fourteen year old Aman and his mother are barely surviving the violence and terror of life in Afghanistan. They make the choice to flee to England, with only a few possessions and Aman's loyal dog, Shadow. But life in England doesn't prove to be the freedom that they had hoped for. It's up to Aman's best friend Matt, and Matt's grandfather to piece together the story of Aman, his mother and Shadow in order to save Aman and his mother from deportation.I loved this touching story! It was gripping from the beginning. Shadow describes life in war torn Afghanistan truthfully, but with a careful awareness of young readers. Shadow is an inspiring tale of friendship, adventure, a heroic dog, and love. (You know how I love animal stories!) Shadow is another well crafted story from Morpurgo (author of War Horse) that is sure to please a variety of readers![...]
5 I liked this book because I am a big animal lover especially dogs and always like to hear about them having roles in life.  This would be a good book to teach children on what the bomb sniffer dogs do in the army, I myself don't have children but I enjoyed it just the same.  Over all a nice story with different perspectives of characters in the book, well written.
4 Assuming you can accept the "magic realism" premise that the corpses of two Depression-era bank-robbing brothers keep inexplicably coming back to life and resuming their crime sprees, this is a very readable novel.The violence is graphic.  The many wounds bleed dramatically.  But there is a lot of good vivid detail:  bank foreclosures, breadlines, unemployment, desperation in the Hoovervilles, bums sleeping in stairwells.  A sequence at a marathon dance contest reminded me that I need to watch "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" again.There is a lot of great snappy toughguy dialogue, colorful slang, gritty action scenes, and some very confused lawmen who don't understand (perhaps like the reader?) why dead criminals who were lying on morgue slabs are gone and have been sighted at yet another bank shootout.This is not a quick and breezy read.  It's 397 pages long, and the constant flashbacks play havoc with the narrative flow, but it gripped me and held my interest as we rushed toward a climax wherein we might learn whether the charismatic Firefly Brothers are ever going to die and stay dead.
4 The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers is the second novel from author Thomas Mullen. I had previously read both first and third books, The Last Town on Earth and The Revisionists respectively, and enjoyed both immensely. So when I found this title at the local library's used book sale, I knew I had to pick it up. And BONUS: It was a signed copy.Firefly Brothers is set during the Depression-era in the mid-west, when bank robbers and gangsters were seen by many as folk heroes, their exploits followed closely by the ever widening-media. The story centers around two brothers, Jason and Whit Fireson (they obtain the moniker "Firefly brothers" from reporters and the world at large). The brothers are infamous bank robbers and murderers who, of course, are constantly in the news for crimes they commit and more that they don't.The story begins with death, two deaths to be more precise. Jason and Whit are dead, but miraculously wake up in a morgue, both riddled with bullet holes. They have no memory of the previous night's exploits or their deaths, they only know that they have to get away. Using their now-famous death as cover, the brothers return to the only way of life known to them--robbing banks.Another side of the story comes from the point of view of Darcy, Jason's girlfriend, who gets left behind not knowing the fate of her lover, until she receives a mysterious telegraph, which gives her hope that Jason is still alive, despite all the rumors and media stories to the contrary.The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers is a rich, in depth story full of wondrous details and description. One of my favorite descriptive passages comes about halfway through the book. It's from Weston, the third Fireson brother who isn't a bank robber: "He was afraid of losing things because everyone seemed to be losing things. You walked a few blocks and passed a table or chair lacking legs and sitting there like a war amputee. Or you passed a car whose windshield wipers clung to such a bursting notebook of parking tickets that you knew it was abandoned, its owner having decided it was too expensive to maintain. In certain neighborhoods the police weren't towing cars anymore, so the heaps simply sat there unmolested. Scavengers didn't even strip their parts, because whom could they sell them to?" This passage displays both the desperation and learned apathy of the era that ran rampant through society.Not only is Mullen's writing beautiful and fascinating, his story telling skills are masterful. Throughout the story, there are subtle hints dropped about Darcy's mental health, and not until about half way through did I start questioning whether the Firefly brothers are actually reanimating. Mullen likes to give his readers something to ponder about throughout his books. He asks questions that are not easy to answer, and it makes for a wonderful and intriguing read every time I pick up one of his books.(from loebick.com)
4 Absolutely loved this book and was telling my friends about it when I was only a third of the way in. (I tend to reserve 5 stars for mind-changing books.) Mullen takes the 1930s gangster teams to a new level by turning the usual tale on its head right off the bat. Set at a time when bank robbers could just as easily be seen as hero or villain, because of all the foreclosures by the banks (sound familiar?), the Firefly Brothers' spree takes on legendary status and for darn good reasons. But...I won't spoil the fun. Suspend disbelief and take the ride with Jason and Whit; it's bumpy but you'll love the wind in your hair almost as much as Darcy did.Along the way we're forced to think about family relationships, brother to brother, son to father, and how moral choices are made and justified. We also get to 'feel' the Depression from ground level. But it's actually a lot more fun than all that sounds. Heck, just read it for the romping adventure and you'll enjoy it. Come to think of it, I'm not sure I was supposed to enjoy it quite this much. 100% guarantee that there will be arguments about the ending and I look forward to that fun. I can't wait to see what Mullen writes next and what my friends have to say about this book.
4 At first, I wasn't sure if the book was set in the 1930's or now; the economic situations and especially the modds, are so similar.  The plot line would have held my attention, even without the unusual resurrection of the brothers, because the book was well-written and focussed on characterization.  I knew it would not have a "happy ending" early on - these guys have just gone too far down the wrong road - but I was still interested to see how it would all play out.  Very satisfying read.
5 Enjoyed this book immensely.  Even without the magic realism twist of the brothers coming back to life, I liked the intricit plot and the depth of development of this story.  People just didn't act, they were complex characters with conflicting motivations.  I also enjoyed the Midwest setting. I wonder if there was a four-lane divided highway between KC and St. Louis at this time and I don't think there were as many showers in houses in rural areas as the author includes. I found the resolution satisfying if not conventional and neat. Everyone may not enjoy this book, but it was a pleasant surprise for me.
3 Things I expected from this book: Great historical feel, a good mystery, excitement, and great characters.What I got from this book: Not those things.First and foremost, I was looking forward to a good historical novel, with a Depression era feel and some good info on bootleggers and gangsters. However, the overall feel of the novel was decidedly modern, with Mullen trying to make some obvious comparisons between the Great Depression and today's economic climate. There was nothing very period about the novel.I did get a good mystery -- several of them in fact. They were enough to keep me reading. However, there is no frustration like hanging on to a novel one is not quite enjoying just so one can at least find out the answer... only to not have the answer.Excitement was there, in between long gaps of dull non-action. The red cover, the fast-moving figure, the subject matter -- all these things promise fast pace, hard action and adventure. This novel was mostly introspective.And introspective works when the characters have depth, but most of these fell flat for me. I liked Whit, somewhat, but got mostly Jason and his girlfriend Darcy. Oh, well.Not my cup of tea... or my glass of bootleg whiskey. Lots of people do seem to enjoy it, so by all means, read all the reviews and give it a thought.
4 Jason and Whit Fireson wake up in a morgue and are unable to remember anything beyond that they were supposed to be dividing their stolen money with another man who helped in the bank robbery. Where are their girlfriends, what happened to the money, and were they really dead?I really enjoyed this depression-era gangster novel with its touch of magical realism. I thought it was an unexpectedly good mix.
4 In 1933 and the first half of 1934, a Great Depression frightened public adore the Firefly brothers though Jason and Whit Fireson are violent bank robbers.  The siblings do what many dream of doing but are too afraid when they boldly commit robberies.However, in August 1934, proud law enforcement authorities announce the end of these vicious felons as the bullet ridden corpses of the Firefly brothers lay in an Indiana morgue.  Their girlfriend Darcy Veronica are heartbroken with grief as is their mom and though a straight shooter their brother Weston.  However, the cops prove premature with their bloody announcement as Jason and Whit wake up and calmly leave the morgue to begin the further escapes in legends of The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers.Although how the siblings stay alive through their dangerous capers is never explained, fans will not care as the Firefly Brothers adventures are a timely allegorical historical; desperate people have given up on a pathetic government and turned to antiheroes as champions.  Action-packed, this is a terrific parable that uses the war on crime during the Great Depression in comparison with the war on terrorism during the Great Recession.  The stark reality of the Great Depression on the lives of ordinary people is enhanced by the fantastic Firefly brothers who symbolize the frustration with government that fails to act (Henry Higgins Effect of Democrats in charge) or unwilling to act (Pygmalion Effect of Republicans in charge) when the need is obvious, which implies in charge or not Republicans win and people lose so they turn to antiheroes.Harriet Klausner
2 I dove into this book because it seemed such an interesting plot. I was curious to how those "many deaths" would be explained.Turns out they're not explained at all ... not really. Well, not in the first 40 pages or so. I supposed it was my expectations that disappointed me. I wanted something mysterious. Something really clever. Instead I get clumsy "We're dead; we're alive again" gimmick that seemed pointless.
4 Gangs, molls and robbing banks.  Just the ingredients for a good-old yarn, right?  You can practically smell the gunpowder and spilled gin...  And yet?  "The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers" is more than that.  Much more.First, I need to say that this Depression-era novel was eerily reminiscent of today.  Of this time in our country where nothing is certain and days are filled with fear and worry about what the next day may bring.  This book is set in 1934 - but there many similarities to what is making the news in 2010."The reality we'd all believed in, so fervently and vividly, was revealed to be nothing but a trick of our imagination, or someone else's, some collective mirage whose power to entrance us had suddenly and irrevocably failed.  What...had happened?  What had we done to ourselves?  The looks I saw on people's faces.  The shock of it all.  Capitalism had failed, democracy was a sad joke.  Our country's very way of life was at death's door, and everyone had a different theory of what would rise up to take its place."Jason and Whit Fireson rob banks.  They steal money from the few places that still have money in 1934 - and they become anti-heroes to the Americans who are so desperate and so angry at seeing all they believed in and trusted being destroyed.  Banks are foreclosing at constant rates, people are out of work, the stock market has crashed, and families are desperate.  So when the pair starts garnering fame for stealing from those who are perceived as causing the financial chaos...they are dubbed the "Firefly Brothers" and their admirers start to outnumber their pursuers.I picked this book hoping for some pure escapism, but got instead a great story AND some great insights."People tell their stories to place themselves somewhere solid in this great swirl that they can't otherwise understand.  The stories define what is possible, what the tellers yearn for, what they believe they deserve.  The self-made man, the American dream, Capitalism, socialism, religion - all those narratives that try to contain everyone's desires and fears within neat lines.  Different tales, different obstacles, but the hero is always us, and the ending has us attainting what we've always wished for."Wow...I just had to read that again.This really was a great story.  It was a compelling tale of escape and adventure, of getaway cars and hideouts.  Of double-crosses and dirty money.  A chance to enter the mind of a criminal and look around."The right thing was confusing, and difficult, and sometimes Jason wondered if it was in fact a nonexistent ideal, like heaven or the American dream.  There was no right thing.  You did what you did for whatever reasons occurred to you at the time, depending on whichever emotion was running thickest in your blood.  Your desire and fear and adrenaline and longing.  You made your choice and came up with the reasons later."But what I keep coming back to is not what the story had to say about Depression-era criminals, but about us, about people in general.  People who aren't criminals, but who find themselves forced to consider choices they never expected."We believe there are things that are possible and things that are not, actions we can imagine doing and others that are beyond the pale.  But then doors are swung shut and what once was impossible, unthinkable, is there before us, happening to us.  Sometimes we throw open the doors ourselves, sometimes someone else pushes them open and points at what lies beyond.  Sometimes we don't even want to look.  But we never have a choice."Law abiding citizens and criminals.  Seemingly different sides of a coin - polar opposites.  But in uncertain times, when the world seems upside down...identifying which one is good and which is bad becomes a much harder task.
4 It's 1934, with brother outlaws Jason and Whit Fireson awakening in the morgue, pierced with deadly bullet holes and with no idea what's happened, or even whether they're alive, dead, or in between.  As they struggle to make sense of their situation, and to escape and stay ahead of the cops, they take advantage of reports of their deaths to plan a few more heists and to find their girls, both of whom have disappeared.  Death makes its appearance again (and again), and with the newly-formed FBI finally facing the fact that the Firesons may not really be dead, the law closes in.  Will the brothers find their women, one of whom has been kidnapped, and manage to disappear before they're arrested and killed for good?  And how many times can they wake from the grave before fate is done with them?  This makes the novel sound supernatural, but it's not really.  The resurrections are simply one part of the plot, just as confusing to the characters as to the narrator or the reader, and the questions of why and for how many repeats gives an added tension to the plot.Life in the Great Depression is amply mined to show how the brothers' situation is difficult for the law to decipher: poor photos, lack of communication, piecemeal law enforcement.  And the dialogue is often funny and very real, especially between the brothers. This is the second Mullen I've read, after [&#34;he Last Town on Earth&#34;, which I also gave 4 stars. Very enjoyable and recommended.
2 I found the many deaths of the firefly book to be OK.  it doesn't flow very well.  the authors debut novel is a much easier read.  there are too many parts in firefly that skip and your left wondering what happened.the book is broken down in the the 3 deaths of the firefly brothers.  i kept wondering how could anyone end up in a morgue 3 times with bullet holes and not die many times?  it's a bit far fetched.
4 This has all the required elements of a 1930s American gangster story, but also explores family relationships, a country in economic collapse and the power of myths and stories - and a pair of bank-robbing brothers who refuse to stay dead.The country is in deep recession. The economy has collapsed. The banks are hated and there's "the next round of politicians, assuring us they were not afflicted by the same lack of vision as their predecessors". Does this sound at all familiar? But this is 1930s America - full of gangsters, speakeasies, tommy guns, fedoras, beautiful heiresses, bumbling cops and the newly formed FBI, daring bank robberies and kidnaps. Yes, the gang is all here, but `The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers' is a lot more than your average gangster book and it's a hugely fun story.At the centre of the book are Jason and Whit Fireson, collectively referred to in the press and elsewhere as the Firefly Brothers; notorious bank robbers and with the recent shooting of John Dillinger currently riding in top position on the FBI's most wanted list. Or at least they were until just before the start of the book. When we first meet them, they are laid out on cooling boards in the local police morgue, riddled with bullet wounds. But they're still alive. Confused? Well, so are they. But they have other matters to attend to, like how to get out of the police station, how to find their loved ones and how to recover enough money so that they can disappear for good and maybe set up that restaurant in California that Jason has dreamed of. Then of course there's the issue of who ratted them out to the cops. Thankfully, being apparently dead takes some of the heat off things for a while.It's great fun and a highly entertaining read. But if you are expecting a fast action-filled story of gangster capers, you might be a bit disappointed. In fact, there's much more depth to this story. Leaving aside the fact that the brothers have a disturbing tendency to increase the national average for deaths per lifetime, the book paints a vivid picture of a nation in economic meltdown but most of all, it is a book about families.The boys are your typical gangsters who are good to their mother, but there is also an exploration of the boys' relationships with their father, who before his death was an upstanding member of the community who nevertheless ended up on the wrong side of the law. The boys' relationships with him and the back story of how they grew up and ended up in their line of work is fully explored. Sibling relationships are also prevalent, both between Jason and Whit as well as with their non-gangster brother Weston. Then there are father-daughter issues for Jason's beau, the classic gangster's moll, a rich heiress attracted to bad boys. Her relationship with Jason is just one reason why her father, a motor magnate, disowns her. But how will he react when she's kidnapped? Or will Jason get there first?At this point, you might be wondering why I haven't made more of the brothers' habit of not being, or more accurately staying, killed, particularly as this happens on three separate occasions (does three count as `many'? I guess in terms of being significantly above the norm, then we can allow that in this instance). Well, partly that's because neither does the book. The brothers have just too much going on to worry about why they keep getting reincarnated. Eventually the reason is explained although, perhaps inevitably, it's not entirely satisfactory and there are some treads left unexplained such as why this also happens to another character at one point. But strangely this doesn't seem to matter, although I suspect it will cause some arguments amongst readers.The reason it doesn't matter is that the story telling is so joyful. Mullen's descriptions and similes are full of fun and frequently had me smiling and re-reading them to savour. It's not laugh out loud funny, but it is a thoroughly enjoyable read.Jump on the running board and enjoy the ride.
5 Author's approach to story telling is really different.  Interesting premise.  Once you get beyond the unbelieveability of the premise, the story is quite interesting and deep.  Definitely worth the listen.  From a time when things were tough and people did extraordinary things to get by.
3 The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers is set in the great depression and follows the immortal escapades of the Fireson brothers, Whit and Jason.The tone of Firefly Brothers is fairly light, almost comical, and while the action is often gruesome and many of the events are heavy the overall feeling of the novel is kinda fluffy. While the story is a good blend of the familiar clich&eacute;s with a touch of originality one does feel like the story needs something more.Part-one `the first death of the Firefly brothers' is mired in backstory and flashback, which is somewhat interesting but much of the history we are exposed to is too mundane and slows the pace of the story, considering we start off with the fascinating resurrection of the brothers but hardly address the issue until many many pages later.And while the mystery of why the brothers are immortal is enough to propel the book forwards there is an extreme lack of good storyline beyond this. Essentially the brothers continually get themselves into deadly situations until eventually lost memories surface that explain their predicament. Memories which I ultimately found disappointing, while the supernatural explanation was sufficient the attempt at shocking backstory revelation, while logical and fitting, to be anticlimactic.Attempts to spice up the story with a love interest kidnap might have been more interesting if it was tied in with the brothers better, however it just felt like page filler while we wondered about the brother's immortality.In the end The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers is a good book, and perhaps would have made (or make) a great movie, but doesn't quite reach the upper echelons of highly recommended.
4 "Large than life, she'd heard someone say. What can be larger than life? Death, or is that smaller? People do tend to become larger in death, their finer qualities extending outward like an endlessly serialized tale, their flaws and foibles forgotten, their stories continually retold. Larger than death. She thought about that and smiled, here, late at night, in a graveyard" (395).Mullen's pen - or for those who appreciate realism, his keyboard - speaks to a profound truth. Those people we remember fondly or infamously will inevitably become caricatures of who they really were. For me, Randy Johnson's fastball gains speed and Ken Griffey, Jr. roams a larger territory in centerfield as the memory fades. Someday, the exploits of these players will become as legendary as the mythical feats of Babe Ruth himself. Similarly, The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers points readers to the intersection between fact and fiction.Placed in the murky depths of the Depression Era, the fictional account of Jason and Whit Fireson (known as the Firefly Brothers) fits neatly between the bloody shenanigans of Al Capone and John Dillinger. As reputations grew, the exploits of these mobsters became fabled. In the case of the Firefly Brothers, it seems that death holds no power over them. Fittingly, the book starts with Mullen writing:"It all began when they died" (p. xiii).Whether they are running from death or running to death depending on your interpretation, The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers reads as a mystery novel because, the brothers' actions in the book are shrouded in the mystery of life and death.Despite the supernatural elements of multiple resurrections, the perspective in the book is down-to-earth. Upholding the tension between fiction and fact, the historical reality of the relationship between the poor masses and the banking elite frame our protagonists as either victims of trying times who rob banks to make ends meet, or as social heroes rebelling against institutional evils.On a personal level, the Depression left the family of the Firefly Brothers fatherless and in a complete mess. The government indicted their father - having lost his business to his creditors - on charges of murder. While the novel carries its fair share of Tommy Guns and speakeasies, the weight of broken relationships and a struggling family generates the backbone of this book.Ultimately, Mullen fashions a page-turner out of Depression Era mobsters. Whether the narrative is intended to be fact, fiction, or something in between, The Many Deaths of the Firefly Brothers depicts a broken family trying their best with the circumstances provided to them. This book is a nominee for my book of the year and I recommend it to everyone.[...]
4 An excellent book for the pianist who would like to understand the man whose works give such pleasure. Covers the early life in Poland well, but the story really takes off when Chopin travels west and ends up in Paris. Gives a very clear account of Chopin's professional life, his musical development, and his relationships - both his friendships, and his complex and interesting love affair with George Sand. Sand comes through as a rather self-centred person (think 'spoiled brat'), and she seems to have had a similar effect on 'little Chip-chop' (her pet name for the immortal Fryderyk), since he turned into a demanding dandy. But the account of his last years of illness is poignant and haunting. Once I get my time machine working, my first act will be to head to Paris with some streptomycin so I can cure his TB and double his lifespan. Come to think of it, I'll take a modern Steinway with me to see what he would have done with it. (Probably he would have lent it to Liszt.) A fine, highly readable, well researched biography.
5 A biography worthy of the man himself. Zamoyski has written a jewel of a biography taking us back to the life and times of one of the greatest composers ever, and helping us to glimpse into the mind of this extraordinary genius. Besides being thoroughly researched, Zamoyski's account is exceptionally well written, reading like a novel instead of a piece of history. The intricacies of Chopin's many relationships are well detailed and a most successful narrative approach is employed in weaving Chopin's story together.One of the biggest treats in Zamoyski's book is reading so many of the contemporary accounts by friends, critics, strangers, composers, etc. of Chopin's playing style and compositions. The an was almost universally (with a few annoying exceptions) for his genius in his own time. As anyone who has listened to Chopin will agree, his music is timeless.Having always loved Chopin's music for its intimacy, power, sensitivity, melancholy, thoughtfulness etc. I was hoping that the story of the man behind the music would be corroborative of my instinctual suspicions regarding his character. I was not disappointed to find out that the man whose music I adore is indeed who I thought he was. Thank you Zamoyski for bringing me even closer to Chopin.
5 Chopin by Adam Zamoyski, Doubleday and Co., Garden City, N.Y., 1980, 382 ff.This was how Robert Schumann introduced Frederick Chopin to his friends: both were composer-pianists, born the same year (1810). Both composers lived short lives - Chopin was only 39 when he died and Schumann only seven years older. Chopin was a child prodigy who travelled around Europe giving piano recitals of music that he had composed. All of his compositions involve the piano, but are not all for solo piano. There are also two piano concertos, several songs, and a little-known but quite lovely sonata for cello and piano as well as a huge corpus for piano solo. It is said that Chopin did for the piano what Paganini had done three decades earlier for the violin, but where Paganini revelled in his showmanship, Chopin's delicate nature and more reticent personality made concert-giving a strain. Chopin was born in Warsaw but spent much of his adult life based in Paris. The author of this book is a historian and writer from the Polish nobility though he was born in New York. If you want to get a quite detailed background to the man behind the music, this is one of two books I would recommend. The other is the biography by Arthur Hedley in the Dent Master Musicians Series. This was published in 1947 but there is a second revised and updated edition from 1974 edited by Maurice J. E. Brown.Chopin (Master Musician)
5 This biography is provocatively enlightening not just about Chopin but about the life and culture of his times with which he had to contend in order to compose for the piano the way he believed music for the piano should be composed and played. The narrative does not strongly try to provide musical analysis of his works or to make and link such with the various moments of his life. Such analysis can be found in many other works about Chopin. But with this biography having been fully digested, one can more easily listen to one of his pieces, read analysis of it where such is available, and comprehend significantly where, how, and why it was generated by him during the particular life and culture that was functioning when he wrote it.
5 This cannot be a long review; Chopin's life was too short.Rather than a musical history, it is a social biography taking clues from his letters, notes of remembrance from his friends, pupils and acquaintances, and chiefly George Sand, the accomplished writer who is perhaps Chopin's best and most literate and authoritative witness, not by means of her biography, but by novelistic writing reflecting the life spent together. There are 38 pages of notes and sources many in French and Polish.There is little pertaining to musical analysis; there are virtually no explanations of how this genius put together his creations. Chopin's letters are often mundane, about everyday affairs.  The composer left little in the way of clues as to his methods (although toward the end his incomplete notes on a piano method were given to his neighbor Alkan).Throughout we can somewhat relive the performances of the master, the strikingly consistent observation of his soft, easy, perfect playing, fingers barely touching the keys emitting effortless and delicate washes of sound, force and strength showing only through contrast with the accompanying pianissimos. His performances, public and private, to the end, were as rare jewels, which attracted all, always, with devoted clamor.He is described as a romantic, but some regard Chopin in the classical category. Bach was his ideal mentor, and Mozart. Beethoven was coarse and vulgar at times and did not assume the lofty position with the true saints of music. In summation the author judges that Chopin, along with Bach and Debussy, never composed a piece of bad music.Can Chopin be explained? Zamoyski avoids discussing compositional creativity. Jim Samsom is the key player there. This biography recounts a closed and enigmatic, occasionally haughty personality, traveling in aristocratic circles, that gave up his inimitable creations while encased in a corruptible and distracting bodily mechanism which somehow strove only for perfection and the impossible beauty of art.
5 As I layman piano player, I have always been interested in Chopin's life, the friends, competing composers, and lovers who influenced him, his travels, and his business relationships. What made him tick? Who really influenced him? What was going on with George Sands? Why did he never return to Poland?Adam Zamoywki has written an amazing book based on original documents. He lets them speak to us. I felt being part of Chopin's life from birth to death, an eyewitness all along. The author also debunks some myths and speculation about Chopin in a very convincing way without coming across as overbearing. Zamoyski's book is about the person, not so much about the pieces Chopin wrote; nevertheless, the timetable in the appendix about when pieces were composed was very helpful to put things into perspective. A great fluid read enhanced by  many original text passages that added great texture. I also liked the set of photos that went hand in hand with the characters and places of Chopin's life.For anybody who loves Chopin's music and likes to understand more about the person, his decision making, ups and downs, this book has the answers. It's an easy read, no technical understanding of music is necessary.
4 I enjoy well done remixes and extensions of classic tales, and with only a few exceptions, Maurice Broaddus has done that with the Arthur legends.I started this book believing it to be a retelling of the story in a new setting. I quickly realized that wasn't the case after all. The events we all know from Mallory, White and others are referenced here and there in the narrative. They happened. Instead, King Maker posits are cyclic story that arises repeatedly as the conditions are right.In the first chapter alone we see old friends' new forms - Luther White (Uther), (The) Green (Knight), Morgana (la Fey), Merle (Merlin), etc. White, a powerful street lord, has a son, King. He also has a tryst with Morgana and fathers another, before he's killed by Green and by treachery.Some time passes, and we learn than the situation has changed. Green remains a lieutenant to a man called Night (Gwyn ap Nudd, maybe?). They are opposed by Luther's unacknowledged son, Dred. King, after a flirtation with thuggishness in his youth has stepped out of it, spending his time more with Wayne, a social worker and general do-gooder who's come up out of the same neighborhood.The book's plot deals mostly with machinations between Dred and Night, though they have consequences for King, Wayne, and other characters. It's not until close to the end of the book that circumstances, fate, and crazy ol' Merle have convinced King that he needs to step up and protect Breton Court from the two gang lords.The only real downside to the book for me was the writing, which was inconsistent. In many ways it was excellent; Broaddus uses different authorial voices depending on the POV characters, bringing them even more to life. At the same time, there were instances of pointlessly complex sentences, missing verbs, and other poor construction.Still, those issues were infrequent enough to avoid making the book unpleasant. Broaddus' deft intermingling of straight and gang life, magic, and the fey made for a compelling read. The Arthurian underpinnings provided a strong foundation. Deviations from the story and the addition of crime and horror elements prevented it from feeling stale or rehashed.I look forward to reading the second book in the series.
4 I'd admit I was skeptical. I don't mind folks taking risks with the classic "once and future king" aspect of the King Arthur mythos (one of my favorite books of all time is the graphic novel Camelot 3000), but I wasn't sure about melding it with inner city gang warfare.  I'm glad I decided to read the book anyway.What really works for me with this book is the narrative style. Even though it is set concretely in modern inner-city Indianapolis, Broaddus gives the proceedings an incredibly dreamlike, ethereal quality. Intentionally or not, there were times when I felt like time was either speeding up or slowing down for the characters -- at times there's a very real sense that no time has passed and yet large quantities of time have passed. This is truly urban fantasy in which the urban setting is a key character and yet the fantastic elements still feel fantastic. It helps that the book also feels just a bit claustrophobic -- almost like Breton Court and its surroundings have been plucked out of the normal world and exist in a kind of self-referential limbo/fantasy realm.It also helps that after the Prelude (The Fall of Luther), the fantastic takes a back-seat for a little while so that Broaddus can immerse you in the characters, especially since there's a large cast to keep track of. While supernatural elements are mentioned (Green's seeming immortality, for example), they really are less important than getting to know the characters -- until about 2/3rds into the book, when the supernatural suddenly jumps up and grabs the characters and the reader by the ankles and there's no turning back.Broaddus also does an excellent job of taking the familiar Arthurian names and tropes and twisting them to fit the setting. Some of the older names, like Rhiannon, fit. Guinevere wouldn't, so we get Lady G instead. Lott instead of Lancelot. And even though Merle appears to actually be Merlin himself, he changes his name to fit in better with the times. The relationships are also slightly skewed, and of course swords don't really cut it in the gangbanger world, so we get mystical guns instead. And it's all handled in a way that works and doesn't feel hokey.I've got the second and third books in the Knights of Breton Court series on my TBR pile, and I hope to get to them ASAP. I'm definitely intrigued by the world Broaddus has created.
2 I don&#8217;t quit reading books.  Faced with a book I don&#8217;t like or that doesn&#8217;t hold my interest, my usual course of action is merely to set it aside, not planning to quit but without plans to pick it up again.  But sometimes I power my way through out of sheer cussedness.  Of all the books I put my grubby little hands on at World Con, I was most excited about King Maker.  How could I not be about a book that bills itself as &#8220;The Wire Meets Excalibur&#8221;?  Well, at least I can say I finished it.But if it&#8217;s anything like The Wire, it&#8217;s a very poor imitation indeed.  I&#8217;m sure Arthurian legend has been retold so wearyingly, but I couldn&#8217;t say where.  The tagline is, however, correct on the subject matter.  King Maker is a contemporary fantasy set among the drug dealers of Indianapolis with obvious Arthurian elements.  I won&#8217;t delve any deeper into the story than that, because I never cared about any of the details.  The narrative follows many characters without making the reader care about any of them.  This is, I think, a ploy to give us a deeper glimpse into the milieu rather than because the characters are essential to the plot (The Red Knight by Miles Cameron is a recent book I read that does this very well), but it fails because the sub-plots are no more interesting than the characters are no more interesting than the milieu.  I take it this is the first book in a series, but that is no excuse for such a mild tremor of a story and I would prefer to pretend no more of this exists, anyway.
4 Always a sucker for Arthur Mythos - can't believe it's taken this long to get to the top of my read pile.This book is gorgeous, in a dark and horrible way. It reads like a nightmare that is lush and decadent, while being set in squats and under bridges. Even those characters at the *top* of the hierarchy, live in conditions that most people wouldn't consider a basic standard of living.I highly recommend this as a read that will shake you up a little and maybe pull you out of any comfort soon you might be in regarding Urban Fantasy.I have some issues with the culture of the book and the relationship with women portrayed - It's hard out there for a ho... but it's not an issue with the writer - it's written beautifully - it's just that hard attitude and world view of the slice that is being written about really couldn't be portrayed any other way. Not and work or be realistic - but it is sort of depressing.I have a lot of love for King, Lady G, Merle, Wayne - and a host of side characters that have relevant roles in the unfolding of the tale. Sometimes scenes jumped in a way that I had to figure out where I was - but I'm not sure if that was the formatting issue mentioned below or an authorial issue (or even just a me issue.)Still gets a Bravo! from me as even with any *figurin* I might have had to do - still worth it. Can't wait to read Book 2.Nit Picks:The kindle edition I bought had some formatting problems that have been reported - so hopefully those get fixed - nothing major - some spacing issues that caused paragraphs with dialogue and end and beginning to get thrown together.
5 Maurice Broaddus gives us new fantasy royalty with a brilliant re-telling of the Arhturian legend painted on a grim urban landscape. KING MAKER: THE KNIGHTS OF BRETON COURT introduces a modern hero with intelligence, steet smarts, courage and audactity.  This is the start to what will clearly be a stunning series of action adventures with all sorts of twists.  Highly recommended!!
1 As above, this is the King Arthur story told through the eyes of a street hustler.That doesn't tell the story.  Maurice Broaddus takes the violence and treachery and expands it, using African American drug addicts and pimps in place of the noble knights.  Through this violent and (frankly) disgusting story, there appears not one shred of romance, mystery, magic or chivalry.  Those were the things that made &#34;Mort d'Arthur&#34; an enjoyable read.I will not be reading Volume II.
5 King Maker is clearly rooted in the urban ghetto experience.  Broaddus clearly understands urban life and the cycle of poverty.  The lives of the people in this book are absolutely authentic, which is remarkable for an urban fantasy.Equally remarkable for an urban fantasy is the use of fantasy.  The slums aren't filled with witches and warlocks and trolls don't lurk beneath every bridge.  The fantastic elements will shock you when they appear, even though you know you're reading an urban fantasy.And King Arthur, of course.  The legend is recast and adjusted for modern life, the names are changed, but the story is still there.Well worth the read.
3 I bought this book.King Arthur in modern day, gang-ridden Indianapolis, this book promises, and the Arthurian legend is evident in King Maker by Maurice Broaddus. The book opens with the short, dark tale of Luther, gang leader and father to an infant, King James White. Not long after betraying King's mother with another woman Luther is shot, betrayed by his right hand man.With that, we're told in the tone of a Shakespearean tragedy, the story moves on to King, who is in fact the One True King (albeit rather far from England). Except that despite King's role as the lead he's actually in the book very little.In fact that's where this whole book stalled for me. Broaddus can clearly write circles around other people, but in this book he writes in circles that have hollow middles. Almost all the focus is on character building, tension building and weaving in the minute details of the re-written mythos. But for a large part of the book nothing happens.Also, Broaddus spends an exorbitant amount of time building up characters who are ultimately side characters. This leads to next to no connection with King himself and a sense of confusion when major events to happen, or major players are killed. Because the emphasis is on everyone being gray (all the bad guys have a reason for their bad, either playing a role or being crushed by a poor life) is so overwhelming that no one comes out as a compelling or valiant hero.Fate and legend are powerful aspects of the tale, as is the desolation and hopelessness of life way below the poverty line. Not to mention the clever metamorphosis of fiends into zombies and the very interesting use of fae and otherworldly creatures in the most unusual of modern settings. Once Broaddus does get things moving King Maker gets very good, richly thematic and enticingly original.But in the end this book on its own is too slow for most urban fantasy fans. Luckily readers won't have to see it end here, and can hope things pick up in book two (King's Justice due March 2011).
5 The invisible baggage attached to King Maker Book One by Maurice Broaddus cannot be ignored. It's impossible to approach a new version of the timeless tale of King Arthur without asking, "Do we really need this version?" I'm pleased to report that Maurice Broaddus provides many compelling answers to this question, answers which led me to conclude with a resounding yes.Broaddus sets his tale among the very real rundown slums of west-side Indianapolis. The homeless huddle under streets that Hoosier natives can point to on a map, but would rarely drive through by choice after dark. While reading this book, I've stumbled upon mixed online comments regarding this choice--why not New York or Los Angeles or some other, more recognizable ghetto? I applaud the decision, and not just because I recognize the area he writes about (and clearly, so does he). By refusing to relocate his tale, he reminds the reader that poverty knows no geography. The poor are as equally trapped in Los Angeles as Pittsburgh. To massacre Shakespeare: A gang shooting in any other city would be as dangerous.With every sentence, Broaddus traps the reader in the slums with his characters. He paints a bleak picture of warring gang members born without a chance, stuck in a school system that's given up on them. We see kids raised by drug dealers and hookers whose only options are to escape through drugs or to "rise up" through the gang system, only to discover, too late, the lies inherent in those promises.This is the world of King James White. We begin with the betrayal and fall of his father. Frm there, we're quickly introduced to the gang and residents of Breton Court and their rival, the crew at the Phoenix apartments. We meet their leaders, Night and Dred, their lieutenants, and the various peddlers, pushers and police caught in the middle. By the time King answers his call to destiny and assembles his posse of "knights" at the modern "round table" (an all-night greasy diner), you can think of few places in greater need of a hero than the modern-day slums of Indianapolis.The strengths of the novel put a spotlight on what many will consider its weaknesses. King Maker tells a sweeping tale with no less than 20 important characters. In hot, tragic splashes of episodic vignettes, we meet them all, we learn their story. We visit long enough to understand their motivation; we experience their pain and entrapment. In many cases, we learn their fate, and then we move on.Readers who prefer a more intimate tale, who expect to spend time with our hero King as he broods, ponders and finally accepts his destiny, may be frustrated with this "hit and run" approach. I had my favorite characters: the homeless Merle, King, his girl Lady G. the oddly delightful bigoted police officer Lee and his black partner, the eternally patient and understanding detective Octavia.Other readers will find much to love and may prefer the company of the ogre twins Machaela and Marshall, or the mysterious and lethal Omarosa, or others, but the result is the same. Your favorites are sharing screen time (page time?) with a large ensemble. Even King occupies less than a quarter of the novel.I must also admit some frustration with the contrivance of renaming the classic heroes with recognizable variations. Did Guinevere have to be named Lady G, Merlin the Magician "Merle", along with the similarly dubbed Luther, Lott, and Wayne? But to Broaddus' credit, he owns the contrivance, and over time, makes the reader see these characters as individuals beyond their archtypes.This is a world where gangsters kill and mutilate at the first hint of a neighborhood snitch. Where bumbling flunkies meet merciless death in graphic and bloody ways that may traumatize witnesses--that would be the reader. This is a world where the downtrodden pedestrian ducks gunfire on a daily basis, and runs the other way to avoid witnessing an assault.When King and his crew confront the trolls, demons, and dragons, you can absolutely believe an apartment building can be assaulted in broad daylight by a horde of supernatural beasts, and that no one is going to question or even notice the more fantastic elements.Though not everything works exactly as you might expect, King Maker is a triumph. The book works much better than any jaded reader who has "seen it all before" should have any reason to expect. So while I started Book 1 with doubts, I find myself anxiously awaiting the release of Book 2.-R.J.
3 KING MAKER: The Kights of Brenton Court Vol. 1 by Maurice Broaddus opens by introducing us to Luther, gang leader and father of King James White, who lives in the ghetto or slums, if you will, of Indianapolis. We soon witness the betrayal and fall of Luther. There are many "side" characters (I lost count), whose stories I found at times hard to read. Living in the hood does that, as there are many stories that can be told. One in particular was of a gangster who mutilates a witness when he felt he was about to be snitched on. In addition there are graphic details of bloody conflicts, zombies and twins who are cannibalistic enforcers that had me flipping the pages as a way to hurry and get past that scene and others.This is Volume 1, so I suspect we will learn more about King James, as I didn't get the connection of him to most of the characters.  King was the side character in place of the main character in my view. If he had even narrated the story, in place of popping up now and then, it would have made more sense to me.For fans of urban fantasy, Mr. Broaddus delivers.Reviewed by Linda Chavisfor The RAWSISTAZ(TM) Reviewers
5 The land is in chaos.  War rules the streets. One thing remains the same; it is always the children who pay.  We watch King James White learn of his destiny, draw his knight-like supporters close, and try to do the right thing by his people.What else is a King supposed to do?I deeply enjoyed this book.  While you don't have to be familiar with the Arthur legend, you may derive pleasure from figuring out who's who and the parts they'll play.  While the names have changed, the souls are the same, recast in roles that make sense for our time.  The writing is sharp and figures of legend dance across the landscape of a not-nearly-completely-fantasy Indianapolis most suburbanites would prefer to ignore.  I particularly loved the characterization of the Green Knight (power-behind-the-throne ganglord Green) and the chilling pair of cannibalistic enforcer Trolls in a ver-r-ry small car.  Moreover, the dialogue is zippy, funny, and believable.Take a break from conventional urban fantasy.  Try King Maker.  You'll thank me.
1 The big problem with this book is balance. I don't mind having a police protagonist fleshed out so we understand him/her more. But with this book, we spend far too much time wallowing in the main character's odious private life and hardly any time at all in the crime solving. In fact, the detective work side of this story really only occurs in the last few dozen pages. The rest of the time we're just wandering around with a pretty unlikeable Scottish policeman.The trajectory of the main character over the few days the novel covers is ludicrous, as is the backdrop he exists in. The level of violence inflicted by police, criminals, loan sharks and so on is so over the top that it becomes almost laughable. At the rate with which punishment beatings and deliberate limb breakings are handed out, half the city would be in wheelchairs within a month. In today's climate where even a rude shove by a police officer is subject to mass media scrutiny, the idea of a cop carrying out deliberate maimings on a regular basis is pretty thin.The sidekick character of Alice is also implausible, both in the case of her cliched neuroses and the behavioural journey she exhibits during the course of the novel. She's the mis-matched cop partner from central casting.Overall this is a childish book with the author over-doing the attempt to paint a grim and gritty Scottish theme at every turn. &#34;The sky was the colour of a battered wife&#34; is one memorable crack at wallowing in misery. Also inane descriptions like &#34;The car smelled of tea and stale digestive biscuits.&#34; So digestive biscuits leave a lingering smell? And stale ones leave a smell that is distinguishable from fresh ones? News to me.
5 I'm a huge fan of Stuart MacBride, and LOVE the Logan McRae series so I was excited to see a standalone.  The problem with going from a much loved series to a standalone is that people often expect the same sort of book but with different characters, and this is most certainly not the case .  So if you just want another Logan McRae-style book, wait until the next one in the series comes out.  I found Ash Henderson to be a complete loser with no redeeming qualities apart from his deep-seated need to protect his family and get revenge on the man who took his little girl (and even that was doing my head in a bit!) and yet I was still glued to the pages, struggling all the way with the choices he made and wanting to smack him around the ears.  But this story is not so much about the search for a killer but about this man's basic instincts taking over and how his actions and obsession lead him down such a terrifying path and affects all those around him, leading to a fantastic finish that left me thinking about it two books and a couple of weeks later.  If a book can stay on my mind for that long it's a winner as far as I'm concerned.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  I read while I'm on the elliptical at the gym, and it did a great job of helping me forget that I was exercising so that I was able to exercise faster and longer than usual.  That is the best type of review I can give a book, here lately. I'm not sure if it is something that I'll read repeatedly, but I will say that I liked it so much it got me interested in his other books.  I have now read two, and I am in the middle of the 3rd.
5 Wow - okay, I love this writer, love his gritty police mysteries.  This book took me by surprise.  Yep, I could see the main character slowly spiraling out of control, see what he was slowly turning into, but the ending - I did not see that coming!!!!  Awesome story!  Grit, gore, mystery, dark humor, engaging characters, dangerous characters, bleak streets and a shock ending.  This has it all.
4 Ash Henderson was new, at least for me, and really kept my interest even though sometimes he seemed to be more dangerous than the killers he chases.
5 Like others, I have read all of MacBride's books, and knew that this one was a departure from Laz Logan et al. I note some of the negative reviews on here, and can only say that these readers are missing the boat. Of course there are similarities in the content and flow, and if those who have followed Logan really closely may have noted, particularly in Shatter the Bones, Stuart was looking for a way to get Logan involved in some darker, under the radar activity. Instead of spoiling Logan, he's invented Henderson, who does precisely that. I think that's extremely clever and brave, given that too many people want the author to write EXACTLY what they want... but a writer has to have his own licence. The criminal noir humour is what has made his work so distinctive, so why complain when he serves up a terrific helping in Birthdays for the Dead? I downloaded the book and read it in almost one sitting....couldn't put it down, except to sleep. I was also comfortable with some of the overlay themes from prior novels. For those with a wider eclecticism of taste and can remember John Steinbeck, he used to write in what became known as a "phalanx of writing" inasmuch as most of his books could overlap with each other... MacBride's offerings fill that idiom for me, and I enjoy it immensely. Whether the next book is Logan, Henderson or another set of people to lease space in my brain, I'm up for it. Keep them flowing Stuart....
5 I have read all eight books in the Logan and Steel series and this is the first DC Ash series, I enjoyed it as much and I am anxiously awaiting the second book coming out this year.
4 Funny writer..very wry sense of humor, which is a nice balance to the grim subject. Story moves effortlessly with well-created characters. Read this one very quickly and because of it, ordered another couple.
3 An absolute bloodbath. About 13 dead girls and who knows how many other side characters. I think the body count must have been in the twenties in the end. Ash is a cop, but spends his time either beating up potential suspects or getting cash with menaces to pay off his debts. The body count builds, tit for tat violence escalating as Ash desperately races to find the killer of his daughter. You can pretty much see the ending coming. Ash gets beaten up regularly through the pages,definitely a plus. The women around him mostly end up drunk - you cannot blame them. There is nothing to like in most of the characters. The best that can be said, and the only reason for my 3 stars , is that it is a tense story and well written with flashes of McBride's dark humour. And although the characters are unsympathetic, they are well drawn and believable. Even if McBride is a bit hard on the police in this one, they are all either on the make or paedophiles so far as I can see. If you can stand the blood then it probably is worth the buy. My main problem is it left me feeling nothing really. I did not care for the outcome because I could not identify with any of the characters and just wanted it over. Don't let this be your first McBride, I love his books and will forgive him this but if it's your first one you might never read another.
4 This book is a stand alone story.  It has good characters and plot. I enjoyed this book, but then I am a Stuart Macbride fan.  The humour that I am accustomed to by Macbride was missing in this book.  Overall an enjoyable enough read.
5 As usual, MacBride writes a thrilling and gore filled plot, with lots of twists and turns! He has not disappointed and this recent release shows that Macbride hasn't lost his touch! A must read if you loved previous books by MacBride!
4 Stuart MacBride has provided his usual gritty take of mass murder in the north of Scotland.  The cast of hard cases are into the usual biffo with the personal injury a regular occurrence.The relentless pursuit of the Birthday Boy murderer has borne heavily on Ash our policeman hero whose .  His efforts are hampered by his perhaps amplified personal weaknesses  but his heart is in it.  Enter the naive and gormless Alice McDonald to replace the last incumbent on the team who topped himself and took his records of the case with him.  It is Alice's job to profile the Birthday Boy and solve the case.Her role as Ash's unwanted sidekick and her development professionally and personally is the best part of this story.  After all this could be the way out for MacBride as his novels have certainly gone as far as you could want with violence and now needs something a little more thoughtful.  Worth the read though.
5 Great read from Stuart McBride , full of McBrides theme of suspense and realism.This writer goes from strength to strength , I recommend this book for anyonewho enjoys there thrillers with all the gory details.
3 My first book from this Author ,Couldn't put it down until three quarters of the way through but then thought it fizzled out , ending was rushed .
1 Terrible book.  I can't think of a good thing to say about the book.  Don't need to read another of Macintoshes books.
2 Three times I have tried to read this book but so far I just cannot get into it.I will give it another go but even though the story line is right up there with what I love to read I found it just did not get me hooked..Sorry Stuart MaCBride..
4 Stuart MacBride is another author whose name I was familiar with, but hadn't sampled yet. Well, that's all changed. I just read Birthdays for the Dead and I am hooked.MacBride grabs you by the throat in the opening prologue and only eases his grip long enough to let you take a breath and then the pressure is back on. Non-stop.The day's mail includes a birthday card for Detective Constable Ash Henderson's daughter Rebecca - she would have been eighteen. Rebecca went missing days before her thirteenth birthday and it's assumed she ran away. But, Ash knows differently. She was a victim of The Birthday Boy - a sadistic killer who sends parents horrific photos of their dead daughters in a yearly birthday card. And Ash has just received his latest. The Oldcastle police have been chasing this maniac for over eight years and they may have just caught a break - a body has been found. Ash has withheld his cards and daughter's death from everyone as he doesn't want to be taken off the case. But, it's taken a toll - he's divorced, lives in a dive, is dangerously in debt to the local mob, eats painkillers constantly and is a little too quick with his fists. He's a train wreck of a man - and you can't help but hoping he comes out on top.Whew. Where to start? It took me the first few chapters to catch on to MacBride's style - fast and furious, but also with some funny bits. I know, after what I just described, funny doesn't seem possible. But Ash is paired up with Alice,  a very 'different' psychologist, who has her own set of issues. The dialogue between the two is quite witty. On the flip side, Mrs. Kerrigan scared the bejesus out of me. The action truly never stops, the tension never lets up and I was unable to predict where the plot was headed next. Or the ending.Gentle readers be warned - Birthdays for the Dead is dark, gritty and violent. But, boy oh boy crime fans - it's oh so good! This was my first MacBride, but definitely won't be my last.  Read an excerpt of Birthdays for the Dead. I was glad that this was a stand alone book. (But I would like to see more of this character) as MacBride also writes a crime series featuring Logan McRae that I want to start from the beginning.
3 The first few sentences are stunning!The author manages to set the mood by putting himself in the head of one of the victims, aged of twelve, facing a serial killer who kills little girls the day of their 13th birthday.Then, the reader is following an investigation lead by Ash, a detective whose daughter was also removed. Unfortunately in order to stay on the case, he never revealed the disappearance of his own daughter preferring to say she had fled. Because the killer is sadistic enough, he sends pictures of girls to their parents at all their birthdays in various degrees of injuries before their death.Although the plot is really well built, I just got a little lost in the rambling life of detective Ash and on the many secondary characters who revolve around him. He owes money and some goons are after him, his ex-wife is a pain in the ass, his girlfriend is too young and his colleagues are various. Sometimes, it gave me a sense of confusion while I understand the desire to immerse the reader in the skin and in the life of the main character, still it's a lot to take.Ash is also accompanied by a psychiatrist specializing in criminology, a profiler that need to drink to understand the killer. However, even if Dr. McDonald has a loony mind, she's very endearing and funny. Her strange behavior helps the reader to relax before being confronted to heavy atmosphere. Her duet with Ash also makes the detective more human.A heavy, captivating and fun suspense story to follow, especially when the corpses of victims are surfacing and new victims appear to spice up the thriller. Sometimes a bit chaotic and confusing but the story is realistic, hard while being punctuated by dotted touch of madness.The end is unexpected and confusing.A great one!Lucienewbooksonmyselves.blogspot.fr
1 From the synopsis of the story - seems like an intriguing read but .... I find the story too draggy and hard to follow.Unless you really have a lot of time -don't know what to do. My advice is -- skip this!
5 BOOK REVIEW"Birthdays for the Dead"byStuart MacbrideFor McBride fans  DC Logan McRae does not appear in this novel and Aberdeen only does peripherally. The book's cover gives a clue to the story `TWELVE YEARS. TWELVE DEAD GIRLS, THIRTEEN WILL BE UNLUCKY FOR SOME' All alas too true as the novel opens with a horrific prelude involving a tortured young girl before the curtain rises on the opening chapter. In some ways this introduction reminded me of a developing painting where the artist creates tiny unconnected portions and slowly welds them into a whole.The narrator awakes rather bruised and battered, we have no idea who he is as he opens a cigar box containing several numbered cards showing a young girl in progressive stages of brutal mutilation. Each bears the message "Happy Birthday". Five years since his daughter disappeared, five cards one delivered on each of her birthdays today being the latest.He wakes a very badly beaten lout asleep on his sofa then drives off to work, his mobile rings and an Irish harridan warns him if he has not repaid 3000 as part of his massive debt by noon next day he will receive a friendly reminder.  this guy has big problems whoever he is.Arriving at his workplace we learn he is something in the police. There is a conference in progress where CID discuss a long running case in where a serial killer kidnaps a girl each year just before her 13th birthday, on that date he tortures her to death. He takes many photographs in the process. These he makes into cards he sends to the parents each year, no matter where they move to he finds them; our narrator is one such parent. The painting grows but there remains a lot to be inserted.At long last our narrator's identity and rank are revealed Detective Constable Ash Henderson. We also gradually learn that he is not the nicest of persons. He has another daughter, now twelve and living with her mother. She divorced Ash when she discovered his affair with an attractive lady journalist.Two psychiatrist profilers have been assigned to the investigation the first could take no more of it and retired to a whisky sodden existence in The Shetland Isles. His replacement went even further by committing suicide.His replacement, just arrived, is a lady with a heap of personal phobias of her own although top of her class at Edinburgh University. Ash is assigned to work with her and at long last that painting starts taking some sort of form.That is about all I can tell you except under no circumstances be put off by the vagueness of the opening chapters. While things heat up very slowly they will eventually turn into a raging inferno. Bodies are discovered, our latest psychiatrist displays great talents, and Ash's problems get infinitely worse.All in all a first rate thriller that merits some initial persistence.Stuart Macbride ranks with Ian Rankin as a top crime writer. The best of the genre no longer involve New York or L.A. Scots towns and cities now merit at least as much attention.One word of advice however, if you are squeamish it's best to leave this one well alone.
4 The cover attracted me in the bookshop and then after reading the blurb, it sounded right up my street so I bought it, and I wasn't disappointed.The premise that there is a serial killer out there who snatches girls and then every year sends a birthday card with a torture photo to the parents is interesting enough, but Ash, the Detective on the case is what made this book, along with Dr Alice McDonald, who for a lot of the book is like a babbling child.Ash's oldest daughter Rebecca, is an unknown victim of the killer but her dad is keeping it secret so that he can stay on the case.The book zips along nicely, with everyone wanting a piece of Ash, from fierce debt collectors to his colleagues, not forgetting his wronged ex wife. It all reaches a dramatic ending in the last chapter, and it kept me guessing till the end, and then I still got it wrong.Now this is the first Stuart MacBride book that I have read, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.This book is not for the faint heart though, and this copper is not the blue eyed boy we normally read of in books, in fact he would make a good hit man, which was refreshing, and in places, hard to read.I saw that this book has got some negative reviews, but I did really enjoy it, and I am planning to read his back catalogue. The one thing that did get confusing though was the Scottish dialects peppered throughout the book, which is set in Dundee. Some parts I just could not decode, and my husband couldn't either!This detracted from the story a little, since I only had one side of the conversation but it was still a brilliant read. It reminded me of Martina Cole's books, where no one gets out alive or undamaged by the events of the book.
5 Gripping crime thriller ... did miss Steele & Logan though.  As always with McBride stories, I couldn't put the book down and read it in 2 sittings.
5 If I were ever asked to name the one police procedural that should be on every reading list, it would surely be &#34;Birthdays for the Dead&#34;.  Nothing but fluid tension build up, wonderful secrets only you share with the hero and an ending that really gives satisfaction to the most hard core mystery reader.  Love,love, love Stuart McBride and this just may be his best book to date.  Cant wait for his next.
4 This is a page turner of some speed. I really enjoyed it in spite of the gratuitous violence. Slightly predictable, but compelling all the same.
5 Birthdays for the Dead is a gritty and fantastic novel.  The characters are believable and likeable.  There is humour in what is a very dark and disturbing storyline.  I am an avid fan of Stuart MacBride and I would definitely recommend this book.
4 It's every parent's worst nightmare.  A serial killer is abducting girls just prior to their thirteenth birthdays, killing them, and then sending their parents pictures of the torture and murder every year on their birthday.  Detective Constable Ash Henderson doesn't just want to solve the mystery; he wants to find the body of his daughter.  Unfortunately, time does not seem to be on his side, as his younger daughter is approaching her thirteenth birthday.First, just let me say that readers who are offended by graphic violence and profanity will probably not finish this book.  It is a gritty, disturbing novel about children being tortured and murdered; not a cozy mystery, at all.  But if you can find your way past this, it is a novel that will keep you awake until you have finished it, and then it may keep you awake another night, just for good measure.4 starsDisclosure of Material Connection: I received this book free from the publisher through the Edelweiss book review bloggers program. I was not required to write a positive review. The opinions I have expressed are my own. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission's 16 CFR, Part 255 &lt;[...]> : "Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising."
3 I've read all the Logan MacRae books and they all kept me amused if not on the edge of my seat.  This character, Ash, is a loser and no fun at all.  Hard to give a darn what happens to him and his.  In addition, the plot is far too contrived as though there was a command to add words to give the book thickness.  Give me DS potty-mouth and the rest of the Logan MacRae characters anyday.  Don't think I'll venture out of that realm again.
4 Birthdays For The Dead was my first time reading a novel by Scottish author, Stuart MacBride. The back of the book intrigued me but as I pressed on I found it difficult to get into the story told through a rich landscape of regional accents and dialects. It much reminded me of the time I read The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo. An excellent trilogy, but it took some adjusting to the Swedish vernacular. As with that novel, I pressed on and found a very intriguing crime thriller that became easier to read and harder to put down.We enter the story in an ongoing investigation into the serial killer dubbed "the birthday boy". Detective Constable Ash Henderson has worked the case from the beginning and may shed insight since he too lost his own daughter, Rebecca, right before her 13th birthday 5 years ago. But she is classified a run away. No one can know the truth if Ash is to stay on the case and catch the killer. Henderson is soon saddled with a young inexperienced forensic psychologist, Dr. Alice McDonald. But could a fresh set of eyes and new perspective be what Henderson needs to jump start this lagging investigation or will she unearth all the secrets Ash seeks to keep hidden?The novel chronicles 9 days of the police investigation. In that short time you are immersed in many subplots that are unpredictable and riveting. I was torn whether to like Ash or not. He is ethically corrupt but is he not morally justified? I believe the struggle of good vs. bad and black vs. white is epitomized in Henderson's need to seek retribution for the loss of his Rebecca. The police work is grueling and the effects of what the detectives see and endure have lasting ramifications on many involved.Birthdays For The Dead, will appeal to those who enjoy crime thrillers, but don't want an easy, predictable mystery. It isn't a story for the faint of heart. The death and torture of the young girls is revealed in the birthday pictures sent to each girl's parents yearly. The unpleasant and disturbing side to human nature is explored and it made me question what I would do if left in the same circumstances. - Wendy
5 This is my first foray into MacBride's mysteries and writing, and I absolutely loved the experience! MacBride writes so vividly - covering not only the visuals, the sounds, authentic dialogue (with accents!), but even the smells (many of them quite foul). Every scene really springs to life off the page! It is so easy to become immersed in it, immune to your own surroundings as you become swept up into the characters and the horrific actions of the serial killer with the moniker "Birthday Boy." The main character, Ash Henderson is something of an anti-hero. Despite his often poor decision making, he is a sympathetic character and even becomes quite likable at times. The plot unfolds here in mostly unpredictable ways (though I must admit that the concluding twists are not completely unexpected). Still, the book's flaws are easy to overlook. The book exudes authenticity. And the dialogue and relationship between Ash and Alice, the young psychologist add brief respites of humour in the midst of the dark plot. It's a sad, horrific story, but such a gripping read! MacBride is a talented writer and I can't wait to read his even more highly acclaimed Logan McRae series.
4 All the ingredients of a good detective yarn:  Good characters, coherent plot, great sense of place, well-done dialogue.  The only reason I didn't give it five stars is the immense number of unknown, local (Scottish) dialect terms and slang; it's a good thing I have a Kindle, because of the dictionary and Wikipedia connections.  The terms DO add to the sense of place and character, but constantly looking up terms is a bit distracting unless one isn't in to knowing what one is reading.
5 Here's the thing. You hoard a book because it's a favourite series, and there's no sign of the next one yet. But then there are noises about the next one, but that's not out for ages, but you can't wait any longer so you read the one you've had tucked away. Then you've not got that little thing of joy hidden away in the bookcases anymore. So now you're stuck in that horrible no man's land, because the next book's not out for ages, and you've given into temptation. It's a nightmare.Mind you, that's about the only complaint I can come up with about SHATTER THE BONES. But then I'm a huge fan of Stuart MacBride's Logan McRae series. He's one of those writers that combine violence, brutality and some truly shocking story lines with absolute laugh out loud moments, a heap of creative swearing, some terrific insights into human nature and, in this case, social commentary into the bargain. There's a sense of urgency, lunacy and hurtling madness about most of the investigations in the McRae books that feels real. There are believable, fantastic characters performing over and above the call of duty, desperately hanging onto family and personal in the middle of an absolute storm of crazy.In SHATTER THE BONES MacBride is also taking a wee shufty at the madness of reality TV - the way that a frenzy of interest and concern whips up when a mother and daughter are kidnapped, an interest that seems unlikely to have occurred without their TV profile. In amongst the kidnapping, the reactions, an investigation hampered by a total lack of forensic information, and some very cunning acts on the part of the kidnappers, further hinderance comes from closer to home. When the serious crimes squad sends in an "expert" you just know that things are going to get complicated, but the level of idiocy of this bloke is beyond the pale.Whilst a lot of the madness, and the characters and their personal situations are carrying forward from the earlier books (thank goodness DI Steele remains a standout as frankly I'd be spitting the dummy well hard if she backed off), there are things that are moving forward. McRae's actually in danger of developing a personal life of his own, the relationships between the team are expanding a little, and ranks are progressing. There's also more than a few smacks around the head at the end of this book, and there's a final scene that's an absolute kicker.CLOSE TO THE BONE is out in January 2013. I might ... just ... last ... until ... then.[...]
5 I just love this series.  The mysteries are involved, so much so that just when I think I've solved it, it changes!  A great whodunnit, gruesome, humerous where it needs to be, but a nightmare where it counts.
5 Stuart MacBride does it again. Shatter the Bones is another amazing thriller in the Logan McRae series. I very highly recommend this series. You will not be disappointed.
5 I enjoyed this entire series very much. In this story you're confronted with a horrific crime where the investigation leads to a chilling and surprising conclusion. As always, the author develops the vilian(s) and hero(s) with a colorful brush. There are several other minor mysteries in addition to the main crime and our hero is revealed as flawed as heroes are apt to be. I perssonally enjoy the taste of Scottish life that the author weaves throughout. I look forward to #8 in the series due in May 2013.
4 I rate this ebook 4.5 stars. It is the story of Alison and Jenny McGregor a mother and daughter act who are contestants on a talent show. They are abducted and held for ransome. It is up to the usual characters in the Grampion Police to find them.As with previous books in the series, there are several investigations running concurrently, all convoluted cases as usual.DS Logan MacBride is back on track and DSI Roberta Steel is her fiesty and vivacious self. She has Logan's back when he stumbles badly in one of the investigations involving a drug dealer and his wife who is missing. This book in a way ended in a cliffhanger involving an established secondary character.Overall it was a gritty and intricate police procedural, a lot of the dark and twisted humour that has been prevalent in previous books was missing in this one to some extent. But a rollicking good read.
5 SHATTER THE BONES is the seventh book in the Detective Inspector Logan McRae series.  Set in Aberdeen, the stories are permeated  with the problems that a bad economy dumps on the locals.  The one bright spot around which all of Aberdeen gathers is the telecasts of a major reality show: Britain's Next Big Star.  This most recent round of the show has reached the semi-finals and Aberdeen is as one in the collective excitement surrounding local stars, Alison and Jenny McGregor.  The mother/daughter singing duo have a very good chance of winning the big prize, a recording contract and millions of pounds in endorsements of products that the British public will gladly purchase in order to own a piece of the famous.Alison McGregor and her six year-old daughter are on the covers of every tabloid in Britain.  Their version of Wind Beneath My Wings has had millions of hits on YouTube.  Scotland is proud and happy and positive that the McGregors are going to bring everything good to Aberdeen until Alison and Jenny disappear and a ransom demand is made.  If the ransom is not paid, the kidnappers will begin leaving pieces of Jenny for the police to find.  The British viewing public rushes to contribute money but the police aren't sure how real the kidnapping is.  The producer of Britain's Next Big Star  is in a position to get his hands on the donations but the general public is convinced of the dangerous position  their heroines are in and with shrines, tribute programs, and vigils, the McGregors, and the show, are getting more publicity than anyone could have dreamed of.McRae is also caught up in a serious drug trafficking investigation.  The McGregors might have a way out of poverty, if they survive, but there are those in Aberdeen who get rich selling drugs to the poor and unemployed who buy those drugs to forget the circumstances of their own lives.  It is that investigation that leads Logan to a place from which he fears he can't return.Stuart Macbride writes 400 page books that need to be finished in a day.  Logan McRae's nickname is "Laz" and those who have read the series from the beginning understand why he has the name and why it is so appropriate.  All the McRae books are violent; hero or villain, inflicting severe harm seems the answer to most problems.  Yet, McRae is a hero, a man who knows that his role as a police officer is one that brings good to people who have little that is good in their lives.  This does not keep him from thinking, frequently, that he should leave the job but he doesn't know what he would do if he no longer carries a badge.McRae is one of the few who doesn't forget that  there is a little girl at the center of the crime, a little girl who is being terrorized by people she does not know for a reason she cannot understand.  To give any detail of the story is to spoil SHATTER THE BONES.  The series is best read in order, beginning with COLD GRANITE, and it is a series that can be enjoyed by most whose taste runs to police procedurals.  Brutal details and profane language can be skipped to get to the good part.Macbride has a sense of humor that takes aim at parents.  The name of the production company responsible for Britain's Next Big Star is an homage to Dr. Seuss.
5 Another winner that will keep you turning pages until the end and then searching for the next book in the series.
5 Alison McGregor and her six-year-old daughter, Jenny, Aberdeen's huge favorites to win the competition on the hit tv show Britain's Next Big Star, have made it to the semi-finals.  Suddenly they are kidnapped, and the ransom note soon received says they will be killed if an indeterminate ransom is not paid within fourteen days.  Contributions are made across the country from their millions of fans.  The police are stymied - there are no witnesses, and no trace of forensic evidence can be found on either the ransom notes or the gruesome videos which the police are examining, and there are absolutely no clues as to who is behind the crime.  Needless to say, the media, and the public, are in an uproar, and the detectives are being hounded by both, as well as by the head of the CID and other investigative agencies.There is a second story line dealing with a routine drug bust which goes seriously awry, with the drug dealer managing to escape despite handcuffs and the presence of numerous police officers designed to prevent just that from happening.  The ramifications of this are far-reaching and brutal, and very personal for DS Logan McRae.This latest entry in this wonderful series moves at a slower pace than I remembered the earlier books being, perhaps reflective of the actual way in which serious crime investigations happen in real life.  But trust me, by the time the reader approaches the wrap-up of this well-written tale of celebrity culture run amok, the reader will be turning the pages swiftly to reach the suspense-filled ending as time is running out and the deadline approaches.Logan McRae, his significant other, Samantha, and the cops on the Grampian Police force who readers have met in the earlier books are wonderfully well drawn.  McRae is a very human and believable protagonist, and I can't wait for his return in the next series entry.  Highly recommended.
5 MacBride, like Ian Rankin in Edinburgh,can make the reader shiver both from Aberdeen's weather & it's killers. From flesh eating serial killers to sado masochist sex parties......how does his hero stay sane ? Goes veggie !
5 Just finished Shatter the Bones by @StuartMacBride and I am shattered! Grim, gritty and glorious with the usual dose of gallows humor.
5 Just like all the other Stuart Macbride books,  'Shatter the bones' is a real page turner,andyou can not put it down.It is impossible not to catch the "McRae-fever" once you start your first McRae book.It is very realistic , there is a lot of blood involved with lots of vivid descriptions, and thereis a lot of very funny and dark humour.I was eagerly awaiting news for his next book , but could not find any news on his website.Apparently his website has not been updated recently, because today I looked on the AMAZON page of Macbride books and guess what .... ?Logan McRae book 8 ( title : Close to the Bone )is coming in January 2013 !!!!!!!! HoorayAnd I was even more surprised to see on the AMAZON page ,that since a couple of days there is an extra special treat :"Partners in crime": two Logan and Steel short stories. What a treat !!!Bought it straight away!In my opinion , Mr. Macbride is the best crime writer ever !
3 I found it too long & hurried to come to the end - it was uneven.  also quite predictible.  Sorry
2 I had a really rough time getting into this book. Really rough. As in, if I hadn't been reading this as one half of a joint review, I probably would have stopped at the 15% mark. But I soldiered on. Or something. My issues were twofold. Or maybe three. Let's see...Part 1: I had a really hard time believing that a police force could be THAT incompetent. I mean... HOLY SMOKES! Between the genuinely stupid mistakes some of the police dudes made (err... I can't remember where all the DIs and DSs get applied, so I'm just going to call them "police dudes" and move along.) and the circles the dude from SOCA had them running in (literally retreading ground they'd already covered in some instances, on top of being very close-minded about the direction of the investigation), I came to the conclusion that having a crime committed against you in Aberdeen basically means you're screwed.Part 2: Holy regional uses of words, Batman! Not being from Scotland, I had a tough time deciphering what was being said in many instances. Add this to the police jargon (which tends to make me have crazy eyes, anyway) and I was lost on more than one occasion. Yes, I could figure it out... eventually... but it took more time and patience than I was happy with.Part 3: After all the build up with the kidnapping and the torture of Jenny and Alison, I was disappointed in how quickly the ending played out. I feel like the other crimes Logan was investigating gave us more closure than that one. I wanted more. I wanted the person who masterminded everything to suffer a little more. I wanted the people who tortured a little girl for s***s and giggles to be brought down slowly, with much pain and public jeering. The only ones who ended up really suffering are the victims and the children of the victims. Frankly, that sucks.This isn't a terrible book, despite what all my griping implies. The last half of the book moved along nicely -- I don't know if that was because I was getting into the flow of the speech patterns or what -- and there were some genuinely interesting characters. However, I don't recommend starting this series with book 7. Maybe... book 1. You know, just for kicks.-Kelly @ Reading the Paranormal
5 I chose this book because it was the next in the series and I have liked all the other books. McRae and Steel are my favourite characters. They are far from being perfect people working in a perfect organisation and they still get results. Morally they are a little corrupt but so are we all from time to time. Despite the tragic things that happen in the book it is a hoot from beginning to end.
5 The only thing wrong with the Logan MacCrae novels is that I have to wait for the next one. A story of a kidnapping, and a drug theft engages us from the beginning. This is a powerful police procedural, filled with imperfect characters, unpleasant villains, and highlights the difficulty of solving a case when every lead fizzles.  The brutality of human nature is highlighted, but the humanity of the police officers, particular Logan balances the pieces that are difficult. When it was over, I felt as though I had lived this story, and I hopefully await the next in the series.
3 A ripping good plot.  MacBride has mastered the &#34;quaint&#34; Glasgow gutter-speak rather well !  Characters are credible and situation topical
5 This series gets stronger with every volume,,and the events of this one will leave you shocked. MacBride has created very original characters in his series, including a DCI who is the boss of MCRae who will knock your socks off. His characters are instantly real,and recognizable.,throw in cases that will keep you guessing and you'll be as hooked on this series as I am.
5 Aberdeen is the setting for this tale about the kidnapping of rising talent show stars Alison & her daughter Jenny McGregor. The investigation by DS Logan McRae and his colleagues at Grampian Police takes twists and turns as the media and the public demand action. The public attempt to raise the ransom while the race is on to beat deadlines laid down by the kidnappers.I have to say I have read all of Stuart MacBride's books since his debut novel 'Cold Granite' which also featured Logan McRae, so had pre-ordered 'Shatter the Bones'. This was the 7th book in the series.I have to be honest and state I had in fact approached this latest book with a certain amount of trepidation - having thoroughly enjoyed a number of the previous books by the author, I had felt he had gone off track a little and the levels of profanity seemed to go off the scale.He is certainly back on track with this book. I read it in one day and couldn't put it down. A gripping tale interlaced with humour giving an unusual mix.If you haven't read any Stuart MacBride novels before and enjoy a good police/thriller read - buy this, you won't be disappointed.
5 I discovered Macbride by accident and sped through his entire series in two weeks. I am a murder mystery addict and always looking for well written series with interesting, compelling characters. I can not wait until he writes a new one in the McRae series.I am hooked.
5 A very intense, slightly slower paced book.  I found that this allowed for fuller development of all the characters involved in both main scenairos.  Logan, despite being surrounded by more than his fair share of idiots, manages to pull off the near impossible.  He is portrayed as more human in this book, doing what most of us would like to in similar circumstances, but at the end of the day, his morality kicks in to stop him from going completely into the darkness.  His personal life is also giving him twinges that he doesn't really want to confront until things spiral out of his control.  Is there a happy ending?A good read, twisted humour and a police department I wouldn't trust to find its own front door!  Having said that, if I had the funds, I'd like to visit Aberdeen just to see what it is really like.  I am intregued!I hope we don't have to wait too long for the next instalment.
5 I have read almost all of MacBrides books and have loved every one of them, they have a great mix of seriousness and humour.I suggest that anyone reading the Logan McRae series read them in order. They are totally enjoyable, and to the author I say GIVE US MORE.
5 Stuart MacBride, may God give him good health and sharpen his remarkable wit, is on one of my favorite writers. He has a rare ability to, in a very few words, describe a character as vividly as it were sitting in front of you. Great plotting and unsurpassed wit make him stand out in a crowded field of exceptional Scottish crime writers. This, seventh book is no exception. Smart, gritty and just too funny for words. Stuart, keep writing, please.
4 Although at times the whole force seems like a disfunctionable family it all comes together in the end. Enjoyable read
4 Mr MacBride knows how to paint word pictures like a master artist and tell intriguing solid detective stories. I look forward to his next novel.
4 The seventh book in the Logan McRae series opens quite explosively. It's an exciting and fast-paced novel with a celebrity abduction angle intermixed with a few other cases. Some of the celebrities may sound a bit familiar - but I am sure their real-life counterparts are nothing more than coincidence! Still, it's an exciting book and moves along steadily. This is due, in large part, to the more centralized nature of the plot. The plot does take a few predictable paths, but the surprises lurking more than compensate for this! The Jenny and Alison kidnapping takes precedence over the other crimes, but there are still some other drug crimes and a wide amount of interviewed suspects to maintain the police procedural focus so ingrained within the series.And quite a bit happens in Logan's personal life as well! He gets too close to the truth and receives a stern warning with some harsh consequences. And Logan's morals are further tarnished as he steps outside of the law. All in all, it's a fast-paced, thrilling read that really leaves you anxious for the next installment in the series!
4 I don't really know why but there is something about the characters that keep me coming back for more.  Reminds me of a loving dysfunction family.  And the stories are always interesting without being too convoluted.
4 Raw police work in the North East of Scotland. Probably more realistic in description and character than the refined American crime fiction characters
1 Like all writers in this genre a sad terminal decline inevitably sets in and Stuart McBride is no different.I found this book turgid, irritating, over written, heavy-handed and completely over the top.Once interesting characters like Steele have become cardboard  cut outs, boring to the core and completely lacking in credibility.Even laconic Logan barely stirred an interest in me and the plot was as confused as it was tedious.I lost interest early on and frankly I just wanted Steele to go away and never return.She should have had the words Unbelievable and  Plain Silly tattooed on her forehead.This book was ridiculous and plain daft and a waste of my time.I was seriously furious at about page 250.This was not so much a book of merit or humour but  a sad parody and  a clunky piece of nonsense.Hated it.
5 If you love thrillers then Close to the Bone is a must read. I can't wait for the next one in the Logan McRae series.
5 Another terrific Logan McRae book - he just gets better and better.  His characters and the plots are just terrific, I am a great fan of all his books but particularly like the Aberdeen based ones.
3 Well, I was a little disappointed in this Logan McRae mystery. I've nearly read the whole series now and whilst this book was entertaining in parts, it was also wanting in other respects.Firstly, the wonderful repartee between Steel and McRae seems to now have a slapstick quality about it. To me it is no longer believable.That sharp and clever dialogue, the humorous quips between characters that kept me coming back for more, no longer seems quite so spontaneous. The wonderful grimness and grittiness of these mysteries alleviated by the dark humour and "out of the blue" one liners. Brilliant, believable dialogue.As with the previous books the mystery component wasn't simple by any means. Made up of many threads I'm in awe of the way the author manages to bring it all together. As per usual Logan McRae has a lot on his plate and in this book seems to be surrounded by the Keystone cops who spend a lot of time whining about their lot instead of going out and nicking the criminals.But it was good to see the appearance of one previous key character - I won't spoil it but those who have read the previous books will know who I mean.Don't get me wrong though, I've come to have certain expectations with this series. I've enjoyed them so much, I just felt this one was lacking in some respects. However I intend to stay loyal to the series.
4 Logan McRae returns for an eighth adventure, this time as Acting DI. As a film about witchcraft is being made in the city, a series of horrific murders with an occult theme is taking place throughout the city. Meantime a young couple have gone missing and a gang war is brewing between the drug barons of the city. And as usual, every crime in Aberdeen seems to be dumped on poor McRae's desk.As always, MacBride has come up with an interesting and complicated plot and the quality of his writing remains very high. However as the series has progressed the humour seems to have taken over more and more and while this makes the book an enjoyable read it does tend to reduce any sense of realism and detract from the flow of the story. The usual characters are there - DI Steel, now acting head of CID, Rennie and a brief return for Jackie Watson - but all the characters have become so caricatured that they seem to be more like pantomime characters than real people. This book also sees a reappearance for retired DI Insch, but his personality is so changed, mainly for comedic purposes, that he simply doesn't ring true at all.The overall impression for me is that MacBride is bored with these characters and taking them to comedic extremes for his own amusement. And while there's no doubt it's still an amusing journey for the reader too, I no longer think of these as crime books but as fairly broad farce comedies. As a result, all the characters are there purely to be laughed at, including McRae, so I found I didn't feel any emotional involvement with them or tension as to the outcome. I'm not sure where the series is heading and I'll probably stick with it for another book or two but I think it may be close to the time that it should reach an end before it becomes too farcical. Overall then, an enjoyable read but lacking any sense of realism and with none of the grittiness of the early books. Falls somewhere between 3 and 4 stars for me, so for old times sakes I've rounded up to 4.
5 for the next one in the series. I enjoy following the characters and seeing them develop with each tale. Always gritty and down to earth, just like real life.
4 This is back to Logan and the Aberdeen mob. This won't be for everyone. It is very gritty and lots of pretty gruesome language and imagery. I agree with others that the plot drags a bit. And in the midst of it all the attempt to make Logan human as he carries on conversations with his comatose girlfriend does not fit for me. Still its full of giant thick villians, haunted by the gross Steele now acting boss, and the irreverant biscuit stealing, farting and cursing police of Aberdeen. The plot seems a bit far fetched what with witches and ritualistic killings and what not. It does not really challenge but as its just a backdrop for the comic capers of the boys and girls in blue that's ok. Enjoyed this but if you have a sensitive stomach I would steer clear. Especially from the bonus short story at the end which is just pointlessly gross though maybe that is the point it being about a downwards spiraling drug addict.
3 Even though I still kind of enjoyed this book, I must admit I was a tad disappointed. It sadly lacked the grit, reality and hardcoreness (if there is such a word) of the earlier Logan books. The comedy element was not as subtle as before and I found the conversations between Logan and Steele mildly irritating instead of hilarious. The constant bra fiddling was an annoying distraction. I also found the storyline a bit unplausible, especially with local porn studio now making Hollywood blockbusters, with the help of an ex copper and the I found the person 'who done it" completely unbelievable. It also seemed dragged out and I found myself drifting off a bit and then finding it hard to pick up again as I had forgotten what had happened. Mr MacBride..I am a huge fan, so apologise for my lack lustre review. :(
4 I enjoy Stuart MacBride's books because they are easy to read and I appreciate his sense of humour.  His characters are believable to the extent that I worry that his descriptions of the boys and girls in blue might be accurate. A good yarn.
5 The eighth book in the Logan McRae series is every bit as absorbing and entertaining as the previous seven. Great plot twists, a cast of colorful characters, and some of the most hilarious dialogue you will ever read!
1 About a third of  the way through "Close to the Bone" I couldn't take it any more.  Aggressively horny D.I. Steel's constant fiddling with her bra, squeezing her boobs,shoveling out endless profanities through mouthfuls of butties or crisps or pot noodles (whatever the hell that crap is) and, in general, creating havoc, made me want to throw the book at the wall, which I did.  Steel dominates the third of the book I managed to read and I just couldn't put up with one more page of her.  Poor Logan McRae, that emasculated fool, doesn't stand a chance against Steel's raging testosterone.The dreadful Hibernian lingo that pervades the pages, the constant repetition of words (like the above mentioned buttie, crisp, pot noodle... plus bumhole), the never-ending EATING of junk food that every law enforcer in the book seems to indulge in - it's all too much for the human stomach (my human stomach, at least).  I don't mention plot  because there is none.  All the characters chase hither and yon in broken down squad cars trying to gather evidence to nail the perp chopping up Aberdeenian citizenry.  And they do it so poorly and so boringly!This effort of MacBride's is an insult to my admittedly limited intelligence and I hope he can find better things to do than spend his nights thinking up new epithets for D.I. Steel to hurl, together with a spray of whatever she's got in her mouth, at the poor coppers in the Scottish constabulary.
5 Stuart Macbride proves again that he is the best crimewriter around.In my humble opinion, book nr. 8 in the Logan McRae series was not as gruesome or scary as the others,but still 100%  enjoyable!!!If you like crime novels combined with very dark humour, there is nobody better than Stuart Macbride.If you haven't read any of his books yet , try any of the Logan McRae books and I guarantee you'll getaddicted just like me.I can't wait for the next one.
5 This book keeps you on your toes. I especially liked the scenes with Samantha, it took a while to figure out what was happening.
3 This was ok. Can't imagine a boss like his, bit over the top.  Stripy was interesting enough. Main character likeable but sad.
5 Top marks as always to Stuart McBride. Few writers bring their characters to life and make them human and real the way he does. A total fan for life.
4 Rec'd book in good shape although I have yet to read.  Since it is by MacBride I'm sure it will be a fine read.
5 Loved every word! I hope the next in this series is the same with no impossible occurrences or inhuman actions. This was a great book!
5 There's an underlying mystery thread that runs throughout this latest installment in the Logan McRae series in the DI's personal life that compounds the action of a very volatile case. All the usual characters are back in high form, and one from the cast of previous Nieves returns in a surprising and new incantation. Highly readable and original police procedural series set in .aberdeen.
5 A brilliant addition to the series.  The dark humour and excellent plots just get better and better.  Macbride always keeps you guessing.
5 Another great addition to the Logan McRae series.  MacBride always combines great plotting, writing and humor to come up with a great story.
5 Things are chaotic in DS Logan McRae's Aberdeen, Scotland home.  Rival drug gangs are fighting over product and territory and the local crime lord wants McRae to mediate.  He has a new chief, DI Steele, who rides him day and night and makes the most outlandish requests.  There is a movie being filmed about witches in the city, and someone seems to be taking it way too seriously by imitating the scenes in the book.  Unfortunately, those scenes include murdering those the book's protagonist considers to be witches.  McRae's girlfriend is still in the hospital from his last case, and his apartment is still uninhabitable.  Finally, someone is leaving small bundles of tied bones around his temporary home.Then the murders start.  The first is a derelict who is necklaced--fitted with a tire over his head trapping his arms and then set alight.  This scene is straight out of the movie.  A local teenager, who is off her meds, is missing, and she is convinced she is the true witch finder.  Is she responsible for the murder?  As the cases progress, more murders occur and time is running out for McRae.  Can he solve the cases before he is targeted himself?Close To The Bone is the eighth Logan McRae novel, and fans will rejoice that he has returned.  Those who start with this book will be fine, except for one thing:  as soon as I turned the last page, I went out and bought the first three.  The dialect and conversation between McRae and those he works with and encounters are sterling.  McRae is a gritty hero with a good heart who works against time and those twists of fate that seem to occur regularly to solve the crimes that threaten his city.  Fans of Reginald Hill will be reminded of his Dalziel and Pascoe series, except no one would ever accuse McRae of being bookish like Pascoe.  This book is highly recommended for mystery readers.
5 This was one of the best detective stories I have read for a long time. I wanted a break from the many LAPD, NYPD etc. police thrillers from the USA and Stuart Macbride certainly delivered that break.  Acting DI Logan McRae and PS Roberta Steel of the Aberdeen police in Scotland are about as far away from most US police investigators as an iceberg from a tropical island.This is not a book for the faint hearted and parts are very graphic.  The storyline is tough and complex, starting with a murder where someone is "necklaced" with a burning tyre, apparently stabbed and then left to slowly die. MacRae is upset that someone is leaving bundles of what look like chicken bones (are they?) tied up in a nice parcels on his doorstep. A couple of 18 year olds seem to have run off together. But nothing is as it seems.While this is a serious book it is also frequently a very amusing book making me laugh out loud on several occasions. The main characters fight each other and resort to humour and profanity as a defence from the stresses of their real world. The brilliantly funny chain smoking lesbian PS Steel is definitely the winner in the humour and profanity stakes - so much so I was hesitant to include any of her best responses in this review.Stuart Macbride is one of the UK's best authors of detective novels and this book is one of his best. The publication schedule on Amazon.com is a bit strange. It was released in Australia in mid December, 2012 and in the UK in mid January 2013. It will not be released in the US until 14 May 2013.
4 The connection between a body that has been wedged into a tire and set ablaze and a movie called Witchfire being filmed in Aberdeen isn't immediately apparent to Acting Detective Inpector Logan McRae, although the reader knows that the connection must exist or Stuart MacBride wouldn't have included both events in the novel's opening pages. In another apparently unrelated incident, two eighteen-year-olds have gone missing, and while Logan assumes they are lovers who ran away together, his boss makes him investigate to placate the girl's bothersome parents. The reader soon learns that the girl is a big fan of "Harry Bloody Potter, Twilight, and that stupid Witchfire book." Then there are the neighborhood pranksters leaving chicken bones at Logan's front door ... or so he assumes.About a third of the story has passed before the connections become reasonably clear. The seasoned reader will expect more deaths to follow and will not be disappointed. This is only a wee bit of a whodunit, but the plot does take a surprising twist at the end that will satisfy whodunit fans. Not everything is as it seems, but the various storylines come together in the end. No loose ends are left to dangle.In a pleasant departure from most police procedurals (and from earlier novels in the McRae series), MacBride doesn't take his characters or his story too seriously. Humor permeates the novel and the tone is nearly always light-hearted despite the serial killings. Logan is often carrying on multiple conversations at once, talking on the phone at the same time he's speaking to investigators at a crime scene, with amusing results. A thug who "looks like someone took a burning cheese grater to his face" comes to Logan's door and punches him in the nose, but the Grampian police not only take their time finding the thug, they don't have much interest in looking for him. Logan's oversexed boss is unreasonably demanding and keen on taking credit for Logan's work. A new detective sergeant named Gertrude Chalmers drives him crazy with her cheery gung-ho attitude and bad driving. A crime boss wants to make Logan the administrator of his will, leaving Logan the task of parceling out his criminal empire. Too many women are telling Logan what to do, one of whom can't even speak. It's no wonder Logan always feels stressed.Sometimes the characters are slightly over-the-top, but not so far over that I stopped laughing at them. MacBride takes his time developing the plot and the characters, but the pace is never slow. Minor characters have the distinct personalities you'd expect from series regulars, and the beleaguered Logan is easy to like. The novel stands well on its own; it isn't necessary to read the earlier books in the series to get the full flavor of this one.
4 Promoted to Acting Detective Inspector, Logan McRae finds himself in the midst of several bewildering cases, beginning with the discovery of a body chained to a stake, strangled and stabbed, with a burning tire around the neck.  And that's just for starters, as more bodies begin turning up.  At the same time, he's charged with finding two missing teenagers.  And then there's the matter of someone crippling Asian immigrants.  Finally, all in a day's work, rival drug gangs are fighting over product and territory.All the while there is McRae's superior, DI Steele, riding him hard with her "witticisms" and pressure, foisting her paperwork on him while he's attempting to solve the various cases and capture killers.  Confusion arises between the murders and the filming of a book in Aberdeen called Witchfire. in which the exact MOs are described.This is the eighth in the series, and this reader felt that perhaps the author is beginning to get a little jaundiced with regard to his characters.  Steele's humorous comments are not really funny, many seeming forced [but perhaps that may be the point].  And the 500+ pages become at times somewhat of a burden for the reader to traverse.  Nevertheless, as always the writing is superb and the plotting taut, and the book is recommended.
5 Stuart MacBride.  Easy to readClose To The BoneFrom the first body very early on in the book, this book just takes you along at a fair pace. The first murder is a gruesome one whereby the victim is tortured and a tyre put over him and set alight, is this drug related , or gang warfare.Somebody is leaving a collection of bones at Logan McRaes house and the Asian community seem to be suffering from the locals as well. It seems the deaths are very similar as those in a book called &#34;witchfire&#34;.This book is a fast paced, easy to read thriller it will leave you wanting the next book.5 stars.  29 October 2013.
5 What can you say about an exemplary author! Logan McRae is an interesting specimen and continues to grow and develop with each novel. His books are written with well crafted and embellished characters and never short on description on the where, what and how. I am always desperately wishing the next book was available when I am currently reading his newest release. If you have never read a Stuart MacBride novel you don't know what your missing, brilliant !!
4 I always enjoy Stuart McBrides characters and his twisted sense of humour. This is a great read and also a bit of a geography lesson about the Scottish City of Aberdeen. I reccomend reading any of his Thrillers, as good as Ian Rankin.
5 I could read a Logan McRae book every day.  All the characters are great especially Steele.  These books are exciting, surprising and lots of dark humor.  Please Stuart, write faster!!
3 It was a enjoyable read but very slow moving . The last few chapters were the best when most of the action took place. I found the characters depressing and it was quite violent in places.
4 One of these days I will learn that jumping into the middle of an ongoing series can be tough. This series is a bit tougher for us Yanks to dive right into, because a few of Mr. MacBride's characters speak in a strong Scottish accent. But once you are able to put it all together, the story overcomes the obstacles and is quite good.The police are an odd bunch of men and women that are always trying to jab at one another. It has a crazy feel, kind of like an old police sitcom, but with a real mystery to figure out and a crime to solve. The language can be a bit blue and maybe even more off-color than that if you really understand the dialect. But the writing is good, with a sense of reality to it. The plot keeps you off-balance and even though most of the clues are there, the majority of readers won't figure it out before DI Logan McRae does.I give this book 4 Stars out of 5 and a Thumbs Up. I think that if you are willing to put a little work into it, you will enjoy this series. It has a bunch of interesting and fun characters. I will be putting some of the earlier books on my to read list. I think that they will grow on you.This novel would probably be easier to listen to as an audiobook than to read, so if you have that opportunity, go for it. I think I'll see if my library has any of the first books in this series available as audiobooks.I received this Digital Review Copy for free from Edelweiss.com after being approved by HarperCollins.
4 This eighth and most recent addition to the Logan McRae series opens up two years after the events ofShatter the Bones (Logan McRae, Book 7). And in the very first pages, the reader is presented with a gruesome murder-by-fire and some misleading updates regarding some originally uplifting news. This is certainly MacBride's most blatantly manipulative novel - which though is surprising, feels more like a betrayal than a genuine plot twist.But plenty of recurring characters appear here - the usual police cast, but also Isobel and Colin, and some others, too (don't want to spoil the actually pleasant surprise!). The plot is more streamlined and simple compared to some of the other novels in the series, but there are still some fun twists thrown in. Again, MacBride neatly ties up his loose ends. I am disappointed that there isn't a release date on a ninth book - this is a greatly entertaining series with some really vivid and likable (and unique!)characters, twisting plots, hilarious dialogue and some grotesque crimes. I hope the wait isn't too long for the next book!
5 I just love Lindsey Kelk's writing. She has a very funny way of putting characters across and Angela Clark is a perfect example of that. The I Heart series started with I Heart New York, followed by I Heart Hollywood and then I Heart Paris. Her latest release I Heart Vegas features Angel and her pals as she seems to get herself in a pickle.The first I Heart Book I read I enjoyed but wasn't overly in love with. Fast forward to today, the day I completed I Heart Vegas and you will find a woman that is slightly in love with Angela Clarke, and wants her very own Angela for Christmas!!!For people who haven't read previous books in the series, it doesn't matter you could still pick this book up and read it no worries. But if like me you want to get to know the characters and the story behind Angela ending up in New York then start at the beginning of the series.By this point in Angela's life she is living in New York with her boyfriend Alex and things are going swimmingly. There is however one sticking point, and a rather major one at that. Angela's visa has expired and as she's no longer working it's a bit of a problem.  The first few chapters of the book were amusing but not rip roaringly funny, but it was fun to see Angela get herself into all sorts of trouble (as usual) while she tries desperately to appear as if everything is okay to Alex. When her friend Jenny decides that a weekend trip to Vegas is the way to cheer them up, she has no idea what will end up happening.At this point in the book the humour goes from amusing, to cringe-worthy embarrassment but laugh out loud funny. Angela's friend Jenny is a rude, brash and very outgoing sort of girl and the two of them together get themselves into some very awkward situations. The theme behinds the whole story makes for great reading and although Angela is a hopeless case you can't help wishing that everything works out okay for her.By the last part of the book I literally couldn't put it down and just had to go right through to the end. This sort of read is classic chick lit. The mix of two girls on a crazy weekend in Vegas, especially with the stunts they manage to pull off as well as the romance behind the story made for a fabulous read and possibly the best in the I Heart series.The only downside is that I have to wait impatiently for the next instalment some time next year entitled I Heart London.
1 After reading I heart New York, I thought this book would be just as good.  It is not and I still haven't finished it.  Slow going because it just does not pull the reader into the story. A bit too silly for me.
3 A romantic love story in another country that is interesting and easy to read. overall an interesting concept for readers to enjoy
4 The I heart books continue, this time in Vegas. Who wouldn't like a quick read that takes place in one of America's most hedonistic towns? Great way to while away the hours on a plane trip, an afternoon off or just a few hours while the kids are at soccer practice.
4 Lindsey Kelk's books have quickly become my guilty pleasures, her books just like Meg Cabot's and Sophie Kinsella's I know I can turn to when I need a quick pick me up; they easily bring a smile to my face and they're the perfect comfort reads. I've been glued to Angela's adventures ever since she ran away from London 18 months ago in I Heart New York. Each time I'm about to start a new book there's always a nagging feeling in the pit of my stomach, worried about what she will get up to this time. You always kind of know Angela's going to mess something up somehow or cause some sort of controversy, but then there's always the fun and laughter along the way which makes up for Angela being a total nutter. (A good nutter!)I Heart Vegas kicks off with Angela receiving a letter from the immigration and naturalisation service's revoking her visa; she has 30 days to obtain another visa and if she doesn't she will be forced to leave the country. So who does Angela turn to in her times of need? Her best friend Jenny Lopez, Jenny can't believe that Angela has over looked the easiest possible way of staying in America just marry her boyfriend Alex of course! But Angela's not too sure, as she doesn't want to marry Alex because it's a convenience but because they love each other and want to spend the rest of their lives together. So she has 30 days to hatch a plan to get any of the other visa's possible otherwise her big American's dream over, her relationship with Alex will be over and she will be forced to leave America, which has become her home for the last year and a half and go back to her old life with her mum constantly fussing over her.I've always had a topsy turvy relationship with this series. I didn't really enjoy the first book; I Heart New York but decided to soldier along, the second book I Heart Hollywood was amazing and I thought if the series continued this way; this would probably end up being one of my favourite series. But then came along I Heart Paris which sadly wasn't all that either. I was definitely considering giving up this series but decided to give it one more shot, and I'm glad I did because I Heart Vegas has to be my favourite book of the series so far. It was fun, full of an impromptu visit to Vegas, scandalous goings on, about misjudging people and Angela royally messing up as usual, but I never laughed so much in a long time!"I knew he wanted me withhim - he'd said it over and over - but there was nomention of making it official. We shared an apartment.we shared a love of pineapple on pizza. We shared arazor, even though he didn't know that"The only thing that miffed me was Angela's communication problems, it took forever for Angela to tell Alex about her situation, I found myself constantly wanting to throttle her to get her act together.This book was also full of the clichedness you would expect. At first it was a little unbearable, but then as you got more engrossed with the plot, you kind of get used to overlooking it. Also there was some predictability to the plot, for instance you could guess what would happen at the end, but then there were other aspects which caught me completely by surprise and so sort of made up for the predictableness side of things.I Heart Vegas was just the sort of book I needed, after finishing a couple of intense books. It was a light, easy going, funny read. I hadn't realised how much I missed Angela and Jenny's adventures until I picked up this book. I look forward to more of Angela's Shenanigans in I Heart London.Favourite quote:"All I could think about was weddings. Atrip around the supermarket turned into a trial forthe aisle. Every song on my iPod was a contenderfor the first dance. Every time Alex reached into hiscoat pocket, my heart stopped - phone or ring? Phoneor ring? Quite often it was chap stick what a girl."
5 I loved all of the I Heart series and would recommend them to anyone who is looking for a light-hearted funny read.
5 I adore Lindsey Kelk's novels and I Heart Vegas is no exception. In fact, it might even have vaulted into my favourite of the I Heart Series. Full of Vegas drama in typical Angela style, I laughed out loud and even shed a few tears with this one right along with Angela's ups and downs.Angela Clark is back with all her antics, insecurities and amusing decisions. For some reason, her plight in I Heart Vegas felt the most real to me - perhaps why I connected with this novel the most. I could understand the reasons why she didn't want to bring up the subject with Alex and why she didn't want the outcome her friends were pushing on her, although I could see their point too. I also loved the revisit to Vegas, which I've travelled to once before and enjoyed reliving it, albeit not quite at the same intoxicated pace and emotional duress that Angela explored it from, but I loved reading about her adventures there.Angela's internal dialogue and predicaments are as amusing as ever. I've said it my last two reviews of Kelk's I Heart series before, but I'll repeat in case you haven't *gasp* read them yet - I love that in these novels the heroine already has a boyfriend and isn't just searching for love but instead they explores their relationship. There are few novels like this - Many are either; single and searching, boyfriend pre breakup or married and managing.I loved the unpredictability of I Heart Vegas. Kelk dragged it out mercilessly and I wasn't quite sure how the end of would play out even though I thought I did from the beginning. Kelk convinced me that what I had anticipated wasn't going to occur after all and with already knowing the title of the next novel, I was bamboozled right up until the end about which way things were going to go both with her life and love.I suspect this novel would stand alone well if you didn't want to read all the novels in the series, but why would you want to do that? And if you're already an Angela fan, you definitely won't be disappointed!  I can't wait for the next one in the series now!  Bring on London !  And I only have to wait a few more months!  SQUEE!Thank you to HarperCollins Canada for our review copy! All opinions are our own!
5 Yes!  What is not to love about every one of these books?  So so funny and entertaining, love this author!
5 Just like the heart series this book will entertain you and keep you laughing. Love that this one is set in London.
5 I&#8217;ve been feeling rather crappy lately and been under great pressure. I was looking for an easy, uplifting, funny book that will get me out of this s*** mood. I have a huge TBR list and yet I found myself asking for people&#8217;s help in finding THAT book that will lift my spirits. At the end, they suggested couple of books, but I had a strong feeling I should FINALLY read this book. Being a big fan of Kelk&#8217;s I pretty much knew what to expect (which is comforting, when you know the author writes fantastic and you&#8217;re obviously gonna enjoy the book), but this book exceeded all my expectations.First off, as much as I enjoyed The I Heart series (though I have not finished all parts) I have to admit I enjoyed this book more. It could be the fact I&#8217;m not that crazy about series&#8217;. BUT frankly, one could tell when comparing the first 2 books from I Heart series with this stand alone, that Lindsey certainly polished her writing style, got more original and grown as a writer.Now don&#8217;t get me wrong, the books in the I Heart series are great, however in this book I liked the MC more. In my opinion, Rachel just felt more real, I could relate to her though I&#8217;m not going through the same stuff she&#8217;s going through. But she&#8217;s fantastic, I&#8217;m telling you! Now some of the parts, like the time frame in which she&#8217;s to complete her to-do list which her friends made for her, might be a bit unbelievable, I still didn&#8217;t care. She&#8217;s hilarious and so are her two besties, Emelie and Matthew. What I appreciate the most is the fact that you can see Lindsey put as much effort in creating fantastic and well developed side characters, as she did in creating the MC. Honestly, I can&#8217;t say who&#8217;s my fave of them all, they are just such a jolly bunch, each adding to the story.The list they create for Rachel is simply hilarious, some stuff being maybe over the top. Yet, they will make you laugh out loud! I started reading it last night, went to bed and this book was the first thing on my mind when I woke up (of course after&#8230;ahem&#8230; bathroom and teeth brushing). I literally devoured it in less than 24 hours, it was that good. And the best part&#8230;It totally brightened my day, even energized me and definitely made me forget about all the stress I&#8217;ve been feeling lately. In one sentence, if you&#8217;re feeling crappy and looking for a lough out book &#8211; THIS is the one for you! Trust me, it&#8217;s the BEST THERAPY you could get!
4 Not a super romance book but a good read about about friends and their journey to get over failed relationships. Moves fast and has good variety in the storyline. Worth the read!
5 I enjoyed reading Lindsey Kelk's book `I Heart Hollywood' but I wasn't prepared for just how much I would love this one. The whole point of reading this type of book is the fact that they are usually fun and light hearted. Sometimes the storylines are predictable but in a way I kind of like knowing I will get the ending I want. When I started reading this book I found myself smiling and smirking as I painfully re-lived moments in my younger years where I was experiencing `the single life'.The book is a respectable 400 pages, but I have to be truthful and say that the humour started from the time I opened the book. The main character Rachel Summers is an absolute sweetheart who I fell in love with immediately. Her predicament is one that I am sure many readers can sympathise with. Don't get me wrong, it isn't your rip-roaring, tears streaming down the face kind of humour, but it touched chords with the scenarios and situations Rachel seems to get herself in to.Add in to the mix Rachel's two best friends and this book was made for me. Emilie is a woman that is addicted to men, whether it be flirting with them, sleeping with them or getting free drinks off them. Matthew is the six foot plus stunner, who also happens to be gay but definitely not camp. The three of them make an unlikely trio, but their characters are what made this book for me.We get to see Rachel's journey from hell as she tries to adapt to a single life. The list is what started her strange journey and it is ultimately the list that creates some very crazy and humorous scenarios. As time went on you could see Rachel getting braver and more daring with herself, and you get the distinct impression you are party of watching her become a stronger person. The book takes us and the trio of friends from London to Canada and watches all three of them struggle to keep up with the craziness.There were moments in this book when I did laugh out loud and moments where I was smirking to myself, but I cannot fault this book one little bit. I adored everything about it from the people to the places to the crazy and daring challenges Rachel faces. The ending was perfect for me and when I had finished I was truly disappointed.No, this won't be everybody's cup of tea, but it was certainly mine. It's not intellectually challenging, but frankly when a book makes me smile this much I really don't care. HIGHLY recommended! Can't wait to see what Lindsey comes up with next!
5 This really was a laugh out loud for me.  Absolutely fabulous clever dialog, which gets me every time.Rachel is a list maker, and when she is dumped by her boyfriend of 5 years, her best friends Emelie and Matthew jokingly help her write a &#34;single girl's to do list&#34; so that she will laugh as they are out drinking one night.  But Rachel decides the list is &#34;real&#34;, and begins working through it.Of course the list does wonderful things for her, pushes her out of her comfort zone, and shows her there is a lot out there in the world.I LOVED the writing here, and as I mentioned, I laughed out loud many times.  I laughed on a plane, I laughed alone, I laughed sitting alone in a restaurant...  Of course, now my reading &#34;to do&#34; list now includes reading more of Lindsey Kelk.
5 If you're looking for some light, fun, grrrrls-only reading material, then the Single Girls To-Do List is for you. I read this book in one sitting and heartily chuckled my way through it. I've since passed the book onto my sister and girlfriends, and everyone loves it. I'll be sure to pick up Lindsey Kelk's next book.
3 Book was ok..easy read.  Thank goodness I was reading it on my Kindle...used the dictionary constantly to define the British slang used throughout the book.
5 Im so glad that I tried this book. I loved it. Ive been searching for an author who can match Sophie Kinsella and I think I've found it in Kelk and this book. The story was engaging, believable and the characters were great. The one possible weak link in this one was the main male lead who I was not totally convinced by. The story really belongs to Rachel and her two friends though. I wanted Matthew (the gay best friend) to be MY BFF. And Emelie was quirky and loyal and could have starred in her own novel. Highly recommend this one.
4 The Single Girl's To Do List is probably just as light a read as I Heart New York (and Hollywood and undoubtedly Paris) was. But for me, there's a big difference: the idea of the novel is different and not something I've read before and the characters are infinitely better. There's a very small part of me that wonders if everything that happens throughout The Single Girl's To Do List can really happen in two weeks as that's the general time-frame of the book. But rather than overly question it and ruin the novel for myself, I instead ran with it and found myself very entertained. I hitched myself to its pages and I enjoyed the ride, finishing the novel in just two sittings.I like the idea Kelk presents that there's a `list' every girl should complete to really feel single. Some of the items on Rachel's list are totally insane - bungy jumping, anyone? But I loved the majority of the items and they are totally what you'd find in any break-up bible. Makeover? Check. Tattoo? Check. Write a letter to your feckless ex? Check. Rachel is a girl after my own heart with her list-making. I see myself as a rather organised person, but I'm no list maker. Mainly because I end up getting distracted if I write down the tasks I need to do and, instead, I go and procrastinate meaning I don't get to check off any of my objectives. Don't ask why I'm allergic to writing a to-do list, I just am. I'm much better just trying to remember it in my head, although invariably I do forget, meaning a list would have been a good idea (I'm the same with books I need to read, I don't like telling myself what I have to read otherwise I won't want to read them). Yes. I am a freak. I love organised female characters who keep lists, they're what I aspire to be!I absolutely loved Rachel. From the first page, I absolutely loved her (despite the fact she has Angela's `boy' affliction. They're men. Or guys. Even dudes. But they're not boys.). I do think that I'd have enjoyed the I Heart novels more if the character was more like Rachel, because she's infinitely likeable. I liked how she threw herself into Emelie and Matthew's to-do list rather than barricading herself in her bedroom when Simon dumped her. Her best mates Emelie and Matthew (not Matt) really push the novel along, too, with their quirky ways and their inability to let their best friend wallow in her pity and sadness. They were quite a trio, actually, Rachel, Matthew and Emelie, and I loved all three of them. Unsurprisingly, I wasn't a fan of Rachel's ex Simon. He was a bit of an tool. I did, however, absolutely love photographer Dan, who Rachel (a make-up artist) works with on photo-shoots. He sounded drop dead gorgeous.The Single Girl's To Do List is one of the lightest reads I've read all year, but it was exactly what I was looking for. I loved it, I really did. The pages practically turned themselves and I was pleased to get to meet this new crop of characters. Lindsey's writing style, boys aside, is so so easy to get lost in. Honestly, it just flows brilliantly and I was sucked up into the book from page one. I didn't have any particular niggles with the book, though at times Rachel doesn't exactly come across in the best light, and I hope Kelk sticks with writing standalone novels like The Single Girl's To Do List. She definitely has the ability to become big in Chick Lit because she has a fresh and funny style and I laughed numerous times whilst reading the novel. The novel was definitely a triumph, and I'm pleased to say that the books ends so well that there is no need for a sequel. I enjoyed getting to know Rachel, Emelie, Matthew and co. but I don't think a second novel would work. I'm looking forward to Kelk's next novel and I'm hoping it's one of two things: A Jenny Lopez full-length novel or another stand-alone novel. I'll be first in the queue to buy either of those. Definitely pick this one up, you'll thoroughly enjoy it.
5 So, I really just want to write my review as:"Buy this book. Now."That's how much I loved The Single Girl's To-Do List. I think I loved it even more than the I Heart series - shocking, I know - and it wasn't just due to the fact that there was a little bit of a Toronto connection...Rachel's character captured my heart. I instantly related to her and rooted for her every step of the way while she mended her broken heart. Not a typical road to recovery consisting of ice cream, tears and horrific renditions of `All by Myself', the `Single Girl's To-Do List', concocted by her two best friends, helped Rachel rediscover who she is, how much she is capable of and opened her eyes to all that she wants to do. Not to mention provided much amusement and many laughs along the way.Rachel's best friends, Emelie and Matthew were constant sources of wisdom and giggles and as much as they all might have all bickered, their love for each other came shining through. I loved the throw back to classic chick lit with the gay best friend and loved their characters just as much as Rachel's.The love interests were laughable and loveable and sometimes even surprising, which I enjoyed. The connection to the I Heart series (no spoilers!) was fun and the ending had me grinning from ear to ear. I will definitely be rereading this book at some point and that's not something I say lightly given time constraints and the continuous stack of books beside my bed demanding to be read.The Single Girl's To-Do List had me smiling, laughing, giggling and cheering. Have I said I loved it already? I have? Well, I can't stop gushing. I loved it. I'm not sure I'll ever stop reading Lindsey Kelk. Ever.
4 Liked this book as it held my interest from the first page on.  I liked the list and the antics and the overall story.  It was a quick read and enjoyed thoroughly.
5 My first 5 star review of 2012 and I now have another favorite author in the chicklit genre. Can't believe I'd never read anything by Lindsey Kelk before. Her style reminds me a bit of Marian Keyes in the earlier years, like Last Chance Saloon and Sushi for Beginners, but I digress.The Single Girl's To-Do List was definitely a page turner. The writing flowed incredibly well and never while I was reading did I get bored, antsy or want to skip ahead.Rachel (Raquel!) Summers was a great main character and I loved watching her develop from set in her ways and old beyond her actual age to fun, spontaneous and independent. Although her love interest was pretty predictable, I didn't mind and loved the slow build up. What I enjoyed the most was Rachel's relatinship with her best friends, Matthew and Emelie. While the characters were sort of stereotypical chick-lit characters (the gay best guy friend and the beautiful but loyal girl best friend), the interaction between the three of them was very believable and often laugh out loud funny. Classic chick-lit if I ever read it. And I can't wait to read more of Kelk's novels!
5 I had so much fun reading this book that by the time it came to a close I myself felt happy and care free. Definitely a good idea for a list. Loved the characters and their adventures. Thank you Lindsey! I have been converted into a fan.
3 Ok romance about airheads (her and her two pals - Miss Promiscuous and Mr Buff Gay) who binge-drink regularly and have little to talk about except boyfriend trouble.  I enjoyed it moderately, but I'm not proud of the fact.
5 Yes, What is not to love about every one of these books?  So so funny and entertaining, love this author!
3 3.5 Star RatingRachel Summers had it all until her boyfriend broke up with her and she decided to create a list of things to do while being single.It's a fun and light read and can be pretty laugh out loud funny at times. Rachel Summers can be pretty dense at times and I was really frustrated with her being so judgmental of the romantic love interest in the story. You get really annoyed with it 3/4 through with the story and you just want to smack her.I was surprised with the ending though because it wasn't completely predictable but it really gives you the sense of independence for a woman. That single women are strong and shouldn't just dive right back into a relationship because it's there and in front of you but to really find yourself first. I did like that message in the story that's why I'm giving it the extra half star.
5 I really liked this book. While written in English it's not mine, American. Differing points of view different culture I recommend this book. I think I will be reading her other book.
5 I loved this absorbing and complex story. It's set in a fascinating historical world, with wondrous magical elements that remain true to the world and its beliefs. It really makes the vibrant world of Tenochtitlan come alive. Acatl is an engaging character, and the story moves along and doesn't let go. The mystery drew me in and I didn't put the book down until I'd finished it. If you're looking for magic and murder in a non-European historical fantasy, this is a really good one.
3 Well I know that one of my big complaints about a large chunk of the fantasy genre has to do with how Eurocentric it seems to be most of the time. Sometimes one gets tired of elves, pixies and trolls, and especially vampires and lycanthropes in places like the Americas, which have their own set of supernatural creepy crawlies... that hardly ever get mentioned and the very few times I've seen it, it was as a footnote. So when I was told that Servant of the Underworld is set in the Aztec Empire, of course I had to go read it.The story begins with the narrator, Acatl, high priest serving the god of the dead being asked to solve the disappearance of a priestess named Eluia. His bother, Numatoc is involved somehow and was arrested in the missing priestess's chambers (which have been recently drenched in blood) soon after she goes missing. Then there are the politics and Acatl's family life pressing in on the events as they go. Stuff happens. There is an unsurprisingly large body count by the end of the book.I'm not sure how to describe the voice of the narration. It seemed simultaneously too detailed and too bland. I was not familiar enough with some of the terminology to get a really good picture of the locations. This was a little confusing when Acatl would set wards around Numatoc's house, since I had no real idea what the house of a middle ranking Jaguar Knight would look like on the outside or how much space that would entail. There would be plenty of description of paintings inside and Acatl's emotional conflicts but for some reason it wasn't near immersive enough for this reader to start to lose myself in the story. It was rather like finding a radio station playing something that I think I want to listen to, but never managing to get it dialed in enough to hear it clearly. This was made doubly annoying by my own ignorance of Aztec culture (which is considerable). First person narration when from the viewpoint of someone who is native to a strange culture has no graceful way to explain differences to an outsider unless there is an outsider present in the narrative. Otherwise there are cultural assumptions that get lost in the narrator/reader interface and never get detailed. One moment of "of course she ran to the storm god's temple to volunteer as a sacrifice to avoid a messy death by supernatural enforcer" stood out in particular as a rather abrupt shift to an outsider.All that ranting aside, Acatl wasn't a bad character overall. Over the course of the book, he goes from reclusive grouch with a lot of guilt issues centered around his family to starting to act like his title of High Priest. I mentioned before that his emotional state was frequently described and in some places it seemed that his character journey was better told than the events happening around him. The result was that half the time the narrative had a distinctly alien feel to it, teetering between guy who cares about what happens to his siblings and nieces and nephews and the priest who pulls thorny vines through his ear lobes every day to make the blood offerings in his devotions to the god of the dead. It was a little jarring at times.The plot is ok for the most part. Acatl is pretty diligent about pursuing leads up, down and sideways. Magic functions as a tool for seeing things that would otherwise be hidden and he was pretty careful about using it (as anyone would be if a ritual requires large quantities of one's blood as a part of it). Then the dreaded deities began to play a more active role in the narrative and everything went down the tubes from there. Seriously, just because you have gods that get blood sacrifices more or less daily does not mean that one should use them as a "free villain with purchase of pantheon." Especially when the culture in question uses human sacrifice on a regular basis and everyone in the narrative is completely nonchalant about it. I'm sorry, but when that plot device cropped up my interest in it got up and left. I also really don't like how in supernatural mystery novels (for lack of a better term) always seem to gravitate towards immortal supernatural baddies. It gets somewhat tiresome the fifth or sixth time around. Fortunately, when the plot starts to spiral down like used dishwater, Acatl starts growing a backbone and becoming a more interesting character, thus giving me a reason to continue reading.In a few side notes, I did approve of how the accidental encounter with Mictlantecuhtli, the lord of the dead, was conducted and the "Meh, why should I care what everyone else does? I'll still have to do my job" attitude that the god had. It was rather refreshing. Teomitl had the potential to be a far more interesting foil to Acatl than he was. I would have appreciated more discourse about how different social strata worked in the narrative, but what was there was enough to make me want more of it. Lastly, in spite of my problems with the narrative voice, I do appreciate the level of research that went into the book and the bibliography and glossary in the back pages.I suppose I would recommend this as an ok read since I'm handing it off to someone else when I finish typing this review. :)
4 All things considered, not a great blurb, and definitely one that doesn't do this title justice. Overall, it was by far one of the most interesting mysteries I've read, and I was intrigued from page 1 by the culture as shown in the book.I picked the book up as a freebie at WorldCon 2013 in San Antonio, TX, along with a couple others that I've still got sitting in a stack. I'm not sure if the publisher was just trying to get rid of extra copies &#8212; since the book came out in the US in 2010 &#8212; or if it was more of a publicity/marketing maneuver, but whatever it was, I'm happy with it, since it allowed me the chance to read this book I would likely have otherwise browsed right past.The core of the book is the mystery of a Priestess' disappearance from closed and sacrosanct temple grounds. The High Priest of the Dead &#8212; of a different god than our vanished woman &#8212; Acatl is tasked by a high-ranking member of the noble elite to hunt down her kidnapper and/or killer, wherever that may take him, whatever it may cost. Acatl, who's already dealing with family issues of his own, rapidly finds himself deep in a quagmire of politics, religion, blood and death, starting &#8212; starting! &#8212; with the arrest of his own brother for the crime.It only gets more entangled from there, but de Bodard manages to keep everything straight through all the twists and turns, leading to an eventful, if somewhat slightly predictable, conclusion. Two-thirds of the way through the book, I had an idea of the conclusion, but I couldn't put it down, regardless. I had to see if I was right, after all (I wasn't).Aside from the mystery at the center of the book, the action scenes were well done, with clear visuals provided by the author of the action as it took place. I've read some reviews of this title that paint the descriptions as somewhat muddled &#8212; meaning great here, nearly nonexistent there &#8212; but I didn't find that to be the case, personally. I knew what the things I thought were important looked like while reading, and the other things, the unimportant things, I didn't care about anyway. I think de Bodard did a fine job with this.The biggest draw for me when I picked up the book wasn't the mystery, or the action, but rather the idea of seeing what the Aztec culture looked like, from the inside, as it were. It's readily apparent throughout the book that de Bodard has done her research on the Aztecs, and though there's the occasional artistic license &#8212; it is fiction, after all &#8212; I found myself entranced by the details and nuances of the culture. The reasons behind the sacrifices, what different actions meant to different gods, even the way the gods themselves were portrayed &#8212; all provided for an excellent backdrop to the story, while at the same time not being a backdrop, at all, and being vitally connected throughout the book.I gave the book 4 solid stars, if only because there were a few places where some judicious editing might have tightened it up a bit, a few typos, and the occasional awkwardly-worded sentence &#8212; otherwise, it would've had a 5-star rating. At the end of the day, though, this was a great book, and I'll definitely be looking for the second and third books (&#34;Harbinger of the Storm&#34; and &#34;Master of the House of Darts,&#34; respectively) or more likely, just buying the collected edition.
5 I was a bit hesitant to read this at first because I wasn't sure how much I would like an Aztec era mystery, especially since it portrayed the Gods as real entities. But I figured that I love Lauren Haney's Lt. Bak Egyptian mysteries so I should give this a try. And I am very glad I did. This was easily one of the best Historical/Fantasy Mystery series I have come across. Actal as a character was wonderfully written and likeable. It was strangely easy to put myself in his shoes and view this world Aliette De Bodard has created, from his eyes. The flow of the plot was very smooth and gripping. I found it very hard to put down once I started it.
3 Servant of the Underworld by Writers of the Future winner Aliette de Bodard  is an interesting and, especially for a debut, well-executed cross-genre novel that successfully combines several disparate elements into an original story.If ever a novel could be called cross-genre, Servant of the Underworld is it: the story is set in the 15th century Aztec empire (1. historical fiction) but magic and gods are real (2. fantasy). When a priestess is murdered, Acatl, the High Priest of the Dead, gets involved in finding the murderer (3. mystery), especially when it turns out that his brother is one of the prime suspects. Add to this some blood rituals and some other dark scenes that verge into horror territory (4!) and you've got a novel that bookstores could shelve in a few different places. When reading it, I frequently thought of Liz Williams' DETECTIVE-INSPECTOR CHEN stories, which combine fantasy, SF and mystery with touches of both humor and horror, and are also set in a non-Western culture -- so it didn't come as a surprise that de Bodard listed those novels as an influence.Maybe the most impressive thing about this novel is the fact that Aliette de Bodard manages to combine these different elements into a smooth cohesive story. Right from the opening scene, in which one of High Priest Acatl's blood rituals is interrupted when he finds out about the murder that sets off the plot, the exotic setting feels natural and the inclusion of magic becomes almost normal. As the story progresses, with Acatl interviewing various people to find the murderer and exonerate his brother, Aliette de Bodard gradually paints a vivid picture of life in the Aztec city of Tenochtlitan, filled with interesting anthropological tidbits, while at the same time keeping the "whodunnit" plot going and building up the religion/magic angle. (And speaking of religion: the few scenes where human characters interact with the gods were, for me, the best parts of the novel. Aliette de Bodard does an excellent job describing the reaction of puny humans to the awe-inspiring gods.)Servant of the Underworld's main weakness is its main character, Acatl, who is simply very hard to connect to. While the author attempts to make him more human by emphasizing his complex family life, it's still hard to empathize with the dispassionate Aztec High Priest of the Dead -- and ironically, the priests who work for him seem to feel the same way for most of the book. The exotic setting of the novel is fascinating, the mystery plot is initially very intriguing, the magic is at times impressive, but once the novelty wears off, the main character isn't engaging enough to carry the novel... and because the story is told from Acatl's first person perspective, this one flaw is constantly in the spotlight.Still, Servant of the Underworld is a highly original debut novel. Thanks to a solid mystery plot and Aliette de Bodard's extensive research into pre-Conquest Meso-America, this novel should strike a chord with more than just fantasy readers.
4 When Acatl, High Priest of Mictlantecuhtli, is called to investigate the disappearance of a priestess, he soon becomes tangled up in a terrible scheme that might well lead to the end of the world as he knows it.Servant of the Underworld is a thoroughly enjoyable, and rewarding read. It did have its flaws, which have prevented me from awarding it a five star rating, but it was still immensely satisfying. I am certainly looking forwards to the next in the series (though the book does actually feel very much like a standalone) and have already looked into some of the authors short stories (which are pretty good).Other reviewers here on Amazon have commented that they were put off by the usage of often-times very difficult to pronounce names. Whilst it's true that the book is abundant with obscure names like Acamapichtli, Axayacatl-tzin, Ceyaxochitl, Chalchiutlicue, Cozamalotl, Ezamahual, Huitzilpochtli, Mihmatini , Mictlantecuhtli, Ocelocueitl, Quechomitl, Xochiquetzal, the author really cannot be faulted for her choice of names, as the book is based upon Aztec mythology and therefore must use what has already been established. One thing that is helpful when reading is to try to learn just the first three or four characters of each word: (i.e. "Acamapichtli" = "Acam") as there aren't too many names that are overly similar to others. The obscure names bothered me at first, but I did get used to it.One problem I had with Servant of the Underworld was that I struggled to really be able to visualize the world. My imagination has created something a lot less grand than I'm sure the author would have intended. This didn't spoil my overall enjoyment of the book, although I found myself wanting for a bit more description at times. I did feel that this issue seemed to fade as the story progressed.My last issue was with regards to Acatl. Firstly, I really struggled to believe his role as High Priest to be a convincing one, and it took a while before the book really addressed this issue. Another problem I had with Acatl was even though the author does identify his gender fairly early on in the book, for about the first 100+ pages, I couldn't seem to shake the idea that he was female. I don't know why that was.Aside from those problems though, Servant of the Underworld is an enjoyable read. The world building is tremendously in depth and although I did have problems visualizing it, I still found it completely believable. Despite my issues with Acatl, I came to think very fondly of him and enjoyed reading his story.
5 My 2 year old boy loves this book.  It is one of his favorites right now, he wants to read it every night.
5 this is a really great book for those starting school in the Fall. We love all of jane Yolen's books and this a is a great one.
5 My toddler son is entranced by these mischievous dinosaurs, and I love the cute illustrations complete with the annoyed parents and pet dog or cat hiding on every page. The whole series is a family fave, but this one is one of his favorites.
5 We have all of these books.  This one is just as good as the others.  Excellent for toddlers to read along with you.
2 I wanted to like it, but I'm really stuck on the fact that this book seems to teach conditional love.  It shows the dinosaur misbehaving repeatedly, and then redeeming itself by doing something nice.  On every page that it shows the dinosaur doing the desirable behavior it will say, "when you (do desirable behavior), then I love you, I love you , my dinosaur.  This is not a lesson that I wish to teach my children, that people (or dinosaurs) are only worthy of love when they exhibit the perfect behavior.
5 I love this whole series. Possibly my favorite kid books. The illustrations are gorgeous,  and I love that they use a great variety of dinosaurs, not just the standards.
3 This is the second &#34;How Do Dinosaurs...&#34; book that we have.  The first that we purchased was a board book of &#34;How Do Dinosaurs Love Their Dogs.&#34;  This is a full sized book with paper pages.  I actually don't enjoy this book nearly as much.  In this book, the dinosaur/child is &#34;mean/ill behaved&#34; and then &#34;does something nice&#34; and the parent/narrator says that the dinosaur/child is saying &#34;I love you.&#34;Example:  Something along the lines of: &#34;at the playground, you kick sand, and run away from me, but then you'll turn and smile at me (parent) and that's how dinosaurs say I love you.&#34;  I think that this is a mixed message.  I don't think that kicking sand at other kids is at all appropriate, and smiling at mom doesn't correlate.The book is beautifully illustrated.  My daughter (4 mos) can't understand it anyway and so looking at the photos is just fine.  I much more enjoy the &#34;dogs&#34; book by this author.
5 I love all the &#34;How Do Dinosaurs&#34; books. They're cute stories with simple yet valuable moral lessons presented in a way that the children love.
4 Our daughter devoured the "How Do Dinosaurs" series when she was in pre-K last year. (I loved the art and the lyrical prose too.) We were reading 'em every night before bed for a long while there.She's now in kindergarten, and this book arrived last month, and she was into it for about a day and hasn't touched it (or any of the other "How Do D" books) since.This is no dig against the book, just a reminder to make sure your child still likes the Dinosaur series.
3 I love this series and I love the subject, but this wasn't my favorite. Didn't flow and come together as well.
3 I don't think this entry into Yolen's popular Dinosaur series quite lives up to the others.  It didn't seem as clever and seems to have been written more for parents than kids.  The other books in the series would often elicit laughs and comments, but this one I think is just too low on humour.  That being said, this book is very cute!  When I read it to groups of kids and parents I don't get many laughs, but I do get lots of "AWWS" from the parents.  Teague's illustrations are as stellar as always.  I think if you've got a little dinosaur fan that loves the rest of the series, your child will love this one too.  If not, I would stick with some of Yolen's earlier dinosaur books.
5 I bought this book for my son's 2-3 year old preschool class as a going away gift, and they were all very excited and LOVED the book!
5 Fast shipping. Reasonable price. Great book! Makes the perfect gift for a young child who loves dinosaurs. I would not hesitate to purchase this item again.
5 We love all of the dinosaur books and this is a great addition to our collection.  I purchased it after several challenging afternoons with our two year old--moping through naptime, dragging feet, etc.  I think there should be something about shouting no or hitting too.  What makes parents endure such behavior? The sweet hugs, holding hands, and I love yous.  I also use it to remind my seventh graders they've had years of story telling experiences with metaphors.
5 All of these books are wonderful. You can't go wrong with the quality of these children's book. Really cute pictures inside too.
5 This author-illustrator team does such an awesome job of delivering the message that no matter what a child does, he's still very loved. I have such a naughty dinosaur at home myself and this book will please him to no end because he absolutely LOVES it when I appreciate his hugs and kisses. He will certainly identify with the dinosaurs in this tale and I will love sharing this story at bedtime. Needless to say, the illustrations are splendid--I love how the dinosaurs portray the many moods and expressions of children from fussing to 'dragging their feet'--funny! If you've read any of the other dinosaur books by this dynamic duo you will definitely love this one.
5 My son doesn't like Dinosaurs, but we both love this book. My favorite seen is the dinosaur's face, as it's running away from its father at the park. You'll see.
5 As with the other Jane Yolan and Mark Teague Dinosaur books, How Do Dinosaurs Say I Love You? is just as much fun!  3 year old Grandson loves dinosaurs and all of these books.  He loves to talk about the pictures. A great big dinosaur hug to Jane and Mark for another hit!
5 If you know anything about Jane Yolen's fantastic books for young adults, you might be surprised to see her name behind the wildly successful Dinosaur books for toddlers. Then again, maybe you wouldn't be. A well-written book is a well-written book, and Jane Yolen is a master at her craft.Originally, I bought this book for my son because it appeared on the list of 100 Picture Books put out by the South Carolina State Library. I am familiar with most of the books on the list, having been a children's librarian until fairly recently, and then continuing to follow newly released books through the library, and I'm not crazy about all of them, so I won't be investing in all of them. The Dinosaur book, however, seemed like a safe bet. Even though I didn't know this particular book, I knew enough of the series to think that my son would like it. And I was right.So far, of all the Dinosaur books I've read, this one is my favorite. When a book starts out "You woke up this morning is such a bad mood", it is pretty easy for me to connect the dinosaurs in the book with my young son. And, more importantly, it is also pretty easy for my young son to see a good deal of himself in the dinosaurs.
3 I am a fan of the How Do Dinosaurs books, but this one isn't as cute.  It doesn't follow the same rhythm as the other books.  I do own it because I bought it on reputation without seeing it, but don't think I would have bought it if I saw it first.
3 The concept of the series is cute, but the "clean their rooms" "eat their food" and "play with their friends" are to me the best titles.  The others are overkill, in my opinion.
1 After reading this to my child she started doing things she never thought of like, kicking my chair while I am driving etc. I will be reading books prior to reading to my daughter to make sure the message I'm sending is what I want. Don't get me wrong, I still love her but I don't like that it gave her ideas of naughty behavior.
5 I love this book! And so does my daughter :) This is our 5th in the How Do Dinosaurs series and it's a little different than the others in that the dinosaur really does misbehave a few times, but then is sorry and loving with hugs and kisses to the mom and dad and they say how much they love their dinosaur. I think we read it 3 times the first day we got it! And we're still reading it! It reminds me a little of the No David! books in that the child misbehaves, but is sorry and the parents while not approving of the behavior still love the child. Great job Yolen & Teague!
3 Bought this for Christmas, we have all of the "how do dinosaur" books and I was so excited to read this one to our girls.  Its ok, definatly not the same feel as the other ones. Didn't seem to flow as well, and made it seem like the "dinosaur" is always very very bad.  I don't know that I would purchase it again if I had the chance.
5 After a trip to the Natural Science Museum my 2 year old grandaughter became entranced with those huge extinct animals.  Always on the lookout for books about dinosaurs, I happened upon the How do Dinosaurs.... Series during an Amazon search.  For her 3rd birthday I settled on ordering her How do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight, an apt choice because she was driving her parents insane with her unwillingness to go to bed at night.  To say the least, it was a success.  She made me read it to her in the middle of her party and her mom and dad say that it is a nightly read.  She loves the pictures and I do, too.  Huge detailed dinosaurs fill bed rooms trying all sorts of bed-resisting techniques with a stern mom or dad visually holding the line about bed time.  But in the end,of course, Dinosaurs really do go to bed without a fight.
5 My son and I love all these books. We always look forward to the next one. My son is 4 and thanks to these books he knows more dinasour names than I do. I can hardly keep up and it so much fun and amazing to me how he learns so much from these colorful and cheerful story books.
5 My son was so excited about getting this book. It's a very large perfect for little fingers, good book for begin readers. Flows well, good illustration love this series. Looking forward to How Do Dinosaurs Say I'm Mad coming out this fall.
5 My 4 yr old son loves the How Do Dinosaurs... series. We have some of the board books likeHow Do Dinosaurs Count To Ten?, and some of the other hardcovers, such asHow Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight?andHow Do Dinosaurs Eat Their Food?.How Do Dinosaurs Say I Love You?explains to children that their parents love them all the time, even when they are naughty or moody. Usually the books in this series contrast bad behavior with good behavior, and end on a postive note. Not only are they entertaining, but if you look closely at the illustrations, the names of the dinosaurs are included on each page, adding to the educational value of each book.I added this one to my son's collection because I wanted him to realize that a good parent loves their child unconditionally, no one is perfect, and everyone has had a bad day. He also has a huge interest in anything to do with dinosaurs.If your child loves these books, and would like something a little more serious, check outDK First Dinosaur Encyclopedia.
5 Great read, but very sad. I would highly recommend. Very well written. The love between these children is something else.
5 This book is very sad but true. I hate hearing what children go through sometimes. If you like true crime books you will like this one.
5 This story was very well written and interesting all the way through the book. Those poor boys had and awful life. It was a very good book. I highly recommend it.
5 This story is so tough to even imagine how much these children suffered. I just couldn't put it down in hopes that someone saved them from their awful situation. This is one of the best books I've read in a long time. It really opened my eyes to how evil people can be.
5 This is a very well written book and truly touches your heart!!!! One cannot believe or imagine what these kids went through and humans can be so cruel !!!! Loved this book!!!
5 A heartbreaking story of two boys who went through unbelievable trauma and abuse during their childhood. How the social services did not notice what was happening is mind boggling.  The sad part is that so many children are still been &#34;lost&#34; in the system. The punishment of the crimes is no way near what the children go through.
5 I wasn't prepared for this brutal, abusive story. I have read many books on child abuse and neglect, but no book has literally brought  tears to my eyes. Heart breaking
5 Wonderfully written memoir about young children taken into foster care. Riveting.It is hard to fathom how people can be so evil.
5 I found this book difficult to read at times as it was incredibly emotional and I imagine difficult to write.  Such an incredible story that needed to be told to raise awareness and hopefully stop this from happening in future.
5 Sad read really.Every time I read a book like this I wish I could jump in and save these kids. When Dennis would not wake up I knew that blow to his chest had killed him.I want to smack that judge 6 years.These abusers and killers need life.Still today judges don't give enough time.Makes me angry.
5 I got this book asap. It was described perfectly. I read this whole book in one day. Thank you so much for the great quality of this book
5 This well written book reminds us once again how very bad our systems are at taking care of those least able to take care or speak for themselves.  I really do not think we have come that far since this story played out.  Any time you have to depend on government for safety or well being there are problems.  We so need to focus on education, the kind that starts in the home, starting with kindness and true regard for life.  If we could do that, growing loving people who take responsibility in their world maybe we would stop growing the monsters who feed on death and destruction. Every teacher, neighbor, friend, clergyman, anyone spotting a situation that isn't quite right has a duty to not only report it but to make sure it is followed through on so that the lame excuse of " it fell through the cracks" can't be used ever again.
3 I've read all of Harriet's novels and am a big fan. The minute this came out, I bought and read it in less than a day. That's not so much because the book was a page-turner but because I kept reading hoping it would get better.Sophie Leigh is a movie star of the Jennifer Aniston/Sandra Bullock kind, obsessed with Eve Noel, another movie star from the late 1950s of the Liz Taylor kind. Of course, all the money, fame and beauty in the world hasn't brought either Eve or Sophie happiness and they languish in the usual gilded-cage/poor little rich girl/lonely without a man thoughts. Eve and Sophie's stories intertwine and reflect each other in many ways, focusing on universal themes like loneliness, inequality between men and women in an industry built on beauty, power and money, and the path to self-determination, freedom and control.I think Harriet Evans is a great storyteller, a really accessible writer, with a lot of intelligent things to say about women and their stories. What I adore about her books are the central characters who, while they have their individual quirks and issues, are essentially EveryWoman and the girl next door. They're women who you see walking down the street who have amazing stories of life and love to tell.Eve and Sophie are not these people, no matter how much the book tries to convince you that they are just like you and I. All the time I was reading, I felt this struggle between the author trying to portray Eve and Sophie as  "girl next door" types (whom she excels at bringing to life) but having to put them in extraordinary circumstances (movie shoots, Hollywood studio systems, stalker scenarios, paparazzi, etc). This dynamic made it a strangely flat read for me and I had no connection or ability to relate to Sophie, and particularly Eve. The central whodunnit 'mystery' in  Sophie's story was pretty obvious which was disappointing and the other mysteries to do with Eve's sister and her lover, Don felt a little fantastical and could have done with some fleshing out. I missed the atmosphere she created in the flashbacks in Love Always. Also, a little peet peeve but an entire chapter all in written in letter format? I always think that's a little lazy and done at the expense of moving a plot along hurriedly more than anything else.I am still a fan but this book wasn't my favourite. If you are a long-time reader then I'm sure you'll find some things in it to enjoy. Deena, for example, was one of my favourite characters and I felt her story deserved a little more telling. The depiction of the relationship between Sophie and her pushy, vain mother was excellent, exploring interesting ideas about family bonds when there's really no selfless love between members. If you've only just discovered Harriet Evans and want something with with a strong narrative and a little mystery, I suggest starting with the excellent Love Always or Going Home.
5 I was very lucky to receive an early copy of Harriet Evans new book Not Without You and having enjoyed her others was looking forward to it. What I didn't realise was that the book would be the best in this genre I have read this year so far! Sophie Leigh is a movie star; except her real name is Sophie Sykes and she originally grew up in England even though she now leads the glamorous life of an A-Lister. The early chapters are interesting as we get to meet Sophie and her slightly mad life with the crazy `Hollywood' types such as her agent. You also get to see the real Sophie too which I liked. She's a pretty ordinary girl who made it as an actress but she has a real passion for the old time movie star Eve Noel. Eve Noel was a star herself in the 50s and 60s but then disappeared from public life never to be seen again.At first glance Harriet's book looks like any other number of books in this genre but what the cover doesn't convey is that there is a somewhat dark side to this story. We get to see Sophie's life start to spiral as she refuses to do another `Rom-Com' movie, and the fans that once loved her seem to now despise her. There are numerous characters appearing in this book and what I really loved is the fact that the synopsis gives just enough away without telling too much. I will aim to do the same so will refrain from going over certain details of the book.We get to see Sophie change locations so the book is part set in USA and part in the English countryside. I felt myself getting pulled further and further into the book and certain elements had a dark side and I was questioning who was involved in it right until the end. The biggest factor which made this book so enjoyable was the fact that although we see Sophie, we also go back to Eve Noel's life and her rise and fall from fame. It was done so cleverly that you wonder how the two women's lives will eventually cross over, or if they will at all. I read this book in a matter of two days and absolutely loved everything about it. It just felt so original and fresh, it really did tale me into their worlds.I read a lot of books and sometimes every now and then one just makes it mark. Harriet Evans latest release is one such book. It is the best book I have read this year in this genre and I cannot recommend it highly enough. If you think female fiction is all about love romance and happy endings don't be fooled. Harriet Evans' new book packs in a little bit of everything, creating a story that everyone can enjoy.
5 This was a great story. The way the lives of the characters are intertwined, mystery, danger, love, loneliness. I couldn't wait to read the next part while I simultaneously never wanted the story to end. I'm on my way to look for more titles by Harriet Evans. Hope they are as mesmerizing!
3 I was given a copy of this book to read and review. I am familiar with Harriet Evans and have read some of her previous books and enjoyed them very much. This book is about Sophie, a Hollywood actress and another film actress from the 1950's, Eve Noel. These women have a lot in common although separated by time. Their experiences follow along some of the same paths, and eventually collide.The pace of the book is good with changes of scene and country, and it also switches back and forward in time, which keeps it interesting. However, for me the characters were not substantial enough and the language and the plot were somewhat predictable and clich&eacute;d. The two main female players were difficult to connect with, although they did lead colourful and exciting lives, and I liked the hype of the film industry with al its larger than life scenariosThere are some annoying proofing errors, one example of several being,(page 309) 'I found out later that's so it didn't make any noise', instead of 'that's why it didn't make any noise', and (page 316) starting the third paragraph with 'But' is very clumsy and grammatically incorrect. There are also anomalies where the background information has just been slotted in to keep the continuity of the story, almost for convenience which makes the story lose credibility (eg.page 320).This book was readable but certainly not up to the great storytelling standards of this writer's previous works.
4 Hollywood seems to be a nest of vipers. It's where sane people go to lose their minds, and where everything is faked. Relationships, feelings, original thoughts. It's also where women go to starve because they are always too fat.This book tells the tale of two women who followed the lure to Hollywood, although each had to decide just how much of her soul she was willing to sell for fame.In one of the storylines, we have Eve Noel, a true movie star, back when there was such a thing. She lit up the silver screen in the 1950s until one day ... she stopped. No one knows why, no one knows where she went, and no one knows how she was able to just walk away. As her story unfolds, we discover that she is a woman searching for something. Perhaps even she isn't sure what that "something" is. She apparently has love, with an older star on whom she had a fierce crush as she grew up. She has fame. She even has a screenwriter who adores her so much that he writes the perfect role for her. So if she has it all, why leave?The other storyline features Sophie, a modern-day star whose life is her movies. She doesn't have many friends, she has no relationship with her family, and she is stuck in a rut of making the same movies over and over again. Sophie wants to break out and work on something different, a character different from the one she seems to continually play. Hollywood doesn't take her seriously, though, and when a romance is engineered between her and a hot actor, she plays along because she needs the fame. She needs to be popular in order to call her own shots. But there is more to this man that she realized. Like Sophie, he is an Eve Noel fan, and he encourages Sophie in attempting to track down Eve and ask her to take a cameo role in an indie that Sophie wants to make.The two women have more in common than either realizes, and as their stories unfold, we wait to see if their paths will cross. Sophie needs Eve, but does Eve need Sophie?There is a subplot involving a mysterious person out to harm Sophie. At first I couldn't decide if I liked that story or not, but it grew on me, largely because of what it helped engineer. I also wasn't sure I liked Sophie. She's spoiled and clueless, and she lives such an insulated life that she has no idea that she has no friends. But she rings true, and the more I got to know her, the more I liked her.Eve is intriguing as well. Unlike Sophie, Eve's foray into Hollywood was all about the work. She accepted stardom in stride, but it wasn't fuel for her. Acting was. This is something Sophie needs to rediscover for herself; whereas Eve bolts from Hollywood when she realizes that it demands more than she cares to give, Sophie is willing to keep giving. She wants the fame more than Eve ever did.I enjoyed this book a great deal. I wanted to find out if Eve and Sophie would meet, and I wanted to know if Sophie would be happy. Harriet Evans writes in a breezy, approachable style that pulls you in to the women's stories and keeps you there, turning pages and getting more and more hooked.Thanks to NetGalley for the previewPublished on cupcake's book cupboard@VivaAmaRisata
4 Movie star Sophie Leigh had a reasonably normal childhood growing up in Swindon in England, but you wouldn't be able to guess from her gorgeous mansion in the Hollywood hills, regular work-outs with a personal trainer to keep her already ultra-thin body in shape or the slew of gorgeous men she's rumoured to be dating at one point or another. Known for playing slightly ditzy characters in romantic comedies no-one takes her serious when she exclaims she wants to do something different, but Sophie is determined to show everyone that she's a better actress than she's been given credit for and at the same time fulfil a lifelong dream by making a film about her own screen idol, Eve Noel.Eve was a glamorous actress in the 1950s who made several critically acclaimed films, one of which she was even nominated for an Oscar for. Yet despite seemingly having it all, she was deeply unhappy in the world of Hollywood and she disappeared without a trace after finishing her very best work, A Girl Named Rose. Sophie has seen Eve's films hundreds of times and practically knows the other actress' biography by heart. She's endlessly intrigued by the life of Eve and the mystery surrounding her disappearance, and as Sophie digs deeper into the other woman's past, secrets start to unravel and their worlds collide in unexpected and dangerous ways.This novel was not what I was expecting at all, but in a good way. The present storyline at first reads like and average chick-lit with at its core a beautiful and perfect young woman, who despite her fame and riches is still very down to earth and sweet. This would be incredibly grating and unbelievable if it weren't for the fact that despite the world Sophie lives in, she is a very self-aware and likeable and it was a joy to read about her fresh perspective on the otherwise overly botoxed and tanned world that we refer to as Hollywood.And then there is the mystery of Eve Noel. In flashback chapters the reader gets a rare insight into the actress' life, which has always been so carefully hidden from the public eye, until slowly yet steadily cracks start to appear. And as her story moves into a darker territory so does that of Sophie. What follows is a really intense journey for both the characters and the reader and I was on the edge of my seat as the story started to unravel; I was physically unable to put the book down, because I needed to know how it would end.I was endlessly fascinated by the insights into the Hollywood life, both in the past and present time, as given in this novel. I know it is a piece of fiction but having read that the character of Eve Noel is loosely based on screen legend Vivienne Leigh does make me wonder what else in the novel came from facts or rumours. It really isn't so hard to imagine that some of the horribly manipulative and deceptive practises mentioned have and still are being conducted by the power hungry and wealthy in LA, or those who feel they need to hide who they truly are and love. It's a scary thought, but perhaps the exposure, even if it is in the form of fiction, is exactly what's needed to kick-start some much-needed changes.Intriguing, intense and immensely gripping, Not Without You is a thought-provoking novel, which will linger with the reader long after turning the final page.
5 I loved it. Cecelia's book are always such a joy to read, except when they are coming to the end... Can't wait for the next one!
4 This was another gem by Cecilia. I was totally hooked after the first few pages and was drawn in by her witty play with words. The only thing that prevented me from giving this book a 5 star rating is that about two thirds of the way into the book, I found that the pacing was a little bit too slow for me. I highly recommend this book as it was a most enjoyable read! This novel inspires me to read more books by this talented author.
5 Another delicious read by this wee girl.  I did want to save it for (the southern hemisphere) summer, but couldn't resist! Next time I won't be able to either I'm sure!
4 If you are seeking an escapist read or something to laugh and cry through, this could be the book for you.How to fall in love is modelled on the ''How to...'' self-help books the main character, Christine, follows as she navigates her way through life and discovers how to fall in love - albeit in an inappropriate and unrealistic situation.This book is not designed as a literary masterpiece; however, it is well written, with only a few typos/grammatical errors that are easily skimmed over. The main characters, Christine and Adam, contain the stock victim/rescuer characteristics of a romance novel; however, they develop individualism as the story progresses along its unusual and winding path.Some passages are funny - in an 'I don't believe she did that' kind of way - and others touch your heart and bring feelings of empathy, sadness and grief to the surface.I really enjoyed it.
5 best author ever. i have everything cecilia ahern has written. this is again a great story, never a disappointment. her books always make me cry from all the emotions the book covers. It was great to see both christine and adam grow so much in this story in just a short time. From all the times they suffered from loss to the new joys they found in life and each other.
3 I like Cecilia Ahern's usual blend of magic realism and whimsy with some romance thrown in; as well as an interesting bunch of characters who bounce off one another well. The didactic parts are almost always thrown in at the end, so they don't detract too much from the story.The premise of "How to Fall in Love" is very good.  However the execution left me wanting much more. I was hoping for some philosophical underpinning to how living is so much more worthwhile than committing suicide; some depth and humour in an otherwise morose subject.The best thing about the book was some of the humour. I loved Christine's (2 ugly) sisters (I'm just joking about them being ugly - but there was the sense that the sisters and Dad were on one side and Christine was on the outer). Christine's sisters and her father were a riot.So what went wrong with "How to Fall in Love?"Firstly, there was the feeling that rather than being the do-gooder who was spurring Adam from the sidelines Christine had latched onto the too-good-looking-to-be-believable Adam Basil.  It kind of smacked of neediness, of wanting Adam to fall in love with her, rather than any altruistic motive.  Christine was everywhere Adam wanted to go, without any good reason.Secondly, much of the humour was so forced that it couldn't even raise a smile in me.Thirdly, the plot was very, very thin, like skating on a lake in the middle of autumn.Fourthly, there wasn't an original take on an otherwise stock-standard romance story.  It was very much Mills and Boon/ Harlequin.  There were no revelations or twists - at all.  There wasn't the sense of the heroine having a trick up her sleeve.  Instead, she has a temper tantrum when Adam finally accuses her of what we, the readers, have been thinking all along, that Christine is stalking him.  Oh please. Really?I hope Ahern goes back to what she does best: a novel whimsical idea with an original storyline.
3 I found it slow to get going and hard to get in to but it was'nt to bad a read.
5 From the moment you open this book your whole soul is taken on a heart wrenching journey filled with such emotion. Joining  the two pivotal characters Christine and Adam where with  each turn of the page you are drawn into the vortex of their lives which can have you crying one minute then laughing the next . It is a unique  ,emotional and suspenseful love story that delicately deals so superbly with the not so easy issues of suicide. The story is supported by a colourful  array of delightful characters especially Christine's family . Truly a superb story that is just such a wonderful read , the only problem is that you will not want to put it down once you have started .
4 I'll start by saying very clearly that I am in no way, shape, or form an expert in depression or in what any of that entails. And I would like to think that Cecelia Ahern has done her research extensively before writing this book.That being said, I have to admit that I found it hard to believe that this good looking, well-off, adult of a man found himself backed up into a corner so tight that he had no way out but to jump off a bridge (until Christine stopped him of course). Now, the story began well enough for me, it was interesting and it kept me reading until the end. However, I couldn't help feeling like Adam was a bit...dramatic. When Christine first meets him on that bridge and talks him off it, I thought great! Here it goes! This is going to be good!But then, he starts explaining to her his reasons for wanting out and I couldn't help but think...that's it? Your girlfriend cheated on you. Your dad wants you to take over a business you don't want any part of. Really?But then Christine promises him that in two weeks she will make him fall in love with life again, and that turns into her trying to hook him up with his ex again (the same one that cheated on him), and here I'm thinking, why?! I mean, that seems completely besides the point to me.Now, those are the things that I found irritating about the book, but that is not to say that I didn't enjoy it. It's a well-written book, and I finished it quickly and enjoyed the characters' interactions. However, in terms of plot, I felt it was weak and perhaps not thought out properly.Why was Christine leaving her husband such a huge issue with everyone? Why is everyone against her leaving him? How is that even logical? I mean, first of all, it is NO ONE's business but the two people involved, second of all, her own family judged her, and this complete stranger (Adam) decides to take the guy's side on the mere premise that SHE left HIM. HE WAS A JERK! The way he dealt with her leaving him was so out of bounds, it was insane. He turned out to be a madman, and yet people still blamed her. I found that utterly ridiculous.All in all, a good read. The story, however, was lacking, and I miss Ahern's magic and sparkle.
4 Hard to get into to start with but great read from about chapter 5 onwards.  Lovely story and ending. Recommended.
2 Have read many of her books and was very disappointed in this book only finished it as I wanted to see the ending but it reminded me of a mills and boons book
4 It was pleasant reading, but for in order to give it 5 stars I would need to be unable to put it down !!!
5 Christine Rose is obsessed with self-help guides and she owns shelves of books with titles such as How to Enjoy Your Life in Thirty Simple Ways and How to Quiet Your Mind and Get Some Sleep. But when she meets a stranger, Simon, in an abandoned building none of the self-help books she's read are of any use when she's trying to talk him out of taking his own life. Using the knowledge from her books as a guide she wills him to put down the gun in his hands but just when she thinks she's succeeded she ends up saying the wrong thing and he finishes what he came out there to do.Wrecked by guilt because she was unable to save Simon, Christine impulsively climbs up the Ha'Penny Bridge in Dublin when she sees someone else who is trying to take their own life. Desperate to not make the same mistake twice she makes a bargain with the man, Adam. If he comes down the bridge with her she promises that she can convince him that his life is worth living for. Reluctantly Adam accepts her offer but with one request of his own: Christine has to work with a deadline. He will listen to her for the next fourteen days but if in two week's time, when he turns 35, he still feels like he does now he will find a way to end his life.A book with a premise like that is bound to be a weeper, and it definitely is. However, it is so much more than that. I adore Cecelia Ahern's novels because she not only writes beautiful (love) stories but also because her novels have a hint of magic and the surreal to them, which elevates them above an average chick-lit. This one is no exception, as Christine running into suicidal people left and right is more than a mere coincidence. And even the names of the two main characters sounded a little fantastical, Christine Rose and Adam Basil could've walked straight out of a fairy tale.There were many things I loved about this novel: The way Cecelia Ahern started each chapter with a unique "How to..." title, Christine's own personal growth, the absolutely stunning cover (seriously, I'm a little bit in love with it) and of course Adam; what a tortured and beautiful character. It was very easy from a reader's point of view to be taken in by him but this made it only more difficult to continue reading, because with each turn of the page his birthday, and with that the looming deadline, crept closer and the risk of losing him forever increased.How to Fall in Love is a lump in your throat kind of novel, that's for sure, yet despite this it is also charming and amazingly inspiring, as it will make you appreciate the life that's given to you. It's the perfect book for anyone who loves meaningful and magical stories and for those who want to know how to fall in love. Just make sure you have a pack of tissues at hand when you start reading it, as you're going to need them.
5 If you like David Mitchell, you'll love the book. It's full of his trademark wit and humour, and I could absolutely &#34;hear&#34; his voice all the way through. I also thought it was constructed quite cleverly.Most of it was witty and self-deprecating and funny. Except for the second-last chapter, which was almost heartbreaking. He describes in careful, painful detail meeting Victoria Coren at a party (for the second time, as he &#34;pointed out rather pedantically&#34;) and then pining for her for three years while she was in another relationship. But it ends quite lyrically--almost &#34;happily ever after,&#34; one might say. I've reread that chapter several times, and it definitely coaxes a tear or two from me.I'm delighted that someone who comes across as a very decent chap has married the love of his life. And yes, I'm delighted I read the book.
4 This is a book about the hopes and dreams of British comedian, David Mitchell. His greatest and most original talent is observational comedy of the highest analytic order. Mitchell can take any subject, dissect its truths and turn it into comic gold. When he is doing this, which is about 50 percent of the time, the book is a joy. The other fifty percent is devoted to the usual showbiz 'hey! wow!' type of thing, and is consequently somewhat as dull and vapid as that thing.
4 This book certainly is interesting. It certainly has some funny moments, some great insights into Mitchell's family background and way of thinking. But it really can't compare with how devastatingly funny the man is most of the time. His awesome rants, pernickety manner and obsessive qualities really are what define him on television- and what make him so entertaining to watch for many. But that's a persona, and in this book, we get a sense of what the real David Mitchell is like instead. knowing that, and altering your expectations would be wise- there's nothing wrong at all with this book. It's very well written and insightful. But it's not the same voice as David Mitchell-Panel Show Guest.
5 I haven't read the whole book. I've flitted about - reading the intro chapters, the ending, and a few parts in the middle, and looking at the photo section. Don't ask why. It's probably because I don't have time to read it for hours on end at the moment and wanted to zip through a bit of it.Here's what's important if you're considering buying this book: It had me laughing out loud in all those bits and pieces I read - including the photo section where David's comment on himself in a very ill-fitting Superman costume as a cute little kid is hilarious.I will have to add that I'm British by birth, although I've lived in the U.S. since the age of 5 - but maybe that early exposure to Britain makes me more appreciative of British humor and language. I dunno. I just know this was (what I've read so far) a terrif and funny read. Oh, and also, David's wonderful, romantic soul as evidenced when he speaks about his now wife, Victoria, melted my heart. It's nice to know guys like him are still around.Can't wait to sit down and enjoy reading the whole thing.
4 There's something timeless and quintessentially English about David Mitchell and I'm sure he knows it. This engaging memoir captures that fact and more- so if you like that whole &#34;Brit&#34; comedic tradition you'll enjoy this easy to read, never too deep or revealing, autobiographical work. David has a great turn of phrase and the ability to bring a lot of smiles- and occasionally a belly laugh- as you read this mostly charming  book. His anecdotes unfurling as he is walking around London works well as a device here, anchoring him even more firmly to the geography of the city that shapes his current comedic world. Some of the parts in later chapters about work deals- the wheeling and dealing and back-and-forthing in the TV industry, have limited appeal to those of us outside the industry and become a bit tedious, but there are plenty of other stories to keep up interest- and anyway that's what a Kindle finger-tap is for!The final chapter is a lovely, eloquent and revealing proclamation of love for his wife, and also a neat closure to the picture of his single life that he has shared so entertainingly. A highly enjoyable light read.
5 I know that my heading for this implies surprise that I found this enjoyable, but I just love the unique way David went about telling his story. I so enjoy his appearances on British panel shows (which I have to see almost exclusively through benevolent British Youtubers who take pity on we poor Americans who don't get those shows on BBC America.) A few of the other books I've read written by comics/comedians read at least partly as if they simply wrote down chunks of their stand-up routines. And most of those lose a good deal of the amusement in the retelling in print. David doesn't really do that, or if he does, he does it MUCH better.But David starts his story by talking about the daily walking exercise he started a few years ago to relieve a progressively deteriorating back condition (which is cleverly written in the title as a pun.) What he does as he takes you through his life and significant personal and professional events and anecdotes by mentioning in the first paragraph of each chapter a new and different landmark on his way along his exercise route. And a very interesting way to go about reading this story is by following it on Google Maps. I KNOW that sound creepy and stalk-y, but I live more than 4700 miles away, have no curiosity whatever about where he lives and the only hint he gives of where he lives is simply mentioning the name of the borough. He doesn't even give away his street name, much less his house number, but instead starts the story at the first main thoroughfare he reaches in his exercise route. And it is a doozy of an exercise route. But it was so interesting to call up each landmark or street name on Google maps and see what he saw and experience the physical journey with him. As an Anglophile, I found this method wonderful and educational.It's a "wordy" book, which is silly way to describe any book; it makes one think that that the alternative would be a picture-y book. But he's educated and bright and his particular brand of humor is how he uses words to turn ordinary ideas into amusing ones. Again, a poor description of "wordy." This is definitely a "reader's" book, and I mean that in a way to convey that, if you aren't a devourer of books as a primary hobby and preference of how to spend an empty afternoon, this book will probably begin to weigh rather heavily along about the 4th or 5th chapter. But for me, I only craved more at the end. One of these days, I hope, he's going to write a series of books on a walking tour of ALL of London. It'll take him months, I'm sure. The best part is when he mentions his first (or 2nd, really) meeting of (the VERY pretty) Victoria Coren and his complete falling head over heels in love with her. But at that point, she's unavailable as she chose to pursue a relationship with someone else. And it can only be said that he quite literally pined for her. He pretty much admits it. Not in a crippling way; indeed, it was a motivation to turn a 20-minute exercise into an hour as a way to work through a broken heart. He mentions the other ways in which he tried to cope with a loss he was certain would be lifelong, none of which were fulfilling nor healthy, and most of which he regrets. Then, remarkably, a few years later, they meet again at the right time when she had run through that previous relationship. She was available and interested and he eventually got to marry the first, true love of his life. So it was amusing, interesting and, in the end, romantic. This last part would probably be considered a "spoiler," but his marriage to Victoria is public record and there are a few photos of his wedding online; the reader can hardly claim to have the story ruined because I told you how it ended.His next book should be written as he walks through the very center of downtown London and describes his experiences with new fatherhood (if he wants kids; some people don't, which is fine.)
5 I usually have very little interest in non-fiction, but this memoir is so well-written, so engaging and so thoroughly enjoyable it made this an absorbing book.
4 Am big fan of David Mitchell but have limited access to his work as I live in Australia and a lot of his work is not shown here or at best shown at unacceptable hours.Well written, amusing and very David Mitchell
5 I love David Mitchell and I loved this book. Can only recommend anyone to read it! :)Or even get the audio-book as I also did.
5 Stephen Booth at his best. Loved the book. I've been reading this series as fast as I can get them, can't wait to read another.
5 I was really anticipating reading this book.  Even though I found some of the subject matter a little disturbing to me personally, it did not detract from my enjoyment of the story.  As always, it was a great story and I learned so many things. His novels are a mixture of history, local lore and physical descriptions, wrapped up in a mystery. With great people and relationships.
5 I have enjoyed all the books in this series and this one does not disappoint.Kept my interest to the last page and left me waiting in anticipation for the next book in series.  The writing is top notch.  Characterizations and descriptive narrative make you seem to be there with the characters in that area of England.  I look forward to next installments to come.  ( I have already ordered later books in series and have enjoyed them just as much.)  Aside from the complex and interesting story lines, the characters, and their personal stories, seem to get more interesting as stories progress. Can't wait for more.
4 this is quite disturbing. For those of us who see horses as friends the idea of eating them is a deeply ingrained phobia. The recent scandals in Ireland relating of the finding of horse DNA in beef products are testament to that. This story continues the narrative of Edendale CID and the two main characters, Cooper and Fry. This an interesting plot and the book is full of the wonderful descriptive detail we know and love from Booth.
5 I liked this! It tells about the Fox hunts and generally about horses. Some of the incidents are sad, but interesting nevertheless. I enjoyed the mystery surrounding the history of the Fox hunt, and also the black plague. It's a very good story!
5 I really like this author. Our library has some of his books and I have been able to purchase the rest through Amazon.com I really like British Mystery authors. This book is well written and interesting. The characters are human and believeable. I like a thick book with lots of plot twists.
4 The first few chapters of &#34;The Kill Call&#34; reminded me of the movie &#34;Pulp Fiction&#34;. Points of view jumped through decades of time and various narrators. That, coupled with the fact that the book is set in England, with the different terms for things than we have in the US, made the read start a teensy bit slow for me. Then I remembered to turn my Anglophile switch to the 'on' position, and I felt like Dorothy when she landed in Oz...the colors turned on!But, imagine if you will, dipping your toe in to test the waters instead of diving right in. It takes a little while to get your whole body in, but once you do, the water is quite enjoyable.For me, the most enjoyable thing about the book was Mr. Booth's use of, and obvious skill with, descriptive language. When he talks of underground bunkers, and the damp, dank atmosphere, all my senses were engaged. I could see, hear, feel, smell and taste the setting.Another of Booth's strengths is the ability to bring seemingly unrelated strands of many stories and weave them together into a coherent whole.The worst thing about the book is that it is part of a series of novels involving the same detectives, Cooper and Fry, and that by crossing &#34;The Kill Call&#34; off my TBR (to be read) list, I now have to add the other 11 books of the series, because I want to read them all. We should all have such bad luck, right?(Disclaimer:  I received an e-copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for my honest review.)
5 I've read ten of Booth's Cooper an Fry mysteries now, and while I don't expect that I'll ever figure out Dian Fry (or if she'll ever figure herself out!) I was hoping that Ben Cooper would get his promotion to DS, long overdue!The four remaining Cooper & Fry novels are being slowly released in Kindle format in the forthcoming months, and I can't wait. Because I live in a small apartment with very limited bookcase space, I no longer purchase paperbacks or hard covers - so I'm impatiently awaiting the Kindle releases.The Kill Call has all that's the very best of Booth's writing - complex characterizations, terrific plots and, of course, descriptive use of the landscape of the Peak District. I've visited there twice before - and yet I've yet to figure out where Edendale might lie!
3 Enjoyed the book. The story bounces around quite a bit. Starting to get a sense of the charictors relationships but many of the peripheral people are very shallow in depth
5 Genghis Khan is the world's great warrior bar none. The empire he conquered was larger than those of the Romans and Alexander's combined. The odds he met were incredible. Great Walls, internal dissension. Unlike Alexander, he was not born a prince.In Lord of Bows, Genghis challenges the incredible might of China. There was an element of luck when a Chinese mafia betrays his country out of vengenance, but let's face it...It's not easy for a small nomad to challenge China's walls to begin with. Tsubodai also rocks the scene, playing dead to get behind the walls literally.I think readers will also identify with the crazy brother Khasar, who rambles on and makes a big risk spying on China and cavorting with funny kung-fu monks.I think Conn Igulden is the best historical fiction writer, even better than Bernard Cornwell, who has rather narrow themes than only revolve around England, and Lords of Bow is by far his best book. I first read his Caesar series, but even Gods of War was not this fun.
4 I've read the whole Iggulden series about Ghengis Khan now and really enjoyed it.He creates a real sense of place and time (and smell).  Even a squeamish 21st century urbanite like me, was convinced to set aside modern day prejudices and immerse myself in this visceral experience.I am a difficult person to impress when it comes to historical novels.  I insist on historical integrity and abhor sloppy wordsmithing.So if you love history and a cracking good story, this is a series you'll probably enjoy.  Will now have a look at his other series.
4 Well written and moves along at a fast pace. History came alive! Keeping up with names was my only concern!
3 This is the second book in a series.  I found the first volume, Genghis, very absorbing with the descriptions of the young Temujin to survive and regain his birth-right--the "cold face," the will to power, the harrowing escapes.  The Lords of the Bow, I think, over-reaches.  It is a good story and well told.  But the characters of Temuge, of Kokchu the new shaman, of Genghis' inability to love his oldest son, of the layers of Chin society from the tong chief and slaves to the generals and imperial court.  The scope demands Wagnerian treatment (while Genghis required something more like the Carmina Burana) and it does not get it.
5 The Conguerer series is a must read for &#34;Historical Novel&#34; fans....but they must be read in order to appreciate the full impact and immensity  of the conquests.  The characters were well developed and you felt like you could share in the hardships, joys and challenges of each level of their community.  A true &#34;connect the dots&#34; for all us histroical novel fans.
4 I enjoyed the historical story and would recommend it to others.  Although it mixed historical details and fiction to bring the characters to life, I found the book to be a real page turner.
5 This book is gripping. very hard to put down. I got presents of some of them in hardcopy and cannot put the series down.
5 Or maybe brilliant author. Havent read anything of his yet that I havent really enjoyed. Most impressed with the Mongols!
5 If you like fictional history this book is a must read! Conn Iggulden has produced another page turner. The rise of Ghengis Khan and the Mongol empire is well described and very interesting. I recommend this book to anyone that is even moderately interested in history.
5 Having united the tribes into the unified nation of Mongols, Genghis Khan and his brothers lead their great army into the land of the Chin. They encounter a new type of warfare, besieging great cities with high, strong walls and massive defensive weapons.Keeping the tribes united is a difficult task and relies upon the brains of the great khan combined with his, sometimes shocking, ruthlessness. It works.There are many sub-adventures, and there are new surprises for the reader around every corner. The only constant is the cunning plotting of the shaman, Kokchu, who is feared by all, even Genghis.Once again, Conn Iggulden sweeps the reader along with his wonderful descriptive story-telling. The only disappointment for me is that, having finished this book, I am going to have to wait for the third and final instalment.
5 I had no idea that the mongol empire was so huge.  This book is a look into their past and is a unique insight into the culture,of the Mongols and other cultures.  The author is thorough in his research while keeping the reader caught up in the story.
5 This was probably the first historical fiction I have read. It was simply a marvelous read. The depth of description of the main characters really made me feel I was there. It not only gave me a sense of history that previuosly I knew little about, but the addition of some fiction made it a wonderful read. I thoroughly recommend.
4 As is often the case with Conn Iggulden, the first book of the series is the best then parts of subsequent books sometimes get bogged down.  Still well worth a read though.
5 I read the first book in 3 days. This book was just as good. Loved the history lesson. Very entertaining
5 A thoroughly absorbing book.Conn Iggulden's story is interesting in its characterisations and settings and has been a pleasure to read from cover to cover. The knowledge that I gained from it would have been difficult fit into a course in history.The writer shows the hearts and minds of illiterate nomads, at the beginning of their conquest of the Chin, and of the people meeting the savage, yet brilliant, onslaught. The rating system almost seems to need and extra star, to convey the difference between Con Iggulden's writing and other excellent reads.Thomas Bagot (Author of 'Out of a Southern African Furnace').
5 I loved the book, looked forward to cant new one as they came out can't wait for the next series
3 I love a good series, be it books or television or movies, and this one started with promise. Unfortunately, it ended with a whimper with this poorly written tale. I realize this installment was conjured from notes left by the now deceased original author, but still. This final book went over so much old ground that it became tedious, leaving this reader just wishing we could get on with it! I love stories from this period of history, but this one disappointed and by the end I was, frankly, relieved that the series is over.
4 It is 1943 and the war in England continues to rage, but life is changing for the women at number 13 at Article Row. Tilly is now in the ATS and serving.  Both Agnes and Sally have both lost loves to the war. But for Olive and Dulcie they have both found love and families. But there years ahead and in war everything can change quickly and all may not see the end of the war.&#34;A Christmas Promise&#34; is the last book in the Article Row series by Annie Groves. Even though Penny Halsall pasted away in 2011 and this book was finish by author Shelia Riley with Penny's notes. It was a good book.  I was very glad the authors were able to finished it series.  Overall &#34;A Christmas Promise&#34; is a good book.
4 This was a good series & I looked forward to reading the final installment. I remember feeling shocked that the author had dies- I've read everything of hers, I think. Anyway- I pity anyone who tries to replace a known & popular author with the last of a series- you can't please everyone .I have to say that this book pretty much ended as I suspected it would- & yes, there was a lot of repetition from earlier books, which personally I did not mind- I considered that a refresher course , so-to-speak in what had gone on before. But- I really liked these characters, was happy to find out how they all ended up. I think the author did a good job tackling a known authors ending to a saga that lasted for years, & I intend to read other works of hers, whether she write as Annie Groves, or herself. I thank her for giving me the ending to a series I so enjoyed--not perfect, not really surprising- but to me, altogether enjoyable.
4 this was a lovely ending to the whole series of annie groves books - despite the fact that she wasnt able to write it herself i do think the author did her proud -  the only problem i did have with it was it went over old ground and reminded you a tad too much of what went on in the other books - seeing you really have to read the whole series for this book to make any sense i didnt see the point  but all in all i really really enjoyed the whole series of following this family through the war.. would recommend it
5 Continuing on with the story and keeping up the pace and interest.  An interesting twist of the tale and it leaves me wishing the next novel was available today.
5 Janny Wurts's latest novel in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW, Initiate's Trial, is another rock-solid installment in what has become one of my favorite series. Janny's use of the English language, her ability to sculpt characters with concepts and characteristics that make them live and her continuing commitment to solid storytelling make her work some of the best ever. Initiate's Trial is a perfect example of why her books are always worth the wait.As often happens in a series, there are elements of the plot that have happened in between books. In this case, Arithon has been placed under the custody of the Koriathian Sisterhood, loathsome spiders, to continue the process of freeing Athera from the lasting threat of the Mistwraith. Janny does a superlative job of not just describing the process that it takes to do this, but also how the lingering effects of his complete loss of memory enable him to develop his skills in other ways. It's like the way that a person deprived of a primary sense, like sight, will often find that their other senses become sharper as their use is increased to compensate. Beautiful, lyrical descriptive efforts, such as the way Wurts envisions Arithon's use of his innate skills as Masterbard and skilled sorcerer to complete such a peril-fraught task even without his full training and heritage to fall back on, are what make this series something special.For Lysaer, the imprisonment of Arithon has bought his centuries of peace from the insidious influence of the Mistwraith's curse. The stark, shocking realization that he underwent previously has carried over and he has distanced himself from the religion that he created to hunt and hound his nemesis and half-brother. The story of Lysaer has always been tragic and his life as the Mayor of Etarra has clearly not been satisfying, but I am led to respect him to a certain degree because he has realized the false nature and inherent evil of the political/religious cult that he created. Yet I loathe him still for being too cowardly to challenge and bring down the false priests and religious bigots who have overtaken his creation.Inject into this caustic mix the ongoing feud between the Fellowship sorcerers who are tied at every turn as they seem to be outmaneuvered over and over again by the slimy and ruthless Prime Matriarch of the Koriathian. These overburdened, morally pure heroes never can seem to get ahead. I am left in awe of the fortitude that Sethvir shows as he reads the events of the world, at times powerless to intervene despite the incredible horrors that are being perpetrated on innocents. There are bright moments, things like Asandir's continued role as Kingmaker, responsible for selecting and empowering the heirs to the Kingdoms and the awakening of the grand mysteries.Initiate's Trial is full of wonderful side stories as well. The youthful exuberance of young Clanmembers from Rathain who are bent on saving their liege lord, the humorous events surrounding the attempted execution of Arithon and his newly won friend, and finally the heart-wrenching service of the heir of Sulfin Event and her unstinting desire to save Lysaer from himself at any personal cost she must bear. These are examples of the moral fortitude and at times misplaced loyalties that have been the hallmark of the ethical questions that Janny Wurts has made a wonderful underlying theme of this series. Is misguided loyalty and service in fact evil when it enables bad choices to go unpunished? Such great ideas to consider, amid a story filled with action and adventure.I am a die-hard fan of Janny Wurts and I love this series. If you are just starting with The Curse of the Mistwraith or you are returning to the world of Athera after a break, I can assure you that this latest book is worth reading. This is epic high fantasy at its finest and immersing yourself in this world of beauty, magic and characters that are both real and painfully flawed is simply a joy. I can't wait for the next book.
5 What a wonderful series. Janny's world is complex, her characters multi-faceted and with flaws and misconceptions. The plot is intricate and the storytelling excellent.
5 First, I was very pleased to see this being released as an ebook concurrent with the UK release - first time in a long time I didn't have to shell out for overseas shipping.Initiate's Trial continues with the tight plotting, strong characters, and rich prose that I expect from Ms. Wurts. I have always considered the Wars of Light and Shadow to be an excellent example of what an epic fantasy series can be when it's done with care and craft, and this volume only adds to that belief.I was honestly surprised over how little I resented the 250 year jump in time (which had to happen somewhere in the series if it was going to cover the full 500 years suggested in the first book). Still, it left me with a rather bittersweet feeling to hear supporting characters I had come to greatly enjoy referenced as historic figures, or as the subjects of old ballads. There were a few events referenced in the intervening years (mostly in the decade after Stormed Fortress ended) which I would like to know more about, but not knowing the specifics does not interfere with enjoying this book.**Read the glossary. You get some lovely pieces of information from the character entries there.I did find the parallels to Curse of the Mistwraith (both overt and subtle) interesting. One minor (I mean, really minor) nitpick: a part of me felt like I should be taking a drink every time there was "peril", "puppets", or something was "inchoate".
4 I enjoyed this book very much & can't wait for the next one to come out in this series so I can read it on Kindle.
3 this was a decent book fun to  read but the author drones on and on trying to make the reader feel the same way she does about an event or characters state of mind. sometimes less is better . she needs to give more credit to the readers intelligence and let us build our  perspective and feelings. maybe then more action can be written and less emotion.
5 The tour de force of Stormed Fortress is a hard act to follow, but, as usual, Janny Wurts is up to the job. It's 250 +/- years in the future, Arithon is a prisoner of the Koriani, betrayed by a clansman who was one of the Companions - which event is foreshadowed in Stormed Fortress. Prime Selidie is determined to break the compact the F7 made with the dragons in the Second Age and will go to any lengths to do so. Elaira is now a rebel and travels to visit the Biedar in a bid to help her best beloved. Lysaer has gotten better at fighting the curse, but is having a mighty struggle of it. Asandir enlists the help of Daliana, a descendent of Sulfin Evend, to try to shelter him.New characters abound, and the shades of old ones emerge. Dakar is grown up, now a skilled mage in his own right, but still funny as hell.A rousing good read, the opening of a new Arc to be finished in the next book, as things gradually build to the ultimate climax... Wurts' plotting is superb and there is no guessing what she will pull out of the hat next.I was moved to tears several times, laughed out loud a few times, and my heart stopped once or twice!
4 If you are a fan of Stuart MacBride, and the characters he chronicles in his ongoing series about the Aberdeen police, this book will most likely appeal to you, as well.  Most of your favorites are back, although some take a distinct step into the background in this one.If you are not yet a fan, or are relatively new to the series &#8211; DO NOT start out with this one.  MacBride makes no attempt to introduce his characters; he apparently figures that the reader already knows who these people are and what makes them tick from his prior novels.  Unfortunately, he therefore gives little weight to those who are NOT familiar with them, or who need a little (or a lot of) reminder as to who they are.Even without that background, this book comes in around 500 pages.  In my opinion (admittedly a big fan of the author&#8217;s), it is a good investment of time for those who have a solid background in the Aberdeen Police Department as MacBride has painted them in the past.  As usual, MacBride has several plot threads going on at once, just as an actual police department would have multiple cases running coincidentally.  However, also as usual, MacBride finds ways to show a connection &#8211; sometimes tight, sometimes tangentially &#8211; between these cases.Go ahead and buy this book, BUT put it aside if you have not yet read Cold Granite, or Flesh House, or (especially) the prior book, Blind Eye &#8211; come back to this one after you&#8217;ve completed his earlier 5 books.RATING: 4 stars.
5 Stuart MacBride has done it again. Dark Blood, # 6 in the Logan McRae series is another action packed, nice dose of humor, can't put down must read book. If you like thrillers then this is one author you should be reading.
4 First Line: Run.Richard Knox was a violent rapist of elderly men. He was caught, put on trial, and convicted of his crimes. While in prison, he found God, and now that he's been released all he wants is to make a new start in a place where no one knows his past. Unfortunately for Detective Sergeant Logan McRae, Knox's new home is in Aberdeen, Scotland.Add Knox to a stew that contains gangsters from Edinburgh, a local crime lord, an inspector from Newcastle who wants to keep an eye on Knox, and folks from Newcastle looking for a missing mob accountant, and you can see that there's more than enough to keep McRae busy for two or three lifetimes. His problem is that he's still being jerked back and forth between two detective inspectors who can't seem to be able to live without McRae being at their beck and call every single hour of every single day.MacBride writes edgy, violent tales with such a finely-honed dark sense of humor that I've often found myself laughing like a total nutter only a page or two after being left stunned and slightly sickened by something else. I know that makes me sound as if I'm a bit schizophrenic, but perhaps being a bit unbalanced helps you to understand what's going on once you've immersed yourself in MacBride's world.I find myself having very strong and very personal reactions to the books in this series now. Logan McRae has found himself caught between two superior officers for far too long. At first, I found both of the superiors (and I'm using the term very loosely here) to be hilarious although their lack of willingness to do any real work greatly bothered me. I've gone through in the real world what McRae is going through in MacBride's fictional one. Although I did my best to find the humor in what I went through, there wasn't much to be found, and as McRae's woes keep going on a seemingly endless loop, almost every molecule of humor has been leached from the situation for me. I love the character of McRae too much to stop reading, so I'm hoping that MacBride will be kinder to him in the next book!Despite my negative reactions I found Dark Blood to be another excellent book in this series. All the plot lines seem hopelessly tangled, and it's a miracle that McRae is able to sort out any of them at all. But MacBride reminds us that life isn't a fairy tale. Real life isn't neatly wrapped up and tied with a bow just as the last page is turned. The ending of Dark Blood may leave you as angry as it did me, but-- sadly-- what happens is far from being a new occurrence on planet Earth. I only wish that McRae had seen "The Shawshank Redemption" as many times as I have.
4 There is a lot going on in this very convoluted mystery. Richard Knox, a convicted rapist is relocated to Aberdeen and the community is not happy. DS Logan McRae and DI Steel have the unenviable job of insuring his safety. Added to McRae's workload is circulating counterfeit money, jewellery heists and McRae has to deal with the incompetant Beattie who tries to stitch him up.There were quite a few red herrings in this plot and nobody was quite who they seemed to be. The only stable factor for McRae is DI Steel who is her usual take no prisoners, fiesty self.I enjoyed this book because McRae is beginning to turn himself around, get back on track. In the last book in the series he certainly wasn't healthy mentally or physically.The book was well written, the plot intricate and I was beginning to wonder how all of the threads would come together. There was a definite little "twist" at the end.....
4 McRae is involved in the re-location of a nasty serial-rapist of elderly men who wants to come home to Aberdeen. And there aren't very many people in Aberdeen who are happy about that. But McRae's woes do not end there. There's some shady gangland activity going on, a man has disappeared and McRae is in trouble with his superiors (again). Doesn't sound like a barrel of laughs, does it? Well, trust me, with Stuart MacBride's warped one-liners and pitch black humour, it often is. If you like your humour twisted - as I do - you'll be laughing all the way to the bottom of the barrel. Gory, gruesome and generally not very nice (but in a good way).I really like Logan McRae, but my favourite character in this series has to be DI Steel. The woman's a legend.
5 Another great read. A wee bit much on the local colloquialisms at times which slows the reading down if you're not familiar, but a good story just the same.
2 I have read a lot of Stuart McBride books and loved them.  This one just seems to lose the plot half way through
4 For some reason this wasn't in our library system so I bought it on kindle (it was exceptionally cheap). A decent book. Not nearly as gruesome as the previous two. A few things are going right for McRae and he seems to be getting his life back together. A rather abrupt ending, unfortunately.
4 Curiously addictive, since being introduced to this author I have read all sequels of Logan McRae. The struggling Detective feels abused by everybody, he still solves crimes.The background is always gray and dismal.In the end the cruelty, violence and bloodshed got to me, I need a rest
5 Usual gritty MacBride, Aberdeen a scary place ! Beware tourists of  the picturesque/tartan mythical land ! Will  McRae ever rise in the ranks ?
5 I have read some of the other books in the series and I just had to read this one. The characters and plot lurch from one disaster to another using the most using the most colourful language. I would recommend this and any of the books in the series to anyone who likes crime stories with a Scottish accent.
4 I find myself laughing out loud when I read some parts and buying other books...I don't know why because Logan seems to be the smartest person working for the police and yet no one bothers to listen to any of his suggestions...I guess I am addictedI just wish ONE of these books would have decent weather--it's depressing to even read them...I can't imagine how depressing it must be to actually live there.
5 I admit to being hooked on McRae. Totally and completely. I am quite enjoying this series. Some how in my trips to Scotland I missed Aberdeen. Next time I will remedy that due to this series.
5 It is hard to imagine less rewarding place to be a police officer than notorious Aberdeen, Scotland. Horrendous weather, people out of their minds, everything possible goes wrong at every opportunity. Of course, in a fictional Aberdeen- I've never been to a real one. Stuart MacBride continues his terrific series, filled with picturesque characters and heavily peppered with dark, crass humor. Just my taste. Apology to the faint hearted or hopelessly prudish.
4 Suspenseful and entertaining but MacBride needs to get a backbone. His back has footprints on it from being walked on.
5 This has to be one of the best Stuart MacBride books I have read, and have read all of them and can't wait for the next one.There are several twists and turns and its impossible to pick the 'who dunnit'until almost the end. If you like mystery, thriller police procedurals you will totally enjoy this book.
4 This sixth installment of the Logan McRae series feels bit more like a return to the earlier novels in the series in many ways. Aberdeen and its residents are suffering through another miserable winter, and some old names crop up as Edinburgh's Malk the Knife once more encroaches on the criminal world of Aberdeen. It's a complex plot involving rivaling criminal gangs while the Aberdeen police force spend a rather exorbitant amount of money protecting a man newly released from prison after imprisoning and raping an older gentlemen (though only convicted once, it is common knowledge that he is a serial offender).Many recurring characters appear here - even Colin Miller makes a cameo! And there are several laugh-out-loud hilarious scenes of dialogue and banter (many surrounding a new addition to the DS pool - Biohazard Bob). Logan himself continues to fall far from his once hero/goldenboy status. But even through his struggles and missteps, he remains a likable and sympathetic hero. Logan continues to carry the scars of the previous novels which adds to the realism of the entire series. This installment is fairly fast-paced, too, and I am looking forward to reading the next two books in the series!
5 Another of her really good books that I couldn't put down. What this poor child went through and how any mother could be like this is just horrible
4 True stories are my favorite. So sad things like this happen in real life. I would recommend this book as a good read.
5 Very good read.  After foster home experiences that were less than helpful to children I knew in my community, this is a great story of how it really should be.  it is obvious Cathy Glass is not doing it for the money as compared with those I have known.
5 I have read all of the Cathy Glass books about fostering.. Once I start one, I cant put it down.. The way she turns these difficult childrens lives around.. Its amazing , the patience she has with them...  I wish there were more of the books and I am looking forward to reading the one about her adopted daughter....
5 First of all you will need a box of tissues when reading this book.This a story of a little boy called Reece who was taken into care along with his six sibling.when he came in to care his birth mum would call him Sharky and Reece loved to bite, all his toys had something to do with sharks,Reece had very bad learning difficulties and had been excluded for two schools plus there was sure he had been sexual abuse,His birth mother had told him not to tell like a lot of children when there come into care about what has happen at home, Cathy meet the mum on a few of the contacts and it was a eye opener as mum would hit Reece round the head, plus there was security guards at the contact and 2 social workersAs the people that have cared for foster children contact is a very hard time for the child and the carers,The book tell of how Cathy with her children helped get Reece going to school and what happen later on,
5 Author keeps you wondering what next.  Great story but hearbreaking to know such things go on in real life and not fictional tales.
5 I love books by this author. This one stays within the realm of the others. realistic and an easy read. I had a hard time putting it down.
5 It never ceases to amaze the wonderful job Kathy does telling her stories.  They are compelling and at times heart wrenching but I have loved all of her books so far! If you are compassionate person and love children these are a must read collection.
4 Cathy Glass is an excellent writer and I admire her work. This book is an amazing story of Ms. Glass completely turning this little boys life around, after a short lifetime of abuse..excellent read
5 I enjoyed this book. But it was really hard to read. So glad that it turned out o.k.  What a sweet boy he turned out to be.
5 Cathy Glass has done an amazing job on yet another great book. Each time I finish one of her books I start another . Once I begin I can't stop reading until the end , reading for 24+ hours. on the last page it describes  these books an Cathy by saying - Be amazed , Be moved , Be Inspired .
4 I don't often cry when I'm reading a book but this story is heartbreaking and you'd have to be one tough cookie to be able to hold back the tears. Don't let that put you off though, it's well worth a box of tissues. I greatly admire Cathy and all the foster parents.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It depicts a wonderful foster home and the love and care Reese received from the foster mother and siblings. Reese was so damaged by his biological family that he needed much patience and love to begin to heal. His foster mother was skillful in treating him as he needed to be treated. The description of the abuse he had suffered and the skill that his foster mother used in helping him to recover from that abuse was fascinating. I have read other books by this author and will read more of her writings.
5 I find all of Cathy Glass's books awesome reads. There is something about the way she writes which shows just how much she cares about the children she fosters. It can be difficult to read about the terrible abuse and the children's response to it. But it's impossible to put her books down even when the content is a little disturbing.
5 Another book beautifully written.  I feel I am getting to know this wonderful woman, her family and the children she has opened her home and great to!
3 I thought the book could use more details however I would recommend the book and can now try and understand the life a a foster carer.
5 Saint Cathy Glass. What a savior to the world as are her own children.Cathy's.writting. is just like you were there living there in the house living it. I have read all but 2 of her books and am wishing there were lots more.
4 These books are all really easy to read.  It's interesting to hear some of these foster child stories.  This is one of her better ones.
5 Mummy Told Me Not to Tell is a true story about a child and his siblings in foster care. It's hard to imagine that parents can be so unstable and continue to raise their children in such a toxic environment for so long before it's virtually too late. The reality of such a childhood was disturbing to read, but inspiring as Cathy, the foster carer, worked with the child and brought about healing and positive change. Every foster child should have such a dynamic foster parent!
3 I have read all of Cathy's books except this one. Why is this one so expensive? They are all around $6 - $8. Why is this one $20?
5 After reading this along with others I feel Cathy should be teaching foster parents to be on proper caring of children.  Being raised in care I can tell you not all care givers are like Cathy. Please continue you care givingRose
5 A very nice book, a real page turner, very entertaining and makes for great reading for book lovers every where!!
5 It is about human brokenness and selfless, disinterested love.  It is about tragedy and triumph.  It's true and so it is about hope.
5 Very captivating but sad at the same time - the author made you feel like you were right there with her.
5 Reece was an aggressive violent child when he was placed with foster carer Cathy Glass. When she met his mother and siblings, she found that they all shared the same disposition and appearance, notably odd dentition which earned Reece the nickname Sharkey. Reece was able to learn to control his behaviour under Cathy's care, but had difficulties in school with violence and sexual advances to teachers and students. While he became a loving little boy with some learning and behavioural issues,his family contact was causing a lot of setbacks. Eventually a dark secret about the paternity of Reece emerged, and he luckily was sent to live with an aunt and a half-sibling who had escaped the violent home Reece grew up in. Cathy did so much for this child; the memoir is inspirational to read and horrific to realize the secrets some children harbour.
5 In the late 1950s Eric Newby, who had been living an overly civilized and unfulfilling life in London's women's fashion industry, was lured by a friend into hiking the Hindu Kush, some of the most rugged terrain on the planet.  The trip regularly involved scaling mountains that measure in thousands of meters, and was fraught with surprise, high adventure, peril, and no amount of suffering from inexplicable climate changes and shoes that never quite worked as advertised.  Despite this reader's expectations of a grim tale of machismo and derring-do, Newby's narrative, though consummately British, turns out to be understated, dry, self-effacing, and very, very funny without really trying to be.  Newby's crew typically hiked into one mountain trading pass or river village after another, encountering denizens who varied widely and violently in language, religion and economic practices though only a few miles apart as the crow flies. This reminded me that Afghanistan, though all one color on the map, is a nation not easily conquered--not really a nation at all, as one invading empire after another has learned to its chagrin.  A SHORT WALK IN THE HINDU KUSH is a wonderful travel book, very enjoyable to read, with a significance even Newby may not have intended.
5 Approaching mid life and feeling restless in the world of London's fashion industry in the 1950s, Eric Newby asked a friend to go mountain climbing in the Hindu Kish.  Newby quits his job, puts his affairs in order and, together with his friend, sets off for an adventure in Northeastern Afghanistan.  Their walk was not short and they almost reached the summit of 19,880 foot Mir Samir, but not before stopping for four days of instruction about mountain climbing in Wales.  Newby's description of the geography and peoples he encountered along the way opens the door a little further and provides another peek on one of the most mysterious regions of the world.  Unlike many books in this genre that are often told in a breathless, self promoting style, Newby's approach is modest, self effacing and understated, right down to the title.  This book is a delight!
5 Most reviewers concentrate on Newby's lack of mountain-climbing experience.While everything written by his appreciative readers is true, the main point is that the mountain-climbing trip was just a ruse to fool the authorities into granting him access to a fabled and little-known part of the world that had only recently been civilized - and that is most likely now gone.Like all his other best books, this gives fascinating glimpses of rare and remote cultures. To travel and adventure afficionados, it is also famous for its description of his encounter with that &quot;real&quot; adventurer, Wilfred Thesiger.
5 Of all the dozens of mountain ranges that converge in North Asia, perhaps the most daunting is the Hindu Kush, &#34;the HIndu Killer&#34;, yet an adventurous businessman in the London fashion world, with a checkered history that spans both boat racing and a stint as a prisoner of war (1942-45), yet completely untrained at mountain climbing, decides to take a jaunt with a friend, with no more preparation than a hike on a hill in Wales.  Their encounters and experiences are many, the descriptions dazzling, their confrontations with the world of the tribes and villagers utterly beguiling yet not always to their advantage.  The book is outrageously funny, remarkably enterprising and absolutely irresistible.  I have probably read it half a dozen times over the years and still laugh, to such an extent that I have searched out his other books as well, including his boat ride down the Ganges, which is hysterical.
5 Good travel narrative should begin with self awareness and, one would hope, a sharp wit on behalf of the writer. That's the entertainment half. It should end in a new appreciation of place and culture for the reader, the edifying part. A Short Walk In the Hindu Kush by Eric Newby delivers on all accounts. Though the "short" walk of the title took place circa 1956 and the book was published in 1958, it has special pertinence for the contemporary reader. The name of the mountain range translates as the "Killer of the Hindus," straddling Afghanistan and Nuristan, the wild vortex where cultures and powers have collided in attempts to bridge east and west for thousands of years. Most recently, of course, the region has figured in the war on terrorism. In fact, I have a much better grasp of the multicultural nature of the land and its political history from Newby's careful notes than from contemporary media.Even if the Hindu Kush was irrelevant to latterday headlines, Newby's narrative is worthwhile reading. To explain why an urbane executive in the fashion industry would quit and suggest a trek in partly uncharted mountain range in a alien land, with no experience in mountain climbing, he begins with a hilarious account of his London job. He also speaks to that national urge to get off the island and go look about. His is a genuine yearning for exploration, for experiencing "the other." The trek, taken with a pal and some local guides, is often perilous. At the very end, the Newby party meets up with the embodiment of the stuffy military Brit who belittles their achievement. The author does not have to answer for the reader or himself-we know, as he does, that it was quite extraordinary.Newby is great company, a fine writer who doesn't make the story about himself even when starring in it. Lonely Planet is to be thanked for keeping this in print.
5 Self-educated as a writer, Eric Newby has produced a number of books falling in the category, "Travel."  They are really essays, light commentaries on the human condition in unfamiliar surroundings.  His first, "The Last Great Grain Race," concerned sailing as an eighteen year old, unskilled member of the crew of a four-masted sailing "freighter" on the last grain race of such a ship from Australia to Europe.  A delightful tale.His hike through the Hindu Kush is one of his most entertaining works.  Employed in the Ladies Lingerie Department in a London department store, he was invited by a chum to join in a hiking trip in the mountains of Afghanistan. He accepted of course.  With delightful humor in his self-deprecating way, Newby describes the adventure, the country through which they passed, the miscues and the sometimes hair-raisingly dangerous spots into which the two got themselves.It is certainly not intended as a detailed account in the art of mountain climbing.  More likely a primer on how it should not be done.  Nor is it a detailed account of the geography and topography of the Hindu Kush.  It is an entertaining and delightful account of a personal experience of considerable daring and danger, all with a light touch.
4 A "short walk" is at once accurate and understated. Accurate because the walk is short, less than a month. Understated because its walkers confront extreme challenges and setbacks at every turn, ranging from hostile citizens and difficult weather to physical maladies that would drive the less intrepid of us to the nearest hospital.
5 This is the best kind of travel writing, at the least the type that I prefer, combining a sense of adventure with a sense of humor. It was written about 50 years ago, but as Newby hints near the end of the book, the terrain, culture of the locals, and the living conditions in this remote region as described in this book are unlikely to change much over the years. An encounter with the legendary explorer/adventurer Wilfred Thesiger in the final chapter only adds to the delightful reading experience. Newby's eye for detail and ability to find humor under very trying circumstances helps to keep the read involved. That aside, the descriptions don't inspire me try scaling those mountain peaks anytime soon. I'll remain content to read about the adventures of Eric Newby.
5 This book could have been used as a primer for the entire &#34;Eccentric Englishman goes abroad&#34; genre. The nonathletic  Newby and his semi-athletic friend decide to climb a mountain in the Hindu Kush. They take a long weekend climbing course and set off for Afghanistan to begin their trip. Nothing stops them including unfriendly natives, poor planning, bad shoes, lack of food. They actually come us short of  reaching their climbing goal but do mange to explore all the places they set out to see. Maybe I'm not too old after all!
5 Quintessentially English bit of travel, with the ambitious idea of climbing Mir Samir in Afghanistan, but ostensibly to visit Nuristan next door. The English bit comes into play when you discover that Newby isn't a mountain climber, nor is his traveling friend. They &quot;practice&quot; for four days in Wales before embarking.This is the type of travel literature I favor. A trip, yes, with its attendant hazards and foibles, but also a story about the travelers, why they travel and the people they meet. So far, I can sense a &quot;difference&quot; in travel writing, easily two categories now, but possibly many others. This book would join with Seth &amp; O'Hanlon as a &quot;Hardship Trip&quot;--a journey filled in pain and danger. Salzman and Mayle are &quot;Sedentary Travelers.&quot; They both got to the place, then stuck around and observed the things that happened around them. This book also has one of the best last lines I've read in quite a while. I can't quote it, because not only would it ruin the line for you in case you choose to read this book yourself, but also because it is necessary to sit through the 180 or so pages that go before to fully appreciate the irony of it.
5 The idea is preposterous: two non-alpinists, one working in fashion design, the other a diplomat, decide to scale some of the hardest peaks in the world, in one of the nastiest, most remote corners of the globe. The resulting book is hysterical. It's been a couple of years since I last read it, yet I'm giggling again as I recall some specific passages. Fun, fast read.
5 They don't come sweeter than this. Facing middle age, Eric Newby abandons his chosen career as a fashion wholesaler to embark on a whimsical journey to remotest Afghanistan to attempt a mighty peak that has never been  climbed. His companion, an old friend, knows as much about high-altitude  (or ANY) climbing as he does: not a skerrick. They are almost parodies of a  vanished England - absurdly brave, amateurish and uncomplaining; Newby's  account of their scratchings up airy ice-walls will have the sweat  springing from your palms. Along the way we get a rich insight into the  rare mountain societies of one of the most mysterious nations on earth, but  it is Newby's character itself that makes this book such a joy.  Self-mocking, his courage entirely inferred, Newby's modesty holds until  the final hilarious, appalling line.  We may not want to go climbing with  him, but we'd welcome his company on any journey. In fact, Newby's courage  was always a key to his personality. His teenage years were spent as a  high-rigging sailor on grain ships in the Southern Ocean. In World War Two  he was a commando with the Special Boat Squadron. His capture, escape, and  life on the run is memorably recounted in another of his classics  &quot;Love and War in the Appennines.&quot; But for me, &quot;A Short  Walk..&quot; remains his most charming, exciting and extraordinary book.
5 What can I say...a thoroughly enjoyable read (and I've reread this book several times)!  Newby and his companion are "innocents abroad" and his recounting of their misadventures kept me chuckling throughout.If you're looking for deep insights into the Afghan culture and people, this isn't the book for you.  But if you enjoy travel-writing told with a dry wit, then check it out.Oh, and by the way...if you're a fan of Wilfred "Arabian Sands" Thesiger, don't miss Newby's chance encounter with him at the end of the book.  Good for a laugh!Great stuff!
5 I've read Edmund Hillary's latest book.  And now, for something completely different, we have Eric Newby's, um, "short" walk in the Hindu Kush.  Newby is not at all a champion mountain climber like Hillary.  Quite the opposite.  But that is part of what makes this book interesting and funny.  It is a great travel story, and I recommend it.
4 This classic account of the author's climbing expedition to Mir Samir in Afghanistan in the 1950s is both informative and entertaining. The tone of the volume shifts from light and hilarious to more exhausted as the author moves from preparation of the trip in England and Wales to the actual hardships in the Hindu Kush. Yet Newby never loses his wry humor. The extensive and detailed nature descriptions are well-crafted but may become a bit tedious at times. But the descriptions of the culture and people the author meets along the way are never boring. Having been written before political correctness, the descriptions are quite straightforward, like when they are hiring staff for the expedition, one of whom "had a broad, stupid face, like an old-fashioned prize-fighter, with a thick trunk-like nose and a deeply lined forehead with a wart on it." It is easy to see the man in front of you! Perhaps explaining some of the ethnic and religious differences that still dominate Afghan politics, Newby tells that: "The Tajiks are the original Persian owners of the Afghan soil, conquered and dispossessed by the Pathans but still speaking Persian; agriculturalists, Sunnites, intense in their religion, a far more ancient people than the Hazaras, round-headed, flat-faced Mongols who were settled in Central Afghanistan by Genghis Khan in the fourteenth century in the region he himself had depopulated and converted to the Shiah faith in the eighteenth by Nader Shah's Persian army."
5 I got this book on the recommendation from the book Afghanistan: A Companion and Guide, which described it as "among the best travel books ever written". Having read the book, I would have to agree.This book could be a humor book almost as much as a travel book. Newby's style of writing is, at times, felt like watching a Monty Python sketch in its dry British humor and the unexpected places that one constantly found it coming up.Eric Newby starts the book as a man working in the fashion industry after World War II, who realizes that he's in the wrong job. He calls up a friend who worked for the foreign service in Afghanistan and asks him if he wants to go to Nuristan in northeast Afghanistan. He quits he jobs, does four days of mountain climbing in Great Britian, and heads off.I will not spoil the adventures he has just in getting there but will say that they are amazing, unexpected and fascinating. You really get the sense of a seat-of-your-pants road trip in the way that he almost blindly goes into what would be anyone's trip of a lifetime.His description of Afghanistan and its people who he meets and who guide him is wonderful and accurate to everything I have seen in this country myself. To anyone who likes travel books or simply wants to read a fascinating adventure, you need to read this book.
4 When men were men - and when &#34;BECAUSE IT'S THERE&#34; was sufficient reason to risk life and limb (not to mention suffering the agonies of deprivation, distemper, dyssentery...)!
4 I love mountaineering books, especially those that detail disasters that make me wonder why anyone goes up to place where the dead bodies of fellow sportsmen greet you lying or sitting where they fell. Most of these books are very technical and make it seem as if using supplemental oxygen to keep your brain from dying is somehow the mark of an ordinary day.What I loved about &#34;Short Walk&#34; is its unabashed frankness about the amateur ignorance of the climbers. Just two Brits bashing around a foreign country with no idea what they are getting into. I laughed WITH them because the author is so clearly in agreement that it was all a long, uncomfortable, risky, bad idea.Aside from this, it is an interesting picture of the societies through which our &#34;heros&#34; journeyed.
4 I first read this book as a teenager and it turned me into a life-long Eric Newby fan. It was probably the first travel book I read. It can be dangerous to go back and re-read really old favorites (as I recently discovered in trying to re-read Hemingway) but this one didn't disappoint the 2nd time around. I love his dry English humor and the way he is so typical of the 'mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the mid-day sun'. I'd definitely recommend this.
5 I read this book, first published in 1958, many years ago. I love the understated title. My book club has chosen it as the January discussion book, paired with "The Places in Between" by Rory Stewart. I have enjoyed revisiting Newby's difficult trek through Afghanistan. He wasn't an experienced traveler when he set out. His only training for the trip was hiking through the mountains of Wales. It's a wonder he made it out alive. Another book I've recently enjoyed about this area of the world is Greg Mortenson's "Three Cups of Tea".
5 Ok, I have read the reviews about this book, most of which have "got it" and some of whom have not. Firstly get a map or even better a globe (a kind of round map) and see just how far London (England) is from Afghanistan. Now try and imagine driving there in a family car, not one of those road going ocean liners known I believe as "SUV's", through countries, some of which are considered too dangerous for westerners to enter.Remember that even at the time of writing, Britain was still recovering from the effects of WW2, indeed rationing continued until 1954, and those who had the money to travel might have considered a trip by train to Blackpool (a seaside resort in the north-west of England) quite an adventure. So the idea of on a whim jumping into the family jalopy and driving 2/3 of the way around the world might be considered a tad eccentric. The 2 adventurers are total amateurs, if I remember rightly; they are stuck on a glacier half way up the mountain, and have to refer to their mountain climbing textbook on how to get off it!Imagine 2 gentlemen after having a couple of gliding lessons deciding to build a rocket in their back garden and go into space? That's the sort of order of magnitude of adventure that Newby and Carless embarked on. Also one has to bear in mind that in the 50's, Afghanistan was to all intents and purposes cut off from the "modern" world and quite literally the back of beyond.As a Brit, I am aware of the issues of our colonial past, but I still retain a soft spot for the pith helmeted "gentleman adventurer", the sort of people who in the 20's might have climber Everest but turned back when they couldn't get the grand piano and rowing boat past the 5th base camp at 27,000 ft.It's hard to describe in these days of Google earth how large the world was in those days. Its been many years since I read this book, and I am writing this review because I have loaned it to a friend who is going to Kathmandu for a wedding and wanted to give to her a book to read on the plane that would make her laugh.This book is unlikely, and funny, and I feel the world is a little sadder for the loss of the generation of men who could attempt such whimsy.
5 I really like this book, largely because the journey takes place on foot through the wildest parts of Afghanistan, describing people, languages villages, scenery, Islam, the heat and insects, weather, the mountains and passes.  It's a voyage of discovery, the only way discovery can be properly made: on foot. Also important, pp. 83-93 provide the reader with a short history of Nuristan.Two English amateurs take a few mountain climbing lessons (learning how to go up, but not how to come down) on a big rock in Wales, then set out via auto for Kabul, nearly being jailed for a car accident along the way. From Kabul, they set out northeast in the Panjshir Valley where they acquire three Tadjiks (including a hefty, surley one) and three horses to carry their two air mattresses and an incredible amount of other equipment, including very tasty old army rations of diverse sorts. They note U.S. and Russian road building in the Panjshir Valley. These roads proved to be extremely useful to the Russians to enter Afghanistan in 1979, and to hightail it out again in 1989. Along the way to Nuristan/Kafiristan, their main goal, they make several attempts on Mir Samir (19880 ft.) and fail honorably. The description of the mountain should be useful to modern climbers wishing to scale it. Crossing the Chamar pass into Nuristan, they finally meet many Kafiris but don't stay long enough in that neck of the woods to tell us enough about the people, mainly because the lead Tadjik regards all Katirs as robbers and murders and had to be tricked into going into Nuristan in the first place. His fear is communicated to the author, who writes with the best form of English humor about their endurances and escapades. So, unfortunately, they rushed through the most interesting part of Afghanistan, exiting via the Rangul Valley. Newby writes of many Tadjiks and Kafiris traveling barefoot through the mountains. In the Alps, we've only seen two (young, female) herders who did that in recent times. The Dari word for alm/alp/seter/monte is &bdquo;Aylaq&quot;, a word that does not exist in English. Newby describes one endearing/irritating habit not understood by at least one recent journalist in Afghanistan: village people always came out and sat around the visitors, watching every move with fascination. In a recent news article, this sort of behavior was reported but then was ignorantly attributed to &bdquo;fascination with American power&quot;. Correlation does not imply cause and effect!One of our adventurous pair speaks Farsi, the other has forgotten Urdu, so they can communicate with the Tadjiks and somehow (??) manage to communicate with the Kafiris, who speak a multitude of dialects of an uralt Indo-Iranian language. Iranian is the lingua-franca of the Afghanistan and Pakistan. We can conclude that calling a Nuristani &bdquo;Kafir&quot;, even before the time of Abdur-Rahman (the Karlus Magnus of Afghanistan), was an insult comparable to calling the ancestors of Hopi Indians &bdquo;Anasazi&quot;. Along the way, our heroes met an old Kafir who could tell them about the old days of wine and terraced hillsides before Islamicization ca. 1890. Madrassas and bad-tempered mullahs also existed in Newby`s time, even in Nuristan.The last words to our anti-heroes in this book, spoken by Wilfred Thesiger, are priceless. They met Thesiger's caravan coming up the valley on their way out of Nuristan. He convinced them to stay another night. Fluent in Arabic, he claimed not to know a word of Persian, and barked orders to his carriers in English, leaving it to the Afghans to find out what he meant best way they could. That reminded me tangentially of Mark Twain's description of his &bdquo;relationship&quot; to German in &bdquo;A Tramp Abroad&quot;.That Newby was, in the beginning, a rank amateur is evidenced by the fact that he had a pair of hiking boots specially made, then did not try them out before getting deep into the Panjshir Valley!I got onto this book via &bdquo;An Unexpected Light&quot;, and recommend both books highly, without any qualification. This book describes some of the Afghan tribes in the 1950`s, so we get a picture of what it was like before the Russian invasion and the resulting religious fanaticisim of the Taliban made the country kaput. One could hope that the west will be smart enough to help the Afghans without trying to convert them to western ways this time around, but the recent record of the U.S. and Great Britain in Iraq does not give such a ridiculous hope much credibility.
5 Newby and his traveling companion are the sort who would have been described as "mad, you know" by their peers. The book is an engrossing description of their efforts and failures, trekking in Afghanistan. They reach base camp via Europe in a station wagon. They have made no effort to do physical conditioning and their preparation consisted of a few hurried days in Wales. Newby is a skilled observer, incisively documenting places, people, and experiences. It's amazing they survived as well as they did. It's also an interesting chronicle of how trekking used to be--the bulky, uncomfortable equipment, and the lack of anything resembling technology. The book ends somewhat abruptly, but well.As for issues brought up by other readers: British English is not that difficult to pick-up and this is not going to appeal to the crowd that never gets beyond the supermarket tabloids. Newby lacks some of Rory Stewart's background reading, but thankfully, he is a much more reflective, self-deprecating soul than the whiny, entitled Mr. Stewart. Comparing Newby to Bill Bryson is like comparing Noel Coward with Benny Hill. Newby's humor is wry, understated and often ironic, while Bryson is more like the writer of a second or third tier sitcom---a master of the obvious, with lines you can see coming a mile away. Newby is adventurous in a different way from Theroux and tends to take himself less seriously. Although the book is less of a quest than Matthiessen's journey, it is likely to appeal to fans of "The Snow Leopard". Evelyn Waugh (who wrote the foreward) is obviously a snob, but the book has less in the way of race and class prejudice than one might expect from it era.
5 After a bad day at the office, the then 36-year-old London fashion salesman Eric Newby decides to quit his job, kiss goodbye his wife and children, and mount an ill-conceived exploration of mountainous Afghani hinterlands with an eccentric foreign service friend luxuriating in Rio.After two days of mountain-climbing school in Wales, they drive off toward Kabul. Within weeks they find themselves scaling 19,000-foot mountains, inching up near perpendicular rock with the aid of an instruction manual.Along the way they are accused of vehicular homicide and beset by dysentery. They endure thirst, hunger and near death on icy precipices. They insult the natives and each other.The subsequent account of these travels and travails, now in print for some fifty years, has influenced countless other bumbling travel writers. You can hear its echoes clearly--in concept, structure and humor--in Bill Bryson's bestseller, "A Walk in the Woods."As rude as many an ugly American abroad, Newby and companion Hugh Carless angrily berate a Mullah who has just immersed their camera and packaged food in a river, and tell mocking Pathans to "____ off!" Carless cuffs a Tajik boy for purposefully leading them astray, only later to discover him the son of their chieftain host. They argue continuously with their balking Afghani packmen and between themselves.Somehow they blunder on toward their whimsical destination, Nuristan, where no Englishman has set foot for 60 years. Facing for the first time sheer, ice-covered rock in a looming mountain, the blas&eacute; Carless remarks:"It's nothing but a rock climb, really.""I can see that.""Just a question of technique."A commodity of which they seemingly possess little.Carless, who speaks fluent Persian, chafes Newby for his slow uptake with the language. Secretly studying a dubious language guide, Newby memorizes "basic" phrases, such as "I saw a corpse in the field." Sadly, this phrase has occasion for use, when they discover a young traveler on the road "who has lost everything," his skull bashed in with a rock.Danger lurks everywhere for these unarmed and blithely confident Brits: not only crevasses and precipices but also thieves, bears, disease. Both Newby and Carless suffer from dysentery most of their hike and often go thirsty rather than drink from cool, inviting streams. Particularly after discovering the source of their contamination:"`You know those little huts they build over the streams,' I said. There was one outside our house, built over the stream from which the drinking water was fetched. It was a pretty little hut; Hugh had particularly admired it. He called it a gazebo."`What about them?'"`I've found out what they're for. No wonder we're getting worse.'"To spin his seductive and tickling narrative, Newby employs understatement, self-effacement, savage wit, honed irony, and unrelenting honesty. The result is a web of foible, reluctant courage, stupidity, and curiosity--i.e., a human story, into which we are drawn by his endearingly flawed humanity.At the center, however, always lies Newby's curiosity. It impels him on his trip and keeps him trudging on despite bad food, bad water, bad weather, sleepless nights, blisters, scrapes, and threats to his life. He gives precise, detailed descriptions of the landscape, flora and fauna--including the human animal: the Tajiks, Pathans, Kafirs, Rajputs, and others he encounters along the way. As when, at night, he enters a desolate Afghani town:"A whole gale of wind was blowing, tearing up the surface of the main street. Except for two policemen holding hands and a dog whose hind legs were paralysed it was deserted."But "A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush" is by no means a trifle, all laughs and landscape. Newby also recounts Afghan history, now made even more pertinent by the war there. Such as the 1895 forced conversion of tribal pantheists to Islam--this done with the swords of Abdur Rahman's armies. Further, if one wanted to get an intimate picture of tribal life in Afghanistan before the onslaught of war two decades ago, this would be an excellent place to start.
4 In 1956, Eric Newby and his friend Hugh Carless took off for Mir Samir and Nuristan, a remote area in northeast Afghanistan on the southern edge of the Hindu Kush.  This is Newby's book about their expedition.  The title is tongue-in-cheek.  It was hardly a stroll.  Mir Samir (a pyramidal peak 19,058 feet high) had never been climbed before, and they almost succeeded in summiting it although they were laughably inexperienced as mountaineers.  They then traversed an 18,000-foot mountain pass, where on the other side they were met by Nuristanis who had never heard of the British and thought they must be Russians.  During their trek they endured bloody feet and hands, ghastly food, and dysentery, but they also saw some of the most spectacular scenery on the planet and they encountered exotic peoples some of whom seemed left over from the Middle Ages.  It was an intrepid folly, pulled off in an inimitably amateurish English fashion.  And Newby's book, A SHORT WALK IN THE HINDU KUSH, is a prototypical English travel book.The first hundred pages of the book are taken up with getting to Afghanistan.  That was done by car, driving from Istanbul, across Iran, through Afghanistan to Kabul and beyond.  That first part of the trip was an adventure in itself, with the worst moment coming when they screeched to a halt in the middle of the night just short of the corpse of a nomad in the middle of the road and almost were charged with being responsible for the death.  From Jangalak, a village at the foot of the Panshir Valley up into the Hindu Kush, they set off on foot, accompanied by a guide, two porters, and three horses to carry their equipment.  The "short walk" ensued.  It lasted about three weeks.  At the very end, near Arayu, "one of the lonely places of the earth with all the winds of Asia droning over it", they met coming from the other direction Wilfred Thesinger, an even more famous English traveler, on his way to Nuristan.Fifty-five years after it was written A SHORT WALK IN THE HINDU KUSH remains an engaging book.  Newby is a good writer.  He mixes in just enough local history and ethnography to add color and context without transforming the book into something more serious.  He is mildly self-deprecating.  More so than most British travel writers of his era, he goes out of his way to be funny.  Unfortunately, his efforts in that regard are sometimes less than successful.  The occasional resultant silliness coupled with the too-frequent carping between him and Hugh Carless are just enough to keep the book from being a thoroughgoing pleasure.  Just as Newby came up just short of climbing Mir Samir, A SHORT WALK IN THE HINDU KUSH falls just short of the pantheon of English travel classics.
3 Unlike other critics, I had a hard time dealing with Newby's commitment to sticking to the facts and his telling the story free of any detours into what it meant to him or what he had learned about himself or his countrymen along the way.  Perhaps an appreciation for his style comes after one has read enough travel books that he/she sees the kind of wistfulness for which I had hoped as useless, cliched BS.  But, being a relative novice to the genre, I lacked that kind of cynicism and, consequently, did not enjoy the book as much as I had hoped to.Also, my lack of familiarity with central Asian geography and history hendered my enjoyment of the book.  Newby usually relies on an assumed foreknowledge of the reader, so he doesn't spend much time explaining things.  This made it hard for me as I oftentimes had to go back a few pages to figure out where he was or what particular tribe with which he was currently encountering.Furthermore, I personally have a hard time with large, Moslem names, so it was very hard to remember who all of the locals were, what their jobs were, what their personalities were like, and how they had already interacted with Newby.  This may have been more due to my laziness than Newby's writing, though, so it's hard to fault him on that front.I was somewhat disappointed with this book; however, I can see why many people enjoy it and why it has garnered critical acclaim.  For seasoned travel book readers or those with a high familiarity with central Asia (especially around the Pakistani-Afghan border), though, I think this book would be right up your alley.
1 After reading the rave review in here, i decided to try this one, although i am one for tried and true travel authors. the preface by waugh put me off immediately (he writes "where civilized feet had not trod" to describe this journey into Nuristan) but i braved on because after all, the author was a different person with a different understanding of things... i was headed for a rude awakening.i don't know why newby went to afghanistan (except to escape his circumstances). some reviews here have mentioned how this book sheds light on the place and the people. not nearly enough. you have only passing references to their constant companion abdul ghiyas. you learn more about the jam puddings and dysentry than you know about badar khan and shir muhammad. he has nothing positive to say about anyone he meets (that's the natives). they either stink badly or want to take his things away or look sinister, if nothing else. at one point, when someone has a fish sent to their camp for dinner - he writes, "a fish arrives" like it had either fallen from the sky or walked up to their campfire to be roasted. no further mention is made of the gesture of hospitality (or by whom).once they reach Nuristan, the apex of their journey, there is no sense of accomplishment in his account. there isn't even a proper description of the land. one or two places remind him of jolly old england - that is all.at one place in particular, they encounter a green picturesque valley with grapes growing on vines and he kills it by saying, "if wine-making had been allowed, this would be paradise." i failed to grasp the logic of that - so, without wine making, there is no paradise? (...)
3 It seems like it took me an awfully long time to get through such a short book. I think it was just his writing style and the way he included detail about certain things I wasn't so interested in, such as mountain climbing technicalities.However, I did enjoy the book and stuck with it because I wanted to know what it was like in this part of the world in the 1950s as compared to the present.In 1956, the author quit his job in the haute couture industry and trekked with a friend through a region called Nuristan, in the extreme NE part of Afghanistan. They attempted, with virtually no climbing experience, to climb a very challenging peak called Mir Samir.Along the way they had a great variety of adventures and experiences, not all of them pleasant. They met and traveled with people from many tribal backgrounds and learned much about local customs and traditions, some quite bizarre.I especially enjoyed reading about some of the small villages they passed through that were practically idyllic at that time and are probably rubble today.The book definitely has its humorous moments. He quotes from his Bashgali(Kafir) phrasebook, which turned out to be of questionable usefulness.The funniest phrase: "A lammergeier came down from the sky and took off my cock." (Meaning rooster, not the other kind!)Can't help wondering when a tourist might have need of that one.At the conclusion of the trek, the author wrote:"I had the sensation of emerging from a country that would continue to exist more or less unchanged whatever disasters overtook the rest of mankind."He couldn't have known how wrong he would turn out to be about Afghanistan.
5 I love this book, his humor and imagination, the descriptions. It's his best!Highly Recommended!
5 This is one of the best travelogues I've ever read. It is an account of  travel to a little known corner of Afghanistan, which in itself is little  travelled. Replete with rich humour, historically relevant details, and  adventure, one could not ask for a more engaging read. I've read this book  many times.
5 Eric Newby's account of his trip to the Hindu Kush is a book both daunting and delightful. He makes light of the incompetence and ignorance of both himself and his companion in the realm of climbing and exploring. Yet what they achieve is nothing short of remarkable, given their level of ignorance. Perhaps a more experienced team would have sensibly given up in the face of hunger, illness and cold. Messrs. Newby and Carless soldier on and the account, understandably slightly incoherent, is both funny, self-deprecating and very, very readable. Their account of a chance meeting with the famous explorer Wilfred Thesiger is recounted, far less humorously, by the great man in one of his recent books.
3 During the 1950s and 1960s there were several travel books written on India, whose tone were in general (many cases rightfully so) caustic. While Naipauls 'Area of Darkness' had the pain and disgust of seeing his country of origin in shambles, and Joseph Campbells 'Brahman and Baksheesh' had the disappointment of his lack of success in seeing theory in practice , one wonders about motives of Eric Newby in writing this book. Imagine the irony of a former member of a plundering army coming back, enjoying the hospitality of the same region, lamenting about how bad everything is. Throughout the book, he almost has nothing good to say about the culture, religion, beliefs or the traditions that make Ganges sacred to a billion people . The only people he warms up to are those of his own religion, and other natives who praise the Raj (perhaps he misses the Indian sense of hospitality to visitors , to make them feel at home, even if they dont actually mean it).But the book is hilarious where it doesnt get condescending, probably belongs to a bygone colonial era, where trashing heathen beliefs would get you a book deal. I give it 3 stars for the pure spirit of adventure involved in the travel and for his devoted wife who puts up with lot of chaos in a foreign land.
5 Seldom has a traveler kept a tighter, neater, closer log of every sight, scent and sound along a journey.  He includes the rejoicing, the disgusting, the revealing; he is perceptive, descriptive and reiterative; he is fanciful and fondling and famished and fascinating. He is a detour, and perhaps a distant cousin, of the Slumdog. This text is a crash course in travel writing, covers a people and their landscape and even his personal dissentions with his wife.  He is funny, flamboyant, absolutely obsessive and thoroughly enjoyable.
4 Eric Newby's above assertion reflects both the strengths and the weaknesses of this book. In the winter of 1963-64 Newby and his wife undertook a quirky 1200 mile voyage down the "mother road" of India, the sacred Ganges, traveling from the foothills of the Himalayas, to the Bay of Bengal, and in the process they dropped only 1000 feet in elevation.  They traveled through the very heartland of India, the States that contained over a third of its population. Newby is unquestionably a great travel writer, and I concur with another Amazon reviewer that he is better than Chatwin and Thoreau. By undertaking such a journey, with his long-suffering wife, he places himself in an excellent position to describe the "wonder that was India."  Still, I felt that his book, "A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush" to have been a better book.I traveled through India, the "rough way," i.e., by local trains and buses, for seven weeks, only seven years after Newby's trip. Newby's characterizations like the following resonated well: "For the inhabitants of India have a simple genius for concocting exasperating situations which, however long he may have lived in the country and however much he may have anticipated them, burst on the victim each time with pristine force. One of the pre-requisites of real exasperation is that there should be no one to vent one's anger on, and there was no one."I thought it peculiar that in two of the epigraphs, for chapters 19 and 20, Newby is pushing the idea that cholera cannot survive in the Ganges, without real scientific proof. Furthermore, Newby's actual role in India, during the pre-Independence days of the Raj tints his outlook on the country. In the chapter entitled "Christmas at Kanpur" he tries to obtain accommodation at the Kanpur Club in the cantonment, and although he tells the episode of the refusal with some humor and irony, there is clearly that touch of annoyance that he was rejected despite the letter of introduction from Mr. Nehru. ( The retort from the club manager: "The Prime Minister is not a member of the Kanpur Club." )Still, Newby's descriptive powers are strong, and I particularly liked the sections when he finally reached Calcutta. The book also contains numerous black and white pictures to aid the reader in seeing a country before it became a source for cheap IT workers and telemarketers.  Could Newby have ever imagined it?  India need not be a battle, if one is willing to adjust only 40% from one's worldview of how things ought to be. It is a challenge, and Newby made a most valid point on page 55 when he said: "We were in a fix, really the last of a succession of fixes, but the overcoming of insuperable difficulties is, of course, one of the unspoken reasons for traveling in remote places."I only wish I had been along.  And am thankful Newby took the time to share it with all of us. Overall, a good read, if one makes allowances for his Raj background.
5 This is yet another great travel narrative from an excellent writer, and, once again, Eric is accompanied by the indomitable (even by India and its casual and common berr-berri) Wanda, his wife and fellow adventurer. It turned out to be a very slow journey indeed, fraught with those difficulties that only India can create - but that just gives us, the readers, even more details, stories and evocative descriptions to enjoy - in fact you can find yourself wishing it slower. The idea was considered easy and enjoyable by the then Prime Minister, Gandhi - who armed Eric with a letter of commendation that did not much help - as it was the Ganges itself, that was the problem, a river without much water for the first 100 miles. They ran aground 63 times in the first six days and, frustrated, turned to train to bullock cart, bus, hiking, portage and back to boat again.Eric's `motive' for returning yet again to India is his simple like for the country and its people from his time as a "very junior" officer in the British Army - he never was an elite, plundering member of the Raj. One lyrical chapter covers their visit to Eric's old Army Post, now an Indian Army centre with the original mess hung with the records of two Sepoy who won the VC (Victoria Cross for Extreme Bravery) and a letter, rightly framed and accorded a honored placing, from another who, despite being a Prisoner of War in Germany writes back to his Battalion and requests that seven Rupees a month be stopped from his accumulating pay and donated to the International Red Cross.Far from reflecting condescending attitudes or trashing the endlessly varied and fantastic cults of Indian religions and their sometimes bizarre rituals, Eric finds time to see, hear, record, and appreciate it all, and finds everything fascinating. Thankfully, when he does start to get a little too detailed about these extraordinary Kings that are a mile high and fight battles lasting a thousand years, we can rely on Wanda to add some pithy comment.Rather than reflecting the perhaps expected 1980 Euro-Christian viewpoint, Eric contrasts one modern Indian mall, with its up-market restaurants, US Baptists Church and vendors of Christmas Cards and Scotch with the narrow lanes of the old `native city' where "here the atmosphere was friendly and there was an air of excitement and animation lacking in the European part".How this talented pair of travelers manage to counter the frustrations and infuriations of India that I experienced I can only wonder at, admire and applaud and I look forward to reading more accounts of their ever-readable journeys together.
5 When Eric Newby took this light-hearted trip with his wife down India's Ganges River, I was still in high school during the last days of JFK and about to be introduced to the fab music of the Beatles.  Newby was already 44 and had served in the British military during WWII.  He somehow survived that with humor intact, and apparently also developed an insatiable appetite for travel and the land of India,. This is a travelogue that, although written fifty years ago, provides enlightenment about a mostly rural and more innocent India that no longer exists as he observed it. As such, it's a valuable historical document for those of us who are working to gain a perspective on this complex country.  It also helps that it's a very funny book written by a man who refuses to take himself or anyone else too seriously, even when he literally gets stuck in the Ganges.  I don't often laugh out loud when I'm reading, but this one made me giggle time and time again.
5 We loved it, it was hilarious. It was unreal! I can't wait for another book by him.. He's a super author
5 My son has been asked to read at least 4 books additonal to the mandatory reading they have.  He's not much of a reader so I was trying to find books that will interest him.  And this book did!  He loved it, he read it in little time. He had to make a presentation to his classmates and after his presentation, some of this classmates asked if they could borrow the book!  I would definitely recommend this book as well as &#34;Nanny Gangster&#34; from the same author.  My son is 10 years-old and he's in 5th grade.
3 I read this book aloud to my 8 year old boy.  He liked it. I chose to read him my 'live edited' version though, not that he realised, as I found the depictions of women in the book tedious and quite unpleasant and nasty. I expected a more intelligent and less toxic read, for some reason, though this was our first David Walliams novel. We've just bought Rat Burger, so will give him another chance. Certainly the comparisons being made of this author with the Roald Dahl kids' books are misleading and over optimistic. I'd more suggest kiddie Benny Hill.
5 My son loves Walliams books.  He read all of them and was looking for more!  If you love Rohl Dahl's humor, this book will not disappoint!
5 a very good. i would call it a must read one of the best books by the author please read it you will love it.12-2-14IndiaSiddh
4 I liked this book. It is really funny. I like David Walliams stories for the humour and storyline. I was seven when I read this.
4 This is an enjoyable book, but slow to get into.  At least it was for me.  I found it took me to about the third chapter to really get into the book and enjoy it.  When I did it was a very good read, intriguing, and the author did the storyline very well.  I would recommend this book to all Cathy Kelly lovers and those who like romance. I gave this book 4 stars as it took me a while to get into it.
4 Any lovers of Maeve Binchy's books will find another author here with the same skill at telling a gentle story of several people and their small seaside village in Ireland. Kathy Kelly just drops us into their lives and we &#34;live&#34; with them for a short time, finding out all their joys and sorrows, ups and downs, ambitions or lack thereof, and hurdles to be overcome.  Kelly verbally paints each character clearly, with soft or vibrant colours, depending on their personality.  While this could never be called a wildly exciting book, it is like an old and comfortable shirt that you look forward to getting back into whenever time permits. And when you finish the book you wish there was a sequel because all the characters feel like old friends, and losing them is quite a wrench.
3 I have to say that in the main part I enjoyed the book, lost me a bit in the middle,unsure if that was my fault or the books, but I will be happy to give it 4*
2 I often read reviews and think "oh it can't be that bad" but I whole heartidly agree with others on this book. Where did the last 5 chapters go?? The start was slow, middle was getting a better and well the ending is terrible as there was no ending.There are many Cathy Kelly books out there that are so much better
4 Everyone has those moments when they think twice about the direction that their life is going in and attempt to work out where they really want to be. The House on Willow Street is perfect for those moments as you follow the lives of four women, struggling with their demons and discovering the inner-strength that they had all along. Kelly demonstrates the power that friendship and family can have if they work together through trying times. She also creates an internal running commentary on how women should feel, and how we actually feel in relation to strong and powerful men in the modern world.Although this is a nice holiday read set in a deliciously nostalgic Irish location, Kelly delves into some heart wrenching and difficult issues, so be prepared to have some tissues handy. She tackles Danae's past beautifully, highlighting a timeless problem without portraying it through rose-tinted glasses. But to learn more about her secret past and the other secrets of Avalon you'll have to read it for yourself. Don't be mislead by the gentle start; things soon start to heat up!Reviewed by Elizabeth Wright on behalf of BestChickLit.com
3 I enjoyed book but i thought a lot of it was repetitive it was just a bit too dwawn out
2 Wow - this book sounded pretty good but it was not.  There were so many characters that I kept trying to keep track of who was whom and how they were related.  Most of the characters that I COULD keep track of were just chiches.I think buried in all the detail, there is probably a good story in here but as it is, I absolutely could not recommend it.This rarely happens, but I could not finish it.  It was just too frustrating and complicated.  Skip this one...there are enough really good books out there.
4 It has all you want in a story death, betrayal, secrets, treasure, love, scandal and lots more.............. Give it a go!
5 I have read and enjoyed all of Cathy Kelly's book. She has the knack of making one feel that they know all the characters in her books personally
4 this book did tend to get a bit slow in places.not unlike a maeve binchy noveldefinitely worth the read
3 I have really enjoyed all of Cathy Kelly's books and usually read them quickly and eagerly.  While I greatly enjoyed the characters in this book (especially the chickens!), I was a little disappointed by the ended which seemed very abrupt and not quite satisfying.  Overall, it's still a good read, but I wish there was a little more at the end but that's probably mostly because I like all my endings neatly wrapped with a bow on them and no loose strings dangling.
4 Though slow at first, the story picks up and rewards those who stick with it. This story is not just about Cashel and Tess's rekindled romance. It is about the lives of everyone in the Irish village of Avalon. Readers will be treated to a small town experience that gives a peek into the rich lives of those kissed by the beautiful magic of the Emerald Isle.KaitlinReviewer for Coffeetime Romance & More
5 Cathy Kelly has got the thumbs up from me again for another enjoyable read and it is unpredictable. Her writing is funny and sad and you just feel like you know the characters personally. Good stuff!
3 First of all, I should disclose that I LOVE Cathy Kelly's books.  I love how she represents women from different walks of life and takes us along for their journeys -- often a transformation that makes them better women.  For me,however, this book lacked the follow through that Ms. Kelly normally provides.  I felt that the resolution of the varying secrets, by and large, were unsatisfying.  The story arc for Suki doesn't really provide us with any difference in her, its as if she just woke up and decided to be different with little real struggle.  Tess is a very engaging character, but the ending of her story seems rather quick and not very well drawn.  The best story arc in this is that of Danane, but even there, I feel like there should have been more.  As much as I chomp at the bit for a new Cathy Kelly book, I wish she had spent more time developing the characters transformation -- even if the book would have been another 200 pages.That said, the prose is excellent, the characters are relatable and interesting.  I think that overall, fans of Cathy Kelly will enjoy this as another chance to spend time with a favored author and spend a nice afternoon/evening.  If you are a newcomer to Cathy Kelly I suggest reading Homecoming or one of her earlier novels as they are much more satisfying. A solid novel, if not the brightest star.
5 If you miss Maeve you will really like this book. The story takes us to another small town in Ireland, however the story involves some modern twists. And it does have a happy ending while leaving the reader to tie up the loose ends. I really enjoyed this book.
4 Recently my prefered reading genre has shifted from murder mysteries to contemporary romances by UK writers.  Cathy Kelly is part of the reason for this change, when on holidays I just couldn't face another murder narrative and in desperation I turned, quite by accident, to The House on Willow Street.The characters are very credible as they search for solutions to everyday issues faced by toda's women.  I liked the way Cathy crossed generations while maintaining her focus on us more mature individuals.  Through unlikely friendships and women's solidarity the narrative unfolded in an entertaining way.Male characters are also depicted with a variety of attributes, some negotiating contemporary relationships more successfully than other.Cathy's story reminds me of those by Joanna Trollope and Maeve Binchey.
4 'The House On Willow Street', is so much in the style of the Cathy Kelly I remember reading several years ago and it was therefore almost akin to catching up with an old friend and listening to her latest news and gossip. For me personally, Cathy has already firmly established herself in the upper echelons of female Irish authors, who are such consummate story tellers, able to keep the reader spellbound with their seemingly effortless, conversational writing style, characters who are easy to connect with and richly crafted storylines I can relate to.There is a slow, yet methodical, multi-layered story development, as we are introduced to the individual characters living in Avalon and are on the outside, looking in, privy to their unique stories and witness as their lives become inextricably linked and circumstances take them back to their roots. A place which each of them has their own reasons to want to forget, yet which calls to them like an old friend; or for some, a place of sanctuary and solitude in which to rebuild their shattered lives.Each of them has struggled with difficult issues, heart-wrenching decisions and have been forced to face and conquer their own demons and they have each needed to call on more reserves of inner strength, than they knew they possessed, as they give serious thought to the direction in which they would like their lives to go. The power of true friendship is examined and when the chips are well and truly down, the overriding sanctity and strength of the network of family and friends, comes to the fore.As Cathy takes us on the unique journey that each of the characters has to make, she provides a multi-faceted study of just about every human emotion; from jealousy, greed and revenge; through to loneliness, feelings of worthlessness and self-hatred; even desperation, desolation and rejection.I felt that Danae's story was probably the most difficult to predict the outcome of and Cathy did an excellent job of revealing the details a little at a time, so that although I thought I knew the full picture, it really was a fluid situation and kept me guessing right until the end.The paths of these journeys are destined to cross time and time again, before each of the protagonists come to realise, that they are all basically searching for much the same thing ... peace, stability, love and a sense of belonging ... of being accepted for themselves and realising that their contribution to this small and intimate community, is something to be built upon and treasured.The book as been heralded by some, as a story of friendship and the coming togther of the lives of four women, however I personally felt that Cashel, the forceful male protagonist in the saga, is a pivotal part of the equation, whose life is already intertwined with that of Suki and Tess, whilst his current business relationship with Mara, links her and Danae with the future they will all share in Avalon.TessA new person was coming into this world and it was connected with her and her children. She would do the right thing. That was Tess Power's way.SukiThe woman had been right. Suki had always been waiting for some guy to fix it all - and she still was ... So much for her feminist principles! She might have been talking the talk but she'd never really walked the walk. Instead, she'd moved from one man to the next all her life. And that had to change.MaraShe wished she had a magic wand to fix all past broken romances. But then, if she had a wand, she might have fixed her own.DanaeMara's pernicious influence was changing her, making her all friendly and chatty, after all these years of keeping herself to herself. But it felt good. Danae smiled to herself. She had to admit it - opening up to the world felt good.CashelBeing Master of the Universe was all very well, but when you came back to your home town, the place you'd run around as a grubby schoolboy - then you came back to what you'd been all along.The characters are all authentically and sympathetically portrayed, feelings and emotions are analysed and discussed in detail and situations are truly perceptive studies of life in today's modern world, couched in excellent dialogue and prose of the highest calibre.Perhaps the single most important line in the book, may be the most profound and far-reaching, yet is the simplest thing that any one of us can do for someone else, without possibly ever realising what a difference it might make, to both our own lives and theirs.I'd have gone mad if not for other people's kindness over the past couple of months. Henry James said kindness was the most important word in the English language. He was right...As this was a publisher invitation to read and review, a paperback print copy of  `The House On Willow Street', was sent to me free of charge, by HarperCollinsPublishers.This will in no way influence any comments I may express about the book, in any blog article I may post. Any thoughts or comments are my own personal opinion and I am in no way being monetarily compensated for this, or any other article.I personally do not agree with `rating' a book, as the overall experience is all a matter of personal taste, which varies from reader to reader. However some review sites do demand a rating value, so when this review is posted to such a site, it will attract a 4 out of 5....
4 Lovely book, would make a great holiday read, would have loved to read more about the house being bought back to life, but that is just because houses are my passion..other than that,Thoroughly enjoyed it..
5 I think I am one of Cathy Kelly''s biggest fans. As with all her books it was such a pleasant read from start to finsh and the finish came all too soon for me, A wonderful set of characters in the book that totally captured mu heart, I wish she could write more books as she cant keep up with my reading,
4 Really liked the characters found something I could relate to in all of them.It tidied up a bit fast at the end, but maybe that was because I didn't want it to end.
