5 I actually couldn't put it down!  Such a heart-breaking memoir, we can feel the sadness and frustrations.  The language was uniquely simple although can be confusing until we understand his style.  Frank and funny, I couldn't help wondering how he could be so matter-of-factly about the sorry state of the childhood.  But that's life.A very good book for the simple pleasure of reading and getting your heart captured.I haven't seen the movie said to be so-so.  But as they say.. don't judge the book by its movie.
5 This is not a book I normally would have read, but a friend pushed it on me.  I didn't expect much, but I was quickly brought into an unimaginably bleak world.  Exquisitly written, Angela's Ashes portrays life of the poor  in Ireland that, at least at that time, rivaled the poverty of the  so-called third world. McCourt has a fine sense of language; you can almost  hear the brogue in your head as you read.  If anyone asked me if this was  worth a read, I would only respond, &quot;'Tis.&quot;
5 ANGELA'S ASHES is the memoirs of Frank Mccourt and the recollections of his childhood spent in Ireland. The story is told from the viewpoint of young Francis Mccourt, from the young age of about 5 or 6 til he hits the age of 19, and we see him age before our eyes as the writing style changes from chapter to chapter.Frank's mother is Angela, and she suffers daily trying to keep her children fed and clothed, trying to make ends meet because her husband is so lazy and full of drink that she can never depend on him to do a full day's work for pay.  And when Malachy McCourt does get paid,  he ends up at the local taverns and pubs,  drinking his weekly pay.  Angela has to resort to finding the odd job, or worse yet, to begging at the welfare offices.Frank and his family start out life in America, but move to Ireland to escape the poverty they knew in America, thinking they would find a better life in Ireland. They were wrong. The McCourts live a life of extreme poverty in their new homeland, but the book is told in the voice of someone who sees life in a different light.  You want to laugh with Frank when he describes the terrible conditions they live in - an entire section alone was devoted to the stinking toilet that they had to share with the rest of the neighborhood.  It was a hard life for them all, but from the tone of young Francis, the reader does not always get that impreession.  All he and his family knew was poverty, and they existed in this way as best they could.ANGELA'S ASHES won the PulitZer Prize and it was well deserved. Frank Mccourt's masterpiece on life in Ireland told in the voice of a young Irish American boy is haunting yet real. It's a serious book, but the tone is light-hearted.  The spirit of young Francis McCourt shines through each page, and you root for him when he inches his way toward his goal: to buy a ticket to America.
5 I loved this book!  It was fast paced and kept my attention.  In fact it was difficult putting it down!
4 Angela's Ashes by Frank McCourt is a memoir about a poor boy growing up in Limerick, Ireland during the 1930s and 40s. His father is a drunk who spends his money on alcohol instead of providing for his family.  Frank's mother, Angela, makes due as best as she can.  Together they deal with starvation, unimaginable living conditions, and the tragic loss of three of Frank's siblings. At one point they live in an apartment where eleven families use the restroom that's located next to the building. And I complained that I had to share the bathroom with my parents and two sisters growing up!  They celebrate one Christmas dinner with a pig's head that Angela was able to obtain with grocery dockets. The children are often cold and sent out to collect left over coal in the streets. On one occasion they rip walls apart in desperation to burn for heat.Sounds a bit overwhelming? Amazingly, Frank is not singing the blues. He tells his story with wry humor.  Frank's composition on "Our Lord" in the fifth grade provides a pretty good glimpse into how he feels about his life.  He begins by saying that Jesus wouldn't have liked the damp weather in Limerick. He then goes on to explain that whenever Jesus got hungry he could always have his fill of figs and oranges or get dinner from Mary Magdalene and her sister, Martha. And, "If He wanted a pint He could wave His hand over a big glass and there was a pint." Frank ends by stating that "It's a good thing Jesus decided to be born Jewish in that warm place because if he was born in Limerick he'd catch the consumption and be dead in a month and there wouldn't be any Catholic Church and there wouldn't be any Communion or Confirmation and we wouldn't have to learn the catechism and write compositions about Him. The End."  (Frank McCourt, Angela's Ashes (New York: Scribner, 1996), 206.)Most of our book club members read Angela's Ashes before we officially formed our group, and it got a thumbs-up from all those who read it.
5 WOW, only an Irishman could tell his story so poetically. I loved reading, laughing and crying my heart out with this story. How I failed to read it sooner is baffling to me. It caused me to quickly order his other books. I want to put on my Celtic music and weep. I'm proud to be Irish.
5 What's fascinating about Frank McCourt's story telling is that it is non-pretentious, honest, and humorous. This is a heart-warming chronicle of love for family, the struggle to survive the day-to-day battles with poverty, and dreams fulfilled. This is a story of a boy who matured into manhood early, owing to his desire to give his family a better life. It's such a joy to read this book, because as I've learned, a cheerful disposition and positive attitude, can motivate one to persevere and pursue one's cherished dreams even amidst difficulties.
5 This is a very moving, sad and tragic accounting of the difficulties of growing up poor and Irish in the pre and post WWII years.  It is extremely well written.
2 Tried to read this book, but it rambled on and on. The father in this book was so horrible I got angry every time I started reading. Gave up after about 1/4 of the way through the book. Found out my sister had tried to read it also and quit reading it as well.
5 One of the distinctive signs of a really, really good book, one that you can call a masterpiece, is that it leaves you something, it leaves you enriched with a little treasure of memories and imagination thaa remains with you forever. As one of Frank's teacher says in this book, talking about studying in general, it "stocks your mind". What this book does, beside being a pleasant and charming read, is exactly that: enrich your mind with all the emotions, thoughts, experiences, fears, hopes and sensations of an irish child living his desparate but passionate childhood in the slums of a little irish town. Along the way, it gives you the chance to reflect on the many aspects and consequences of war, poverty, family life,alcoholism, on the hypocrisy and damage that a religious education is often responsible for...but the real heart of this book is really in the many emotions and memoirs that bacome a little part of you.A friend recommended this beautiful book to me, I recommend it to you.
5 If I were sitting on the Pulitzer Prize committee today deciding who gets it, this book would win hands down and I'm glad it did.In honor of Frank McCourts' passing just a few weeks ago I decided to give his book a try.I remember all the hoopla when it came out thirteen years ago but I'm not one for hoopla.It sat on my shelf for years but I just never got to it.I'm glad that I finally did.Written in a beautiful,clear and distinctly Irish manner it was a delight to read.Chapter after chapter of abject poverty,hunger,filth,disease,alcoholism death and the human struggle of class are all presented in a way that's real and hard to imagine happening,but it did.If what McCourt writes is true and we have no reason to doubt him, the mere fact that he made it to where he did is a miracle and an example of fortitude we can all learn from.The fight for life despite horrible living conditions and the manner in which both his frustration and hopefullness as well as his growing intelligence helping him survive were conveyed in a palpable and at times very funny narrative.After reading this book which in my opinion is destined to be considered a true classic work,it will I'm sure, leave an indelible imprint on your brain that will remain there for a while.Just because it took me thirteen years to read it doesn't mean you have to. Read it now so you too can see the beauty of what a little hard boiled egg and a slice of ham could mean to someone.It might taste differently to you after reading this classic memoir.
3 This book has a struck a chord with many readers. But  in shining a spotlight on his mother's life the author unwittingly celebrates and makes a virtue of unbridled ignorance. It doesn't help  McCourt is not a natural writer.  Throughout  the endless descriptions of unremitting poverty the reader wants to scream at Angela-&#34;For god's sake stop breeding!&#34;  But no such luck. In Angela's world it's essential that every female bring as many more people into the hell they inhabit as possible.
1 McCourt is a brilliant writer and on that basis alone this is a worthwhile read even though I always felt it was biased against Irish-Catholicism.  Oh, well that's fair game in a memoir.  So why one star?  The book pretends to be a biography.  There is now an overwhelming amount of evidence that Ashes is a fictional novel loosely based on boyhood anxieties.  McCourt may have intended this as a literary device but I'm sorry a lie is a lie is a lie.
5 This was a very long tale of death, misery, sadness, and disaster, leavened by splashes of humor and even joy.  Highly recommended.
5 If you can make it through the first 100 pages of &quot;Angela's Ashes,&quot; then the rest is much easier. This isn't because it's poorly-written.  Far from it; &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; quickly captures the reader with a unique and compelling voice. The difficulty is that the first part of the book is tragic beyond words... and yet Frank McCourt has found words which capture the tragedy of his early years with ruthless honesty.In bone-clean prose, McCourt details the events of his early childhood, first in America and then in Ireland. His story is an interesting one, to be sure, but the most notable thing about it is the way he tells it. McCourt's straightforward style perfectly portrays how a child sees the world and his family. Especially early on, there is no moralizing or judgment; events simply happen, often for no discernible reason (although reasons are clear to the reader). As McCourt grows, so the prose becomes more complex, and his understanding of what is happening to his family crystallizes.McCourt also does a great job capturing the rhythm and cadence of dialogue and regional accents, especially the Irish way of speaking English. While reading the book's dialogue sequences, a reader can hear the people speaking in their inner ear, can hear the thick Irish accents of some, the clear English of others. Simply put, Frank McCourt has one of the finest ears for dialogue of any writer I've ever read.The imagery of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is simple but vibrant, the story moving and very, very real. It is, in many ways, a difficult book to read, but that is simply because it is so well-written, and portrays a difficult subject with honesty and clarity. One finishes the book wishing that more writers could write this clearly, but even more important, the reader understands what Frank McCourt went through as he grew to a young man. If that reader is anything like me, it will make them very thankful for what they have.
5 Absolutely amazing account of a young boy's life living in the  &quot;lanes&quot; (ghettos) of Ireland.  Beautifully written,  well-organized, this story draws you in from the very beginning and doesn't  let you go, even after you've finished the book!The author's unique  writing style is captivating and makes it seem like the author is right  there confiding in you. A MUST read.
2 The Angela that the title references is the guy's dead mother.  The tone is rather dismal and disengaging.  I did not like the writing style.  I just think that when a person reflects on their mother, perhaps, there would be a more sentimental tone.
5 I have recently re-read Angela's Ashes for a class assignment in which I had to compare a book with the film version of the same story, and I was again blown away by the beauty of this book.  It is a testament to Frank McCourt's enormous talent that he is able to blend such sad situations with such delightful humor.  He is masterful in the way he narrates the story from the point-of-view of a child, with his outlook and insights growing as the character (Frank himself) matures, similar to the approach that Dickens used in "David Copperfield.""Angela's Ashes" is a modern-day classic - one that I'm sure I will re-read every few years, just to hear the magical and shimmering prose in my ears again and again.
5 I resisted reading Angela's Ashes for a long time , simply thinking the book was over hyped.I saw Frank McCourt  on PBS hosting a tour of Dublin pubs and his affability inspired me to pick this up.  Now that I've given in my sense is that McCourt's genius in this was to write in the voice of his childhood self. The almost unbearable scenes of poverty and endless suffering he describes become  through the eyes of a child something tangible and since it is a first hand account a testament of endurance and survival that ultimately lifts the spirit.There are enough reviews below that summarize the outline of the story so I'll just say that occasionally a book or film live up to it's hype. Angela's Ashes is one of those books.
4 This memoire of a poverty striken and chaotic childhood in Ireland is brutally honest and sad.  WHile I believe that it has been over-praised a bit, it has a distinctive writing style that is very enjoyable.  There are many details that stick in the mind:  his discovery that his mother begged in secret, the smell of the sewer next to their aprtment, their dog eating the only bit of meat in the house before they could grab it.  Well worth the read.
5 Frank McCourt tells the tale of his childhood in Angela's Ashes,recounting his early childhood in New York City followed by hisparents moving back to Ireland where most of the action takesplace during his memoir and then in later chapters of his bookin New York City.Frank did an excellent job recounting his childhood memoriesand ones from his early teens as well.Franks life is full of drama, despair, heartbreak, comedy,depression, moments of sadness, moments of happiness andFrank's struggles along with his Mom, drunk father, andhis siblings as well trying to make it in Ireland duringthe onset of World War II and the sruggle with poverty,disease and sickness living in hard times.Angela's Ashes is a page turner and and interesting readas well as a book and memoir you won't soon forget.Here is a great review from allreaders.com by Patriciawhich help sums up Angela's Ashes.From  [...]"This is a fine, fine story told by a man looking back on his childhood. His view is sharp, unblinking and longing for things to have been different. His voice is strong, his memories are harsh, yet tinged with the warmth of love and hope. I heard thee Audible version. I did not read the print version. In 13+ hours Frank McCourt reads his own book. In 13 hours we hear/see/feel and know dire poverty, a longing to belong to another or better class of poverty. We hear the pain in the young boy's voice as he tries to make sense of his wayward, loving, funny, supportive father. We hear the pain of the man-child recognizing his mother's desperate straits.We learn about all the players in this comedy he called his childhood. All the while, the big pink elephant dwells in the family's midst, some side-stepping it, some succumbing to it.We suffer for his mother, for his lost siblings, for the loss of a real father. We rejoice in young Frances' accomplishments -- stealing, lying, and generally getting over -- just to survive.Yet the main theme of this tremendous treatise on dysfunctionality is that of Frank's father, Malachy. We love him, hate him, pity him, loathe him and try to understand why Angela tolerates it all. And through young Frankie's burning, sick eyes, we see a desperation that cannot go away.The children grow up not questioning their lot in life, though Frankie's thoughts are ever clear and demanding. Somehow through all the neglect and borderline abuse that Frankie survives, he is polite, kind and knows his place.He is a true Catholic, reared in the old ways of repentence, shame and forgiveness. He can sin and when he is able to, confess and then be redeemed, knowing he will slide again and repeat the cycle.The peripheral characters in his story are as strong and shaping as his absent father and unconscious mother. They shape him. Alcoholism abounds in his world and it too shapes him.. without saying it, it is the omnipotent pint that shapes his views, his mores, his goals.Frank stumbles into adolescence wiht a bang. He is ill, his eyes are horrific, but his sight is clear, his voice is strong and his will to "go to America" prevails.America represents his infancy, when there was hope in Angela's heart, when Malachy reluctantly claimed Frankie as his son, yet lived his "Northern Irish" life as if Frankie was not there.America beckons young Frances whose real first name is NOT Frances, because life in Ireland was so, so bad. During his years between 14 and 19 he longed for and saved for America, knowing America would change his life. He was a minor criminal, far beyond stealing to survive. He was able to save money and eat and do all sorts of things separate from his hungry mother and siblings and felt no remorse.Already he was becoming Malachy's offspring. Frankie would do whatever he had to do or wanted to do.. to pursue his dream --- in this case, America.Frank's father Malachy wanted only enough money to drink and declare his love of country. Malachy never wanted a family; his ready made family came as a result of a momentary dalliance with young Angela in America. Though they had six children, Malachy never accepted his role as father or provider.Angela reluctantly took on her role as bearer of children, but not one time, not once in the entire book did I hear the words love from either parent or any child.This was a life of obligation. Children were born, children died. Sometimes they ate, sometimes they starved. No matter how little money or food (the babies had sugar water instead of milk), Malachy Sr. had his pint(s) of Guiness.While Frank studies his childhood with a poignant view of his pains and privations, he has warm, loving memories of moments with each of his family members. He loves the time in front of the cold fire place with his father, who is fatherly at those morning meetings. There are the moments on the stairs of their first apartment, the long walks in the country stealing apples and milk, all those wonderful things he recalls.But Frank's eyes look for America as his salvation. Ironically, his eyes are his major physical weakness. We wonder at the end... what about his eyes?Frank does get to America and is welcomed by a great event that proves right off the boat that America is the land of opportunity.In summary, it is a long, longing and profound look at a life, a country, a time of life and a perspective that rings true and truly harrowing all at the same time.I came to cheer Frankie on in his exploits, while wincing in discomfort as I realize that these are the traits he will take with him into adulthood and to America. How honest will Frank be in his lifetime, will he become an American criminal too?These are the elements that make for good stories, strong characters that create a "need to know" in the reader.Throughout the book I came to realize that had I read this book when I was a young parent, my children would have turned out differently today. I would have been more restricting, given them less and taught them more. Frank's family got by on virtually nothing -- and nothing within a community of little more than nothing. Someone described one of their apartments as resembling Calcutta.They were poorer than dirt and they had no way out.Read this story with joy and anticipation. The pay-off is slow and agonizing, but in retrospect it is there."Patricia G. Kurz, Resident ScholarA great all time classic and touching memoir.5/5 stars.
4 This author show how great an impact real poverty has on people's minds, lifestyles, and outlook on life.  It shows how difficult it is to rise above it.
1 I bought this because a friend recommended it to me. said it was good. however, I found it very boring. It got bogged down on topics that I honestly forgot. It was so forgettable that I forgot the reason why I hated it. I got about half way through and quit reading because it never held my interest.
5 This is a magnificent first-hand account of being Irish, Catholic and poor! With his wit and charm, McCourt brings life to a very gloom atmosphere of Limerick, where boys are forced to &quot;interfere&quot; with themselves when there's no oppotunity for a real &quot;excitement&quot;, but --thanks to confessions and St Francis of Asissi!-- they can be absolved in order not to go straight to hell; where fish and chips can also be &quot;licked&quot; up off newspapers; where a goat's head can make Christmas --indeed!-- a merry occasion.Growing up in a Catholic environment myself, I can empathize with McCourt: making up &quot;sins&quot; for Saturday confessions, burdened by guilt after &quot;interfering&quot; with myself, tormented by fear of dropping the Lord's &quot;body&quot; to the floor while receiving Communion. But unlike McCourt, I was lucky to be accepted as an altar boy -- a oportunity to taste the Lord's &quot;blood&quot; in sachristy!&quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; gives an insight of how (not?) to be a Catholic, and a poor one at that!
5 I've just finished reading ANGELA'S ASHES -- a book I found fortuitously, but also quite fortunately, here in Brooklyn at the 8th Street Book Exchange."Fortuitously" is perhaps not altogether accurate.  I pass by this book exchange at least 2-3 times a week in the hope that I'll spot a gem I haven't already read.  I recognized both the title and the author's name immediately -- and grabbed it.  "Fortunately," however, is entirely accurate.  Why?  Because I can say with confidence that ANGELA'S ASHES is one of the finest works of literary fiction I know of -- and I've read many in this particular coming-of-age genre, starting decades ago with Henry Fielding's TOM JONES and, just recently, with John Cleland's FANNY HILL.If you've got a fondness for the sound of Irish brogue -- and I do -- ANGELA'S ASHES is the book for you.  The prose in this book moves fast.  VERY fast.  But I suspect that that almost involuntary speed-of-read has more to do with the writer's talent than with the brogue.  It takes talent to make a reader's eye move quickly across the page, and Frank McCourt has that talent.  In SPADES.But he also has something else, which I'll call a perfect pitch and feel for tragicomedy.  There are passages in this book -- great MOUNTAINS of them -- that are painful to read.  There are also passages -- most of them dialogue -- that will make you laugh like Satan.  None of them, mind you, of the knee-slapping variety, but rather of the frenzied-at-midnight, demonically celebratory variety.  I dunno.  Perhaps it's just the brogue.  Or Ireland.  Or the Irish -- surely God's chosen wretches if there ever were such a "Chosen People."If I have any criticism of ANGELA'S ASHES -- any at all -- it would be only this:  I wish Frank McCourt would hoe his prose-gardens with more standard punctuation.  It would render his prose-roses less thorny in the plucking.I give this book only five stars because I can't award it any more than that.RRB09/04/13Brooklyn, NYTrompe-l'oeil (or, The In and Out. Of Love.)
5 The book does read about a poor boy in Ireland. My sister and I was also brought up very poor here in the US. Even we did not have enough at the end of the week and was eating bread with a little bit of milk and sugar on it. If you haven't been poor this way, words can only tell the story. Great book, wish I could write to tell mine - and that it was an interesting.
5 I've read this book several times. I ended up losing it during a move, so I bought another copy. Frank McCourt is my favorite author. I highly recommend this book.
3 Gross and depressing tale of a boy's life in Ireland.  I didn't find this tale too believable, either.  Mother was awful -- didn't take care of the kids, couldn't recognize illness, slovenly, desperate.  Father a no-good  drunk.  Too much description of excrement, vomit, scabby sores and puss.  Yuck!  Funny scenes when boy is making confession.  Paints a terrible  picture of Irish and of Catholics.  Some good tangential stories but, on  the whole, a depressing mess.
5 The only negative thing I can find to say about this book is that I have no idea, after reading it, where the title comes from. After that there is nothing but good. McCourt injects pathos in potentially miserable  situaions, and humor where there is grimness. His style is unique because,  given the subject matter, the reader expects a ponderous tome but here,  instead, is a comic jaunt into despair. And it is this 'jaunty' quality  which allows the reader to read on despite the misery, despite the anger at  the father, the desire to shake the mother and to slap a few relatives  along the way. At the end one can only hand it to the victims of poverty  who survive to write with such wit and humor. Thank you Mr. McCourt for  sharing, and for giving the reader moments of laughter when a person in  that situation must certainly find nothing to laugh about.  A potentially  depressing book rendered delightful. Certainly a MUST READ.
3 It may have been expectations.  Given the press this book has received, I expected something at least as good as 'The Grapes of Wrath'.  Unfortunately, This one has a long way to go.  After reading it (and I will admit it is both interesting and easy to read), I had an overwhelming need to ask &quot;So what, Frank?&quot;  You missed a very good chance to raise some very important questions about wealth, and the lack of it, too bad you too the easy way out.
5 Frank McCourt's recalling of his childhood reflect the acceptance of the Irish of that era to  their situation.  The poverty,discomfort,lack of fundamental medical care seems to be so prevalent that the  entire community sees it as normal.  The devil may care attitude of the children conveys a sadness that is overwhelming.  The death of siblings  affects the mother and father in very different ways.  There is a pervasive fatalism among them that seems to preclude their expecting or working toward a different way of life.  The father's denial of reality,his living in the pathos of the downtrodden Irish describes the attitude of the characters in general. Overall, I found the book to be both sad and humorous.  I would highly recommend it,  We  (Book Club) used it  for a monthy meeting and it led to much discussion.  Sandra B. Taylor
5 Angela's Ashes, the first in a series of three, contains the memoirs of Frank McCourt. Written straight from the heart, it is a chilling and unforgettable book.  Born to Irish parents, Malachy and Angela McCourt, Frank's book begins in America, moves on to Ireland and eventually works its way back to America.Angela's Ashes is filled with strife, poverty, death, despair and sickness.  What is also born of McCourt's experiences is hope.  Achieving what Frank McCourt has managed to do with his life, is almost unfathomable, when you read about his childhood and his alcoholic father who is absent more than present.  I am not an emotionally charged person who cries over a book or movie, but this book did bring tears.What I enjoyed most about the book, was the smooth flowing writing style and lovely Irish lilt.  Frank never condemns his father for seldom sending money or the poverty and despair in which they were raised.  Rather, he takes a lesson from his childhood and finds the fortitude to become the highly educated, successful man he is today.  Hats off to Frank MacCourt, a man who overcame adversity against all odds and accomplished what many others in similar circumstances may only dream of doing.Also recommended are his two sequels, "Tis" and "Teacher Man," the latter soon to be released in paperback.
4 I first heard of this book while on a tour of Ireland.  We drove past the street in Limerick where most of the story takes place.  This sad story makes the horrors of extreme poverty real for the reader.  Hard to believe that Frank Mccourt was able to survive his childhood.  The story will stay with you for a very long time.
5 Wonderfully moving book that makes you finally appreciate the old line  &quot;there is always someone worse of than yourself&quot;. Which McCourt  proves as whilst relaying his own dire curcumstances he can still point out  others who were in sorrier shape. A tragic comedy that highlights how  adaptable and resilient the human spirit is. I couldn't put it down and  literally found myself laughing through the tears.
4 I really enjoyed this book!!  It had been on my "to-read" list for awhile; and the passing of Frank McCourt earlier this year reminded me that I wanted to read it.  I am very glad that I did!  Yes, the book was a tad repetetive (drunk dad drinks away family's money, leaves, repeat); but I was still engagaged the entire read.  Yes, the writing was nothing spectacular; but that helped to create the feeling that you were witnessing the story through the eyes of a child.  Many reviewers called the book depressing.  While McCourt no doubt had a difficult childhood, I did not find the book depressing at all.  McCourt frequently injects humor into the story; and there were multiple instances when the goodness of humanity shined through amidst the poverty and despair.As a teacher, I think that this book could be used in a high school literature class (or even history class...I learned a lot about Irish and Irish-Catholic history from reading this book).  The language is accessible to younger readers, but the themes become more mature as McCourt passes through adolescence.  It would also be an interesting book club pick.  Many interesting discussions could be had about coming of age, poverty, politics, family, and resilience.I wavered between four and five stars.  I ultimately chose four, as the writing itself was not five star quality, and I wished some of the characters had been more fully developed.  A recommended book nonetheless!
3 McCourt writes in a fashion that flows with no quotation marks and a style that is that of a storyteller sitting next to you in the room by the fireplace.  I found the book interesting to a point but somewhat depressing.
4 I almost put this book down numerous times during the first 200 or so  pages.  It was so depressing I could hardly make myself read it.  But it is  a wonderful book and even becomes quite funny the farther you read along.  It's worth the effort.
4 Another one of those recent books which has to compared with the movie. As ever the book wins hands down. Not a light read but enjoyable none the less.It is the writers memoirs of a poor upbringing mainly in Limerick. Does it really rain there contantly? The downstairs of the family is permanently flooded. The loss of siblings is described in a matter of fact way which emphasises its inevitability.It is not all gloom. There are moments of real humour - particularly the first communion where 'The Lord Jesus' becomes stuck in his throat and is subsequently vomited into the back-yard.As this is a memoir it is unclear how much is historically accurate. but it isn't a history book.I would have given it 5 stars but it was depressing in places. Hardly a reasonable criticism.
5 Frank McCourt came out of nowhere with this raucous debut, a memoir of tragedy mixed with charm. It details the period of his life from child to adolescent in Limerick, Ireland, in the muddy days of Postwar Britain. His father, a man devout to his country and the drink, instills in him an appreciation of the world and its temptations; and his pious mother does her best to teach him values and gratuity. These all combine to make McCourt's literary voice, which is once refreshingly original and carefully contemplative of the tragedies that are continually visited upon the family within a few short years. Any other writer would make this the most depressing book in recent publication history, but in his hands it is palatable, wise, and oftentimes very funny. McCourt's childhood seems light years apart from what most people have today, but there is still a very human optimism and self-sufficiency throughout the keeps the book from wallowing in despair. The end result is a memoir that, while perhaps more imagination than fact, shows resiliency and a wry enjoyment of life that is stripped bare of ann incidentals. The book's success is a no-brainer- its appeal is wide and deep. Recommended for all modern lit fans.
3 The book is vey well written, but just too depressing.  What an awful Childhood to go through.  None of us can imagine living in that kind of poverty.  The ending was a little disappointing.
4 For some reason, and I don't know why, I had it in my head that Angela's Ashes was about Frank McCourt and his brothers returning to Ireland as adults and fumbling about as they tried to decide how to dispose of their cremated mother's ashes.It's not.Angela's Ashes is actually a memoir essentially detailing Frank McCourt's life from the age of three through nineteen.Born into a life of poverty, McCourt's immigrant parents decide to return to Ireland.  Unfortunately, conditions are actually worse for them in Ireland.  Add to the equation that McCourt's father is an alcoholic who thinks nothing of drinking away what little money they come across while his family starves ... well, the book gets more than a little depressing.And that's the real magic of McCourt's writing.  For as awful as things are (and they get pretty awful), McCourt's wicked sense of humor has you laughing at things that shouldn't be the least bit funny.  I actually felt guilty at times as I couldn't help but chuckle at McCourt's description or use of dialogue.Make no mistake, however, like in his memoir Teacher Man, McCourt does not try to deceive us into thinking he's the hero of the story.  He's tough on everyone, but he's toughest on himself.  He reports to us misdeeds and lewd thoughts that most of us would never dream of sharing, and that sort of honesty is quite refreshing.Though funny, the book was also so disturbing (especially McCourt's father) that I really wanted to get through it as fast as I could.  I absolutely appreciate both McCourt's humor and charismatic writing, but I won't lie to you and say this was one of my favorite reads.  But, life is hard and disturbing for many people, and my perspective of the world improved thanks to the Pulitzer Prize winning Angela's Ashes.~Scott William Foley, author of Souls Triumphant
5 I remember reading this book as a freshman in high school after telling my grandmother, who is Irish and an avid reader, that I despised reading. A class assignment asked us to read a book that linked to our heritage, and my grandmother told me this book might just do the trick for me. After looking at its thickness, I almost flung it out the window, but after a few pages this book had me captivated. I loved it!
5 I listened to the Recorded Books Unabridged version of this on tape--narrated by the author.  What a treat!  I'm sure it must have been better than reading it myself.  I cried and sometimes I giggled and belly laughed.  Many have reviewed the book and most were riveted to it as I was.  How I wished I could have scooped up those kids and given them a good life.
3 I can't really add more than the other more insightful reviewers have written. The subject matter is appealing, but there are many books like this one, I don't see why this one gained so much attention. McCourt's writing style is annoying and he seems to dwell more on sexual issues than necessary (especially his own masturbation).  The sequel to this book was even more disappointing. If you are interested in this type of book, I highly recommend Harry Bernstein's 'The Invissible Wall' which I read after this one (suggested by Amazon) and is excellent, as were the 2 following books, all written while the author was in his 90's.
5 I believe this book splashed the name Frank McCourt onto the international writing scene. And I think he deserved it. I imagine there are millions of other stories much like his, and I can't imagine that it took this long for someone to tell it and gain such a massive audience. But McCourt is the one who told it and told it very well. Perhaps the best general word for the book is poignant. McCourt experienced such losses and challenges that he had to grow up long before his time. One senses that boyish struggle between wanting to just be a child and realizing that he had seen far too much of life to do that. I will not recount the crises and incidents that make up this life, but I will say that you will be moved profoundly by reading it. That is because there is heart and soul in this account.
5 This book was a book that I first picked up to skim through for a book club I was in and ended up finishing it in one sitting because I couldn't put it down. A true autobiography of a poor Irish boy who was born in America to 2 very poor Irish immigrants who eventually went back to Ireland, had more poor Irish kids, divorced, were abandoned by their Father, and did what they had to to survive.  There was so much heartbreak, mixed with humor in a way only the Irish can do that I was laughing through the tears!! Loved it!!!
5 This is a beautifully written and humbling story.  Sometimes we all need a little humbling to make us grateful for what we have.  I'm sure that this story is typical of the poverty and neglect that others have faced, not just Irish immigrants, and partly what makes it so fascinating is that it is true. But it is beautifully told as other reviewers have said.  The movie is worth seeing too and always brings tears to my eyes.  I think this is one of those stories that helps you build your own character just a little bit more.
5 The first one - hundred pages of this memoir tell of Frank McCourt's first years in New York. They tell of his two tough aunts forcing his less than responsible - father to marry their mother. The sainted Irish mother Angela suffers through the incredible failure of her husband to provide for her and the children. McCourt is a master of retelling situations in the language of the time and people . On Clausen Street in Brooklyn in their cold-water flat his mother struggles to raise him, his younger brothers Malachy, and younger twin-brothers and little sister- Margeret. The deaths of the little girl in America send the dismayed father and family back to Ireland . But his own parents have no room for him.And the saga of misery continues in wet and cold Limerick. There the twins die, and two more children are born. And the story of the irresponsible father preaching Irish Nationalism, singing and dreaming to his sons but providing nothing for the table of the family, continues.This is a hard- knocks story and is told with a hard- edged authenticity.The book has been a tremendously popular one. I think I understand why because the sense of hardship and the sound of the language seem real. But in truth the tale of misery and suffering was for me a gloomy one, and the book thus a far less enjoyable read than I thought it would be.
5 Angela's Ashes effected me by changing my outlook on life.  Frank McCourt's stories of surviving extreme poverty, and overcoming cruelty from extended family members and many others, are inspiring. Even more amazing is the fact that he had the strength and discipline to write down the memories of his bleak upbringing. This should be required reading for any member of &quot;Generation X&quot; or any overindulged teenager who dares to complain about life. A co-worker loaned me the book, but I am buying my own copy because I never want to forget some of the people Frank described. I did find the ending abrupt, however, and I want to know more about his life, and his family. A sequel, please!
4 i have not read his one either. but if you live in georgia and are entering tenth grade, this is one of the books for summer reading
5 OMG...  This is an eye opener on how poor people were in Ireland and America.  I could not put it down.  This is a true account of the McCourt family during the Depression era.  Heart-wrenching and heart-warming at the same time.  You're just sooo thankful when something good happens for them!!  Worth your time...
2 I didn't read this book when it was THE book everyone was reading. I just now purchased it for my Kindle, but if I'd checked it out at the library first, I could've saved myself some money. In my opinion, the author tends to go on and on and on about certain things. Just say your childhood was rough, give a few prime examples and be done with it. Or give another example so that you've described your rotten childhood twice, but more than that, and your work becomes redundant. There may be a great story under all the repetition, but I doubt I'll ever read it. I don't have the patience.
5 This is an amazing story.  You will laugh & you will cry.  I highly recommend it to anyone wanting to read a good memoir.
5 This memoir is written in the language of the Irish poor and tells a sad, tragic, but all too true story of Ireland and its immigrants and people in the early to middle part of the last century.  What it must have taken to dredge up the misery that the author endured and write about it and, with seeming impartiality, is unfathomable to me.  A gut wrenching story and one that every struggling young person should read.  The odds against Frank McCourt's getting beyond the lanes of Limerick seemed insurmountable but he proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that the will to survive and succeed can conquer just about anything.
5 Angela's Ashes instantly draws you in to the life of author Frank McCourt.  You will feel what a young Frank was feeling and will feel an overwhelming urge to help him.  Frank McCourt is a magnificent author who will instantly grab you.  He is honest (sometimes brutally) about how he is feeling and the situation he is in.  The innocence of a child is shown in this memoir.  You will laugh, cry, and even get angry.  This is a wonderful story that will leave you hoping that things will turn out O.K.  It will also show you that your life may not be as bad as you previously thought.
5 It was a very good read. It is also sad and hard to believe how some people actually lived. I just found out there is a sequel and i am looking forward to reading that too.
5 If there ever was a book that caused you an emotional dilemma where you don't know if you should cry for the pain and suffering Frank McCourt and his brothers and mother experienced or if you should be happy that they survived it and are now better from it.  Nonetheless, this is an excellent book.  Frank McCourt has a very distinct style of writing that's sure to grab your interests and never let go.Frank McCourt never had it easy.  First off he was an illegitimate child and it's really heartbreaking when he finds this out and that he was condemned from birth according to the Catholic faith.  The fact that he looked and acted like his father who was from the North and not as respected, didn't help him in any way either.  He witnessed first hand his father's careless behavior and when he got his first job he remembered how his father was and vowed not to be like that, he even witnessed the death of his only sister, twin brothers and another one of his brothers who was just a baby.  While just a young teen he was the sole bread winner and went on to work in America remembering his mother and brothers back home who he had to support.Frank McCourt is in my eyes a hero and anyone reading this book will no sooner agree.
5 This is not your basic poor kid whining their life away story. If I had read this in high school it may have changed my life. Excellent book club read
5 I remember it was only a few months ago that I was chatting online in an AOL book chat (Bookaccino at TBR) when everyone was constantly raving about this book. I felt left out of the conversations since I did not read the book. Now, I understand what everyone was raving about. Angela's Ashes  touches the hearts of us all with the tales of his father's alcoholism and  how his family struggled to survive. Who could not to relate to the story  of a little boy trying to grow up and be a man? While reading this story I  didn't know whether to laugh or cry.My favorite part of the book is  when Frankie hears his first bit of Shakespeare; "I do believe, induced by  potent circumstances, that thou art my enemy." It made me think of the  first time I saw a real Shakespearean production of A Midsummer's Night  Dream. I was awestruck by the beauty and majesty of the Shakespearean  language. "It's like having jewels in my mouth when I say the words,"  McCourt writes. When reading this passage I was smiling thinking, "Wow,  that's right!"While it is almost impossible to completely relate with a  character in a book, it is equally impossible not to know somewhat what the  character must be going through. I find that Frank's story is very  emotional. Yet McCourt does not blame anyone in his memoir. In a way, he  just seems to say, &quot;Sure life was hard but life is life. What do you  expect?&quot; It is this attitude perhaps that makes the memoir more  enjoyable to me. Whereas some writers might directly or indirectly use  their memoirs to blame their problems on others, McCourt just tells his  story.
5 I would give this book more stars if I could! I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book so much.This is one of the funniest books ever written,and at the same time one must remember it is a very tragic  story.That's probably the reason for it's huge success and the reason for  Frank Mc'Courts survival.There is no point in going over the plot of the  book,I just want to say thanks to the author for giving us such a great  book,a book which has achieved the status of a classic in four years! To  the people of Limerick I want to salute.I have heard that many of them  hated the book,and thought it humiliating to their town and history.I can't  understand why.If anything,they are entitled to  recognition for their  suffering.Frank presented the whole world a piece of Irland's history.There  was (and there still is)hunger and poverty in many places and  countries.About some of them we don't know until someone like Frank  Mc'Court comes along and tells us about it.To anyone that hasn't read it  yet-run and buy the book and then save it for the next time you'll read  it,I sure intend to read it again.And again.
5 i bought this book at the airport. this book made me laugh out loud,cry,and then laugh again. i bought a few more of this book and sent them to my friends in Korea.
4 Mr. McCourt wrote a wonderful book about a very sad subject. His biography of his younger life shows how hard he had to try to obtain the life most of us were given and take for granted. The character development is spectacular. The story is sad, but is also triumphant as McCourt shows the loss of family members, the loss if his respect for other family members, and his struggle to save what little money he can for his journey back to America while trying to support his entire family on a meager income.The story reads slow at times, but will retain a hold on your attention. I was shocked at how distant the writer made himself sound from the emotions he must have felt growing up.  I thought that there may have been an attempt to leave emotion out of the story, and that may have hurt my opinion of the novel a little but all in all, in my opinion it still remains a masterpiece.
4 What did I expect from life in Ireland?  Not this book.  It was well written.  I am glad I read it.  But, it was depressing and I would forewarn those who think it will be anything different.  Read it but not if you are already in a funk.
5 If you listen to our daily podcasts, you heard us talk about the passing of Frank McCourt -- an event that was, shall we say, overshadowed by the deaths of people like Michael Jackson, Walter Cronkite and Ed McMahon. While he was not as well known as any of those three, McCourt was, in the world of book lovers, one of a kind. He spent most of his life as a school teacher before deciding one day to go ahead and write a memoir of his early life in the extreme poverty of Ireland. His was certainly not the first book on the subject, but it is, arguably, the most lyrical. You simply cannot read "Angela's Ashes" without hearing his voice. Literally. The Irish lilt comes through beautifully in the writing, making the book itself seem like a rambling reminiscence from a favorite uncle. (Unless your uncle happens to be from Estonia, in which case it probably doesn't.) Still, I defy anyone who claims to be literate and to enjoy reading good books to come away with anything but positive feelings for "Angela's Ashes." It's the kind of book that reminds me why I love reading. And if you can read it without developing a bit of a lump in your throat and without laughing at the description of a kid "throwing up Jesus Christ," there's probably something wrong with you.
1 i have heard about this book for years and decided to pick it up at my paperback exchange store. i can't finish it. am a third of the way through, and it's all the same- poverty, starving children, abusive catholic teachers, alcoholic father, dead tired mother. it's just events. no character, nothing to grab onto. it's heartbreaking that this is life in so many places for so many people. but i already know that and see it. and contribute to help. i don't think it's worthy of a prize, it just seems a rambling narrative and nothing more. conditions like this need action, not reporting.
5 In "Angela's Ashes," Franck McCourt recounts his turbulent childhood in Ireland, ranging from the extreme poverty of the McCourt family, his father's alcoholism and the death of three of his siblings in a memoir that is both witty and full of sorrow. McCourt was able to grab my attention from the first page; unlike other books that tend to drag along at points, I found "Angela's Ashes" gripping and impossible to put down.Born in Brooklyn in the 1930s, Frank McCourt takes the reader through his early years in New York, the McCourt family's return to Ireland and the daily struggles of his life (including some humorous scenes with his headmasters in school). "Angela's Ashes" is one of the few books that I have read in the past year that keep my interest, caused me to laugh out loud and feel extreme sorrow, anger (at Malachy, the father) and pity for the McCourt family.The movie version was excellent, but I recommend reading the book before viewing the movie because it is the only way to fully appreicate McCourt's prose, humor and optimism. I'm looking forward to reading "Tis," the sequel to "Angela's Ashes."
3 Angela's Ashes is a great story of Frank McCourt's childhood in Ireland. The experiences and anecdotes that he tells the reader are horrific, hillarious and every degree in between those extremes. However, the way that McCourt recounts his story is done in a way that was tiring to me as a reader. The writing style is so bland. It has no color, no excitement and no way of holding my attention for very long. I had to take this book in very small doses. The writing in the first 15 or so pages is the only part of the book in which the reader is reading the writing of a mature adult. The rest is told through the eyes of an innocent child. Granted, this does have some possitive effects on the book, particularly when McCourt's parents withold the facts of life from their children. However, because of this writing style everything is a euphemism. Not sex, but knee-trembler. Not masturbating, but "going at yourself." This makes for a tiring read, not an enjoyable one. For me, any books' enjoyment relies greatly on the writing style and the manner in which the author tells the story, not the story itself. That's why this book was just a little too bland for my tastes. A slow read, not because it was a hard read, but because I would grow weary after about twenty pages. If you really want to consider reading this book, take a passage out of the middle of the book and read at it for a while. If the writing style seems too childish, you won't enjoy this book very much.
3 McCort must have gone through a lot of therapy to be able to tell his story of his childhood.  It is interesting, but depressing.
5 After the death of his baby sister, Frank's family leave depression era New York City, to take up residence in the even more impoverished, pre-WW2, Limerick, in which his Northern Irish born father is not accepted despite  `doing his bit' for Ireland in the uprising. And so, the family, without  any income except from what is gained through various charities poor-relief  schemes, and occasional help from begrudging relatives, struggle to  survive. A state not helped by Frank's alcoholic father, who can never hold  a job, drinks the dole, and never sends any money back from England where  he gets a full time job in a munitions factory during the war.Frank,  himself, survives Typhoid and Conjunctivitis, and as soon as he can leaves  school, in spite of his schoolmasters' advice, to earn enough money as a  telegram boy and return to America, and maybe have his mother, Angela, and  his remaining brothers join him in the future.And that's about it  basically. Some readers will find the book to be a source of reminders of  what life was like for them or their forebears in the Ireland of that time.  Some will take it as a simple `against all odds story'. For me though,  there were  elements, which were part of my own upbringing: the rebel songs  like Roddy McCorly, Kevin Barry, etc.,  my dad ( who coincidentally comes  from Antrim, and is a retired school teacher like Frank ) would play on a,  BSR Monarch, record player at home. But unlike Frank, I haven't been asked  to die for Ireland.  But Frank has another message, which is - I think:  Ireland, I owe you nothing. And in spirit, a contradiction to the romantic  stereotype of book and screen,  you can be as cold as Angela's ashes.
1 The writing is beautiful. He is a wonderful author. BUT; if I read one more page of the father drinking the dole money, the evil Catholic nuns, putting cardboard in shoes, I thought I would scream.
5 Brilliantly written - he takes a horrifically deprived and sad childhood and infuses it with humor and hope, as seen through a child's eyes. There is compassion for the Da who works but then drinks the childrens' food away. There is compassion for the desperate mother who is trying to keep her family alive, and there is a sense of the love between these two ill fated young parents. The childrens' fates are dealt with matter of factly, and there is even humor throughout the book, in the typical Irish way. It's deserving of all the literary awards it has received - it's a masterpiece.
4 Frank McCourt strikes just the right timbre for a memoir of such misery. There is a matter-of-fact tone to the book that resonates and stays with you and in your consciousness when you're not turning the pages eagerly for  the next Limerick adventure. There are plenty of tragedies in McCourt's  young life, but the distance and stoicism with which he tells the story  allows a deeper involvement by the reader than one would allow oneself if  the tone were outright maudlin or weepy. There's a humor here and an  acceptance that is admirable and that also contribute to hope. It's a  compelling story and a compelling life and I strongly recommend it.
4 This book is very good but very sad.  Excellent writing, but eveyone just keeps dying--it's unbelievable.  It really shows you how difficult life was back in the day.  It makes you count your blessings that we live now and not then.  Definately worth a read.  Frank Mc Court is a very talented writer.
5 I decided to read this book out of curiosity--to see what everyone was talking about and also because of the onset of the new movie. I am truly glad I have read this novel. It has become, in an instant, my favorite book. I found this book to be so moving, and it brought me to tears. Mr.  McCourt lived such an impoverished life, one so poor I don't think I'll  ever have to be in that situation. But his story makes you realize how  fortunate and lucky you are for what you have. They didn't even have what  people on welfare have now. Can you imagine living off of tea and bread for  periods at a time? Can you imagine having your father make money, but then  spend it on himself by drinking it away?  It really makes you stop and  think and appreciate what you have because these people had nothing, but  each other.  Also, the way the book was written itself and the humor in it  add to its superiority. I am so grateful to have read this book, as it has  truly enlightened my thinking and reminded to be thankful for life and what  I have. Read this book, you won't regret it, and hopefully it will add  something to the way you view things regarding life.
5 grim, but riveting evocation of a childhood suffered in poverty, due primarily to a father's alcoholism. The despair and degradation are tempered by moments of love and savouring of life.
5 I was really skeptical about reading this book.  I'm 15 and I am proud to admit that i have fallen into the whole Harry Potter craze.  i have never really liked &quot;biography&quot; type books (like &quot;I know Why the Caged Bird Sings&quot;) and so naturally i didn't think i would like this.  but my mom read it and told me i should (after raving about how GREAT it was). so i decided to try it.  one of the best parts about the book is that it catches you right at the begining.  i couldn't put it down.  i was really happy about it and think everyone should read itOther Recomendations:  Harry Potter, J.K. Rowling; His Dark Materials, Phillip Pullman; The Dark is Rising, Susan Cooper; and all other books that help you learn something!
1 I realize I'm in the minority here by not breathlessly extolling the virtues of this book, and I'm quite aware it has been both critically and popularly acclaimed. In fact, that is the only reason I read this book: I wanted to see for myself what all the fuss was about.In my opinion?  Nothing.It brings to mind that wheatgrass juice they sold in the organic section of my grocery store.  People raved about it, but when I drank it, my senses were filled with nothing more than the green liquid that emerges when I rinse the underside of my lawnmower.  In the same way, I can't help but think that people like this book because they are "supposed" to like it, not because it was in any way enjoyable or stimulating to read.  So, I'll have to go on record as being a literary Philistine when it comes to praise for McCourt's style and Pulitzer Prize-winning story:  Didn't like it.  Didn't get it.In "Angela's Ashes," Frank McCourt gives us his memoirs, from toddler to young man, providing a gritty look at what it was to be a child of the Depression.  McCourt paints a picture not of America as a land of dreams, but as a land of broken dreams, where his immigrant parents eventually give up and return from New York to their native Ireland when McCourt is just a small boy.  McCourt then proceeds to give us a recounting of a place even more depressing than the slums of New York: Limerick, Ireland in the 1930s.  Poor, Irish, Catholic, and with completely disfunctional parents, McCourt feels compelled to pour forth every bitterness of his soul from a seemingly bottomless well.  The story closes with McCourt returning to America as a young man, not as an attempt to find the American dream that had eluded his parents, but simply to escape.The more astute among us will ask some very reasonable questions while reading this book: How exactly can the author recall with such vivid clarity the events of his life as a 2- and 3-year-old?  Shouldn't one's memoirs have some purpose...some destination they wish to take the reader rather than just aimless meanderings?  Why are none of the individuals who seemingly played such a huge role in McCourt's life developed more fully and instead portrayed as 1-dimensional Irish stereotypes? Could it be that in McCourt's universe, nobody else was as interesting or deep as himself?  And, why do so many Irish people despise this book rather than regard McCourt as a local Limerick boy who made good?What I emerged with is the story of an individual who lived an admittedly difficult childhood, but then again so did millions of others from the Depression. One does not get the sense he is speaking for all of them; with McCourt, we get the very distinct impression that he is speaking only for himself, and that we had better well feel sorry for him.If you don't require any purpose or well-developed characters in your reading, then perhaps this is the book for you.  If you find it redeeming to read about a childhood that was not only bitter, but as told by someone who is bitter about it, then perhaps this is the book for you.  I can simply say that it wasn't the book for me.I have some rather simple criteria for judging a book:  Did I enjoy it?  Was I a better person for having read it?  To which I must answer quite honestly: No.  In fact, I found this one to be pure drudgery with nothing to offer in the way of education or redeeming content.  McCourt simply plods from heartbreak to heartbreak with mediocre writing and a story that appears to have no real purpose.  Just a sort of "life's hard and then you die."  And it is my understanding that although he purports to give us "true" memoirs, at least some of what he presents here is embellished, if not outright fiction.  There was a whiny, "poor me" timbre to this book that I found particularly distasteful.Sure, it had a few upbeat moments, but all in all I felt like I'd been given a mouthful of ashes.  I refuse to succumb to the "madness of crowds" and award this book 5 stars.  I didn't like it, I didn't think it was well written, and what could have come across as a gritty but redeeming ride on what it was to be a child of the Depression came across as simply a collection of mostly bitter recollections.Finally, the book doesn't finish, it just ends.  It was as though McCourt had finally reached the end of his endless repository of depressing memories...or his pen simply ran out of ink.  I realize he published two sequels that perhaps provide more closure to his own life and those of the people who influenced him.  But those books will have to be read by those who actually liked this one.And that would not be me.Footnote: If you'd like to read about an Irish childhood by a truly fine writer, I suggest "Portrait of the Author as a Young Man" by James Joyce.
5 Angela's Ashes is undoubtedly one of the best books I have ever read ...  will ever read.  Frank McCourt's telling of his horrendous childhood  through the eyes and words of a growing child  was not only touching and  heart breaking, but pure genius.  I will never forget this book or the  McCourt family.
5 This is a great book of tragic circumstances told in a lighthearted and humorous way.  I have recommended it repeatedly.
5 The author begins his memoir with the voice of a narrator: describing people, events, etc. But, from the first chapter he slowly transitions into a man remembering & than goes back to when he was a boy. The slideshow of imagery & the depth of details made this a great read, despite the often brutal sadness of the story.The innocence of a young boy of say 8 or 9 is experienced here like in no other book I have read. The young boy finds himself talking with "the angel of the seventh step," & wishing to hear stories of his mythical hero "Cuchulain." When the boy learns something for the first time, so does the reader. While he ages, his vocabulary grows as does his views of the world around him which starts to make more sense to him, no matter how unsettling.The reader feels Frankie's angst when his alcoholic father comes home drunk after drinking his paycheck away. The descriptions of the strict Catholic school alone where he was not allowed to even ask a question in class made it seem more like a prison than a place to seek "knowledge & comfort." The living conditions in the Limerick of the 1930's-40's Ireland were truly on a third world level. Their home would flood in Winter, & the many family homes they lived in when they could not afford their rent are gut wrenchingly vivid.The most poignant emotions are from Frankie's mother Angela.The reader can feel her desperation & frustration with her useless husband, who often failed to keep a job because of his boozing.Her anguish that she could not clothe or feed her sons, & her other children who were "dead & gone," & her feelings of shame that she had to borrow & beg in order to keep her family alive leap off the pages.The dialogue & story captures the imagination, one can feel the chill of damp air & the sickness it brings. This book has it all, the sorrow, heartache, want, humor, & slivers of hope.
1 I had to read this for my book club and it turns out I'm glad they were all checked out at the library and all I could get was the audio tape. That way, I listened to McCourt drone and whine while I sat in traffic and I  didn't have to waste valuable time reading it. I'm not Irish, but I was  raised Catholic and he used jokes and bromides most of us had heard by the  time we were ten. As a society, we deplore poverty, alcoholism, wife and  child abuse, yet what voyeurs we become when some opportunist writes about  any of the above! McCourt should be applauded for so adeptly using the  American reading market to make money off his misery, but as a writer, he  offers no more wisdom, insight or inspiration than Joan Crawford, Roseanne  Barr or any other come-out-of-the-closet-dysfunctional-family-member who  ever wrote a book.
5 It's true that the subject is depressing, but it's a beautifully written book and I loved it. It may be one of the best memoirs I've read.
2 I found this story very depressing, and in fact, did not finish the book. I figured if it was on the best seller list, it had to be good, right? Wrong.It was a little to raw for me to enjoy reading - disturbing actually. The writing itself is great, the subject matter was just rather dismal.
5 It takes a masterful storyteller to make readers laugh while detailing a story of oppressive poverty, chronic illness, despicable alcohol abuse and the death of three siblings.  But that's exactly what Frank McCourt does.  With straightforward, non-judgmental prose, the author weaves a tale of survival at the most elemental level, detailing the life of the McCourt family, an Irish Catholic clan struggling to make it in poverty-stricken Limerick, Ireland, in the 1930s.  To describe the McCourts' life as 'miserable' doesn't do it justice.  Yet somehow, through the misery, this amazing author is able to find laughter, joy, irony and hope.  Don't let the depressing setting fool you.  This might be the most uplifting memoir I've ever read--and one of the best.Salmon Run
1 I had heard really good reviews of this book, but had a really hard time getting into it.  It was so dark and dreary, however, that I could not finish it--maybe I didn't read far enough into it and it became more cheerful.  I feel so bad that people have this kind of existence.  I am one of the lucky ones, I guess,
5 Beautifully written memoir, poignant and a true testament of the human spirit. I loved this book! A must read for anyone
4 As the memoir credited for propelling the genre into the 21st century, Angela's Ashes is a must-read for any fan of memoir-writing. McCourt's voice is distinct, and not just for his lyrical Irish lilt that sings off the page.  I found myself replying in ayes, ochs and `tises in just about every household conversation a week after setting the book down.  The dialogue subtly hints at the accent without beating us over the head with it.  I know this is a very difficult balance to strike.  You can lose a dialect in dialogue, or you can saturate it to the point of distraction.  McCourt adds authenticity to his character and his story through his true voice.  The other remarkable feature I found was McCourt's ability to subtly age his character over the course of the book.  In this memoir, we rarely hear a "voice behind the curtain" or a foresighted comment.  The narrator retains the world view and knowledge of a five year old at the beginning of the book, and he grows in perception and comprehension as the story goes on.Sticking with the growing-up-as-he-goes narrative strategy, McCourt does not comment negatively on the behavior of Frank's mother or father until much later in the book.  We watch Frank's father drink away the family's pittance week after week until abandoning the clan altogether.  We see his mother beg and spiral downward into deeper and deeper desperation.  Staying true to his upbringing and religion, Frank does not question or begrudge his parents until he enters his angst-ridden teen years.  It's at that turning point, after losing his innocence in multiple ways--seeing his mother begging at the church steps, having sex with Theresa, being beaten by his mother's cousin--that fully-grown anger and resentment begin to bubble forward.  He curses his absent father, doubts his religion and slaps his mother.  That pivotal slap, one that we as readers ache to bestow upon both parents, is a terrifying moment for Frank.  Although he can (and does) confess and repent, the innocent child that respected his parents and accepted his life is gone.  There is only moving forward and beyond, which for Frank is a move to America.  As we are allowed to "grow up" with Frank's voice and eyes, his transition and move is much more understandable. Angela's Ashes is a cornerstone coming-of-age memoir, a heartbreaking charmer.
5 Frank McCourt's novel was a very touching and thoughtful novel. It was a rare treat reading this book. I cannot say enough about this story
4 "Dad says I'll understand when I grow up.  He tells me that all the time now and I want to be big like him so that I can understand everything.  It must be lovely to wake up in the morning and understand everything.  I wish  I could be like all the big people in the church, standing and kneeling and  praying and understanding everything. p.132Through his childhood  biography, McCourt created a novel that was not only true but was also  real.  One family.  One miserable family struggling through life at the  bottom.  McCourt's words were a steady stream of hardship, hurdles and  grief.  I admire this work.  The novel was a very honest look into its  author's soul and of his outlook on life.
2 For me the book was a slow starter that never really picked up. I finished it, but don't know that I'd recommend it others.
5 Frank McCourt has a way with words! His memoir of growing up poor in Ireland, with a drunk for a father and lazy, shiftless mother is written without malice. He and his brothers are left to their own devices to keep themselves fed, warm and clothed when Frank, the oldest is not even four years old. They live in a house where the main floor floods every year and they have to wade through the sewage to live in the remaining room upstairs until the water recedes. They grow so cold that they resort to tearing the walls apart for firewood. And yet his mother needs her cigarettes and his father needs his drink.Frank's tenacity and humor in the midst of such misery is his salvation. And it is what makes this memoir so poignant. His own parents and grandparents, neighbors and the Catholic church leave Frank and his brothers to their own devices for survival. And they survive! And go to America. And it's a true story.
5 This memoir is one of the most captivitating stories I have yet to encounter.  In it, Frank tells the story of his childhood in Ireland with an alcoholic father, dying siblings, poverty, and a mother with her own problems.  The degree of hardship will tug on anyone's heart and encourage with Frank's constant hope for something better.However, what I found most refreshing about this memoir was Frank McCourt's earliest memories of his childhood.  He manages to convey these memories exactly how I imagine a child would view them.  It almost seems as if he started writing this at the age of three.  Although I cannot relate to the abject poverty and hardship the author experienced, I find myself relating to the child he portrays.  Mr. McCourt reminds us all of those quirky behaviors and thought patterns that we all experience as a child.I wholeheartedly recommend this to everyone.
4 Next time your teenage kids tell you lifes not fair open this book at any page and read.  Frank McCourts childhood unfortunately is typical of the tough religious hard upbringing in Catholic Ireland in the 1930 and 40's.Unable to make a go of things in America the family return to Ireland.  His mother is downtrodden, proud but often desperate, his father a drunkard, not so much violent as absent, and just as likely to spend the weeks wages on Guinness as food.Autobiographical but written almost in story form, the book is breathtaking.  McCourt has the knack of bringing bad news at such alarming regularity, that you accept it.  You can almost feel the cold, and share the hunger with them.  Considering the subject matter and some of the events it is not a sad book, just a great one.
5 This is a take-anywhere read.  Its story is timeless, the beat is bone deep.  Frank gets inside your head and transports you back to Limerick in a rapturous literary wave.
3 I felt the book was good, I felt I was there sometimes in that era. It was very sad to know that people actually died from those sicknesses.
5 Wow- I finally got around to reading this nationally acclaimed memoir, and I was very impressed!  Angela's Ashes was not what I expected, but from the first few chapters I was pulled in and found this hard to put down.Angela's Ashes is a harsh look at Frank's upbringing and family life.  You'll sympathize with him, you'll root for him, you'll cry for him.I plan to read Tis in the near future.  This book is a MUST READ!  Go out and get it!
5 I adored this book.  I don't know how I missed it when it first came out back in the 90's!Frank McCourt drops you right in the flat he grew up in-with the stench of the shared outhouse next door, his mother puffing on a cigarette in the empty kitchen and the glowing coals of the fireplace heating water to make tea for the third time from the same batch of tea leaves.Beautifully written this memoir describes the life of povery the author experienced growing up in WW2 era Limerick, Ireland.  Raised poor, filthy and under the watchful eye of the Catholic faith, McCourt found plenty of delight in life getting into the mischief that young boys do.I just downloaded 'Tis and can't wait read the next chapter in Frank's life!
5 I loved the audio cassette, Frank McCourt has a fascinating story telling style. You will laugh and cry and come away with a different perspective on life and maybe a greater appreciation for the things we sometimes take for  granted. I also love the voice and voices spoken by Frank McCourt and  recommend it very much!
5 I loved this one. I learned:The Irish faced poverty in the shadow of wealthy England.We were able to have adventurous childhoods in the face of poverty.Addiction is horrible for some.And More...
5 Rarely does a book make me so angry and laugh out loud as well. McCourt captures the extreme end of growing up in poverty in Ireland brilliantly. The stereotypes, the feckless father, equally feckless mother (Angela), the course of drink are however all too true. A great read.
4 the book is well written. The language changes as Frank grows up in the novel.  Some parts a bit slow but packed with experience. Then other parts fire story at you quickly for effect.  I hope this doesn't give too much away but at points I kept reading just to find out who survives.
5 i've read this (and 'tis) with great pleasure, and obviously so have lots of others.  to the small numbers who are offended or put off - just remember, all memoirs are the author's memory.  in this case a memory of life before adulthood.if you remember your own childhood, especially if you have lots of family around to dispute your memory, you'll think twice about focusing on fact vs fiction.and the facts are that until the recent past, ireland was among the poorest lands in europe and one where the only opportunities were abroad.
5 A wonderfully written novel about a boys coming of age in poverty stricken Ireland.  Frank McCourt grabs his readers from the very begining with hilarious dialogue and situations.  His style of writing is comfortable and  his use of dialogue is refreshing.  This novel had my full attention right  up to the very end.  I suggest this book to anyone that enjoys a  beautifully written novel with an interesting and funny content.
5 What more can be said about Frank McCourt's Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir?  We readers can simply revel in McCourt's literary achievement by treating ourselves to more of his unique kind of prose.  In addition to Angela's Ashes, his astonishingly short writing career has produced two sequels - 'Tis and Teacher Man - that entertain us further as we take in scene after enchanting scene of this man's extraordinary life.And an extraordinary life truly 'tis.To read McCourt's memoirs is to experience the art of the possible and the power of the human spirit to triumph over even the worst of hardships.  What McCourt accomplishes as an adolescent and then as a man in merely surviving a childhood of abject poverty and despair is remarkable.  And then to achieve critical acclaim and the height of commercial success as an author is nothing short of spectacular!  Winning the Pulitzer Prize is but icing on the cake!If a memoirist's place in the world can be secured through his ability to spin an eminently readable story about his life that both edifies and entertains, then McCourt has more than secured his place.  Generous and deeply satisfying are the lines that seemingly leap without effort from McCourt's pen.  His writing has a uniquely winsome style that both charms the reader and leaves him craving more.  We so enjoy reading about the McCourts that we wait breathlessly to find out how a given situation will play out.McCourt draws us in with sentences that are light and airy and that refuse to collapse under the weight of an editor's pen.  Punctuated sparingly, McCourt's writing reads much as a child relating a story would speak and delights us in its lighthearted tone and earthiness.  A refreshing honesty permeates his prose and leaves us wondering how long it took this unusual author to perfect his storyteller's gift.  An irreverent, distinctively Irish brand of irony also underlies much of McCourt's work, and in Angela's Ashes it fully grabs us and refuses to let go.But McCourt's genius as a writer extends infinitely beyond his writing style.His work is defined by his gentle handling of the depressing and the desperate, the miserable and the forlorn, the painful and the unspeakable.  With uncommon humor and grace, McCourt relates the events of his childhood amid poverty, disease, and neglect in Limerick, Ireland in the 1930s.  Hunger and disease stalk the McCourt children from the shadows of the Limerick 'lanes' they call home.  Every day brings another test of wills with the vermin that multiply and flourish in the foul, squalid conditions.A test even for stoic, young Frank, three of his siblings die as small children.  Yet despite their difficult circumstances, Frank, Malachy and their younger brothers never succumb to the despair of the downtrodden nor do they accept the hopelessness of their lot in life.  While their mother 'stares into the fire' and continually ruminates about her family's plight, the boys play on, finding ways to entertain themselves even in their destitute state.Their father, Malachy, sometimes employed, more often than not, 'on the dole', frequently succumbs to the pull of the bottle and in the process fritters away what little money he earns as an itinerant factory worker.  He is seldom employed for longer than a few months and eventually drops out of his family's orbit altogether while working in a London munitions factory.  Frank seems to endure his father's chronic alcoholism and irresponsibility with a sort of world weariness that masks a deep, unrequited love.Perhaps most poignant in McCourt's writing is this peculiar loyalty the McCourt boys have toward their father that extends beyond what could or should ever be expected.  Ironically, the boys continue to hold their father in high esteem while he repeatedly demonstrates all the reasons they should not.  In Angela's Ashes, McCourt never blames his father for 'drinking the pint' while his children go hungry, preferring instead to portray his father as an eccentric study in contradictions. (Malachy refuses to accept handouts, for instance; it is beneath him.  Yet he readily accepts public assistance from the Irish government.)With his father out of the picture and his family sinking further into poverty, Frank resolves to assume the role of breadwinner.  His determination results in a series of jobs that put food in his brothers' bellies and pride once again in their hearts.  Frank reaches for responsibility as much as his father studiously avoids it.  Thankfully for the McCourt brood, Frank is a serious-minded adolescent who deeply loves his brothers.  He will stop at nothing to keep them alive - even petty crime.By turns raucously funny and painfully sad, Angela's Ashes is a joy to read.  Through a gifted writer, we experience the resilience of children trying to make sense of the world in deplorable conditions, choosing to reject their impoverished state rather than be condemned by it.  And we are witness to the power of the human spirit to overcome adversity.  Their father alcoholic, their mother depressed, their home rife with infectious disease and gnawing hunger lurking around every corner... the McCourt boys somehow find a way to beat the odds.That they are alive to regale us with their stories is both a tribute to the unquenchable spirit of the Irish and a gift to all humanity.To see the humor in life's most desperate circumstances is to learn life-affirming lessons.  To laugh along with Frank McCourt is to be let in on an exceptional author's 'wee bit of fun.'Magnificent!
4 In "Angela's Ashes," Frank McCourt recalls his childhood after his family move from the U.S. back to their native Ireland, where they live, for the most part, in dire poverty.  When his alcoholic father actually is employed, he takes his paycheck and squanders it in pubs rather than feed and clothe his family.  Mostly though, Frank's family is on the "dole" (welfare), but even that little amount is eaten up by Frank's father's drinking.  When Frank's mother, Angela, is able to get some of the crumbs, she uses alot of it to buy cigarettes (during one very sad interlude, Angela virtually prostitutes herself to a slightly better off relative).In the meantime, Frank's infant sister and two little brothers die of lack of nutrition and proper medical care. At certain points in their childhood, Frank and his surviving little brothers have to steal food to avoid starvation, and collect bits of roadside coal and wood to avoid freezing to death.  Although Frank attends a public school, most of the teachers seem more concerned about beating the kids and bad-mouthing the English than actually trying to make a difference in the lives of their desperate students.  Likewise, most of the priests encountered by Frank are more concerned about warning about "sinful behavior" such as masturbation than providing any help.The grinding poverty suffered by Frank and his terribly unfortunate family has an extremely strong impact on the reader.  But McCourt manages to keep us entertained, and even laugh a little, even though the cycle of alcoholism and poverty becomes repetitive and depressing. At times, the rather extraordinary recollection of events made me wonder if perhaps McCourt might be embellishing his story in order to generate more drama, such as what Jim Frey did in "A Million Little Pieces."  But "Angela's Ashes" does an admirable job in showing just how bad things could get, how irresponsible parents can be in the face of vices, and how easily those we're supposed to look up to (i.e. teachers and religious leaders) can turn a blind eye to the ills of society.
2 ASHES ONLY ASHESREVIEW:  McCourt, Frank.  Angela's Ashes.  New York:  Scribner, 1996.Angela's Ashes is the recitation of a life of poverty suffered by an Irish boy in the middle decades of the 20th century.The book is repellant.  There is no other way to describe it.  No other response is possible when a reader is presented with such anguish, and repressed anguish, emotionless anguish.I am uncertain why readers are interested in a story of such unredeeming misery.  There must be a masochistic element in the readership of the book.  Or, there must remain in our society many persons of repressive Catholic background who remember their miserable Catholicism while coming of age.But then I do know the interest the story elicits.  There is such guilt in our society because of our materialism and hedonism that the book performs a catharsis in its readers.  (A corollary of this perception is that white folk like to hear about other white folk in extremity, as it relieves them about the misery they may be inflicting on those who are not white.)  The members of this society seek to punish themselves, as evidenced elsewhere by the horrible, frightful and vulgar behavior in our entertainment media and our personal relations.  The book is part of that milieu, culturally perverted, the "dumbed-down" of every value and decency.  Even though the author may not have intended such an effect, once the book was published it became part of it.The book is not a triumph of the human spirit.  Rather, it is the ravings of a simple ego seeking to survive as does any dog, though a literate one in this case.  It plumbs the depths of our dysfunctional society, and resonates there in our psychic malaise.  I will demonstrate how the author accomplished it, whether by craft or chance and in his understated manner.  Immediately at the beginning (page 11), the author writes:  "It was, of course, a miserable childhood:  the happy childhood is hardly worth your while."  Do you understand how perverted is this statement?  The bad childhood is thus the standard for life and art.  It casts us immediately into a hopeless existence.  Then (on page 145), the author's mother tells us that she is in hell (as are all of us who read the book):  "Bridey laughs.  Oh, Angela, you could go to hell for that, and Mam says, aren't I there already, Bridey?"  It is hell, a special hell created just for the Irish because they believe in it so fervently.  It is made of the Damp, the Drink and the Dump, otherwise known as the Church. The author goes on to claim (on page 202):  "It's lovely to know that the world can't interfere with the inside of your head."  Oh, no, this is disingenuous.  The world does nothing except interfere with the inside of your head.  That's what the Damp, the Drink and the Dump do.  It is the everlasting struggle for your mind, a battle you must fight tenaciously and without rest forever.  The author furthers this point (on page 247) by having the young boy think:  "It's a mystery.  That's what the priests and the masters tell you, everything is a mystery and you have to believe what you're told."  Thus life is stupidity compounded with the refusal to use the rationality that the universe endowed you with.  The novel culminates with the wisdom distilled from his life that Mr. Sliney (on page 353) imparts to the young Frank:  "What I want to tell you is, Never smoke another man's pipe."  That's what the entire miserable life of the boy is:  smoking another man's pipe.So there you have it:  miserable hopelessness, hell, messy inside of your head, life as mystery, and smoking someone else's pipe.  Nothing could be more dysfunctional, and thus a reflection (writ small) of our times.  The popularity of the book is the indicator of our malaise.The book made me feel unclean and violated in mind and in emotion.  The grossness of the father sucking the snot out of his infant son's nostrils unfortunately will stay with me forever.  It is an ugly book despite the superficial charm of its language.  The relentlessness of that language deceives its readers about its repellant nature.  It is thus evil, and profoundly depressing.  It is a memoir of identity with a vengeance.  The book is a symbol of the catastrophe of our civilization, or even of our species.  The ashes are those of Angela's poor, hopeless fire, and those dead, sour, caked and soggy ashes encrusted on another man's pipe.I am happy the author survived his childhood, if indeed he has, and made as an artist a minor masterpiece of a major misery.  And in America (on page 363) there is the statement, "...a great country altogether?"  Hummmmm.  (TRC 03-05-01)(TRC Final Revision 08-17-09)
5 Maybe a key factor to this book hitting me square between the eyes like it did, was the fact that this is a real person's memoirs.It's just another, &quot;No matter had bad you think you have it...&quot; book (which even the author realizes, as he notes a couple of his schoolmates who had it worse than him).  However, it was more powerfully conveyed than by any other means I've ever read.Truly brilliant.
2 I gave up after the first couple chapters.  The Irish twang was annoying, the story was BORING! I bought the book because it was The Strand's (bookstore in Manhattan) number one seller, plus a Pulitzer winner, so I figured I'd give it a try. I still don't undertand what all the hype was about.  I guess if you were dirt poor and Irish at one time, then you could relate-but I got NOTHING from this book-not even an entertaining read.
5 When I first heard about this book, I didn't understand what all the fuss was about. Then I bought the book and read it and understood. In life there isn't much difference between tragedy and comedy. The two outlooks come from the same source, the difference is that one offers some hope and the other doesn't believe there is any hope left to offer. Tears and laughter flowing from the same fountain.ANGELA'S ASHES is like that. What the McCourt family suffered through was severely depressing (though most of the world was suffering just as much too) and reading about their trials makes one realize how lucky we are. One feels a deep sympathy for Frank and his family (except perhaps for his father). Yet, the story is told in such a way that it makes one laugh rather than cry. McCourt is honest and forthright and though I was disappointed (rather than amused) at many of his exploits, his story gripped me nonetheless. This book more than deserved the Pulitzer it won, but should you read it bring a hanky just in case laughing is too difficult.
5 I read one review in which the reader said it flat out stunk. I ask why, because it was a tale of misery or because you actually thought it was bad? This was a wonderfully written book about the life of an Irish Catholic  boy. If you thought it stunk simply because it's true, than you must not  know a marvelous read when you see one. Another reviewer said the sexual  exploit at the end lost them. This was a story of his life and Frank  McCourt can't simply leave instances of his life out because it may offend.
5 I love memoirs and this ranks in the my top ten. Well written with humor, pathos and charm. This books carries the reader through a heart rendering childhood in Limerick, Ireland. It ends with Frank sailing to America. Frank McCourt was an excellent author and because of this first well written entry I'll be reading Tis' and then on to Teacher Man.
3 If you're reading this review for the purpose of deciding whether to read 'Angela's Ashes,' I'll save you some time by suggesting you read the first page. The author tips his hand very early:&quot;When I look back on my childhood, I wonder how I survived at all. It was, of course, a miserable childhood: the happy childhood is hardly worth your while.&quot;If this sounds attractive, by all means read on but be warned: when he says miserable, he *means* it.Before confronting misery, though, I must comment on an aspect of this best-seller I've not yet seen discussed in any great detail: that this &quot;memoir&quot; must be largely a fake. I simply refuse to believe that Mr. McCourt can remember childhood details (like word-for-word parental conversations on important subjects) at the tender ages -- not to mention conditions -- that he claims. Ask yourself if you can remember exact accounts of when you were three or four-much less whole adult conversations-and you'll see my point. Simply put, a lot of this probably didn't happen -- at least as meticulously written.And so what? One could easily claim he got the gist of it right, and aren't the Irish a bit prone to, as they say, a bit of embellishment anyway? Well, sure, but a memoir is a memoir and you can't have it both ways. Make no mistake, however--in the area of Irish license Frank McCourt is dead on. Having had an Irish Catholic upbringing meself (though not the tooth and claw version practiced in the home country), I can verify many of his details personally. In describing everything from eccentric relatives to the bewilderingly complex nature of Catholic sacraments, the author betrays a sure hand. While this doesn't quite excuse passing his book off as an autobiography, McCourt still engages and entertains.The author's means of bringing details to the surface deserve particular attention. The book's rambling, conversational, stream-of-consciousness style seems custom-made for his subject:&quot;If you're the good boy for that day and you answer the questions he gives it to you and lets you eat it there at your desk so that you can eat it in peace with no one to bother you the way they would if you took it into the yard. Then they'd torment you, Gimme a piece, gimme a piece, and you'd be lucky to have an inch left for yourself.&quot;While occasionally hard to read, this self-evoking grammar ultimately can't be divorced from McCourt's story and certainly brought his characters to life for me far better than stiff formal dialogue.Between these exchanges, McCourt also has the opportunity to exercise his considerable descriptive powers. While I accuse the author of some creative forgery, in an evocative capacity he's nearly redeemed; I heard and especially *smelled* what he describes.  A world of smoky, sticky pubs and homes in squalid lanes lacking indoor plumbing comes pungently alive.With style as his strong suit, Mr. McCourt also brings considerable power to his substance.  The substance, however, is so bleak it borders on suicidal. This is a very dark, naturalistic, and occasionally horrifying book. Nearly everyone--save the children--is devoid of simple human values. Adults are portrayed as maniacally depressed or angry and hardly shy about attempting to destroy the psyches of everyone within earshot--especially the children. His parents don't escape notice; Dad is the very definition of alcoholic (to the point of drinking away money for his family's basis subsistence), Mam a desperate nebbish ultimately reduced to begging and prostituting herself--and it's far from clear that she's doing this exclusively for the family's benefit. I certainly share the author's astonishment at his survival; if you can stand over 400 funereal pages of this, then by all means dive in.And maybe survival is the point here, but it's surely a bleak one; every triumph (Dad get a job, the author finds a soulmate) is swiftly crushed within a few pages. Even so, McCourt ends on a high note and rather obviously sets up a sequel. And though I've not read the follow-up (&quot;'Tis&quot;), if I ever did it would be with some trepidation. Having endured a childhood littered with demonic authority figures, the author leaves us on the cusp of his own adulthood. I shudder to think of who he might become -- but of course we already know, since this continuing &quot;memoir&quot; can only come from the same gifted writer before us.
5 My sister has been telling me for years I had to read this book.  Well, I finally did and it was every bit as wonderful as she said it was.
5 One of the best biographys I have ever read! Goes to the depth of his history and being and nothing is off limits.
2 When most immigrants come to America from Ireland, they don't return. Frank McCourt's family did. After finding conditions in NYC less than desirable, especially when you have an alcoholic father who can't hold down a job, Frankie, who was born in America, and his family return to Ireland. His memoir of a family trying to survive during extreme poverty as he grows up is quite moving. However, for some strange reason, I felt the film, of the same name, did a better job of portraying Frankie's experience to me. Perhaps it had something to do with the author's style, which I sort of disliked. If you don't see the film, then you should read the book. And I really want to see what happens in the sequel, for you did really start to care for young Frankie and want to see if he will make it.
5 I couldn't put the book down once I started reading it. The harrowing life the mother and the children endured keeps gnawing at my soul. I kept putting myself and my siblings in their place, wondering how we would have survived the hardships. I can't fathom how Angela navigated life's vagaries. It is a story that touches at people's biases, pride and weaknesses. There was no relief for the children in the church. It was a little hell on earth for them - the beatings and the fatuous stories. The story is a testament to the indomitable human spirit and the resilience of children's vitality. Frank's father was a loving man at heart, but deeply crippled by alcohol. It should be required reading for all prospective parents.
5 What more to say....an unforgettable read begging for more.  What a wonderful wordsmith and great story. Draws you completely into their lives and their dreams.
4 I was loaned this book that I had seen everywhere and the cololess cover certainly did not attract me to the book.  But since it was on tape and I had along trip, I starrted it and found it very slow going and totally  unentralling. But I kept with it and found McCourt a very good writer but  too full of limericks and song for a non-Irish. His accent and reading  intonation were delightful but it is not a book I would care to read or see  the movie. Even though the poverty was shocking, I did not come away  learning more about a subject than before I had read it. It feels like yet  another &quot;tragic Oprah&quot; story......
5 Read this book... if you've ever pondered the deeper meanings of life... if you've wondered why some of us seem to suffer more than others... if you can't imagine what there is to be grateful for... if you need a good  cathartic cry... if you don't have time for your children... if you've ever  thought it ironic that we (man &amp; womankind) so often torture each other  in the name of God... and especially if you've forgotten your own childhood  experiences of discovering the horrors and the joys of the seemingly absurd  adult world around you.
4 I was not able to put the book down. Frank McCourt  draws the reader in , I w as sorry to finish it.
5 When I first saw "Angela's Ashes" in the store, it did not look all that interesting, though I wondered if the author was any relation to Malachy McCourt (the greatest talk-show host in the history of radio).  When I found out that Frank McCourt was Malachy's older brother, I bought "Angela's Ashes," and read it as soon as I finished Malachy's memoir,A Monk Swimming : A Memoir.I was glad I did.  It turned out that Frank is an even better writer than Malachy, and that the two books complement each other very nicely.  Both books make fascinating reading, as does Frank's second book,Tis: A MemoirFrank and Malachy McCourt were born in United States, but brought up in County Limerick, Ireland, in abject, grinding poverty that caused the death of their sister and two younger brothers.  If you can read "Angela's Ashes" without tears coming to your eyes, then you are thicker-skinned than I.It is an inspiration and a tribute to Frank and Malachy that both eventually overcame their dysfunctional early lives.  Unfortunately, it took Malachy much longer than it did Frank.The horrors recounted in "Angela's Ashes" are reminiscent of the very different horrors experienced by Waris Dirie, as told in her excellent autobiography,Desert Flower, also well worth reading.watziznaym@gmail.com
5 I was so moved by this book. I heard of it from so many of my friends that I reluctantly decided to read it, I didn't think a sad depressing story would be a good read. How wrong I was! I could not put this book down and  rushed to by 'Tis the minute I finished this one! So far, more of the same  which is what I craved! The best thing about this book to me is that it may  be just the thing I needed to finally quit wasting money!  I am so much  more thankful for all that I have and all that I am able to provide my  children, thanks to seeing how life could be...there but for the grace of  God go I. Thank you Frank, your story is amazing! You are a great writer!
1 I am only giving this book one star as I was so disappointed in its content. It starts out slow and I would have put it down had I known the ending at the beginning. The author makes one feel something with real meaning is coming, but it never does. He does do an excellent job of describing the poor and the hard times they had which makes one want to cry and weep over the misery of that period. However, he puts so much sexual content in it that I don't think is necessary. Over half of the book I would say involves sexual overtones, and I am just don't think all that vivid description is necessary. I think the author has never really gotten over that aspect, and that is probably why it comes out so much in the book. Maybe this was his cartharsis, and if so, then I understand and hope it brought healing. I am glad so many enjoyed it, maybe I am the oddball.
5 When I finished this touching memoir, I realized that a man with these gifts chose to teach in the New York City public schools. Perhaps there is hope for our schools after all.
2 At the beginning of this book, I would have given it 5 stars but as I read on all it talked about was his sex life, his interffering  ( masturbating) with his self and him commiting adultry his first night in america, even though he was so outraged that his mother had done the same with laman and he slapped her for it.All he spoke of was helping his family but instead he stole money from a dead woman and came to america. He could have stayed and worked and helped his poor toothless mother and his brothers but he came here and we never find out what happened to his mother, nor his brothers.If this kind of trash wins the pulitzer prize , then ill never read another pulitzer prize winning book ever again.I was disgusted by the book at the end . Im gald I only paid 99 cents for it. but hate I helped to support such a mans life style.
3 I only made it slightly past the half way point when I was bogged down by the darkness and misery of this tale. The writing certainly has a lyrical quality, but I could not endure all of the tragedy. Surely there must have  been some more uplifting events that could help to lighten the reading  burden.
5 I am of mostly irish descent..but like my parents was born and raised in the US..i found this an excellent read..the family described in the book is not at all like mine, but im sure somewhere along the line,before my time,  it was...i disliked the father in the book, that because he was much like  myself..hellbent on getting drunk and high my life swiftly left me..until  recently when i found a way to live sober a day at a time..i look forward  to reading Tis..thanks Frank for showing me where i come from
5 Beautiful and moving.  Lingers in the mind after the story is done.  A friend said they had trouble with McCourt's writing style and I told them to read it like you were reading music lyrics...because in a way it is a song or a collection of them.  Very bittersweet.  I won't retell the plot, you already know by now, doubtless.He paints a picture of life so bleak that it's hard to believe it's occuring in 20th Century Europe and not some Dickensian urban setting.  I never in my life knew that an egg could be so highly valued until I read this memoir.  It's good soul food for the eyes.  Read it.I also might recommend Helias' The Horse of Pride if you're interested in the history and ethnography of fading European cultures.
3 Found this today at the annual library sale for $1 and now that I have read the reviews on Amazon I am anxious to read it.
4 I enjoyed reading this book; the innocent humor of a child brings the whole book to life, not to mention the vivid potrayal of the lives of the poor. I'd recommend this book to everyone.
5 July 1999.That summer was blistering hot and full of anticipation. Waiting for my beautiful son to arrive into our arms from Korea.I had just finished up working full time in a children's Day Treatment program. I wanted the summer to "nest"...to prepare for my son's arrival.I spent the past two years of my social work career, day after day, listening to the stories of children.Suffering.And when permitted the children would allow me to enter their world and join them on their healing journey.This work provided the daily miracles that can so easily be missed in any other setting.Kids laugh, they pull pranks, they love to open gifts, they are still just kids in spite of the worst that humanity can toss at them.Not even three weeks out from this counseling job, I picked up Angela's Ashes.I don't know why... I just did.In Frank McCourt's book, I found comfort. I found that optimism grows like a lotus flower out of the mud. I found the voice of an angel in the poverty stricken dirty streets of Limerick. I found the voices of all those kids who spilled their secrets behind my closed office door... lightening their load while I tried my best to make their world better... one kid at a time.Frank McCourt is a ruddy angel with an acerbic wit and a gift for seeing things as they truly are.I love ruddy angels.This is a book that needs to be on everyone's to read list.Yes, it is that good.
5 Of course after months on the best seller lists and millions of copies having been sold, everyone has heard of Angela's Ashes. I have owned the book for a long time, and just recently decided to read it, but it was a  wonderful read. I liked the informal and personal style McCourt writes  with, that was only a small part of the book's effect. I learned a lot  about immigrant's in America, conditions that the poor lived in here and in  Irealand, and about family structure in a time when family values was not a  buzz word like it is today. The characters in the story come to life and it  McCourt makes it possible to relate to them and understand them. It is a  wonderful book and one that I do not think a personal library should be  without.
4 I read this book in two days.  What amazed me most was the way Frank wrote about his childhood, expressing events, thoughts and the surround in a very accurate childlike language. It is only a proof of reality. I enjoyed the book very much.  I gave it four starts because not everyone is capable of taking all the misery described.
4 This was one of Torey's better books. I am so very glad that she wrote this. It puts closure to her book "One Child". She makes references to some of her other cases that she was working on at the time that I remember from her other books. Very wonderful story. I am so happy for Sheila. Sounds like her life turned out great.
5 If you are a Torey Hayden fan and have not read Tiger's Child I urge you to get a copy today and curl up in your favorite chair and get ready for a wonderful ride.  No one is a better storyteller than Torey and she holds nothing back in this sequel to One Child.  Don't miss it!
5 this book is in great condition the price was good it was delivered quickly i would order from here again
5 This book is the sequel to &quot;One Child.&quot;  Both Torey Hayden and former pupil Sheila are pioneers who did indeed blaze a trail towards higher standards in special needs education and general acceptance.For several years, author Torey Hayden made good faith efforts to locate her former pupil, Sheila.  They do reconnect after a series of &quot;lucky flukes&quot; some seven years later.  Sheila, then in middle school has more or less discarded any memory of her past; she is contending with living in a different town and is coping with her father, with whom she seems to have a better relationship.  In &quot;One Child,&quot; readers are made aware that both father and daughter had been wronged by the Social Services system.  This book helps readers to see how they survived the bureaucracy and made the best with what they had at the time.Torey Hayden opens new doors for Sheila; she even recommends Sheila for a job in the clinic where she works one summer.  Sheila bonds with a young boy there because both share a common history of maternal abandonment.  The relationship between former pupil and teacher is certainly a roller-coaster ride; Sheila, now in the &quot;terrible teens&quot; is clearly feeling her way out towards independence and self identity.  She expresses these feelings eloquently and in action; she dyes her hair extreme colors and puts together exotic outfits.Over time, as Sheila matures and contends with bad placements and more moves, she is able to come to terms with her past.  To both of their credit, no promises are made and one can more or less feel and see the process involved in helping Sheila cope.
5 It's not as good as One Child in my opinion.  But, I'm glad to find out what happened to Sheila.  Torey is an excellent writer and I love how she doesn't whitewash anything, not even her personal life -- she tells her stories in first person.  GREAT!
5 I was so glad when I saw that Torey had written a sequel to Sheila's story.  The patience she has with this child is something else!I have all her books and am hoping for more.
5 I was so excited when I found this book. Finally, Shelia's story has an ending. At the end of &#34;One Child&#34; the reader is left full of hope for the future for Shelia. &#34;The Tiger's Child&#34; brings the reality of working with kids who come from difficult places back to reality.
5 I love Torey Hayden's books and have loved them all.  She has a great writing style that draws you into the story.  She is very inspiring and I admire her for being able to reach out to these children.
4 In "One Child," Hayden first told the story of Sheila, a seriously abused, violent six-year-old who was placed in her special ed classroom as she awaited placement in a state mental hospital for setting a younger child on fire.Although just about everyone else -- including her own alcoholic father -- had given up on Sheila, Hayden realized the little girl was keenly intelligent. Doggedly, she began testing and teaching Sheila, all the while showing her patience, love and understanding. And despite the occasional setback, within months, Sheila was an entirely different child.Then the school year ended, Hayden took a different job out of state, and she lost touch with Sheila. Despite searching for her former student, Hayden was unable to connect -- until a coincidence reunited the two when Sheila was 13. Hayden was ecstatic -- and Sheila claimed not to remember the time they'd spent together.Undeterred, Hayden persisted, inviting Sheila to help out with a summer program for disturbed children she and another clinician were running. Soon the bond they'd once had seemed resurrected. Yet each time Torey and Sheila's friendship seemed to be going smoothly, something happened to test it fiercely -- interference from Sheila's father, or a facet of Sheila's own unpredictable adolescent persona. Despite her best intentions, Hayden often wondered why she persisted -- was there any point? Was she hurting Sheila more than she helped?Hayden's experiences with Sheila and her other students serve as complex and engrossing material for this book, a simple yet realistic portrait of the world's ugliness -- and the few, stubborn individuals who are determined to make a difference in others' lives.
5 I was VERY pleased with this book, and I read it quickly.  I enjoyed it a lot.  :)  I finally know how Shelia's life turned out.
5 When I first heard about TIGER'S CHILD, I knew that I had to read it to find out what had happened to Sheila.  I was not disappointed.  I found that Sheila had carried a great deal of anger around with her all these years toward Torey for "showing her the good life and then deserting her just like her mother had."  This rather dumb-founded Torey, because she was just doing what all teachers do at the end of a school year--saying good-bye to her students and moving on.  Torey had to work very hard in this book to build up a trust level again.  Sheila was not going to make this easy.  However, the ending was satisfying; and we are left knowing that Sheila will be all right.  I don't know how Torey makes her writing such compelling reading.  I could not put the book down--even when I needed to look at scenery on a vacation.  I recommend this book to anyone who needs a heart-warming read.
5 Gives you a feeling of hope.  Torey Hayden is a great story teller and the children she writes about need a teacher with the love and tenacity she shows them in the classroom.
5 This is the sequel toOne Childso it's best to read that one first.  This book is fantastic.  I loved it.  It continue's the story about Shelia as a teenager and how she had blocked a lot of her childhood out.  Her memories came back the more she talked with Torey.  Also worked with Torey with some disturbed kids which was good for awhile.  This book tells how Shelia overcame her very abusive childhood and how Torey encouraged and helped her long after she left her class. If you read "One Child," then you must read this one!Karen Arlettaz Zemek, author of "My Funny Dad, Harry"
4 Page turner for me.  Tough in lots of parts, when Torey had to meld her ideals with reality.  Worth reading, definitely!
5 Very remarkable story, it was very easy to read and extremely well written. Looking forward to reading more by the author
4 I read this before I read the prequel 'One Child'. I would have liked to have read 'One Child' first, but I didn't have any trouble following the plot and the characters. Because 'Tiger's Child' deals with a teenager rather than Torey Hayden!s typical child case study, it is more complex than her other books. Hayden, through the vehicle of Sheila's prompting also probes her own personality and motives for doing the work she does. I enjoyed 'Tiger's Child' very much.
5 A realistic conclusion,  better by far than Happily Ever After.  I've come to love Sheila, the enigmatic heroine of Hayden 's One Child.
4 It was difficult to read about all the horrible things that happened to Sheila and the way she chose to live her life  The story of this child's life is a perfect example why some people should not have children.
5 In &quot;One Child&quot; we met Sheila, age 6, who needed a lot of help after being abused for years. Torey Hayden spent five months helping Sheila, whom she discovered to have an IQ of 180. With Torey's excellent work, Sheila was able to go onto regular grade three the next year in the care of a friend of Torey's. In this book, Torey talks about meeting Sheila again after seven years, meeting her at age thirteen. It is a surprising, thoughtful, emotional story, and I highly recommend it as well as its prequel.
1 I found this book in short depressing. That wonderful little girl we meet in One Child is long gone. She feels confused and angry at the world. To be honest I can see why she does. Not only her mother leaving her but her teacher as well? And then living with her good for nothing father. Probably being abused at foster homes... the list goes on and on. As far as I'm concerned she does have a reaason to rant and rave at the world. Also time and time again she mentions how things seemed different to her when she read One Child before it was published. It honestly made me wonder about if Mrs. Hayden is stretching any truths there. After all, we remember what we want about history. Or rather history is written by the victors, not the losers. I would be rather interested to reaad how Shelia would remember that time and compare it.This story just hit me as wrong. Maybe we saw more reality then we did in her other books. I'm not sure. All I know is this book didn't sit well with me. I put it down several times and finished it more out of not having anything else to reaad then any other reason
5 Borrowed this book from my grandmother at the tender age of 10. Absolutely wonderful! Sheila was a child failed by the system repeatedly as I was. She was isolated, neglected, and angry. I was a Black version of this child. So many painful memories and no one who cared.
5 I've never read her fiction books, but I would highly recommend her non-fiction ones. They are really interesting and well written.
4 I work with children at school and I found the book written by child psychologist Torey Hayden and interesting read.
3 If you have read any of my other reviews you'll know i've read quite a lot of Mr Gardner's work. This isnt one of his best. It is basically a history of freemasonary and how it came about.There's nothing mystical about it, lots of facts and figures.. but thats about it. These dont really give much of an insight either! I got the impression that the Masons were just being painted as no-one special save for their skills in practical stuff such as building.Having read other things about Masons, this is really not very interesting at all. It states there are only 3 degrees, which is the accepted answer rather than the actuality. (Allegedly!) In fact, rather than anything ground-breaking going on it has the feel that the exact opposite is being expressed with the aim to rid the world of any ideas of mysticism and hidden goings on!I suppose if you want to read about dates and similar, and be told that all the aura surrounding Free Masons is just that... an aura which is of no real substance... then you'll enjoy this. Loking for more... I'd say look elsewhere.
4 Let me start off this book review by quoting page 311, paragraph 3:"The historical Illuminati were never in a position to wield any power over anyone. They influenced the thinking of a great many people, and possibly assisted the mind-set for the French Revolution, but they never once influenced any government except against themselves. The measure of their success can be notionally perceived in hindsight, but at the time they were a failed Order, and were totally non-existent by the late 1780's. As for their attachment to Freemasonry, it too was non-existent; Weishaupt founded the group specifically because he was unimpressed with German Freemasonry. It is impossible to presume that, in the context of all this, the Illuminati managed to contrive a powerful New World Order, and have since been running a conspiratorial global network for the past 200 years. The Illuminati simply do not exist, neither in the top echelons of Freemasonry, nor anywhere else."And to think Gardner actually had the audacity to make such an equivocal statement, {{{or should I be polite and say "prevaricate."}}}The bottom line is; Laurence Gardner is an unmitigated liar! The Illuminati really do exist. However, the truth is buried deep under his fraudulence, and if you're intelligent enough to be cognizant of that fact you'll enjoy this book."The Shadow of Solomon the Lost Secrets of Freemasonry" is worth the read insofar as exposing who, what, when, where, why, and how the "Old World Order" became "The New World Order" simply because knowledge is cognitional power and that's something the Illuminati has total derision towards.So, with that said; your best bet is to read Seth Payson's book "Proof of the Illuminati" since Gardner conveniently omits certain details and vital information that exposes the globalist perpetrators. It is common knowledge that the Illuminati/Jacobin Society where waist high in orchestrating the French Revolution. So, for Gardner to say that they "were never in a position to wield any power over anyone" is simply doublespeak at its most paramount.And what makes Gardner's claim so egregiously adumbrated is that he never divulges the fact that after Weishaupt's Illuminati were expelled from Freemasonry he was "deprived of his Professor's chair, and banished from Bavaria." Or so we thought according to Seth Payson.Payson wrote that "He (Weishaupt) went first to Regenburg, and afterward entered into the service of [Ernest II] the Duke of Saxe-Gotha, whose name in the order (of the Illuminati) was Timoleon."The reality is this, the Illuminati didn't disappear as Gardner suggests. They regrouped to form an alliance with the House of Saxe. Furthermore, the evidence shows that Queen Victoria married Prince Albert of the House of Saxe-Coburg in the month of February 1840, which means for a second time the Illuminati infiltrated the Masonic lodges in Germany and England.If you recall English Freemasonry is also known as Hanoverian Freemasonry and Queen Victoria was the head of that Masonic block.Please, take into account that the House of Saxe married into the Hanover Monarchy and they (Saxe-Coburg-Gotha) brought the Illuminati with them. Gardner leaves all of this vital information out of his book.I will say that most of what Gardner discusses in this book is confirmed information that is deemed vital, in other words I believe 90% of what he conveys is true it's the 10% that's conveniently circumvented that will throw you for a loop if you don't manage to catch on.Overall, there's a plethora of history, such as the 1688 Whig Rebellion, and the reason for the Revolutionary War, which most individuals studying this material won't realize unless they read this book.Our American Revolution was really about two warring factions of Freemasonry, which were the Antients who were known as the "Most Antient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons" and the Moderns a.k.a the Hanoverian Freemasons.Gardner also does an excellent job examining the occult political science aspect of this enigmatic fraternal order, while unlocking the Hiram key, revealing Masonic secrets such as the Hiram Abiff fable, which according to Gardner is nothing but an allegory.This anecdotal myth has no bases in truth whatsoever, but many low ranking Masons would have you believe otherwise because the Hiram fable is part of their third degree initiation practice.And For more information on the Hiram story please read my review of Milton William Cooper's "Behold A Pale Horse."Unfortunately, Gardner only exposes the first three degrees of Freemasonry. So, if your proclivities go way beyond that horizon then you'll have to continue your research elsewhere.But insofar as I'm concerned I want to adhere to the sole Illuminati argument by making a couple of more points about Gardner's egregious lie that they didn't influence world event's.A case in point:Thomas Jefferson made this statement:"As Weishaupt lived under the tyranny of a despot and priests, he knew that caution was necessary even in spreading information, and the principles of pure morality. This has given an air of mystery to his views,(which) was the foundation of his banishment [...] If Weishaupt had written here (in America), where no secrecy is necessary in our endeavors to render men wise and virtuous, he would not have thought of any secret machinery for that purpose."(It was alleged that Jefferson might have been an Illuminati agent.)Furthermore, George Washington said:"I have heard much of the nefarious and dangerous plan and doctrines of the Illuminati. It was not my intention to doubt that the doctrines of the Illuminati and principles of Jacobinism had not spread in the United States. On the contrary, no one is more satisfied of this fact than I am."The Writings of George Washington...So in conclusion if Washington and Jefferson knew without a shadow of a doubt that the Illuminati existed then suffice it to say we can be 100% sure they're still around based on the overwhelming evidence today, considering some of the same families (The Black Nobility) that were controlling this surreptitious cult 200 years ago are still in power today, running the banking systems, the governments, and the many corporations all over the world.Make no mistake about it! Envisage all that is around you and you'll be the better for it.Believe it or not this book is vital reading if you can get past Gardner's Masonic prevarications since he was a Mason for 20 years.
5 Collections strong in New Age topics in general and freemasonry history in particular will want to consider Laurence Gardner's THE SHADOW OF SOLOMON: it's a reader offering an insider's account of masonic history and the search the fraternity has conducted to locate its own lost secrets. The Masons have long been involved in world political events down to the founding of the U.S. and its constitution, which makes THE SHADOW OF SOLOMON of interest not only to new age holdings, but to any who would consider the process of American history.
1 this book gives the outline of the history of something that tells us nothing but dull facts and has no insight into the mysteries of masonry at all..in fact this is a great example to me of someone.the author,  who was a mason and understood nothing of its true essence...most masons do not know a damn thing about what masonry really is ! i only know what masonry really is by reading the only book out of dozens i have read about masonry that tells us the real story ..and the book is the meaning of masonry by wilmshurst..a mason who knows from whence he speaks--- he is not concerned w the outward ceremonies rituals that most masons practice but leave out the most important part....without which its just a club a social club philanthropic as they may be--evil as they may be said to be.....there are no mysteries really and certainly this book by gardner reveals none.except perhaps his mentioning levitation or some other such scientific propositions about how pyramids were built.....the masonry that masonry has as its true theme is not building with mortar or anything  material of this world at all..all of these " things " are but symbols of spiritual realities known only to adepts who truly understand masonry and what the lodge means and every other word idea or symbol.....most people and most masons as wilmshurst points out in his far superior book..have no idea about any of truth of the craft and its real purpose....not because it is secret..but because it is esoteric in the sense that " many are called but few are chosen " . it is a ludicrous waste of time and very disappointing to me after having read wilmshurst's book to then read this.....i look forward to reading masonic texts...but will be surprised now if i ever read anything about it by someone other than wilmshurst..who can match what he has revealed for those who truly hunger for knowledge understanding revelation inspiration etc....less than one percent of this book had any interest to me...every word every page every sentence of the wilmshurts book had me mesmerized...as opposed to this travelogue of apparently well researched but irrelevant and mostly dull facts...missing completely what is relevant about this centuries old Craft ....this book is for the masses in my mind..motives spurious re publishing....wilmshurst's; a timeless book for true seekers of light only..
1 It is a nice cover, but that's about all I can say that's good I am afraid. I was expecting more, but it's just fact after so called fact and most of these are wrong and based on Gardner's world view. Not very good really and rushed out.
5 Although The Shadow of Solomon is a complex piece of work it is a wonderful collection of a vast array of theory. The author's dedication and detail is impeccable. Yes, he is a conspiracy theorist, but he goes to great lengths to back up his hypotheses.Much of this book surrounds around Secrets from within Freemasonry. Mr. Gardner traces lengths of the organization as well as beliefs back to Solomon, and Ancient Egypt. It reads like a rich text book with bits of the author's fabulous sarcasm scattered throughout. For those interested in the subject this is a wonderful read.
4 it among other books. The history that goes back and back in time , the controversy, the so-called scientific issuesthat some people were seeking and the connections between that and religion are very important , and that is whyi decided to keep a copy  at home.
5 Books on climate change and global warming can be a little dry.  Not this book.  It's easy to read...more of a conversational style.  You'll turn off your lights and monitor, unplug your chargers, and drive less from now on after reading this book.
5 This is one of the few books which impressed me most and scared me at the same time. I do not understand why humans can be as stupid as appearently they are and do not act in time to avoid the drama which perhaps our generation will no face but a very next one.
4 Using a solid, conservative methodology, the author paints a frightening picture of the climatic changes that lie before us as Earth grows hotter from greenhouse-gas emissions.I was torn between assigning this book four stars or five. While there's nothing about this book I don't like, I didn't want to be influenced by my own conviction of the overriding importance of this topic for all of us, and have tried to grade the book purely on the basis of my reaction to it as a book.But the topic is urgent and important, and Mark Lynas has treated it effectively and with authority. His approach was to review all the published scientific literature he could find on climate modeling and paleoclimatology. His sources therefore consist exclusively of peer-reviewed scientific papers: no pop-science books, interviews, or mass-market magazine articles. He created a database of articles and organized them into categories according to the amount of warming they discussed: 1 degree Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius, and so on up to 6 degrees.The book builds up a picture of the heating Earth, each chapter notching the average temperature one degree higher. At 1 degree, for example, Lynas discusses the likely desertification of the American West. The great plains ranging east of the Rockies north to Saskatchewan are actually an ancient dune-field covered with a thin layer of soil held in place by plants. Climate models show its likely reversion to a more drought-stricken regime that has also existed in the ancient past. The result will be the death of the plants, and blowing away of the topsoil--just as happened with the Dust Bowl in Oklahoma in the 1930s. This new Dust Bowl will be much larger and more enduring--and where will all the people go?That's only one heading in the 1-degree chapter; there are nine more, including the slowing or stopping of the Gulf Stream, the melting of the Arctic icecap, and the die-off of coral reefs. Then it's on to chapter 2, with 11 headings of its own. The effects he looks at are diverse, sometimes smaller, such as the extinctions of individual species, but mostly much larger, such as the severe droughts and mass migrations we can expect when the world's mountain glaciers--source of much of our drinking-water--finally disappear, as they are rapidly doing right now.By the time we get to 6 degrees, the point is abundantly clear: we must not let this happen. At that point our planet will be ice-free, largely desert, and whipped by "hypercanes" vastly more powerful than today's strongest storms. In Lynas's personal opinion, the human species will likely survive, but it will be a small remnant, and one of only a few survivors of this great extinction event.Still relatively buried in the scientific literature are discussions of positive-feedback loops that may--indeed likely will--lie ahead: mechanisms that will accelerate warming beyond our ability to stop or control it. One such is the melting of tundra permafrost, which will likely release methane in large quantities, a greenhouse gas 20 times more potent than CO2. Another is the awesome storehouse of methane as hydrates on the continental shelves, which may be released as the oceans warm.Based on his survey, Lynas finds that our window of opportunity to head off the worst of it is very small indeed. We have almost certainly already crossed the threshold of 2 degrees of global warming, so the first two chapters are a snapshot of how our world will look just a few years from now. Indeed, the current droughts in Atlanta, California, Portugal, Australia, and elsewhere are themselves the manifestation of the process unfolding.Lynas sums up with a discussion of what's stopping us from acting more vigorously, as well a look at the magnitude of the task. It makes for mighty sobering reading.His prose is vigorous, vivid, and confident. Lynas has studied the climate for years, and visited remote spots of the globe. To be sure, I found the message depressing. It's all the scarier because it's not hysterical--it's lifted right out of peer-reviewed papers. But it has woken me from my own torpor of denial. Whatever decisions we each make, we should be informed. And this book provides an especially crucial kind of information.
4 The author put this together in a very readable and enjoyable way. It reads like some of the best global warming fiction yet is based on current research. What I particularly liked was the arrangement of the chapters, each one dealing with a degree rise and the consequences. This should be read by our non-right wing politicians as a primer on global warming. The other politicians are most likely lost to reason. I highly recommend this book.
4 The book &#34;Six Degrees&#34; by Mark Lynas has been very challenging for me to read, mostly because it has endless references to past climate conditions.  I understand that is part of how he decided to calculate what lies ahead for our planet for the future, but I have had to read and re-read passages to understand what he was trying to say.  Still, I think it's an important book for our times and the climate predictions he has laid out need to be looked at closely by policymakers if we are to avert further climate crises.
3 I really enjoy historical fiction especially stories set in the Regency period in England.  Unfortunately this book didn't impress me like it did everyone else here on Amazon.I was an easy read with a somewhat straightforward story unencumbered by a variety of story lines, which is perhaps part of why I was disappointed.The main character, Matthew Hawkwood,  wasn't developed enough for me to really sink into the story.  And it was plenty long enough to develop him.  I will say I did enjoy his relationship with Sergeant Nathanial Jago and the action scenes, but they weren't enough to leave me satisfied at the end of the book.Sadly, I purchased the sequel in anticipation of loving this book and wanting to read the next installment but the first story hasn't left me wanting more of Hawkwood or the writing of James McGee.
3 While the plot line is intriguing, some of the characters are a little hackneyed, especially for an English person to read. It is a touch formulaic but nothing wrong with that per se, I am not a fan of the 'experimental' style of writing. Some areas are a little crude, especially the sexual scenes and references. If you are not looking for much and want an easy to follow story line with bodice-ripping action then you won't be disappointed. Like my title says, all the good ingredients are there but maybe they could have been mixed with more care.
4 Ratcatcher is the first in what at the time of writing is a two book series about Matthew Hawkwood , a Bow Street Runner (early police officer)in London ,at the time of the Napoleonic Wars .Hawkwood is an ex military man ,having served in the Peninsula War under the Duke of Wellington .The comparisons with  Bernard Cornwall's famous creation "Sharpe" are unavoidable and the two men are both tough ,resourceful and ,should the need arise,ruthless.Hawkwood is assigned by his boss ,the Chief Magistrate James Read to investigate a case of highway robbery in the course of which an Admiralty courier is killed and vital documents stolen .He seeks help from an old army colleague ,Jago a man well connected with the criminal underworld .Soon ,Hawkwood finds other cases assigned to him including the murder of a fellow officer ,Warlock ,and the disappearance of a respected master clockmaker ,Josiah Woodburn .The cases turn out to be linked and revolve around French spies and a plot by the French to utilise a new type of weapon ,the submarine ,to destroy British ships at anchor in London ,and assassinating the Prince Regent in the process ,The arch conspirator is an American ,William Lee ,a vicious Anglophobe with a grudge against the Crown .It builds to a tense climax during the submarine's attack on a British dockyard ,There is a lot of action and the plot is exciting and well developed with many memorable creations .Hawkwood is part Sharpe and part James Bond ,and not  a  man to be trifled with .In addition to seeking to frustrate the enemy he finds time for amorous dalliance and fighting  a duelThe book shows us a darker side to Regency society than the genteel world of Hawkwood's contemporary Jane Austen .This is a gritty urban world in which affluence and aristocracy exist cheek by jowl with abject poverty and violence is the norm ( It is not described gloatingly but there is deal of violence in the book).History buffs will enjoy its solid base of historical fact and its excellent researchGreat start to a highly promising sries
5 James McGee became a writer after working  in banking, sales and the airline industry both here in the UK and also abroad. He is now a bookseller, a very honourable profession. Where would we be without them. I am not sure whether this is his first novel or not, no matter, I found it an excellent read about a period of history, Regency London, a time perhaps that is not as done to death by authors as say medieval or Victorian. The book is fast paced, full of the atmosphere of the period.Matthew Hawkwood, the lead player in the book is a man of complex character, feared by those who operate outside the law, loved by the ladies, a hero who is handsome, mysterious and has a ruthless streak. A man who  want to do his job, helping to keep the peace on the street of a city that is rife with criminals, prostitutes, pickpockets and so-called beggars who would slit your throat for the change in your pocket.He is a man whose past keeps haunting him. A past that worries some of the people in high places. But the Chief Magistrate thinks he is just right for a crucial mission . . .The book has everything you could wish for in a period murder mystery. I enjoyed it tremendously. I am sure you will too.
5 What a jolly good romp through the underground of Regency London. This debut offers the reader a great new hero who is a bit of a different kind of character we usually see. Retiring from the army, a Captain in the Napoleonic Wars Rifle regiment, Matthew Hawkwood now works for the famous Bow Street Runners catching criminals. The reader does not encounter the wealthy ton of London, but is introduced to the seedy side of the city, complete with rapscallions, pick-pockets, wharfrats, prostitutes, mudlarks, and the entire array of anyone and everything unsavory. The book has great characters, a vivid depiction of what life was like in the late 1700's and early 1800s London and lots of action, humor, and mystery. I loved this debut and hope the author continues with the series in the same adventurous flavor. McGee's writing style could be compared to that of Bernard Cornwell, polished and engaging from start to finish. The character of Hawkwood could be compared to Clive Cussler's famous Dirk Pitt if put in a historical setting. Bravo Mr. McGee, keep 'em coming.
5 As a big fan of historical mysteries, I snapped up two of James mcGee's books on a used basis. I received the second in the series first .. and put it aside after one chapter. Days later Ratcatcher arrived per post and I started it with a little skepsis. Soon the story had me in its grip. Hawkwood, the Bow Street Runner protagonist, has an interesting background - many details of which were revealed in this first of the series. The book also doesn't lack atmosphere - one can almost smell the horrible slum areas of then London. The bad guys were suitably creepy, which added to the suspense. Additional details to the plot are already summarized above. Needless to say, I look forward to the next in the series ... and will hopefully learn even more about what makes Hawkwood tick!
4 The author manages to capture the atmosphere of 18th Century London perfectly, the dark and dank river, the areas of crime and poverty, its a wonder they didn't all die of disease.  The plot is perfect too, with a Napoleonic super-weapon, lots of spying and skulduggery and a fiendish plan to cripple the Navy.Its unfortunate then that the author put his police hero as an ex solider in the 95th Rifles, which has relevance to the plot but makes him too similar to Sharpe.  He could have easily come from another regiment in the Peninsula war and it would have made him unique and not feeling like he is Sharpe after he retired from the Army.  He even has a loyal sergeant just like Sharpe.  More originality please.
4 Matthew Hawkwood, a former soldier and a sharpshooter, is now one of ten Bow Street Runners.  When Highwaymen stop a coach and kill a government courier, Hawkwood is called in to find them.  In time, he finds what he is really seeking is the contents of the couriers pouch and those behind a plot to destroy the strength of England's war fleet.Hawkwood, for all this reputation as a top Runner, isn't the most capable.  Were it not for his friend, Jago, he wouldn't have made it through the book.  In fact, of the two characters, Jago is the more interesting.  What McGee did do extremely well was depict the seamy side of London during this period.  The other element of the story I found fascinating were the descriptions of the weapon invented by Robert Fulton.  I am also always fascinated by reading the history of the Bow Street Runners.  While this wasn't the best book, it wasn't terrible either and, being the first in the series, I shall probably read the next one just to see how the author is progressing.
4 I picked up Resurrectionist as James McGee was my grandfather's name and enjoyed every page -Ratcather, I feel wasn't as good however McGee's research, as in Resurrectionist ,was excellent.  Hawkwood in Ratcather had to many near death misses however it didn't spoil the book.  Hawkwood's  character explores several depths.and is a very likeable charater with an immense amount of sex appeal, while he will never be another Sharpe, his character is just as enjoyable. The book is fast paced and action packed and a very good read. I look forward to reading more from this clever  author.
5 I started reading James McGee &#34;Matthew Hawkwood&#34; series by chance, as many of my favourite authors had not released anything lately and glad they haven't as I would not have found this series. I have now added James McGee to my must read authors.
3 The book can be best described as light action-adventure story set in 1811 London. It starts with a coach robbery. The highwaymen not only rob the passengers, they also kill a naval officer and steal the documents he was carrying. The case is assigned to one Matthew Hawkwood, who is a Bow Street runner (police inspector). Soon it is discovered that the robbery was a smokescreen and the highwaymen were in reality after the documents, and all that because of a plot organized by Napoleon's agents. What the plot is, I will not say in order to avoid spoilers, but it is something straight from a James Bond movie.The book overall is enjoyable, but it suffers from serious faults. The biggest one is clich&eacute; writing, clich&eacute; characters and clich&eacute; dialogues. There are few brilliant scenes, but most of the writing lacks originality and at times is painful to read. This especially applies to the main bad guy who apparently was modeled on James Bond villains. Every time he captures the hero, rather than kill him straight, he explains his evil plan in detail and then hands the execution to his henchmen, who, needless to say, screw up.Also, it is not a mystery novel despite its premise. Although he is a police investigator, Hawkwood does very little actual investigating. Actually, almost none at all. He walks around, talks to witnesses who always happen to know a crucial piece of information, has evidence and clues literally land into his hands and meets people who explain him everything in lengthy monologues.I understand that this is not a Sherlock Holmes story, but for a (supposed) mystery novel about a cop doing investigation, there should be more investigation.Still, the novel does have redeeming qualities. The writing is perhaps clich&eacute;, but it is still enjoyable most of the time. The author did his research. The novel is a treasure trove of information about early 19th century London. For someone who is interested in that time period, it is a good read.Plus, for a light hearted action-adventure book, it has a very dark ending and graphic scenes of sex. I think I will give the author a chance and try the second book in the series. (There are four books so far.)
5 Expecting to encounter vampires and such, I was happily surprised to find a historical novel-mystery, and learned about "resurrectionists," as well as other interesting historical facts. As James McGee's second work, "Resurrectionist" is so well written that one crosses her fingers in hope of more. And sure enough, the dust jacket tells that he has completed four books and I go today in search of them.McGee comfortably, almost off-handedly, lays out the vivid reality of resurrectionists and life in morgues and psychiatric facilities in what I believe is the mid-1800s. Resurrectionists is a concept thoroughly disgusting in today's thinking, where everything is kept clean and corpses aren't handled by many. Yet not so long ago, this was not the case.The mystery grows around a renowned physician, a hero of war, who is now confined to Bethlam, short for Bethlehem and later to be condensed even further to "bedlam."a place for the insane. The mystery is a new twist, and blends with the macabre. For the weak of stomach, the book may not be the best, but for an audience of rabid mystery fans, it is wonderful--because of its off-the-path approaches and the author's skill. (Ariel I.)
4 This is the second book in what ,at the time of writing ,is a two book ,ongoing series about Matthew Hawkwood ,a London policeman in the second decade of the nineteenth century .It would be preferable to have read its predecessor ,"Ratcatcher" before embarking upon this novel  but this is by no means essential .The theme this time around is grave robbing and body snatching ,thriving trades in Regency era Britain ,trades which flourished due to the demands of the Medical profession which needed a regular supply of cadavers for training medical students and which was only allowed to use the bodies  of executed murderers prior to 1832 and the passing by Parliament of the Anatomy Act which reformed the whole systemThe book opens with the escape from the notorious lunatic asylum ,Bedlam ,of one Titus Hyde who makes his getaway by killing a  clergyman and assuming his identity ,after first disfihuring the corpse .Hyde then -still posing as a clergym,en -stages his death in a fire .Hawkwood is unpersuaded by the "death" and continues to track Hyde down .Hyde is a brilliant but crazed surgeon whose incarceration in Bedlam is due to his experimentation on French soldiers during the ongoing Peninsula war in Iberia ,his actions being in violation of accepted miltary protocol.He is persuaded that via surgery and electricity he can bring life to the dead ,especially his deceased daughter.To secure a regular supply of bodies Hyde  enlists the aid of the notorious bodysnatching gang lead by the thuggish Rufus Dawney .Hawkwood -aided by his former miltary colleague ,the redoubtable Nathaniel Jago and others .confront him in an exciting and quite graphic climaxThis is not a horror novel but does have several scenes which require a strong stomach and border on the Gothic-especially one where Hawkwood and his cohorts find an underground chamber where bodies are being melted into tallow for candles and soap.(This -like all of the book has a strong factual basis ,the research being exemplary)This is not for those who like the "country house ,crinoline and lace" school of historical fiction but if you like a strong plot ,a bit of edginess and crisp ,unfussy writing with a hero who combines Sharpe and James Bond then you will enjoy this book .I most emphatically did.
4 The only reason I gave this book a 4 instead of 5 is that I liked the first in the series, Ratcatcher, even more!The author really gives the stories an atmospere ... almost too creepy ... of the times - particulary of the low life side of London. The author has obviously done a great job of researching the topics (graverobbing for medical research and madhouses). The crimes themselves are gruesome, just about bearable enough to read about. Towards the end, I found the action scenes very well done - very suspenseful. I don't usually like to get too close to the gory details, but McGee does it so well that I almost enjoyed it.Also, this book provides additional details of the "hero's" background. I also liked the fact that his "sidekicks" are also being shown in more detail. In mystery series, you live with the main characters, so I find it important to get to know them while also enjoying the solving of the crime.
5 Bow Street Runner Matthew Hawkwood is called to Bedlam.  A prisoner has escaped by murdering a Reverend who came to visit, flawing his face and using it as a mask in order not to be recognized.  Hawkwood tracks the prisoner down and watches as he dies in a fire, but doesn't really believe the man is dead.Author James McGee tells the story of Resurrectionists, the men who provide corpses to medical schools, and of politics.  He does not paint a picture of the genteel aristocratic residents of the period but depicts the sights and smells of the slums of London and it's not pleasant.  There are points where the story almost crosses the line into horror but the author never quite crosses that line.  Hawkwood is a character about whom we are learning little by little.  The story is intriguing and really becomes exciting when his friend Jago comes on the scene.  I enjoyed the first book in the series, but liked this even better.  It's not for the feint of stomach, but it's a really good read.
5 James McGee writes great stories and in a history which I enjoy reading. There is never a dull moment with this star character Matthew Hawkwood.
1 I love this author.  I pre ordered this book before it was published.  I just finished it this morning.  I thought it would never end.  The last section of the book is dead boring!I am a student of Tudor History and this book covers the subject like a soap opera.The book ends without telling the reader how Catherine actually ended up before the courts.  If you don't know the history you are lost.Very, very disappointing work by an otherwise excellent author!
3 This is typical Phillipa Gregory historic fiction.  Katherine's marriage and intimate relations with her first husband, Arthur, is well written and Gregory's version of events surrounding this time in her life are believable, although her lifelong obsession with carrying out Arthur's wishes of another Camelot were over-dramatic and over-written.This novel does include Gregory's trademark descriptions around events, clothing, and locations, all of which are captivating and intricantly detailed.  You quickly become attached to Katherine's character.  You will experience the victory of her long-awaited coronation as England's Queen, as well as the desperation of her last days in exile.If you enjoy Gregory's other works, and have a moderate interest in Henry's first wife, then this book should be an enjoyable read for you.
4 After reading The Virgin's Lover, I was hoping for a little pick-me-up. I got it with this book.I did like the telling of Katherine from the beginning, instead of the usual point when Anne is trying to be Queen of England. It was refreshing to see a young Katherine, instead of the usual, old one.I went along with the whole, "Maybe she lied" thing, for the book to work, and it does, for the book. But overall, I don't think she would have lied about something that was so important. I'll skip the theology, but I think Henry was bored of her, wanted a son, and did the "modern" thing and picked and chose the verses he wanted to condemn her.Her singular ambition to be Queen is just the same as Anne's ambition to do the same, but yet Gregory made Katherine a bit more sympathetic. Maybe because Anne is the villianess still, even though it's towards the end of the book, and you know it.I wasn't too happy with how the book ended. I wish she would have gone on to tell us about her end days. But I guess she felt she covered that in The Other Boleyn Girl, and felt it was too much rehash. But I still would have liked to have seen it from her POV.Although some felt the switch between the narratives was annoying I didn't find it so. I think we all catch ourselves doing that a little in our lives.One thing that I didn't like at all was the whole relationship between her and King Henry VII. I just wasn't convinced with that whole thing. It was a bit too convienient for me.I really did like her take on Henry VIII in his early years. A bit of a spoiled child, who really tried hard. He was actually endearing to me. His actions made me laugh and reminds me that young men can truly be sweet and genuine. I think he did love her, truly, in the beginning of their relationship. I like how Gregory showed that the King Henry we know now, the fat ugly man, was once lovely, funny, child. She showed that side of him very well.
3 This is a historical novelization of Queen Katherine of Aragon, first wife of King Henry VIII.  It starts with Katherine(Catalina) as a child and ends when Anne Boleyn is in the process of usurping her as Henry VIII's wife.The first half of the book was interesting with the portrayal of 15th/16th century Europe and the making of political alliances between countries.  It showed that royal parents such as Ferdinand/Isabella and Henry VII/Elizabeth viewed their offspring more as chess pieces than family members.  This seems to be the historical part.  The fiction part seems to be portraying Katherine and Arthur as a royal couple that fall in love (serendipity!).  She has Katherine and Arthur consummate their marriage as well.  The future king Henry VIII is attracted to Katherine.  If I wanted to have only history I'd stay with Alison Weir or Antonia Fraser.  I don't object to this.The novel seemed to go astray by portraying Queen Katherine with 20th/21st politically correct sensibilities.  Spain bore the brunt of struggles against the Moslems during her life.  It's a little easy that her family would have been so discerning to surgically excise what they didn't like about Moslems, and appreciate what was positive(their advances in science and medicine).  I doubt Queen Katherine would have been so appreciative of it.What I would have liked to see:-The rivalry of Katherine and Anne Boleyn.-The years when Mary Tudor was a child.To me it seemed that after the battle against King James of Scotland, it was fast forwarded to her divorce with Henry VIII.  I had the impression that her editors were hurrying the author to get another Tudor Era historical novel to the printing presses.  I was a little disappointed after reading "The Other Boleyn Girl".
4 Read this book a few years back. Thought it was great. Very descriptive and intriguing. I loved the romance within the book. Catalina goes through a great deal and you see her grow as the book goes on. Very well written. Need to read the entire series!
4 As with Philippa Gregory's other Tudor-based novels, she takes many liberties with history, providing alternative views on lives, places, and events. The Constant Princess does just that with the life of Henry VIII's first queen Katharine of Aragon, focusing on her younger years, i.e. before Anne Boleyn.Gregory provides an interesting read, and viewers are able to see a different side to Katharine, from her early years in her homeland of Spain to her constancy in waiting to become what she believed to be her destiny, Queen of England.As most people know, Katharine was originally betrothed to Henry VIII's brother Arthur, the heir to the English throne. However, shortly after their marriage, Arthur died, leaving young Katharine, or Catalina as she is known in this book, in a most precarious situation.Gregory devotes a lot of attention to a love story between Katharine and Arthur. While I don't totally disagree with Gregory's theory that the newlyweds consummated their marriage, I believe their relationship in this book is reminiscent of a Harlequin romance novel, and that most likely was not the case. Also, I don't agree with Gregory's depictions of Arthur's father Henry VII and the young Henry VIII. I agree with the reviewer who said that Henry VII is portrayed as a lusty, dirty old man and Henry VIII as a childish, gullible little boy. I mean, Gregory has Katharine practically running the country when she is made queen!Despite this, it is nice to read a familiar story in a new light.
2 I was coming off the page-turning "The Other Boleyn Girl" and the satisfying "Boleyn Inheritance" when I picked up "The Constant Princess." I told myself after the first 20 pages that I should give it a little bit more time to pick up because all of her other books had. However, I found myself...bored with the characters, the story. It was not engaging.
3 Fat Assassins (The Fat Adventure Series)I became a Phillipa Gregory fan after reading The Other Boleyn Girl. I expected more of the same with this book, but it wasn't as good. Normally, Phillipa can capture the mood of court with complex politics while revealing interesting intrigues to the reader - pulling them into the moment. There wasn't any depth to the characters or settings almost like it had been written too quickly from an outline.The story line had potential, but I didn't feel transported like previous books.
5 As always, a great historical fiction by a great writer.I loved the book and didn't want it to end. On to the next!
4 The Constant Princess / 0-7432-7249-8Everyone loves Tudor history, but too often we only really start to pay attention when Anne Boleyn enters the scene. In "The Constant Princess", Gregory has put together an entertaining fictional account which attempts to bring us the early years of Katherine. While a lot of historical detail has clearly gone into the novel, it is important to remember that the work is fictional, and not meant to be a history text.Katherine's childhood and tutelage under her iron-willed mother Isabel is shown, and we are given a careful look into the character of Katherine. She is deeply religious, yes, but incredibly strong-willed and driven. She also understands that while her parents love her, she is their bargaining chip first and a daughter second. When her arranged marriage fails due to the tragic death of her young husband, she is faced with a choice: go back to Spain and become a minor Spanish duchess, or spin the audacious lie that she is still a virgin and eligible to marry the next English heir.Gregory carefully notes the animosity against Katherine by the chilly royal family, and emphasizes the relative poverty in which Katherine was forced to live during the time between her husband's death and her eventual marriage to Henry. Henry is seen here as a spoiled child, who is more than willing to leave the mundane affairs of rulership and budgeting to his older, more competent queen. We see the impetuous and careless cruelty that causes Henry to abandon his pregnant queen to seek the arms of someone else rather than accept a temporarily imposed chastity. Thus we also see in his treatment of Katherine a shadow of things to come later: if Henry cannot remain faithful to his wise and valuable princess-wife, what hope have the later girls to come?The character of Katherine is sterling here, and it is easy for the reader to agree that her lie is a necessary evil in order for her to become what she feels destined her to be. We sympathize with Katherine the girl as she is beset by difficulties that she bravely tries to weather; we fear for Katherine the woman, whom we know will be forced aside later for a younger woman. We feel a sympathy with this lesser-known figure of the famous drama and it is easy to imagine that Katherine may not blame Anne, but rather recognizes that her husband is an inconstant monarch destined to betray her.~ Ana Mardoll
4 Well while this book started out a bit slow for me I was so glad I stuck with it!  By the end of the book I was very &#34;in&#34; to her and now realize that the beginning of the book was necessary in order to get you the depth into Catalina that you needed to understand her in later life.  I was NOT ready for the end of this book to come and really wish it could have continued to tell you what happened until the end of her reign and the end of her life.
4 What I love about Philippa Gregory is her ability to take characters from history that are well known to us in an over-simplified, one dimensional ways and completely re-tell their stories. She has given us the strong Elizabeth I as a lovesick, indecisive fool rather than the steely ruler we normally think of, and demonized Anne Boleyn nearly as badly as did her contemporary court accusers.  Now Katherine of Aragon, normally seen as stubborn, unattractive and clingy, is presented to us as a military strategist, a skilled puppeteer of powerful men, and a passionate lover. Her religious fanaticism is re-examined and presented in a new light, and a respect for Muslim culture (and semi-Muslim living!) is surprisingly juxtaposed against her Catholic faith.While I love Gregory's imaginative and interpretative abilities regarding Tudor England, I'd actually rank this with 3.5 stars rather than four. Nit-picky?  Perhaps. The book is good - better than just "OK."  But the story still left me wanting more action in some places, less "poor me" introspection at other times, and to see this fiery Katherine actually assert herself at least once, rather than smile and maneuver.  I wanted more passion in the story - it was only sparked in here and there. It's not Gregory's best (read The Other Boleyn Girl, Wideacre or Earthly Joys for that), but it's good Gregory.
5 It's a great book to read. You will enjoy this as much as I have.
2 I loved reading Gregory's books- The Other Boleyn Girl and The Boleyn Inheritance- so I thought for sure The Constant Princess would be a great read. Boy, was I disappointed. I thought the author hurried through this one and that maybe she didn't research well enough. It read like a predictable romance in the beginning, which I found repetitive and sticky sweet, almost boring. Then it just got worse. I didn't really connect with Katherine as I had wanted and I really didn't understand why the author shifted from first person to third person. That really bothered me.I must say that I am glad I started with Phillipa Gregory's other novels before I began this one, otherwise I don't think I would have read anything else by her.My quest to gain knowledge of Katherine of Aragon must continue and I hope to find what I'm looking for in Jean Plaidy- an expert in historical fiction about the queens of England.
4 I love Philippa Gregory's novels, specially the Tudor ones.  This one in particular wasn't my favorite, it felt a little slow as I read it, however the history in it was very interesting, the characters had unexpected feelings and it was worth it just because it was great reading about what happened before the other novels.
5 This is one of Phillipia Gregory's better...although I have enjoyed all of them thus far!  I look forward to the next one.
4 Now that she's popular, Philippa Gregory is on a fast track to publishing her historically accurate novels. This one, although not as good as The Other Boleyn Girl, keeps the reader somewhat interested. The 400 pages could have easily been cut down but for the repetitiveness of Queen Catherine's destiny, her undying love for Arthur, her destiny and oh! by the way, her destiny. We get it! Also, the ending seemed to be too quickly wrapped up and over. It seemed like Gregory had a quota to fulfill of 400 pps. and done. Anyway, it is still a good read -- full of love, war, backstabbing and all the characteristics that made the English court so intriguing. If you like romanticism mixed with English history, you'll enjoy The Constant Princess.
5 This book is addicting.  I have listened to it multiple times.  Gregory weaves a believable tale around historical events that makes the listener almost feel as if they were there.
5 I found this somewhat slimmer Gregory book a great read. It's hard to keep a reader's attention when you know you're on the protagonist's road to tragedy, but Gregory manages to do that in style.--James Conroyd Martin, Author of PUSH NOT THE RIVER Push Not the Riverand AGAINST A CRIMSON SKYAgainst a Crimson Sky: A Novel
4 If you loved The Tudors then you need to read this series. I loved seeing the story play out from her point of view. Very well written, can't wait to read the next book.
5 I read this book in between the holiday craziness.  It was a great way to relax and give myself few minutes of escape.  Philippa Gregory has never disappointed me yet.  This book took me to the mind-set of Henry VIII's first wife, Katherine of Aragon.  It was interesting to know that she was the youngest daughter of Queen Isabella and King Ferdinend of Spain.  I enjoyed reading the historical description of Kathrine's comparison between Moorish living and English living.  It was a great novel to read and I thought Gregory did a wonderful job describing Katherine's thoughts and ambitions (yes, yes, I know it's only a novel!)  I was a bit disappointed at the ending, however.  It was too sharp a drop.  It went from Katherine's victory over Scots to her trial, some 16 years later.  We all know that Ann Boleyn came between Henry and Katherine.  While I got Gregory's imaginery perspective of Ann in "The Other Boleyn Girl", I would've wanted Katherine's perspective of Boleyn sisters in this novel.  Would it have made the novel too complicated?  And what of Katherine's daughter, Mary?  I don't mean what happend to Mary, because we got that from Gregory's "The Queen's Fool", but I mean the birth of her.  Was Henry disappointed, even angry,  that it wasn't a boy?  Other than the abrupt ending, I enjoyed reading this book.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book about the Spanish Queen of England. The character development of Catalina (Katherine) expertly took you from her childhood in Moorish palaces to the Queen who controlled and manipulated a young King Henry in order to rule England her own way. I now think of Katherine of Aragon as more than just Henry VIII's first wife and victim.Catalina, was born the last daughter of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain. Her childhood had many contrasts - constant war with the Moors and other neighbors in an effort by her parents to unify Spain into one country; but also a childhood of luxury and beauty in the Moorish palaces conquered by her famous parents. Catalina was betrothed to Prince Arthur in England at her birth and her parents raised her to know she was destined to be Princess of Wales and Queen of England. This marriage was planned to form a political alliance between Spain and England so the 2 countries could become an invincible war machine against their enemies.As a young girl of 16, she was sent to England to marry Prince Arthur who dies months after their marriage. After his death, Catalina is left alone and destitute by her Spanish family and the English Tudor family, but she maintains her dignity and assertion that she was born to be Queen of England - she is the "Constant Princess".  She grows into a strong and determined woman and endures loneliness, rejection and poverty in a foreign land away from her family and friends to get what she wants.  I highly recommend this fictional account of Katherine's life.
5 This insightful idea of Queen Katherine of Aragon left me wanting more. It gives a potential outlook to Katherine, her life, her loves, and her views as Princess, and Queen. I found it fascinating.
2 The Other Boleyn Girl was amazing, however I found myself skipping through this book repeatedly. I was bored....not near the caliber of OBG.
2 "The Other Boleyn Girl" and "The Queen's Fool" are two of the best books I've ever read--and I've read a LOT of books, especially about this period, which especially fascinates me. They were gripping to the end, and my involvement with the characters was complete--true masterpieces. So whenever a new book by Philippa Gregory comes out, I buy it, hoping to have the same experience, and lately have been sorely disappointed. "The Virgin's Lover" fell flat, and now I am trying to read this book but not finding myself engaged, must give it up. One reviewer suggested the books were being written too quickly--that is always an easy guess, however it depends on the writer. Anthony Trollope, for instance, was able to turn out amazing book after amazing book with incredible speed. That may or may not be the case with Gregory. I know, as a writer myself, that there are times when the work flows out, feeling almost as if it's channeled from another source, and times when it's harder, more mechanical. The more challenging situations are those when I'm not entirely convinced or in love with my subject. So to me, neither of these books feels as if they spring from a natural impulse. They feel forced, constructed. I'm going back to Trollope.
5 The Constant Princess by Philippa Gregory.  This novel is by one of the foremost historical fiction writers. Her books are well researched and her characters come to life in an unforgettable way. The constant princess is Katherine of Aragon, daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella who were the rulers of Spanish kingdoms in the late 1400's and early 1500's.  Their daughter, Catalina, was betrothed from a young age to marry the prince of England in order to unite the growing Spain with England and make the developing countries strong against powerful France.  Catalina is constant in fulfilling her duty of becoming the 15 year old bride, renamed anglicized "Katherine," and ultimately becoming Queen of England, always enduring great difficulties but also finding love.  You'll be spellbound by the book and you'll appreciate European history with the insights you gain through this admirable woman's story.
2 ....because we never stop being reminded that Catalina is a "princess of Spain" and the "Princess of Wales" from the very first!  I wanted to love this book because I'm interested in learning about Catherine of Aragon, but this is obviously not the place.  Right now I'm trying to decide whether to spend time finishing this book!  The main character, sadly, is not one we can really love or sympathize with...she's so busy touting herself as princess and queen that it's hard to see underneath that.  Also, I think the story seems ridiculous because it jumps from Catherine being cast aside and living in poverty after Arthur's death to manipulating Henry and ending up as the one in charge and "ruling" England!  I know this is a novel, fiction....but much of it is not the slightest bit believable.  This is the first book by Phillipa Gregory that I've read, and it's disappointing...perhaps I'll talk myself into trying another one some time due to many of the glowing reviews here of a number of her other stories.  I'm a person who despises picking up a book and not finishing, but in this case, I may have to go against my principles!
1 I have read The Other Boleyn Girl, The Virgin's Lover and The Queen's Fool,and looked forward to spending part of my vacation with Katharine of Aragon in The Constant Princess.  Big mistake.  This book must have been written by someone other than Philippa Gregory:  it is shallow, skims the surface, and is simplistic.  The character of Katherine-- as well as each of the others--is not developed and is little more than a cartoon. The writing is awful  and repetitive.  All in all a bitter disappointment.
4 When I heard that Philippa Gregory's new novel focuses on the life of Katherine of Aragon from the Tudor period of England, I knew I had to have it. I've read and loved THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL, THE VIRGIN'S LOVER and THE QUEEN'S FOOL, all by this author. They whisked me from modern day back to a period of time and a place that I can't get enough of. Needless to say, this was an auto-buy for me.While it wasn't exactly what I expected, Philippa Gregory never disappoints. The painstaking historical research she performs for each work of fiction is apparent on every page. It's hard to believe that she wasn't there as a close confidante of the people about whom she writes. It is as if she assumes their identity while penning the pages of these books.THE CONSTANT PRINCESS begins with Katherine of Aragon's childhood in Spain, something I don't recall ever reading about, where she was known as the Princess Catalina. We become acquainted with her extraordinary mother, Queen Isabella of Spain, and even in his absence, we are given a glimpse of her father, King Ferdinand. This book takes pains to show us what made Katherine into the strong, Catholic queen she was to become.When Katherine first travels to England before her sixteenth birthday, she is to be wed to Prince Arthur, Henry VIII's older brother, future heir to the throne of England. What starts out as an uneasy match soon turns into true love, but then true love turns into sorrow when Arthur dies early in the marriage.While Katherine may be without her true love, she is left with a mission and a promise to her late spouse. The mission: to become Queen of England. Katherine does what she has to do in wedding the little brother of the man she loved, Henry VIII, never dreaming what course her life is to take.The main premise of the story is no surprise to anyone interested in the Tudor time period; the story's bare bones facts do not change after 500 years. The thing that does change with this book is the perspective and inside view into a very plausible interpretation of the events of the time.The picture Ms. Gregory paints of Henry VIII as a spoiled and cosseted youth seems extremely likely. What else would contribute to a man selfish enough to put aside wife after wife in order to reach his one true goal of an heir to the throne? What kind of man could be callous enough to end the lives of two women and divorce two others simply because he grew tired of them or because they did not produce the much-needed heir, not to mention breaking with the Catholic Church in order to form the Church of England when things didn't go his way? The other two wives were lucky in that one died before him without a trip to the executioner's block and the final, Katherine Parr, managed to outlive him. An admirable feat if ever there was one.While this was a riveting book revealing the resolve of Katherine of Aragon from an early age, I was sorely disappointed that the novel ended at the point where Henry VIII was to divorce his queen. I would have loved to have read more by Philippa Gregory of Queen Katherine's life after the divorce and the stoic determination that was shown to be a part of her even after she had been put aside by the King of England. I can only hope for a sequel!At any rate, this is a beautifully written book that will transport, entertain and amuse anyone with an interest in history and most certainly those of us who can't get enough of the Tudor time period.--- Reviewed by Amie TaylorClick here now to buy this book from Amazon.com.
5 Once you start reading books by Phillipa Gregory you will be hooked for life!One of our finest authors. Enjoy,
5 Yes, this work is fiction. It doesn't pretend to be anything else. Don't read this book for historical fact. Read it for Philippa Gregory's stunningly beautiful prose and masterful storytelling capability.I could not put this book down. After I read it, I felt so sad and empty that it was over, so I promptly went to the beginning and started over. And I've read it numerous times since. The way Gregory writes Katherine/Catalina was brilliant. The Katherine in this story is brave beyond belief, strong, stubborn yet vulnerable, intelligent, heroic, and tragic.There are times in the early part of the book where you just want to tell Katherine to shut up about the "I will be the Princess of Wales and Future Queen of England" thing, and there are times when you'll be annoyed with her intolerance towards anything non-Catholic. But here's the beauty of Gregory's storytelling: Katherine emotionally grows up during the course of the book. She evolves. She learns. She questions things she previously thought were unquestionable, like her mother always being on the side of God. Her life takes her down paths that she never thought she'd tread. You will love her, root for her, want to protect her, and smack her...all at the same time.This is a truly wonderful book that blew me away. You don't have to be a royal watcher or a royal junkie to love this book. You just have to love brilliant writing.
3 As someone who thoroughly enjoys historical fiction and the Tudor time period in England I was really excited to pick up this book on Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife.Gregory, covers Katherine or Catalina's childhood in Spain, her first marriage to Arthur (Henry's older brother), her agonizing wait for 7 years before she became Henry's wife, and then the first few years of marriage.I thought the first half of the book somewhat interesting up until Arthur dies and she schemes to marry Henry, his younger brother.  I also found the first years of Henry and Katherine's marriage somewhat interesting.However, what takes away from this book in a big way is Gregory's repetitiveness throughout the book (as many others have cited).  It really takes away from the progress of the story as you feel you're just stuck reading the same thing over and over again.  Then Gregory glosses over Katherine's shining moment as Queen - holding back the Scots, skips 13 years of their reign together (during which Anne Boleyn enters the picture and convinces Henry to marry her) and ends the book abruptly.  As the reader you almost get the sense that Gregory just got tired of writing about her because it didn't feel finished and complete.Overall, this book was just OK.
5 I have read quite a few books by Philippa Gregory and will continue to read as many of hers as I can.  They are always fascinating and well researched and (most importantly) beautifully written.  I cannot wait to read the rest in the series!
4 I got this book from the library because I liked a previous book of Phillipa Gregory. And this book was great as well. Perhaps it takes a few pages to really get you into it, but from then on, I couldn't put it down!It is told in third and sometimes first person, Katherine of Aragon being the main character. She is the daughter of Isabella of Spain, and has been raised to be an independent woman, a warrior, even. Gregory has made her come alive again with her words.I havnt really read much about Henry VIII's first wife, and it amazes me to hear about him. From Katherine's point of view, Henry (previously Harry) cannot compare to her first husband, Arthur. It is a very sad tale of lost love. In order to secure a seat on the throne, Katherine promises her dying husband Arthur that she will tell all that the marriage was never consumated. It rips her up inside.I think that, historically, that might have actually been the case. It is possible that Katherine really did tell a lie so that she could become queen. Although she never did have Athur's child.It is definately a book that every historical reader, should read.
3 If you are like me ~~ a historical fiction fan ~~ you'll pick this book up and snuggle down on the couch for a cozy reading. I can guarantee that this is a cozy reading and you'll finish the book in a short time ~~ but it is not the best historical fiction I've picked up. After reading Jean Plaidy's books, I am hard pressed to even compare Gregory in the same genre ~~ while riveting, the writing style is just not the same. You also get the feeling she is taking great liberties with historical facts. Plus, in this one, Katherine (whom I have always wanted to know more about) is just not all that winning of a character.Katherine or Catalina is an Infanta of Spain. She is the daughter of two of Spain's most notorious rulers (I am not going to say that they are the greatest because they did a lot of harm to a lot of people of different faiths). From birth, she was betrothed to marry Arthur, the prince of England and the future king. That alone gave her an inflated sense of self-worth. She comes to England as a spoiled young child and eventually falls in love with her husband. Tragically, he died. But on his deathbed, she promised to fulfill his wishes for an united England. She goes on to marry Henry after waiting seven long years of poverty and unwanted by either her parents and by Henry the Seventh, whom she spurned his marriage proposal. Then it goes on to where she conquers Scotland while Henry was fighting in France. That's it. Gregory skipped entirely the Boleyn affair, Mary's birth and all those details that I would love to read more in depth (especially since I am a fan of the new Showtime series, "The Tudors").While it is entertaining, there are some things that did drive me nuts as a reader. One thing, Katherine keeps repeating to herself that she's born to be a queen. Ok, I get that, and understand that, but come on, after fifteen times of saying that, I really get it and that alone starts to turn me off of the character. (I was like, NO WONDER Henry went after other women!) I do agree with the author's assessment that Henry is a spoiled young boy who hasn't been tried by war or treasonous friends or whatever. But eventually, he does become to be a ruler in his own right and a very dangerous one at that.The constant reference to being God's chosen people and following God's will ~~ it is annoying but that is how people think back then and still do. Katherine took it to a new art. I found her first miscarriage very interesting, her love affair with Arthur very sweet and tragic ~~ and her subsquent marriage to Henry interesting. It is a very interesting novel to read ~~ as long as you keep in mind that it is fiction and it is entertaining. It is not as good as "The Queen's Fool" or "The Other Boleyn Girl" ~~ those two novels I just loved. But it is entertaining and written well ~~ definitely better written than "The Queen's Lover" ~~ which is my least favorite of the Tudor series.So go ahead and snuggle on the couch and read ~~ you will be carried back into time where danger and intrigue are the way of life. That I can guarantee you of.8-15-07
5 This book was a wonderful surprise.  I was never much interested in Katherine of Aragon, but leave it to Phillippa Gregory, I was enthralled with this book.  I could not put it down, and it gave me a different insight into the queen's life.  There was some speculation in it, but from bios I have read, it may not have been far off base.  Whether it was actual fact or not, I thoroughly enjoyed it, and even more so because I did not expect to love it so much.
4 I found it difficult to get into but once there the experience was good.  Found the bits where Catherine was thinking a little boring and repetitive.
5 Philippa Gregory is a genius.  Each of her books delves into the personality of the historical figure. We think of Kathern of Aragon as the hapless, dowdy wife thrown over for the more glamorous Anne Boleyn.  Few realize that both Henry and she were distantly related though John of Gaunt.  Even fewer know that she was quite the warrior, daughter of Isabella of Spain ( yes, THAT Isabella) and groomed for Queenship her entire life.  Gregory gets not only into their head, but imagines the essence of what made them special.  Fiction, who cares- if you want to imagine what was going on in the Tudor court, Philippa Gregory is a terrific way to explore.
4 I, perhaps like most, had very little knowledge of Katherine of Aragon, or Catalina, as Gregory refers to her, beyond her being Henry VIII's first wife.  Yes, I knew she had married his older brother, and after his death, had been subject to humilation and ill treatment by her father-in-law, but little more.  I found this work of Grergory's to really dig into her personality and the events as they may have unfolded.  I enjoyed the style of the work very much, as it passed between third person and the musings of Catalina herself in the first person.  I have read many of Gregory's other works, and enjoyed The Constant Princess just as much.I loved the ending!!  Not quite where I expected the book to stop, but it made perfect sense!
4 Children had to grow up fast and had to think serious adult thoughts very early.Their life expectancy was obviously very short. I enjoyed the book , by the way.
2 This historical element of this novel is interesting, but its main downfall is that is is simply too far into the more seedy romance novel category.  The love scenes are too graphic for my taste.  And I think it takes away from the main story.  I would like to see Katherine of Aragon's story written again with more emphasis on the political element rather than the wedding and bedding element.
5 This is another of Philippa Gregory's great books.  I do highly recommend reading The Constant Princess.  It is hard to put it down. When you finish it, you wish there was more yet to read.
3 Catalina is the daughter of wealthy and powerful King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain. From the age of 3, she has known that she is betrothed to marry Prince Arthur of England, son of King Henry VII, and therefore become Queen of England alongside her King. Their marriage gets off to a rocky start, but they soon fall in love. Unfortunately, Arthur dies of fever just a few months into their marriage. He makes Catalina promise to fulfill her destiny to be queen by telling a big lie: that she and Arthur never consumated their marriage. If everyone believes she is still a virgin, she can marry Arthur's brother, Harry (who eventually becomes King Henry VIII).So she does. She lies to everyone and sticks to that lie all her life. She endures much tribulation by sticking to her lie, but her goal of becoming Queen Katherine is eventually fulfilled. This is a good spot to mention that it gets VERY tiresome hearing Cataline say OVER and OVER again that it is her destiny to become Queen of England. Yes, we know already. You don't have to say it five times in every chapter.It has been said that Gregory wasn't exactly historically accurate with this book, and I don't know my Tudor history well enough to agree or disagree with that. Nevertheless, it's a pretty interesting story. You don't usually hear much about Henry's first wife. One of the most interesting aspects of Catalina's development was the slow realization that her parents - who waged a lifelong battle to drive the heretic Moors (Spanish Muslims) out of Spain - were wrong in their actions. Whereas she once saw her parents as righteous and almighty rulers who could do no wrong, she eventually came to see that as a result of her parents actions, the learning and education of the Moors was lost, a fact which hits painfully close to home when English doctors cannot help her with her failed pregnancies and only a Moorish doctor will tell her the truth.While not as good as some of Gregory's other books, this is worth reading if for no other reason than that Queen Katherine is so often overshadowed by the infamous Anne Boleyn.
2 I really, really wanted to like this book. When I saw it on the shelf and read its back cover, and I was very interested and immediately set about reading it. The idea of a romantic fiction story involving Queen Catherine and set against the backdrop of pre-Reformation England was quite intriguing. Further, I saw that its end date was in 1529 (five years before the break between Henry VIII and Rome), so it promised to be free from the controversy surrounding the 1534 Act of Supremacy.In many ways, the book delivered. Its characters were well-developed and the dialog well written. I especially savored the depiction of the final reconquista of Spanish Granada, despite the fact that Ms. Gregory seems unaware that Moslems do revere Jesus and Mary (although they do not respectively acknowledge them as Son of God and Mother of God), and therefore would in all likelihood not knowingly have defiled an Ave Maria prayer in the manner depicted in the first chapter of the book (Granada, 1491).Unfortunately, this book proved very problematic from that point onward. As the sincerely devout daughter of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabel (the Catholic) - under whose rule Catholic Spain completed its 800-year fight for liberation from the Moors - the Infanta would not have been prone to the repeatedly expressed sense of hyper-predestination that Ms. Gregory's writing ascribes to her. This stood out as a major anachronism pasted onto someone who in reality would have been unable to embrace such a mentality so alien to the Catholic and Apostolic Faith she professed.Similarly, Ms. Gregory's hamfisted attempt near the end of the book to put the concept of peaceful coexistence between Christians and Moslems into the mind of Queen Catherine is just plain risible. Unlike our era, the 16th Century world believed in (and fought over, and died for) doctrinal and objective truth - hence all those wars of religion from 1517 to 1648. So that sort of secular Enlightenment thinking is as blatantly out of place in Imperial Spain and Tudor England as atomic warfare. (I would assume this is an example of the author simply projecting her personal ideology into the past.) Nor, I suspect, would the Infanta have harbored much in the way of positive inclinations toward the Moorish civilization that had subjugated her people from 711 to 1492, for that matter. (Moorish Spain was not a tolerant place, Ms. Gregory.  That's why the Spaniards fought for 800 years to recover their liberty and independence.)But the biggest sin that this book commits against the historical record (as an earlier reviewer correctly noted) is its unambiguous depiction of the consummation of the marriage between Prince Arthur and Princess Catherine. This is not some minor detail; it is **the** linchpin of what would become the single biggest issue in separating the English realm from loyalty to the Bishop of Rome. While betrothal and even marriage between minors were common among royals in that era (even by children younger than Arthur and Catherine's 15 years), the consummation would not be performed until the husband and wife had both reached the age of consent.  Only then would the marriage be recognized by the Church as sacramental (and thus indissoluble).  The sole reason that siblings-in-law Henry and Catherine were able to obtain a papal dispensation from Canon Law to marry one another is because Catherine solemnly vowed that the marriage between her and Arthur had never been consummated.  And at no time in his subsequent conflict with the Church did Henry VIII ever attempt to contradict or deny her claim.So if I am to accept the premise of this book, then I am to assume (against prevailing moral and legal customs, all of recorded history, and evidence to the contrary) that Catherine made an illicit vow with her dying husband Prince Arthur in 1502 to effectively deny their marriage (by which early consummation they would have jeopardized the sacramental integrity of the marriage - thus defeating its secular aim of cementing a permanent alliance between Spain and England), then continuously lied to her confessors (that's a mortal sin in Catholicism, Ms. Gregory), including Bishop St. John Fisher, for three decades (and to the womanizing Henry VIII, who in any case would have certainly discovered the real truth on their wedding night, and been most displeased) - and then, come 1534, when merely admitting the truth would have guaranteed Catherine an annulment and spared England and Rome the chaos of the Reformation (not to mention smoothed relations between England and the powerful German Empire, led at the time by Catherine's nephew Kaiser Charles V), she still chose to cling to falsehood - apparently to an unrepentant deathbed in 1536, although the book doesn't go far enough for us to find out.Please, Ms. Gregory, considering the well-documented disparity between the pious personal life and moral conduct of Catherine compared to that of the wife-beheading Henry VIII, this idea defies credibility. Once upon a time, it was fighting words to malign a woman's reputation in such manner. (The aforemoentioned St. John Fisher, by the way, was the lone English bishop that openly defied Henry's Act of Supremacy - and he paid for that defiance with his head.  So the one man most familiar with Catherine's spiritual state proved to be quite willing to die for the Queen's honor.) I recognize that this is a work of fiction, but historical accuracy is still supposed to count for something. Even in her grave, the saintly Queen Catherine of Aragon deserves better than such shabby treatment.One unfortunately comes away from this book with a sense that Ms. Gregory is forcing her own 21st Century beliefs and social mores onto 16th Century characters and settings that are constitutionally incapable of supporting them. She betrays a blissful lack of comprehension of the larger religious issues present in the time period and on which the entire prevailing culture of pre-Reformation Western European Christendom was based.  (This would seem to pose something of a problem for an author that has written several such titles covering this time period.)This is a well-written, stylized work of fiction.  But please do not look to it for historical truth or accuracy, which are entirely absent within its pages.
4 Philippa Gregory does a wonderful job researching her history. The story about Katherine of Aragon is compelling and that Ms. Gregory has set the story around Katherine's youth and at her most powerful is a nice change from her just being Henry XIII's abandoned first wife.At the end of the book, the author answers some questions. This helps put in context her telling of Katherine's tale. The only thing I questioned was her assumption that Henry's self focus was based on an indulged youth as "second son" because he was not expected to ascend the throne. Henry's elder brother, Arthur, died when Henry was only 11 and he doesn't actually become king till seven years later. There was lots of king-in-training time.
5 Katherine of Aragon was betrothed to Arthur, Henry VIII's brother, at a young age and was groomed for the most important position...to become the Queen of England someday.  Once she heads to England, it takes her awhile to get adjusted to the different customs and feels out of place, especially because Arthur is such a young boy and his father is rude to her.  After some time, Katherine finds that a love is actually blossoming between her and Arthur and just as things are starting to look up, Arthur unexpectedly dies.  On his death bed, he wishes for Katherine to marry his brother, Henry, and finally become the queen they had hoped for.  This seems to be her only option if she wants to obtain the throne; however, Katherine needs to prove that she never consummated  the marriage to Arthur.  Philippa Gregory's The Constant Princess is one of my favorite historical novels that focuses on a compelling time period and an even more compelling protagonist, Katherine of Aragon.I've said it before and I'll say it again: Philippa Gregory is a genius. Seriously. She is able to take someone like Katherine of Aragon, whom I initially didn't sympathize with or root for and make her one of my favorite heroines.  I not only empathized with her plight, but I found her to be enjoyable, which is not always something I felt towards her in the past.  I even forgot about the outcome (we all know what happens!) and felt such suspense while reading The Constant Princess.Even though the Tudor time period has been played out quite often in historical novels, Gregory examines things from Katherine's perspective and I found that to be refreshing. Readers will get background on how she became the Queen Katherine and will fully appreciate her journey.Although many people say that The Constant Princess is filled with too many historical inaccuracies, it didn't bother me. I found it well researched and immensely entertaining. In fact, it ignited my interest in this time period and is one of the reasons why I like historical fiction.  If you are looking for a historical novel that will keep you interested long after the final page, I highly recommend The Constant Princess.
2 A near-constant boreCatalina is the daughter of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain, the Spanish Infanta, betrothed to Arthur, Prince of Wales and heir apparent to the throne of England. From childhood she was prepped for her queenly position; she grows up alongside a battlefield, in the splendid palace in Spain, until she is sent to be married to Arthur. And thus begins the life of the future Queen Katherine of Aragon.NOTE: I'm no historian, so if you want to see how historically accurate this book is, you might want to seek another review.Despite their flaws, I rather enjoyed The Other Boleyn Girl and The Queen's Fool. But while I liked Catalina more as a protagonist than either Mary Boleyn or Hannah Green, I found myself more irritated and bored with "The Constant Princess" than I was for either TOBG or TQF.I think the first notable difference between TCP and TOBG or TQF is the switching of viewpoints. At first, I thought TCP would settle into the traditional third person past point of view (POV). But this time around, I think Gregory wanted to experiment and decided to intersperse the traditional 3rd person sections with ones where Catalina speaks in first person present--either as the Older Catalina or as the "in-book present" Catalina.I can see where an author would want to do this. The 3rd person POV is limited and cannot give the best insight into a character, not in the same way that a 1st person POV can (though a truly gifted author will be able to work around such challenges without resorting to changing POVs so drastically). To Gregory's credit, there were a few instances where the right balance was struck--the 1st person POV complimented and gave more insight into the 3rd person POV. Unfortunately, most of the time, these 1st person POVs just repeated the exact same things that were discussed in the 3rd person sections--or, worse, repeated the same point over and over again ("I was Infanta of Spain", "I was born to be princess", etc.).In the beginning, the switching of POVs made some sense; something would happen to Catalina, then she would think about what happened. But towards the end, it seemed the POVs changed willy nilly. First person present now had action scenes, scenes where actual dialogue between characters was exchanged. In fact, the number of 1st person POVs increased towards the end, as if Gregory was tired of writing in 3rd person.Since I opened with writing, let me continue in that vein for a bit more. There were no egregious spelling or grammatical errors that I could find. The text itself is a bit dry and bland (although I was stirred a bit when I read of Catalina's poverty).The absolute worst is the repetition coupled with the classic violation of "show, don't tell". Catalina repeats herself more times than I could count. She goes on and on about how she is the true Queen of England, the Infanta of Spain, born to be Queen, and on and on. Everyone refers to her as being "constant", in a heavy-handed way of referencing the title. Conversations that shouldn't last more than a couple of sentences are drawn out to several minutes of listening time (such as: Arthur and Catalina discussing plants, Arthur and Catalina whining about how hard their lives are, Catalina moaning about meeting a woman whose brother was put to death by Catalina's family). The absolute worst was the description of Allahmbra, which had to have gone on for 10+ minutes. I know that Gregory was trying to give her audience of how opulent it was, but having Catalina talk to the audience about how opulent it is is BORING and repetitive. Instead, have your characters DO something that shows the opulence.For the first time in a Gregory book, I actually didn't mind (too much) the protagonist, Catalina. I thought it was nice to have a smart, cunning, flawed woman. Catalina is able to keep her wits about her, manipulate things to her own end, and is shown to be a competent, powerful leader.However, that doesn't mean that Catalina didn't bug me. Here is a list of the ways that she did:1. Insta-love with Arthur. Sure, in the beginning, Arthur and Catalina didn't get along. But when Arthur apologizes to her for neglecting her in the cold (where she could have suffered severe injuries from frost bite), Catalina's feelings for him changelike a light switch, and suddenly, they are the most intense lovers of all time. This was just too sudden for me. There was no build-up, no gradual breaking down of walls--something that was sorely needed in this over-long, dull book.2. Religion. Catalina was a devout Christian; here, she spends more time praying to Arthur and worshiping him beyond the grave. It's rather disturbing that she is still so obsessed with Arthur (after a mere 5 months of marriage!) that YEARS later, she is basically praying to him, asking him for help. I understand people mourn differently, people remember the dead differently, but this was just disturbing. And where was the religious Catalina from history? Also, this quote rather bothered me:"But if my earthly father can forget me and forget that I was his favorite child as he has done, then I suppose My Heavenly Father can forget me too."I know that, at the time, Catalina said this, she was in despair, but I would have thought that a devout Christian would realize that earthly father =/= heavenly father (because the earthly father is DUH human and fallible!). There are ways to do the "God has forsaken me" without drawing this odd conclusion.3. Modern views. Catalina meets up with a Moor (Muslim) at one point, and actually begins to change her mind about the Moors and their treatment. Not saying this wouldn't have happened back in that day, but it feels awkward and unnatural in this context (and unnecessary?).4. Marriage with Henry. While occasionally Catalina talks about her love for Henry, I never can buy it. She only rarely mentions her feelings to Henry, instead harping on her long-lost Arthur. I do appreciate how Gregory tried to let Catalina move on; I would have liked to see something more pronounced, where Catalina did more things for her love of HENRY instead of her love of ARTHUR.5. Ambition via MY MAN. Catalina swears to Arthur she will marry Henry and become queen. And that is what motivates her throughout her life (oh, sure, there's this one line about "her own ambition", but I don't believe it at all). Why is every ambitious woman BAD (Anne Boleyn) unless she wants to do it for her husband (Catalina)? Why can't a woman have her own ambition and not be good?Not as long as with Mary or Hannah, but just as irritating.I'm tired of writing this, but other characters are one-note. "Childish" Harry. "Lover" Arthur. "Crass" Henry. "Wise and respectable" Moor physician. I just get tired of seeing characters written as one thing and never given any chance to change or grow or be anything like a real person.The romance was saccharine; a brief fight, then a nuclear bomb couldn't drive Arthur and Catalina apart. As for whether or not they consummated their relationship, I don't know. I think you could make a case for either side. But I certainly don't buy that they had sex basically every night, and SOMEHOW Catalina didn't get pregnant.I looked up Catalina on Wiki and was shocked by all the awesome things she did in her reign as queen (regent and Spanish ambassador?!). Unfortunately, this book really didn't make me all that interested in researching her or finding out more about her. Most of her early life is skipped; far too much time is on her telling Arthur far more interesting stories of time in Spain (another instance of breaking the "Show don't tell" rule) or jumping his bones. The latter half is more interesting, but the repetition and near-constant "my love, Arthur" business was enough to make me scream. The novel ends abruptly in an odd place, with many more years of Catalina's life (including the birth of her daughter) to go. And the entire battle was hastily managed. One minute, Catalina is riding out to meet the Scots; the next, a messenger comes back to announce the Scottish King is dead! I literally had to go back and relisten to this section to make sure I hadn't missed anything.As for the narrator, Jill Tanner was brilliant. I think she was more than capable of sounding queenly and regal (though Jill did not give Catalina the foreign accent she did in TOBG) and the other characters were decently voiced as well, distinct enough that I knew who was saying what.I think this may be the end of the Philippa Gregory Tudor Series line for me. I know that TOBG and TQF weren't the best novels in the world, but I actually was somewhat interested in their stories and mildly entertained. "The Constant Princess" I found to be a "constant bore". I struggled to get through parts and couldn't even muster the will to look up the amazing Queen Katherine on Wiki. Maybe if you like Queen Katherine or Philippa Gregory or are just wanting historical (romance) fiction lite, you will enjoy this. If that doesn't apply to you, I recommend avoiding.Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
5 I thought this book was wonderful. I have been a fan of Philippa Gregory books for quite some time now and own all the books she has written. This particular book gave me a new perspective on Catherine of Aragon. It showed me more about Catherine besides what happened to her when Henry VII left her for Anne Boleyn. You get to know her as a child, a young woman, a great leader and wonderful queen. It is a great read for anyone interested in Tudor history.I make jewelry based on pieces worn on the tv show "The Tudors". I usually make exact copies of pieces worn by Anne Boleyn and Catherine of Aragon and have definitely gained some inspiration from these books. Tudor history is a big part of my life.Anyone who is interested can find me at:[...][...]
5 Phillippa Gregory did a wonderful job on this book so much focus has been on Anne  Boylen in most books about the tudor period. That i found it refreshing to get the chance to learn about Katherine.Great work Philippaand keep  those books coming!
5 This book is very good in the fact that it brings you closer to Queen Katherine of Aragon; who, in my opinion, is not really given a chance to speak in most instances. This story really lets you see the other side (from a historical (fiction) perspective) and sympathize even more with this wife who will be carelessly thrown aside
2 As a fan of Philippa Gregory's other books about the Tudor households, I was delighted to discover this one, which I hadn't heard about, and it seemed that Queen Katherine of Aragon was a completely fitting subject for the type of work Ms. Gregory has produced so far.Unfortunately, this one is out of balance, in my opinion. There is far too much time spent of Katherine (Catalina's) early childhood, too much time spent on making sure the readers understand how her parents shaped her. It's a case of, "Alright, I got that several pages ago, let's move along."WARNING: The following may be considered "spoilers", particularly for those unfamiliar with the events that unfolded around that era of the Tudor reign.The best parts of the book are the way the relationship between Catalina and Arthur is fleshed out, particularly since Gregory presents a version of it quite different from that which has gone down in history (but which was soon, and then often, questioned), and the deft political and personal maneuvers that lead Catalina to become Queen by marrying Arthur's younger brother, with no foreshadowing at all of how this would be her ultimate undoing.After that, however, Gregory seems to have gotten into a hurry to finish the book, which goes from sometimes excruciated history detail to moving forward in leaps and bounds. At the end of the book, she jumps from the first suggestion of Anne Boleyn as competitor for the throne, at the end of one chapter, to Katherine being called in to court and, a few hundred words later, the book ends.This was my biggest disappointment: I had looked forward to reading about Katherine's life AFTER she was thrown over. Gregory excels at bringing life to uncertain aspects of a time in history; she did so at the beginning of this book (too much) and again in the time of Catalina's and Arthur's brief marriage, and it is just too bad that she abandoned the events where she did.It would have been fascinating to consider Katherine perceptions of events after Anne Boleyn, especially since Gregory makes frequent (sometimes excessive) use of a device in which the story is interrupted with Catalina/Katherine's thoughts on it.I wish Gregory had devoted less energy to what felt like a Michener-esque display of the historical research she had done by over-describing things and having her characters wax inappropriately eloquent about details, and had instead spent that time and effort on telling the story.The worst thing I can say about a book is that I never finished it. I did finish this book, but I was skimming, not really reading, the last 20% or so, just in a hurry to get to the end, mostly to see what Gregory left in and what she left out or stopped short of. I don't normally write reviews of books I don't finish, but since I did technically finish this one, disappointments and all, I gave it two stars.I still look forward to the possibility that Gregory will write another book about the Tudor reign. She's a prolific author on this subject and others, and not every book is going to be a jewel.
5 This is yet another of Philippa Gregory's stories that will keep you up all night. It's a very empowering tale.Every American student of sanitized history thinks they know  Katherine of Aragon: a pale, benign creature; the first of Henry VIII's many wives; the first of his wives who couldn't bear him a son; the wife who bore him the daughter who would grow up to be known as Bloody Mary; and, the wife who ended her life in a convent, all the while weakly protesting that she was the true Queen of England.Philippa Gregory gently, eloquently, and hypnotically disabuses us of this fallacy. There is much, much more to the story. Katherine of Aragon was a shrewd politician, economist, city planner, and  a warrior queen the likes of which Britain hadn't seen since Boadicea. Who knew?In The Constant Princess we meet Catalina, the young Infanta of Spain, betrothed in infancy to the Prince of Wales, who believes herself anointed by God to be a great and powerful military leader and maternal queen, just as her mother, Isabella, was. Reality soon sets in as Catalina discovers that England is culturally a far cry from her warm, native Spain. She has moved from a sunny land of pomegranates and universities to a damp warren of brutes who consider women, well, good for just about one thing.As a young bride she lies in bed with her husband, Prince Arthur, and dreams of creating a progressive society in England; a land of military security, economic prosperity, and education for all. When Arthur dies, Katherine, now known by the English version of her name,  is trapped between two countries, neither of which want her, and resignedly lives in poverty until she skillfully maneuvers herself into a marriage to Prince Harry, the second son and new Prince of Wales. SPOILER ALERT:  The tale ends (for now) with Katherine in total queenly triumph: astride a horse, in armor, having defeated the Scots, and simultaneously realizing she is pregnant with the heir to the British throne. Talk about having a career and being a mother,too! This is woman power.Gregory weaves a mesmerizing tale, taking only a few factual liberties and assumptions which she dutifully explains in the Afterword.  Her decision to not include in this volume the story of Henry VIII's perfidy with Anne Boleyn is obviously well considered, and absolutely, in my eyes, appropriate.The first half of Katherine's life deserves the detailed treatment seen here. I  was fascinated to learn of the lavish Moorish palaces of Spain, and the more advanced standards of health and education there  relative to Britain.  Readers longing for Gregory to detail Katherine's divorce can either relish the hope of a sequel, or return to Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl to pick up the storyline through the viewpoint of other individuals.
4 For anyone who enjoys reading to discover facts about English kings and queens, this was a novel was well worth reading.
2 This book was totally unblievable. The dialogue was a clumsy attrmpt to fill in the history of the period. Much of the book was repetitious, and it did not make sense to me. The last quarter of the story turnes from character study to tales of war. The book was a large disapointment.
5 This is the best historical fiction book I have ever read!!! This book started my obsession with historical fiction and this time period in history, it well written and this book made me fall in love with Catherine of Aragon. IT swaps between third person and first person, both following Catherine, though it doesn't follow her through her final days it does follow her up to her fall as queen. I highly recommend this book &lt;3
5 I have enjoyed reading most ofPhilippa's books about the Boleyngirls.  She brings you right intothe century!  Great descriptions!
2 PG is hit and miss for me. The Queen's Fool was haunting and I loved The  Boleyn Inheritance. However, her novels about Henry's earlier queens and daughters to me haven't done it.Katharine was an amazing woman in her own right, but PG makes her out to be a liar and well... a.. rhymes with witch. I don't know if she did it with Arthur, but I suspect not since Katharine would not have risked  her immortal soul to lie about this. PG makes Katharine look like a 21st century heroine with her idea that her parents were wrong. If Katharine read this, she would want to die. The idea of religious tolerance is very new. Also, Moorish Spain was no paradise. I have nothing against the Islamic people, however, the Moorish sultans were quite brutal, as any other ruler. I do not like this PC garbage in history books.Katharine's character in this book seems almost schizo. She is a feminist-- also out of place in the 1500s-- and seems to love and hate the Moors. The daughter of Isabella would not have been this tolerant of the Moors or any one not Catholic.I enjoyed the look into Katharine's earlier life. However, she was not a modern woman. Katharine was a remarkable queen. Please, PG, present her life as it was and not a lesson in political correctness.PG also skips over the most interesting parts of her life, such as early in the marriage when Henry was crazy about Katharine to focus on her years as an impoverished princess. Why? I would recommend The King's Pleasure by Norah Lofts, or even the YA novel, Patience, Princess Catherine to this. Nice try, PG.
2 I will admit up front that I am not a Philippa Gregory fan.  True fans may wish to skip this review altogether.  I do read a lot of history and historical novels about this period, and I was intrigued as I flipped through the pages and read about the confrontation between Katharine and Margaret Beaufort, Henry VIII's very powerful grandmother, who tends to be left out of accounts of this period.  I was also glad to see a novel that dealt extensively with Katharine's earlier years.I dislikedThe Other Boleyn Girl, but at least I didn't become as bored as I did by this novel.  There are a few effective and historical incidents: Henry VII's gift of jewelry to assuage Katharine's homesickness, her refusal to state an opinion on going to Ludlow, her false pregnancy, etc.  Gregory shows Katharine as the pretty young girl and shrewd woman she probably was.  The beginning, at Granada and Gregory's revisionist view of Katharine and Arthur's marriage are both interesting and intriguing.  For the most part, however, the book is entirely too interior, too focussed on the private and Katharine's very repetitive thoughts.  Clearly, Gregory is partly trying to explain Katharine's adamant refusal to allow her marriage to be dissolved, but I don't need to be retold the same thing every tenth page.  Too much is told and not shown: we are told of Queen Elizabeth's kindness to Katharine, but we don't see it.  We are told that the Duke of Buckingham gave Katharine gifts of food when she was in dire straits, but we never see him showing up at her home. Moreover, since the book leaps from 1513 to 1529, the trial at Blackfriars, I hope the reader is familiar with The King's Great Matter, because there is almost no explanation here.  I don't mind that the book ends here, there have been so many other books, but there may be some readers who have no idea what is going on.  Maybe one could read the first two parts of the book, switch to The Other Boleyn Girl, and then switch back when it gets up to the trial, and then resume reading it after this.One problem with the book is that except for the longing for a child, there is only ever one thing happening in Katharine's life at a time: from Fall of 1511 until 1513, for example, the only subject of the plot is the looming war with France and Scotland.  This is the period when Katharine's dear friend Margaret de la Pole was created Countess of Salisbury, a title held by her Yorkist forebears (perhaps with Katharine's encouragement?).  The book establishes Katharine's sad plight after Arthur's death, and then skips forward to Henry VII's death, leaving out such interesting events as the meeting of Henry with Katharine's sister Juana and her brother-in-law Philip.  Katharine would later be involved in Henry VII's attempt to marry the widowed Juana (over the vehement objections of Ferdinand).  It omits, except by allusion, the marriage of Princess Margaret to James IV of Scotland and the proxy marriage of Henry VIII's sister Mary to Juana's son Charles, as Philip and Henry plot to combine against Ferdinand.  So much going on that could have been described, and we have endless repetitions of Katharine's belief that she is fated to be Queen of England!  By skipping from 1513 to 1529, we miss Henry's bout with smallpox (very worrisome to the still childless Katharine, wouldn't you think?), the switch to an alliance with France, sealed by the marriage of Henry VIII's sister to Louis XII of France, accompanied by rumors that Henry meant to set aside Katharine and marry a French princess.  Mary Tudor was a loyal friend to Katharine, and her dramatic secret marriage to Charles Brandon after being widowed (with Katharine perhaps pleading that they be forgiven?) is completely absent.  Katharine nearly caused an international incident by persuading Henry to break his vow not to shave until he met Francis I of France.  We miss the birth and rearing of Katharine and Henry's daughter Mary, the birth and ennoblement of his illegitimate son Henry Fitzroy, the rumors that he will replace Mary as Henry's heir.  How can the life of Katharine of Aragon become so dull?I am not bothered by the assertion that Katharine and Arthur's marriage was consummated - when her marriage to the future Henry VIII was proposed, the English stated in their petition to the Pope that it was, and the Spanish claimed that it wasn't.  (The Pope was not amused.)  I'm willing to accept the premise as the basis for the story.  It really only mattered because Henry later made the ad hoc claim that the Pope couldn't grant a dispensation in that case.  There was some controversy at the time of her marriage to Henry, and apparently there were flaws in the dispensation, but only Henry's desire to leave the marriage made these significant.  Manoel of Portugal married Katharine's sister Isabel; when she died leaving him a young son, he married her sister Maria, and that marriage stood.Yes, I know that Katharine was very pious, but so were Richard III and Margaret Beaufort - politics encourages convenient morals.  And Katharine is supposed to have done this partly in order to continue the good works that she and Arthur planned, but we never see her generous support of education, her attempts to introduce new craft industries, etc.  We never really understand why the English public supported her, no matter what Henry said about their marriage.  In service to the vision of Arthur as Katharine's One True Love, Katharine's famous devotion to Henry VIII is discounted.  I found Henry VII's coarse leering at Katharine tiresome and crudely written; I don't think there is any historical basis for it.Gregory tells us in her notes that she also wants to give a voice to the Moslems of el Andalus.  She lays it on with a trowel.  Katharine misses the privacy of the harem where woman can really trust one another and don't have to worry about their husbands cavorting with someone else(!?)  Andalusia was a veritable paradise of refinement, learning and tolerance, her people pillars of virtue.  Well, I've read that, but I've also read that the much vaunted tolerance was something of a myth, invented centuries later in order to shame Christian Europe into imitating it.  I think she has seriously overdone it, and that sort of thing often backfires.  I can only remember Jane Austen's assertion that pictures of perfection made her sick and wicked.  In any case, if Gregory wants to give the Moors of Spain a voice, I suggest that she write a novel about them in all their human complexity, not simply tack them on as a romantic myth.  Gregory says that el-Andalus has a lot to say to us as we struggle with tolerance and mutuality, but she never shows us how the Moors are supposed to have managed it.Katharine's attitude towards the Moors is not so much ambivalent as cognitively dissonent.  She alternates between calmly explaining their glorious culture and history to Arthur and becoming nearly hysterical at the thought of Moors.  This erratic vacillation undermines one of Gregory's themes, i.e., Katharine learning to think independently of her parents.  Katharine tells Arthur that the Spanish royalty are very much Arabs in private, have adopted, rather than adapted, Arab customs.  This while they are destroying all the centers of learning and driving out all the uniquely competent doctors as minions of Satan.  Even if they did indeed take a great deal from Moorish culture, I doubt that they would consciously see themselves as becoming Arab.  One can understand that Katharine is enthusiastic about Englishmen joining a Spanish crusade against North Africa, but Katharine spends a fair amount of time worrying about the threats posed to England by the Moors.  I think it would be pretty obvious that England's most pressing foreign concern was not likely to be an armada of the Barbary pirates appearing off the white cliffs of Dover.  Ferdinand and Isabella's determination to drive out the Moors didn't cause them to neglect European politics.I suppose that anyone who is a big fan of Philippa Gregory will want to at least try this.  Those who like richly detailed recreations of the past and vivid imaginative constructions of historal people may be disappointed.  Gregory's version of Arthur and Katherine's marriage is really the only interesting variation in this very familiar tale.I recommend two much better novels by Norah Lofts:Crown of Aloes(Isabella of Castile) andThe King's Pleasure(Katharine of Aragon).  The young adult novelPatience, Princess Catherine: A Young Royals Book (Young Royals)by Carolyn Meyer is a much more vivid picture of her life from just before her departure from Spain to just after her marriage to Henry.  The story is bookended by Katharine's defiance of Henry after his marriage to Anne Boleyn many years later, but the historical notes are better.Added September 7, 2013.  Actually I have thought of how Katharine might arguably have been better off in a Muslim (or some other polygamous) culture, but it's the opposite of what Gregory suggests.  There would have been no problem with sons and probably no divorce because Henry's other wives and concubines would have provided him with sons!  Even if Henry had Kells as Kyra Cornelius Kramer in her bookBlood Will Tell: A Medical Explanation for the Tyranny of Henry VIII, suggests, multiple sexual partners would have mitigated the problem.  And no matter how hard Henry fell in love with another woman, there would have been no need to discard a wife with valuable political connections.
2 Philippa Gregory's novels are one of my guilty pleasures, which I normally find quite irresistible. Reading this one resembled biting into a week old scone when one had expected a Godiva chocolate. It has none of the historical import of her other novels of the Tudor era, and frankly portrays Katherine of Aragon in a manner which verges on the ridiculous.In several of her other novels set in the Tudor era, Philippa depicts the characters very vividly, and the dialogue and personal reflections of these characters are so intriguing and tied into actual history that I sometimes need to remind myself that I'm reading fiction and not a newly found piece of correspondence or diary. This one fulfilled none of that promise. Katherine of Aragon, after all, was not only a devout Catholic and a woman of incomparable integrity (sometimes stubborness...)  but the daughter of Isabella. Her depiction as something of a harem seductress, adapting varied Muslim Arabic ways, clothing, etc., during her marriage to Arthur had a level of believability on a par with her bedding a Martian.The tragedy of the failure of Katherine's marriage to Henry is lost in the maze, because Katherine is depicted as a scheming liar who deliberately pretends she was a virgin when she married Henry. There are many aspects of Katherine's character which could confuse us, and treatment of these (for example, her placing herself and Mary in horrid living conditions rather than to acquiesce with Henry's desire for an annulment), particularly in view of what an extraordinary woman she was (certainly Isabella's equal in commanding forces), could have been fascinating, as is the case with varied other characters in other novels by Philippa Gregory. But there is no indication in the least that Katherine lacked integrity - if anything, she could take it to extremes. An opportunity to explore what could have been highly insightful was lost in this portrayal which was totally at odds with anything one would know of Katherine.Many of Philippa's novels are highly insightful and enjoyable. This one, at best, is one to purchase for .01 used and tuck into one's bag for when a British Rail journey becomes unexpectedly, unbearably long and one is at one's wit's end.
4 Originally posted on The Canon! [...]THE CHARACTERSI have always been a huge fan of Tudor court historical fiction. It was actually The Other Boleyn Girl that started my fascination with this particular time in history. Even though I have read books upon books about the lives of those involved, I've rarely stumbled across the story of Katherine of Aragon. Katherine had a rough life in her later years, and this time period eclipses her earlier life: particularly, when she arrived in England. She was adored by the people, her new family, and the court. It was the life.As it is her story, Katherine acts as our main narration and protagonist throughout the story. Although it isn't fully told from her perspective, her character is most often the focus. She always has this aura of strength about her, even when she's frightened.Katherine grows throughout this story from the Infanta to a Princess of Wales and eventually the Queen of England. She is always depicted as quiet and pious, so what I didn't expect from Gregory's interpretation is a slight arrogance to the character. It fit her youth well and helped show her life transitions, especially as she moves from Arthur's wife to his widow. I loved the mix of piousness and determination that made up the core of her character.THE PLOTI've touched on this a little, but Katherine's story is one that I've rarely considered, so reading The Constant Princess was a little literary gift for me. I loved reading her life and how the different men in it affected it (or not). Katherine was very much her own person, even when she was shipped off to marry a man she had never met.Her relationship with Arthur is one of the great mysteries of the Tudor legacy, and I enjoyed how Gregory depicted it. Although I believe she loved Henry, the way she considered Arthur is the stuff of a romantic legend. He was in her heart, always, through his father's later courtship of his daughter-in-law to her eventual marriage to his brother. It looks a little strange, written out this way, but reading her tender thoughts and prayers are particularly emotional.THE WRITINGThe book is written in Katherine's first person perspective and in a third person perspective. I loved reading both, but Katherine's italicized first person made it hard to concentrate. Normally, a little italics are no big deal, but page after page of them is a little wearing on my eyes.Gregory's novels never lack detail and her world building in The Constant Princess is supreme. I feel I'm on the ship with Katherine, in the castle in Wales, and struggling with her through the hard times. Her smooth writing makes reading her works a fantastic ride.THE VERDICTA must for Tudor history buffs and historical romantics. The Constant Princess is an excellent glimpse into the life of one of England's most famous queens and tells her story from the very beginning. However, this book is a little heavy handed in the details and world-building, which might be a little too much for some readers.
3 I first ran into Philippa Gregory's books two years ago, with The Other Boleyn Girl- undoubtedly, one of her best books ever. With The Constant Princess, Gregory returns to the six wives of Henry VIII, this time with his first wife, Katherine (or Catalina, as she was known in her native Spain). The book focuses upon the first years, and less upon the later divorce from Henry. The narrative is told in a mixture of the third person and Katherine's first person (in italics).The book opens with Catalina's childhood. Already betrothed to the Price of Wales, she grew up on the battlefield as her parents attempted to conquer Granada and therefore unite Spain under a Christian monarchy. The opening of this book recouts how the keys to the Alhambra were handed over to Ferdinand and Isabella.Flash forward many years, and Catalina is newly arrived in England to wed Prince Arthur. England is absolutely nothing like Spain: its cold, it rains, the language is foreign to her, and the customs and traditions are completely different. Henry VII is king of England, and scared of the treat of "pretenders-" that is, people who claim to be heirs to the throne. His fright leads him to be a merciless enemy to those who oppose him. Also prevalent at court is Margaret Beaufort, My Lady the King's Mother, who is the one in reality who runs England and the royal court.Upon meeting her new husband, the impression is not favorable; but after a few months of being married, the couple fall in love. Arthur and Katherine spend every night (plus the one night a week they are supposed to be together) together, talking, and Katherine tells stories of her native land. The story is very well known: Arthur dies of "the Sweat" (plague) after five months of marriage, and Katherine lives in poverty while the king and Spanish ambassadors haggle over what to do with her. Unbeknownst to them, however, Katherine made a pact with her husband on his death bed: to wed his younger brother, Prince Harry. With the determined conviction that she was meant to be Queen of England, Katherine spends the next seven years making plans; and does indeed marry Prince Harry, later King Henry VIII.The Constant Princess was better than other Philippa Gregory books (such as The Virgin's Lover), but it definitely flagged in comparison to her better books. I had a difficult time understanding why Katherine was so stubborn in her need to be Queen of England; I got the impression that there was something deeper than just a deathbed promise. What was superfluous to the plot of the book were the last few pages of it, which details to a certain extent the divorce proceedings. I also think that the book could have been better copyedited.
3 Like withThe Other Boleyn Girl, it took me a while to feel the book. I first questioned it, thought thatThe Other Boleyn Girlwas a better book. But I soon got drawn into the tale of Katherine, the first wife to king Henry. It was interesting to find out more about their relationship, that they had loved each other once. A good tale of a woman's life and trouble, and she was strong and wise.As for the writing itself, I was kind of annoyed of the bits with Katharine's thoughts. I think the book could stand on is own without writing passages of 1:st POV. It would also have been interesting to read the whole deal with Anne and Mary from Katharine's POV, how she took it all to her end.
4 Lots of people are warning you that this presentation of Queen Katherine's story isn't historically accurate. Piffle. You probably already knew that, and you probably didn't care.When I read a historical novel, whether it's about Anne Bolyn or Merlin or Queen Esther, it's not because I want a factual history of who begat whom. I'm perfectly happy to read a non-fiction account of such things, and if you read through some of my book reviews you'll see that I do so rather often.What you want from a historical novel, or at least what *I* want, and why I'm recommending this book, is "a" story (not "the" story) of a prominent individual, and how he or she got that way. Whether wholly factual, like Marie Antoinette, or semi-mythical, like King Arthur, we wonder what courage or presence of mind or fears that individual dealt with. I've read nearly every Arthurian tale I could get my hands on, just because I love seeing Merlin painted first as a dotty Dumbledore-like wizard, next as a mystical psychic, another time as an engineer who inherited a sword made from a meteorite. All of them are true; none of them are true. That's what fiction is about. I'm perfectly willing to suspend my disbelief, and to dive headlong into good talespinning. And Gregory certainly achieves that.The key question behind Gregory's handling of Catalina/Katherine is this: the woman undeniably was brought to England to marry the older son, married the younger son after the first boy's death, and eventually had to deal with Anne Bolyn (who gets a lot more airplay). To the last, Katherine maintained that she was the true queen and Henry was her husband. She was steadfast, she was resiliant, and she was, as the title says, constant. From where does one get such strength? How can one be so sure of one's rightness? Katherine of Aragon got it from _somewhere_, certainly -- and Gregory gives her a story worth reading.Is it factual? I doubt it. For one thing, as in most romances (and this certainly is one, if not following a usual format), the hero and heroine are just a little too shiny, and they make understandable if not good decisions. (The young Arthur, Henry's older brother, is a sensitive new-age kind of prince.) I do prefer stories in which the characters grow up a little more -- Henry was painted as a bit too petulant and spoiled, when I know full well he was brilliant too -- but I enjoyed reading the story. Set aside what you "know" about these characters, and I think you'll enjoy it too.
4 I read this book alongside the Virgin's Lover on my vacation this past summer because I knew I could count on Gregory for an interesting, well-written historical novel.Unlike everyone else I was not disappointed by The Constant Princess in the least. Compared to The Other Boleyn Girl and the Virgin's Lover, this story of Katherine of Aragon is not sensationalized in the least. I know that The Other Boleyn girl is usually the favorite, but it also had Anne Boleyn committing incest with her brother.This novel also takes an unconventional look at Queen Katherine by focusing on her life as the wife and widow of Prince Arthur instead of as Henry VIII's older wife in the 1530's. Her childhood, in particular her exposure to the Moors and her relationship with her mother, are focused on.The part that I found the most interesting, however, is her relationship with Prince Arthur. Unlike most other writers who refer to Prince Arthur as quiet, shy, young, innocent, Gregory made him real. It's not hard to see how even a perfectly average man might be dwarfed by the famous charisma of Henry VIII. I also found it amusing that she loved Prince Arthur and not Henry. There's something a bit just about that triangle being displayed in this way.All in all, I really enjoyed this novel for its less traditional take on Katherine of Aragon's story.
3 The Constant Princess is the 4th novel by Philippa Gregory that I have read.  I was mesmerized by "The Other Boleyn Girl", "The Boleyn Inheritence", and "The Queen's Fool".  Sadly, The Constant Princess did not live up to my expectations of the other novels.  I could not identify with Katherine.  She was portrayed in this novel as very egotistical. She repeats over and over again how she was born and chosen by God to be Queen of England.  We get it Katherine.  I started to roll my eyes while reading whenever she declares herself holier than thou.  I was looking forward to seeing her portrayal towards the end of her life.  How did she feel about herself when she was dethroned to Anne Boleyn?  The novel never covers this part of Katherine's life.  It ends abruptly.  If you are a fan of Gregory, it is worth a read.  Just don't expect the magic of some of her other novels.
5 I came to this book after reading The Other Boleyn Girl and enjoyed every minute of that reading.  I was very curious about this work and wondered what Gregory would do with this queen, known for her faith and her steadfast refusal to give Henry VIII his divorce, which would have much more far reaching effects than in just their case.If you have never read Gregory before, start with this novel and then go to The Other Boleyn Girl. I think this novel really gives you a wonderful sense of Catalina/Katherine and all of the choices she has to make for heart and country.  Gregory's theory regarding the marriage and death of Arthur Tudor are fascinating and somewhat logical (if overromanticized).  Arthur comes off very well in this novel, as a king thwarted by death, if somewhat unrealistically forward thinking.Catalina comes off as somewhat haughty, but I think that this is a far more realistic perception of this character than many are willing to give.I think that this work could act as a prequel to the Other Boleyn Girl, because after reading this, Gregory's characterization of Katherine in the Other Boleyn Girl becomes much more three dimentional.I also like how she portrayed Henry.  To see the spoiled brat prince that Henry was makes the man much more easy to understand - not sympathetic by any means - but just understandable.A nice companion piece to the Other Boleyn Girl, but definitely stands on its own merits.
5 I expected this book to be dull and dry, certainly the subject matter has been treated in boring style before. I bought the book on a whim. What a delightful surprise. Gregory writes in an enchanting adagio of narration and first person singular. The italics are, of course, Catalina's memories of how things occured, and the bold print is the author's tale as history knows it to have been.Catalina, Infanta of Spain, daughter of the mighty Isabella and Ferdinand, is a warrior princess. I had no idea of this aspect of her nature, wherein she is usually portrayed as compliant and without a will of her own.Her courage, stubborness, and her sheer stamina in the face of a cold and uncaring royal circle is testament to her determination to remain in England as its rightful queen. From childhood her mother had groomed her for this one calling and she was going to rule England in her own right.That some historical facts as we learned them are played out as having been of Catalina's making is a refreshing twist. She took charge and changed facts as they suited the occasion.The last few pages are stunning and leave us at a point everyone familiar with Katherine's fate will remember with a chill. One hopes Gregory will write a part deux to the final years, but then again it is better not to try to improve on perfection.
3 The author does quite well in telling the story of the young Infanta Katalina, daughter of Isabella and Ferdinand of Spain,  betrothed at three years old to Arthur, Prince of Wales, son of England's Henry VII.She knows she will one day be ruler of a distant cold land.Her reception in England is rude and shocking as she is insulted by an arrogant and seemingly coarse King Henry VII, and married to the callow and awkward Arthur.She must hold on to all her faith and strength against the rude attentions of the king and the domination of the king's cold and hard mother Lady Margaret of Beaufort.After the death of Arthur, the ambitious Katalina aims to marry Arthur's younger brother Henry Prince of Wales against the opposition of the king (who had himself hoped towed Catherine) and the dowager king's mother Margaret.The author does well in exploring the young Katalina's emotions and the power play in the English court.the central themes are that Catherine's marriage to Arthur was consummated and Catherine kept this a secret in order to become Queen after Arthur's death.This forms the base of the narrative. The truth is we will never know and historical novel writing is indeed about surmising and filling in the gaps.What I disliked about the book was the political statement by the author who uses the novel to try to praise what she refers to as "the  rich beautiful and tolerant culture of the Muslims of Spain."The truth is that the Muslim Empire of the Moors was built on conquest and aimed to forcibly convert non-Muslims, treating minorities with a Dhimmi status (Ever heard of the slaughter in Spain by the fanatical Almohads?)Whatever the case, this was not the time and place for the author to make a political statement about what she sees Christian  bias and the need for accommodation with the Islamic world.It is doubtful that Catherine of Aragon cherished Islamic culture and she certainly did not regret her country's defence against the Moors.Why ruin the novel with this 21st century PC drivel about 'prejudice' against poor innocent Moslems and how Katherine realizes the wrongs of all of this and how the war against the Moslems by Spain is sooo wrong. The Spanish were fighting to get their land back from the Islamic Empire.,..hardly something to apologize about.Clearly the author was trotting out the line so popular today that we shouldn't fight back against Moslems.You wouldn't have got that sort of drivel in a histroical novel twenty years ago or before.
2 The Constant Princess follows in the same exact pattern as Gregory's other works-she focuses on a princess in the English court, lets us eavesdrop on the private thoughts of a public women, has some explicit sex scenes, and forces us to watch the woman's downfall. In this work, the princess is Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife. We follow Katherine as a child, then a wife, and finally an outcast. You would assume that the woman replaced by Anne Boleyn would have been more exciting. I was mildly entertained.Philippa Gregory began the novel with this premise: Katherine was a liar. Okay, history lesson...Before she married Henry VIII, Katherine was married to his brother Arthur-the first heir to the throne. She was allowed to marry Henry because she swore to the POPE that the marriage wasn't consummated. Henry later used her first marriage to push her aside, and he blamed this fact on their lack of sons. Well, Gregory theorizes that Katherine loved Arthur and that she lied about their sex life to stay the Queen of England. Would a incredibly devout woman do this? Would a devout Catholic lie to the Pope to stay Queen?I picked this novel up as part of my "The Tudors are over. What am I going to do now???" recovery. I was desperate to get a Tudor fix. This novel fixed it alright. Now I know why the show was so good-it was exciting, and it focused on exciting characters. The Constant Princess did not. Katherine was not exciting for me, not believable. The sections where her inner voice spoke where so boring that I almost skipped them entirely.Another thing that really troubled me in the novel, was the whole premise of the lie. Katherine of Aragon has been described as an extremely devout woman. Part of her infertility issues are now based on her extreme fasting and extremely long prayer times. How could a woman who was so devout tell such a lie? How could she claim to be a virgin when she wasn't? Gregory argues that it would have almost impossible for Arthur and Katherine to not consummate their marriage-that Katherine would do anything to be queen. I, for one, had a hard time reconciling her incredible faith with her amazing ambition.This novel left something to be desired for me. I don't know if it was because this Katherine didn't fit the image already in my head from The Tudors or if Gregory's work is just getting old for me. Either way, I am in no hurry to read another one of her works.
4 I loved this book!! I have read many books about King Henry and Anne Boleyn, but this is the first book I have read about his first wife.  I loved the story of her childhood and her rise to the English Throne.  She was a very dedicated woman, that's for sure!!
3 I have read several books of this author and so far this is the most hard to read. For some reason the author decided to write the thoughts of the main character additional to the story.  I ended up skipping entire pages.  It got too boring.
5 The author is great presenting in story line the historical information about the English Aristocracy During the Early centuries.  She sticks to facts as much as she can then summaries with what is fact and what is fiction.
5 Like every other Philippa Gregory novel that I have read, "The Constant Princess" is yet another example of how delicious this author writes.  This book does not disappoint.  A wonderful story that is filled with fun, romance, and inspiration, "The Constant Princess" is about Queen Katharine of England (Henry VIII's first wife.)The best part of Philippa Gregory's writing (at least what I have read so far) is that her stories are well seasoned with historical facts and characters.  While this is an artistic take on historical events, it is still pure enjoyment to devour and I was left with a deep respect for Katharine the real person in addition to Katharine the character in this novel.The first half of the book is delicious and romantic.  My heart was singing and I forgot all about what really happens to our dear heroine because I was so wrapped up in the first part of her story (about her first marriage to Arthur.)  Suddenly the story turns from romance to defining why the book is titled "The Constant Princess."  Reading about her struggles, her near-misses, and ultimately to see her bring her goal to fruition was what made this a fantastic book.If you enjoyed The Other Boleyn Girl and/or The Boleyn Inheritance, I am positive you will also enjoy this book.  Add it to your collection of Philippa Gregory novels today!
4 Katherine spent her preadolescent years on the battlefield as her parents King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella defeated the Moors.  Once the kingdom was secure the trio resided in Alhambra.  When she turned fifteen Katherine traveled from the Peninsular to England to marry Arthur.  She finds England barbaric lacking obvious amenities like in-door plumbing and tasty healthy food.  She and the sickly Arthur fall in love as they plan to raise the standard of living for the people.  However, a few months into their political marriage, Arthur dies.Instead of a period of mourning, Katherine is quickly wedded to Arthur's healthier younger brother Henry, which she accepts with grace especially since her spouse forced a deathbed pledge to do so as he wants her to complete his dreams for England; beside she understands the ties between the two nations being much more important than personal feelings.  Thus she weds preadolescent Henry and eventually becomes the Queen devoted to her second husband.  Alas her loyalty ends tragically.This epic look at Katherine brings to life the reign of Henry VIII as few tales do.  Katherine, the idealistic Arthur, her parents, and of course Henry come off of the staid textbooks as full blooded individuals filled with passion even while their ardor varies making for a richer historical.  Though Katherine's sudden insight into Holy Wars and her life long enemy the Moors seem too convenient and twenty-first century in outlook, readers will appreciate Philippa Gregory's grand sweep of late fifteenth century into early sixteenth century EnglandHarriet Klausner
5 This is a great book by Philippa Gregory. It is a historical-fiction book which has to be kept in mind by the reader. She does do some research for her books so some of the information contained in the book is pretty historically accurate. This book is about Queen Katherine (who married Prince Arthur of England who died). She eventually married the famous King Henry VIII who cheated on her with almost any woman he could get his hands on (Ann Boleyn most famously). This is a book through Katherine's eyes from the time she married Arthur, to her death. This is a great book, with some historical accuracy, and it definitely grabs the reader in.
5 If you are a history buff you will love this story it captures mystery and romance all in one story. Philippa Gregory is a great author!
3 This is my least favorite book of Gregory's because I didn't like Catalina's character and I didn't like the parts of history that the author omitted from the story.  I thought that Gregory should have included more of Katherine's marriage with Henry, not just the beginning and end of her marriage with him and I didn't really like the whole premise of why she lied to Henry about her virginity.  The whole story seemed strained and the characters seemed to be one disappointment after another like Katherine's life.
5 The woman that we have all come to know as Queen Katherine of Aragon began as the Infanta Catalina of Spain.  As is expected of any princess, a marriage is arranged for her; she is to marry Prince Arthur - England's King Henry VII's eldest son.  Upon reaching England, Catalina finds that this marriage is not what she expects it to be, and neither is the boy she married.  As fate would have it, Arthur's life is extinguished during The Sweat that swept England soon after their marriage.  King Henry, not wanting to lose the valuable asset he just brought to England, soon marries her to his other son, who would later become Henry VIII...This was my first Philippa Gregory book that I read and I was NOT disappointed.  There is an amazing love story that really pulled on my heart strings.  I instantly connected with Catalina (I continued to think of her as that throughout the whole book) and very strongly felt what she felt.  Gregory's writing style instantly pulls you in and never lets go until the end.  I enjoyed getting to know Catalina from her early days, something that is not really focused on in other novels.Gregory DOES change many events in the book from what is known to have really happened.  The good thing about this though, is that this is Historical Fiction and that is what I expect.  If you are looking for true facts, check out a non-fiction book, but for a good story, try this on for size.
1 What a bizarre book! I have read many fictional biographies of the Tudor era and this is one of the very worst. Not only are the characters very shallow and one-dimensional, the entire premise is historically inaccurate.Katharine of Aragon was a very pious, deeply devout Roman Catholic and to suggest that she embraced Moslem customs and beliefs is just too bizarre to believe. She was also deeply devoted to Henry VIII and to suggest otherwise goes against documented historical record.As if the sappy storyline (suitable for a romance novel)wasn't insult enough, Ms. Gregory's disregard for truth is the one constant thread in the whole entire novel.To cap it off, the disjointed narrative method adds its own cachet of awfullness. I personally don't need to read every few pages that Katharine believed herself born and designated by God to be Queen of England.Nora Lofts has written a far better book about her-the Kings Pleasure. Do yourself a favor and read it
4 This book was very enjoyable to read. I liked the fictional aspect of the relationship between Catherine of Aragon and Arthur, Prince of Wales. No one will ever know if their marriage was ever consummated (except for the two of them) and it is always interesting to speculate that it was.
5 This book was great, one of Gregory's best...simply facinating.  Katherine was such an interesting woman, and her story had so much passion, depth and intrigue.  I never knew much about this queen, and was enthralled from beginning to end.  What an amazing character.  I loved this book, and would highly recommend it.
4 A decent historical novel. The writer certainly sympathizes with Katharine [Catalina] of Aragon, like many royal offspring removed to a strange country for political purposes. Her situation perhaps more intriguing because her husband the prince dies before he gains the throne and before they have any children. She becomes a stranger in a strange land. Most of the tension in the story comes from how she copes and works her way back to power. How much of Ms. Gregory's story actually happened is a guess, but it is fun to speculate. For example, the book gives more credit to Katharine than Thomas Howard for the English victory at Flodden Field.However, as another review says, the novel is fiction, not history. The Moorish Spain of Catalina's childhood is portrayed as a kind of heaven on earth where Muslim, Catholic, and Jew lived in harmony and climate control. The historical reality was far more messy than that. It is also hard to imagine such a tolerant Catalina becoming the mother of Bloody Mary--one of the least tolerant rulers in England's history. Perhaps there will be another installment telling us how young Mary became embittered...
4 Philippa Gregory has written some excellent historical novel in the past and this one is certainly up there with the best of them. She has the ability as an author to draw you into the story in such a way as to make you feel that you have gone back in time. The sights, the sounds, even the smells of 16th century England seem to be there before your eyes and under your nose.Children were married young in those days and the three year old child Katherine of Aragon has been betrothed to the English King's son Prince Arthur. The Prince is the heir of Henry VII. Even at that tender age Katherine realises that it is her destiny to rule England, a far off land, of which she knows nothing...Her arrival at the English court as a young girl does not start well and Arthur seems somewhat childish in her eyes. Slowly she begins to adapt to her life at English court and the strange customs of the land and slowly but surely a tender love develops between the two. Something that is far from normal in the arranged marriages of the time.But when Arthur dies Katherine is left to make her own future. How can she now be the Queen . . .?Philippa Gregory has got the formula for these books down to a fine art and they are very interesting well researched books that are extremely readable.
4 I would recommend The Constant Princess to everyone who likes historical novels.  Philippa Gregory is tops in this category.  Buy it!  Read it!  You won't be able to put it down.  A great book.
4 This is the story of what happened before the events of THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL, the story of Henry VIII's first Queen, Katherine of Aragon.  From birth Katherine, known then as Catalina had been destined to be a player in international politics.  Like her sisters Catalina was a bargaining chip, a token that would be used to cement a bargain to further her parents', Isabella and Ferdinand of Spain, ambitions.  To that end Catalina was betrothed while still a toddler to Arthur, Prince of Wales to establish an alliance between Spain and England.  Catalina studied statecraft by watching her parents drive the Moors from Spain, turning their country from an occupied land, an outpost of Islam into a world power and very Christian nation.  When Catalina arrived in England to meet her bridegroom Arthur she had very definite ideas about her duties to her new countries, ones that she quickly discovered were at odds with what her soon to be husband and father-in-law expected from her.  Catalina's parents ruled their united kingdoms of Aragon and Castille jointly but in England women were wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of kings but even Queens did not rule.  A woman's role was to obey and provide her husband with many healthy children.  When circumstances conspire to prevent Catalina, now called Katherine, from fulfilling any of the roles she had spent her life preparing for she continued to struggle to live up to her perceived destiny of ruling Wales and England.This is an interesting tale of the life of Katherine of Aragon.  The stories of Anne Boleyn and Elizabeth I are familiar tales in which Katherine's influence is felt but she herself is usually kept in the shadows, exiled off stage an on-going threat to Anne, a relationship their daughters will continue after their deaths.  Gregory has her own theories concerning the relationship between Arthur and Katherine and Henry VIII's character that give the reader much to think about.  Her skillful telling of ill fated Katherine's life brings life to this shadowy troubled time.
3 I enjoyed this novelistic treatment of Catherine of Aragon precisely because it is so different from the usual treatment of her.It is an easy read that left me wondering 'what if' some of the conjecture is true? This Catherine does not appeal to me as such as some of the more traditional portrayals, but the possibilities introduced by Ms Gregory do.I liked it, and recommend it as a light read.
4 I said in another review... I'm coming to realized just how awful Henry the 8th was.  yuck.  This book tells a bit more of the likable Henry and his continued descent into a disgusting letch.
3 This book had a great beginning. The first chapter really hooked me in. The image of a barefoot princess standing atop a chest watching her mother ride off into flaming battle is particularly haunting. I wish I could say that the rest of the book was as striking to me.Now, I'm not going to comment on the historical inaccuracies of this book, since so many other reviewers have been gracious enough to cover everything I'd want to say, but since it's been proven that Ms. Gregory has taken liberties with historical facts (I'm okay with that - there's a reason the word FICTION is part of the genre title), I wish she would add some details into the story to make it more interesting.I loved the descriptions of the Moorish culture in Spain, like the Alhambra, but unfortunately that's the most interesting part of the book. After the part where Arthur gets sick, nothing really interested me. When Catalina and Arthur get married, they act like petulant children, instead of teenagers who were raised to rule a country someday. Then they magically fall in love after a huge fight, and have a storybook romance with not a fight between them. I know this book is historical fiction, but considering the liberties the author has taken with a lot of other facts in this era, couldn't she have put some conflict into the mix to liven the story up? As a writer, I can tell you that no story is interesting without conflict of some sort, and we see no conflict in about 100 pages of this book. Ms. Gregory could have added adventurous hunts, matrimonial fights, conflicts with spying servants, snarky castle-mates, etc, but there is next to nothing of interest happening after the first chapter. As far as story ideas go, this was very disappointing to me.I really didn't think the multiple point of view storytelling was particularly beneficial to the story. Ms. Gregory would have done quite well to cut out the first person altogether. The story flowed just fine without it.As somewhat of a history nerd, I have collected a lot of knowledge about this time period, and knew how the story is going to end. If you don't, I'm sure you can gather it from the other reviews on here. After the first hundred pages, I debated whether I wanted to finish this book or not. I already knew the ending, but I'd hoped the quality of the storytelling will improve. Not really.
5 Finished this one in two sittings. Thoughtful development. Author is easily becoming one of my favorites.  On to the next.
1 I liked the Other Boleyn Girl...and I was intrigued when I found her book about Katherine of Aragon......sadly this book is not worth the time.  Kathrine charecter comes off as whiney and overall without any depth.  Katherine's charecter had little depth.  I was very disappointed.
5 Best of her &#34;Cousins' Wars&#34; books!  I highly recommend it to any fan of the series.  Princess Catalina is very sympathetic.
5 Truly an incredible story, well told, well researched it took me where I've never been before and I well enjoyed the trip and you will too.  It's Ms. Gregory at her finest.
3 I love English historical fiction, and usually I enjoy Phillipa Gregory's books. But this one is so far off the mark as to be an unrecognizable picture of the person of Catherine of Aragon. And the book is very repetitious-- we are reminded over and over "I am the Princess of Wales!"  OK-- we know that after the first dozen times Catalina says it.  And the devise of such a large part of the book in italics gets tiresome.  Catherine comes across as arrogant, knowing more than God Himself-- she insists over and over that His will and her mother's will, are the same, and gives the impression that God took his orders from Isabelle of Castile. This book is much too long-- it could have been trimmed by 25% and still been too long. And it is unbelievable that the saintly Catherine would have lied, and about such an important matter (for those times) as her virginity. I know it is supposed to be fiction, but I am irate at wasting my time with this book. Hope P.G.'s next book is better than this one.
5 Another fabulous historical fiction from the queen of historical fiction. Felt like I really got to know Katherine of Aragon. Thank-you Philippa Gregory.
5 Katherine of Aragon has always been cast as the innocent victim of Henry VIII's mad ambition and lust. Here, we see her as a brilliant, determined woman, constantly scheming to fulfill her dreams. As usual with Gregory - a WOW!
5 If you love English history especially the intriguing life and loves of Henry VIII, then this is the book for you. The Constant Princess is a rich novel written from Catherine of Aragon's point of view. Philippa Gregory transports you back in time to the challenging life of a noble woman. In this novel you experience all the difficult hardships Catherine faced in her adopted country as well as her husbands and parents wickedness. Filled with passion, love, betrayal, suspense, cruelty, lust, and lies, this tale of Henry's first wife will have you wanting more (which fortunately is available).
4 The book was just as good as all of her other books...which is to say VERY GOOD. The only part I didn't care for was the ending. She seemed to not know how to end this book and so she went WAY into the future with no explanation as to how she got there. That was the only disappointment,
3 It was a good book a bit drawn out in places . I enjoyed it as a light read. I most likely would  not go for another of this authors books.
4 The wives of King Henry VIII have always fascinated me, especially Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn. After reading The Other Boleyn Girl, one of the best historical fiction works out there, I eagerly deleved in The Constant Princess.I'll go through the good points first, as I enjoyed this book overall. There just could have been some fine-tunning to make it go from good to great.The writing style is very smooth, and has a good flow to it as always. As with Phillipa Gregory's other works, you can see the vivid picture of the intricate chess games of the court and what a fragile world everything was built upon in these times.I also enjoyed her portrayal of Catherine as a strong, independent woman who would stop at nothing to achieve her dreams. Too many novels paint Catherine as "the victim", and I enjoyed this new and different perspective.You read so many novels about the old King Henry and Queen Catherine, but this is the first I have read that shows them when they are young. Again, you gain new perspectives on Catherine, while also realizing that King Henry always was a spoiled child, who always believed he would get his way.I also loved how the Moors were painted so beautifully, and given such a voice. You see that these people were brutally treated, and that the Spanish Inqusition destroyed a Europe that could have been, as the moors held so much knowledge on medicine, literature, science, and health. This greatly enhances the text, and gives the story a richness that would not have been there otherwise.However, while I liked this novel, it did not have the complexity of The Other Boleyn Girl, or some of the richness of characters that we saw. There were more characatures in this story, and I am guessing that there might have been deadlines. Yet, if the characters and the plots have been more developed, this would have been a five star read.There is a large debate over whether Catherine and Arthur's marriage was consummated, and obviously this story takes the perspective that it was. What bothered me about this aspect was that the "romance" and how Catherine proclaimmed him as her "first and only love" was a little too much. I know this is a story, and yes, some arranged marraiges did grow into love, but they were children themselves, and hardly married. In some ways, this is highly unrealistic and detracts from the true meaning and historical elements of the story.Finally, I wish that this book had been longer. If you look at all great works of historical fiction, including "Boleyn Girl", they are long. As this is a slim novel compared to her other works, you do not receive as rich a picture of the Tudor Court or the characters themselves. The story ended so abruptly after the defeat of Scotland, that I wish it had gone on more, until Anne really came into the picture. It would have been a lot thicker, but the reader would have a broader idea of the times, and would finish with a more rewarding feeling.Overall, this is a pleasant little read. I enjoyed the interpretation of Catherine, especially her determination. I also am glad I gained more knowledge of the Tudor court, but I just wish the book had been longer and more fine-tunned!Read The Constant Princess for a "beach book", and The Other Boleyn Girl for substance!
3 This is the story of Katherine of Aragon and her struggle to overcome in her rise to become a beloved Queen of England. Best known for being displaced in favor of Anne Boleyn, this is the story before Anne's reign. Of Katherine's betrothal since birth to the English prince and of her childhood with her mother Queen Isabella. A smart, loyal, and wise young woman, Katherine marries her husband's brother after his death in order to secure her place as queen and does the work of both monarchs."The Constant Princess" was a decently good read. It was not as engaging or page turning as "The Other Boleyn Girl," but it had its merits. I enjoyed reading about a historical figure that I had only known as a minor character in other historical novels. It was interesting to see someone whom I thought of as fairly insignificant in a spotlight role. I learned a lot about the reign of Katherine of Aragon and about her as a person. At first I will admit, I didn't like her very much. In the beginning Gregory has the character go on and on about how she thinks she is the grace of God himself and chosen to be the Queen from birth. It made me feel as if the character was deluded and fanciful.As the plot went on however, the young Princess was no stranger to hardship and I liked her more and more. I feel that this is the mark of a very good author when he/she can make me feel so attached to the character as a person, not just a character.However, after Katherine's initial struggles to become Queen (a little more than halfway through the book), the excitement and mystery of the book was no longer as enthralling. Mostly it talked about her struggle with miscarriages, the death of her child, and her struggle to keep her younger husband away from women who try to seduce him.I actually put the book down about 10 - 20 pages from the very end. I just kind of stopped caring and was looking to go on to something else. So overall, "The Constant Princess" was a good, if not a great, read.
3 While I am mostly a fan of the romance genre, I knew that this is a work of historical fiction and not a romance. That being said, this book was a disappointment. I did not like ANY of the characters which makes it difficult to read. A large portion of this book is written in the first person (from the perspective of Catalina/Katherine) and I would have expected to really understand and empathize with that character. I did not. Katherine, her father Ferdinand, Henry VII and Henry VIII all were portrayed as self centered and self promoting to the core. There was also a lot of repetition and Katherine's attempts to be a warrior queen like her mother just didn't seem believable. I did learn a little about the history of the time and about life in the monarchy which appeared very depressing. While I have not given up on this author or the historical fiction genre, it will be awhile before I pick up a book like this again.
4 The first book of Philippa Gregory's that I read was the excellentThe Other Boleyn Girl, and it was a double-edged sword, in that got me started on a path to read the rest of her books, but also meant I'd forever compare the rest of her books to it.  LikeThe Boleyn Inheritance, this book suffers in comparison.  It has several of the same flaws: it's repetitive, and it's not that well written.  For some reason, Gregory chose to include not just third-person narrative passages written in the past tense but also first-person italicized passages from Katherine's point of view that vacillate between the past and present tense.  These accounts begin from the time she was five years old, yet the voice remains constantly that of a grown woman.  In my opinion, these sections take away more from the story than they add to it, and the book would have been better off if Gregory had incorporated them into the overall narrative.  Or perhaps if they'd been better edited, they would have fit in better.  Some of the tense shifts really suffer from poor editing and make for confusing reading at times.Perhaps Gregory's great flaw is a flaw shared by many writers of historical fiction: the novel can only be as good as the story that she has to tell.  When history provides only sketchy accounts of an event, Gregory simply cannot be relied upon to fill it in to this reader's satisfaction.  This book is marred by her inclusion of an 11th-hour cry for peace in the Middle East that reads as unbelievable and unwieldy in the mouth of a woman whose daughter turned out to be such an infamous religious fanatic, still vilified in popular culture and history books to this very day.  Gregory's author's note confirms that this belief is more her idea than Katherine's, and she should have known that it had no place in her book.Overall, I enjoyed this book because of the way Gregory imagined the romance between Katherine and Arthur, and because she did a wonderful job of building a strong character who carries the book well on her own despite lapses in the writing.I still haven't managed to strike gold as I did with "The Other Boleyn Girl" but I will keep trying, at least until I finish her Tudor series.  Hopefully, I'll discover that she's a great writer, and not just a mediocre one who once managed to capture lightning in a bottle.
2 I have enjoyed almost all her other works but this one was a waste of money and time.  I couldn't force myself to get to the end.  Continually I turned the page in hopes it would get better but it didn't.  The way she moves the point of view from Katharine back to the story is not enjoyable.  I would hate not to enjoy Philippa Gregory again but this one will make me think twice before paying full price again.
4 'The Constant Princess' was a book about Queen Catherine of Aragon, the first of Henry VIII's wives. It explained how she was originally married to Arthur, who died at the age of 15. the book was very suspenseful and historically accurate. Throughout the story, there would be sections that would portray Catherine's own feelings.
5 This is the second Philippa Gregory book and "the historical fiction" I have ever read and I am literally hooked to the point I feel the need to read the rest of Philippa Gregory's books.The author put so much time into researching the life of Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife and the youngest daughter of Isabel and Ferdinand of Spain, and did such a wonderful job of describing her inner world, where she came from and her relationship with her first husband Prince Arthur (Henry's older brother), her in-laws, and her parents that I felt like I went back in time reliving her experiences with her while reading the book.This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time. It has romance, adventure, royal intrigue, historical figures, and much more in addition to being written in a way the reader is able to understand each person's behavior and motivation behind it.The only thing I didn't like about this book is it only covers a period of Katherine of Aragon's life and the book ends the day she married Henry VIII.
5 This book arrived in new condition, it couldn't have been in better shape if I took it off the shelves of Barnes and Noble.
5 Such a deep and rich story of powerful women and men during a time of unchecked wealth and power.  This one will not disappoint!
4 Read in June, 2012formatPaperback (edit)reviewThe Constant Princess by Philippa GreggoryThe historical novel based on Katherine of Aragon was a great read. The thought of being born a royal princess was nothing like being groomed or brainwashed into thinking that your inferior and nothing but a pawn to gain lands for your family. How sad that these women were brought up this way. Most made the best of their situations and have come to love their betrothed others just produced an heir and were content with that.The Author brought Katherines story alive as she was betrothed to Auther, Prince of Wales. Her love for this man and her loss of her dear husband to sickness, as his dying wish he wanted her to marry his brother Henry so that she may be Queen of England.She did become Queen of England, ruled as a regent when Henry was away, bore children that were stillborn and those that hadn't live long. However she did bore Henry a daughter, Mary. Later on in life Mary was the Queen Of England
5 I've read several of Phillipa Gregory's books. I've gotten so caught up in the Tudor Dynasty! She's done a great job putting the wives of Henry VIII in order and telling their stories.
4 The story that Gregory paints of the early life of Catalina (historically known as Katherine of Aragon) in her novel "The Constant Princess" is heart-wrenching, romantic, and utterly fantastic. However, the important word to remember when reading this book is FICTIONAL. It is an entirely fabricated novel, with only the most basic facts rooted in historic accuracy.The first section of the novel, which portrays Gregory's idea of Catalina's upbringing, and her marriage to Arthur is picturesque and captivating; while it is most likely entirely untrue, it at least manages to develop and maintain the true character of Catalina, giving the reader a sense of who this pious and honorable young woman was.It is the middle sections of this novel where I begin to have major discrepancies. As I said, most of the story is a simple fill-in-the-blank of history, providing creative details for things that we generally have no sure-fire way of knowing about. It is creating a story based within the plausible frame of actual historic events. However, up until the middle parts of the novel, Gregory portrays Catalina as she probably was, but then the author begins to grotesquely twists the character of the Princess to an unignorable depth. Katherine of Aragon was a great and noble woman, a woman who clung to God in the most desperate of hardships, and strived to be as holy as possible. The woman that Gregory portrays is a calculating woman of revenge, holding up a pious faade to trick others into getting what she wants. Even when she is utterly destitute, and then is graciously rescued, she has no joy, no thankfulness for her savior! I think that Gregory has confused her main character with her successor, Anne Boleyn.While the issue of the character of Catalina is a great hurdle to overcome (along with many other smaller ones!), once one can get it in their mind that this is a NOVEL, and does NOT AT ALL resemble the true story of Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England, the book is quite an enjoyable piece of fiction.Five stars for the story, but minus one star for slandering the character of one of history's most honorable women.Grade: B
3 I'm a big fan of Philippa Gregory's books, I have most of them in my library. But, this book seems a bit of a slapdash effort. The plot plods along and is repetitive...if I were married to someone who reminded ME every 12 seconds that she was a Princess of Spain I'd want a divorce, too!Ms. Gregory gets a lot of grief from Historians (capital H) for her other books taking liberties with the lives of historical figures but I don't begrudge that...if I'm being honest with myself I think I read these kind of historical novels to feel more intellectual than if I read books with Fabio and his ilk on the cover. But, having said that, this book feels totally contrary to almost all accepted fact about Katherine of Aragon. That may be by Ms. Gregory's design, but I found it more glaring and harder to get past than her playing fast and loose with Ann Boylen's life in "The Other Boleyn Girl." I can hear the Team Boleyn faction saying, "See, we told you so."
5 I'm a History teacher, so maybe I'm prejudiced, but I LOVED this book. In fact, as soon as I finished it, I grabbed the second one in the series from the library (sorry Amazon!), and polished that one off in a few days. I just picked up the third, and plan to read the whole series. Although the author strays from historical accuracy here and there, she does so in a way that doesn't corrupt the overall story. The lives of those featured in the novels have fascinated many for centuries. Like I always tell my students, "You couldn't make this stuff up!"
4 Knowing absolutely nothing about the history, I was able to enjoy this book without being put off by the apparent historical inaccuracies.  My main problem with the book is that it seems the entire end of the book is cut off.  We go into great detail about Katherine's life for many years, we see her relationship with Arthur, her relationship with Henry, we share her sorrow when she loses her babies.  The main part of the book ends with Katherine being pregnant (we assume with Mary), but we don't get to experience her joy of finally having a child.  The relationship between Katherine and Henry goes from being amicable (and him being an apologetic cheater) to years ahead when he's leaving her for good, with no explanation as to how we got there.  How did Katherine fall out of favor? Why did Henry reconcile with Anne after sending her away from court?  There's a huge gap at the end, almost as if they ran out of budget and had to cut some pages, so they just took a bunch out.
4 The Constant Princess tells the story of Katherine of Aragon, King Henry VIII's first wife. Katherine was born "Catalina" to the King and Queen of Spain. Her marriage to Prince Arthur, the heir to the throne of England, was decided when she was an infant. She knew she would be Princess of Wales all of her life. When she turned 15, she was sent to England to marry Prince Arthur. At first she despised Arthur, but she grew to love him very much during the short months that they were married. As Arthur lay dying of a sudden illness, he made Catalina promise that she would marry his brother, Henry, and become Queen of England.Chronologically, The Constant Princess comes before Gregory's other book, The Other Boleyn Girl. I really wanted to read The Other Boleyn Girl, but when I found out that this book takes place before it, I decided to read them in order. The book switches between telling the story in third person to Katherine's point of view in the first person, indicated by italics. I loved it, because it was like looking into her mind at certain points in her life. Her story is sad, but she is very strong throughout all of her hardships. I am ashamed to say that before reading this book, I had very little knowledge of King Henry VIII and the Tudors. Now I want to read anything I can about the subject. It's so interesting! I know a lot of people say that Gregory's books are not historically accurate, but I like them; she tells a good story.
4 I will admit first that I sped through the last 50 pages, as I was getting a little bored with the story by then, since I already knew how it would end. But for the other 90 percent of the book I found truly fascinating and a great read!I had no problems understanding which events and themes were real and which were fiction.  I was suprised that the author could be so sure that the marriage between Catalina and Arthur was in fact consumated, but I didn't take her word for it anyway.  The blend of fact, fiction, and assumption is what makes historical novels so wonderful.Catalina/Katherine's battle to understand whether she was to despise/destroy or accept those of different faiths was especially interesting to me, and it seemed especially relevant right now, as Muslims, Christians, and Jews fight once again based age old prejudices and differences. There are some great parrallels to current events that I could not help but to see. Of course, I don't know how the author could possibly know if this was something that Catalina often pondered, but I thought it was a brilliant tie-in for the story.
3 This book starts out very strong. The scene where 5 year old Infanta Catalina watches her mother and father ride out on their horses to calm a hysterical camp is awesome. It made me want to read more about Queen Isabella.The book goes downhill somewhat when Catalina grows up and goes to England. Philippa Gregory doen't really flesh out this part of the story it's choppy and full of abrupt character sketches. She sticks to the usual view of Henry VII as a stingy, mean, crafty low man  who snatched the greatest prize in England but she also makes him into a lustful old goat. She makes poor, sickly Prince Arthur into a girl's romantic dream and she turns Catalina into a modern woman. That was the biggest mistake.The political correctness in the novel was as obvious and annoying as a Kevin Costner movie but making Catalina sound and act like a modern woman spoils the book. On top of that she's presented as being  scheming, vengeful and contemptuous of Henry right from the start. That is too far from the historical evidence.Also, Thomas Woolsey, the most important man in young Henry VIII's life is mentioned only two or three times. Woolsey was a major player in Katherine of Aragon's tragedy so this makes little sense. It's not a bad book but it reads like it was hastily put togehter. I much prefer Jean Plaidy's Katherine of Aragon Trilogy.
4 This book was alright-- it is not my favorite book by Gregory but it was worth the time I spent reading it.  One would hope that Katherine was as strong and in love at some point in her difficult life as this book would depict her to have been.I have always thought of Katherine of Aragon as a sad, meek, spiritually obsessed person, but it was refreshing to read of another's view of her.Anything that I have ever read during this period in time has painted Henry VIII as a despicable, selfish, hateful man.  Again, this book too establishes like sentiment toward him.  No new surprises there.I was surprised at Katherine's character in this book.  It was nice to read something that lifted up Katherine of Aragon for a change.
3 I'm a big fan of Philippa Gregory's novels, but it seems she's writing them too quickly. This one's subject -- Katherine of Aragon's girlhood and marriages to Prince Arthur and Henry VIII -- is potentially fascinating, as is the underestimated Katherine, or Catalina as she is known here. And without spoiling the novel's secret, it is bold of Gregory to make certain assumptions about Katherine's marriages. However, none of the characters is as well developed as in her better novels, such as Earthly Joys and Virgin Earth. The historical events are also presented superficially, with no real sense of the complexity of court intrigue at this time. Henry VII is sketched as a mere dirty old man lusting after his son's fiancee, and Henry as a spoiled adolescent. This novel also lacks the subtle supernatural touches that enliven Wise Woman, the Wideacre trilogy, and The Queen's Fool.
2 I'm halfway through this book and I'm not thrilled with it, but it's entertaining enough to finish, despite the fact that the characters are wooden and one-dimensional, and the writing is boring.  As others have said, Gregory often repeats certain points to death.  Every other page, it seems, Catalina is reminding herself and everyone else that she is the Infanta of Spain/Princess of Wales/Queen to be/daughter of Isabella and that everything is God's will. I find myself skimming a lot of these passages because they're so repetetive and don't further the story at all.  The author also has an annoying habit of using "D'you" in her dialog, which doesn't fit with the formal style of the rest of her writing, and using "especial" instead of special.  She doesn't use any other "Spanish-isms", so her use of "especial" seems gratuitous.I bought "The Other Boelyn Girl" at the same time, and I hope that it's better than this book.
3 I am a huge fan of Phillippa Gregory, and this was probably one of the most disappointing of her books. The beginning of the book does a good job of providing insight into the life of Katharine of Aragon while she was still the daughter of Philip and Isabella, but it fails to portray her as the strong woman that she was. She was the most defiant of Henry's wives, and was truly set aside on a whim. Overall, it wasn't dull, but certainly not as engaging as Gregory's other books.
4 I enjoyed the writing and detail.  I am looking forward to reading more of this authors books.  She describes the time period so that you feel like you are there.
4 Very good book. I was entertained throughout.  I enjoyed seeing things from Katherine's perspective.
2 All historical evidence indicates that Katherine of Aragon was one of the most ill-treated queens in England's history. She was loyal, steadfast, pious, and devoted to her husband Henry and her daughter Mary. She was rewarded for her devotion by rejection and betrayal. Yet she always maintained her dignity and her faith. Now along comes this book, which portrays her as manipulative, scheming and dishonest. As has been pointed out, this is a work of fiction. But I believe that the author has a responsiblity to both her readers, and to Katherine herself, to note that she has deviated from accepted historical research, and to stress that it is almost entirely certain that the marriage between Katherine and Arthur was never consummated. It is not credible that Katharine would have lied (and asked others to perjure themselves as well) if this had not been the case.  Katherine's true story is tragic and poignoint enough.  It was not necessary to completely alter and cheapen her character just to make a "better" story.
5 Philippa Gregory never disappoints.  I read all the Tudor fictional history books and I think Ms. Gregory is the best writer there is.  The book is so well researched and based on history so that you feel that the story is actual history.
2 I did not finish this book. It was very repetitive and uninteresting. While I was looking forward to reading about Catherine of Aragon - books about Henry VIII typically focus on Anne Boleyn and ignore Catherine's motivations - the execution was poor. First, there were significant implausibilities in the portrayal of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain. Gregory protrays them as rather open minded and solicitous of Islamic practices. Catherine is portrayed as very appreciative of the Muslim legacy of Spain. This is absolutely ridiculous, considering the fact that Ferdinand and Isabella were brutal religious fanatics who sparked the infamous Spanish inquisition. Second, Gregory portrays the relationship between Catherine and Henry VIII's older brother, Prince Arthur as a love affair. I suppose it is possible, but very unlikely in that time period. Gregory's purpose, of course, is the key premise of this book - that Catherine of Aragon lied when she said that her marriage to Arthur was not consummated, which means that her marriage to Henry was unlawful under church law. However, the efforts to make this point are rather forced - the romance between Arthur and Catherine reads like a nauseating dime store romance
4 Book arrived in good shape. It had some wear on the cover bt to be expected since it was used. All the pages in tact and no markings on them.
3 I looked forward to this book, as I have enjoyed the author's other books. Unfortunately, this book did not meet expectations. I had no problem with the basic premise of the book, that in order to fulfill her destiny to become Queen of England, a lusty Katherine of Aragon knowingly conspired with Arthur, her dying husband, to marry Henry, his brother, despite having consummated her marriage to Arthur. Although this premise runs contra to what is widely to believed to be true, this is, after all, historical fiction. I actually found the author's premise to be refreshingly novel.It is the execution of this premise that I found less than stellar. It was as if this book were written in a hurry. The characters are two dimensionally drawn, almost cartoonish, and the writing is, at times, laughable. Though the author did quite a bit of research, it was almost as if it were for naught, as the storytelling is somewhat repetitious. To add insult to injury, the dialogue in the book occasionally reads as if it were a bad romance novel. Still, not withstanding some of these problems, those who are avid fans of Tudor history, as well as historical fiction, may get a modicum of enjoyment from this book.
4 Most of the historical fiction I've read hasn't focused on the young Katherine, it seems that we get introduced to an old, worn-out woman and with that portrayal, it makes perfect sense why Henry would stray.  But this book's focus is on Katherine's early life and ends just as Henry and Katherine's marriage crumbles.While this book won't be my favorite Philippa Gregory book, I did enjoy reading it.  The scenes with Katherine and Arthur are so touching and Katherine's mourning of the loss of her son, her first child, is heartbreaking.But while Katherine's life was one tragedy after another, Gregory makes her out to be a strong and determined woman who was able to suffered through her hard life thanks to her devotion to her mother and God.
3 Book The Constant Princess is about King Henry VIII's first wife Katherine of Aragon, mostly before they get married.  She is betrothed to Henry's older brother Arthur at the age of three and grew up her entire life knowing that she would someday be the queen of England.  Her first marriage gets off to a rocky start, but eventually she and Arthur learn to love one another and have a rather passionate four months together before he dies.  It is at this point that Katherine's fate is undecided.  She is the right political match for Henry but she's 6 years his senior, and since he's only 11 at the time that's a big deal.  Henry VII, Henry VIII's father, takes a liking to Katherine and proposes marriage to her after his wife Elizabeth dies in childbirth.  Katherine at first accepts but then realizes that her power would be minimal with such a strong king and decides to wait for Henry to figure out that they should be married.  Of course he does, they are betrothed, but Henry VII doesn't make life easy for Katherine, keeping her in poverty by refusing her allowance and making life otherwise miserable for her.  He soon dies, though, leaving Henry free to choose his wife, so he chooses Katherine.  The story ends with Katherine's triumphant victory over the Scots through a battle that ended in King James's death.While I really enjoyed the first half of this book, the middle and latter half really brought me down.  Katherine suffered the plight of so many other of Gregory's heroines:  power greed.  Gregory paints such a power hungry picture of Katherine that she ceases to be a "real" character for me and moves into the archetype that she created with Anne Boleyn.  And while I don't doubt that someone of Katherine's station has to be power hungry, the overt manipulations, the decisions, the plotting, all get old after a couple hundred pages.  And the epiphany on the battle field where Katherine realizes that if she were to lay waste to Scotland that she would be perpetuating her mother's wrongs, fell flat for me.  I guess Katherine had grown and matured by that point, but the switch was so abrupt that it felt lacking in sincerity.So, while I would recommend this book to lovers of Gregory's work, especially the Tudor era novels, I would recommend those who want a less stock portrayal of Katherine to steer clear of it.  I will read her next book, the Boleyn Inheritance, because I like her story telling and can tolerate her women when they get greedy, but I would love a more holistic portrayal of the life and times of the Henry VIII court that what was found in the Queen's Fool.
3 Many of Phillipa's other books are great but this book was irritating to me.  I loved the story line which was very interesting but the book portrays the thoughs of the Princess/Queen which were redundant and annoying.  The book could have been half its size if she didn't have the main character repeat herself over and over.  The "Virgin Queen" and "The Other Boleyn Girl" are much better.
4 Since Katherine of Aragon is vastly underrepresented in fiction about Henry VIII (people tend to focus of Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard) it's nice to see a book just from her point of view.This is the story of Katherine of Aragon, born to parents constantly on crusade against the moors (Muslims, Jews and other none Christians) in Spain, with a comparatively feminist mother for the time period. From the age of three she was betrothed to Henry Tudor's eldest son, Arthur. She was married, after great haggling by the royal parents, to Arthur when she was 16 and he was 15. There was a language gap, she spoke Spanish and French and Latin, and he spoke English, French and Welsh. But they got along. In this book the story of Katherine's first marriage is highly romantic and very sweetly  written. This book is her life story, with a major gap between Princess Mary's (Later Queen Bloody Mary) birth and the time of the separation of Katherine from Henry so Anne Boleyn could be queen, told in third person and  quite a lot of first person seeming journal entry type sections also from Katherine's view point (those parts can be quite boring.) This is a good book written about a largely ignored time period in the time of one of Henry's greatest queens and truest loves.That said, I have some major issues with this book.Philippa Gregory is a good writer, there's no question about that. But she made some very large historical presumptions in writing this book that I have problems with. I could understand if the book was supposed to be purely from a fictional standpoint, or had an author's note saying that pretty much all serious historians believe that Katherine and Arthur Tudor's marriage was never consummated, but this book doesn't ever say that. So, while this book is well written and a great story it's important for people to remember that it is fiction, and the facts in real life were quite different from what was represented in this book. No historian I can think of belives that Katherine and Arthur's marriage was consumated.Henry's portrayal as hugely selfish I found a little offensive, considering that his goal in life of a male heir wasn't strange at all for the time period (he was the king and the last of his direct line) and wasn't brought up a total brat, he was royal yes, but that does not equel spoiled brat. Quite the opposit if you know your history. His parents were very careful royals (royal by right of conquest remember) with great people skills (they had to be charismatic to rule) who loved each other (probably) and loved order. He just wouldn't have been allowed to run wild in his childhood like he is shown to do in this book. Also the way Henry VII lusted after Katherine was odd, since there is absolutely no evidence that he ever cheated on his wife, or had a sexual relationship before he met her or after she died (the man was a prude and that is a fact.) Henry VII probably really did love his wife Elizabeth and while he did offer the princess of Spain his hand, it was mostly because he was a money lover who lusted after her dowry, not her.Katherine has some very forward thinking tolerance ideas in this book, which are kind of strange and completly inaccurate considering her background and major Catholic belief system. In this book she seeks medical advice from a moor which is something that the real Katherine never EVER would have done. Her early life poisoned her gainst Islamic people and Jews to a total extent. That also makes it extremly unlikely that her people and family took on moorish customs while living in the captured moorish palace in Granada. Katherine was Catholic, and this was Catholic before Matrin Luther. If you were Catholic then even thinking about the moorish way of life with some tolerence was a sin. Also, the way Katherine lied in this book about the consumation of her first marriage would have-to the real Katherine-been a major sin, and thus not even a thing to contemplate.If you want more, and very well researched info, about Katherine's early life check out  The Six Wives of Henry VIII by Alison Weir, which includes a very long section on Katherine's life before she married Henry and quite a lot about the consummation issue with Arthur. It is an extendedly researched book by THE expert in the feild and concludes that the marriage was never consumated. This conclusion is based partly on the fact that Katherine was pregnant almost all the time she was married to Henry and clearly fertile. So, if the marriage with Arthur was really consumated (and if it was more than once as in this book) she probably would have gotton pregnant. No baby, probably no sex.Also, just because I'm a hopeless romantic I like to imagine that until he met Anne Boleyn, Henry VIII really did love Katherine of Aragon, and she him. So while this book does have some of that, I would have liked to see that love story further developed. And if you're a romantic like me check out The Autobiography of Henry VIII : With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers by Margaret George, which has a very sweet Henry/Katherine early relationship.So, while I have some major historical issues with this book, it is another good book by Philippa Gregory. Four stars for the story and the writing, but just remember, she's a novelist, not a historian, and this is not a true work of history, or even an accurate work of historical fiction.
4 I ENJOYED IT IT'S WHAT I EXPECTED! I'M ENJOYING THIS SERIES BY PHILLIPPA GREGORY VERY MUCH.IT'S WORTH READING THANK YOU
4 I hated history, why learn all that stuff about people that are dead and gone.  I love history now, as traveling more and reading Philippa Gregory's books have made it seem real and alive.
1 I've recently developed an interest in the Tudors and King Henry VIII.  This was a dynasty that changed Europe forever.  I've been watching the TV series and absolutely loved the novel "The Other Boleyn Girl" by this author.  Naturally, I've also been doing my own research on the internet and trying to figure out the truth among all these fictionalized versions.  That said, I'm still interested in reading the novels.  I like a good story line and a well-paced tale. In the few versions of the story I've encountered, Katherine of Aragon was already a mature woman who King Henry VIII divorced and changed the history of Europe forever.  I was drawn to this book because I wanted to learn something about Katherine's earlier history.Katherine was the youngest daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain.  This was the couple who funded Columbus's expedition to the new world.  They also were the couple who brought Christianity to Spain, expelled the Moors and created the inquisition.  Spain was on the rise at that time and Katherine was betrothed to Henry's older brother when she was only three years old.  As a teenager she was sent to England.  It was a shock to her.  The English climate was cold and damp and she missed the gardens and the warmth and the baths of Spain.  Her wedding to Arthur was all pomp and ceremony and the couple was married for a few months before he died.  The history books do not record the nature of their relationship, but in this novel, the couple had a hot romance.After Arthur died however, Katherine was treated badly.  For seven years or so, she lived in limbo.  As her dowry wasn't fully paid, she wasn't given living expenses and she was not accepted at Court.  However, when Arthur's younger brother Henry was about 18 and she was about 24 they were married, after the Church gave them a special dispensation.  According to the novel, Katherine led a battle against the Scots while he was away in France.  According to the internet, this battle occurred but it is credited to someone else.  This part of the novel disturbed me because I am sure that if an English woman had ever led a battle, this is a part of history that would have been applauded by ever feminist group in the world. It's a good story, but true fiction.  We do know though that Katherine bore six children.  With the exception of her daughter Mary, all the others were stillborn or died shortly after birth.  Later, Henry fell in love with Anne Boleyn, divorced Katherine and separated England from the Catholic Church.  This novel doesn't get into all those details.  It basically applauds Katherine's life in her early twenties and summarizes the rest in a couple of pages.I found "The Constant Princess" hard to read because it seemed to add parts of history that never existed in real life.  Surely, there were enough real experiences to base the novel on without going into conjecture.  It also moved slower because much of it is about Katherine's feelings and there are pages and pages and pages of her thoughts about what was going on around her with very little action.  So, unlike "The Other Boleyn Girl" which I read in one fell swoop and couldn't put down, "The Constant Princess" was a struggle to get though.
4 Finally, Philippa Gregory has given us a  Katherine of Aragon who is vital, determined, and capable, much different from the pious, dignified victim portrayed in so much of the fiction about Henry's rejection of her. Novelists have tended to overlook the fact that Katherine raised her daughter, Mary, to become the fearsome, indomitable Tudor monarch that she was. Considering the times, I do not find it difficult to believe that Katherine would have lied about her relationship with first husband Prince Arthur. As far as can be proved, no one but Katherine and Arthur knew the absolute truth of the matter. She was possessed of formidable diplomatic skills, and understood the arts of war. Following her marriage to Henry, she engineered a successful military campaign against the Scots (Flodden) on her own. She knew what she wanted and did what she must to pursue her goals.Questions of historical accuracy aside, Gregory has done a service to the memory and reputation of a great woman, a feminist a couple of centuries ahead of her time. Her life did not develop as she had hoped and planned, but what a life it was.
2 Let me preface by saying I'm a new Philippa Gregory fan. For the last 3 weeks I have been reading one book of hers after another starting with The Boleyn Inheritance (which I loved), then back tracking to the Cousin's War.Katherine of Aragon and Anne of Cleves are my 2 favorites of Henry the VIII's wives. I wanted to love this book...I tried to love this book. I hated it. Maybe, if Ms Gregory would have dropped her (over)use of italics writing in Katherine's voice or dropped those entries completely...it would have been better. Reading that made me dislike Katherine of Aragon. I wanted to shake some sense in her.This book skipped ahead several years toward the end. Glossing over the King's Great Matter, leaving Katherine facing the king in court. And...that's it.I'm rereading The Other Boleyn girl. I read it when the movie came out...movie sucked btw. I am really enjoying it. I recommend all the Cousin's War books...The White Princess is my favorite.Imho, The Constant Princess was not up to par w/any of Ms Gregory's other books I read. Skip it. Start with The Other Boleyn Girl...you won't be missing anything.
5 Whether or not you agree with some of the conclusions the author comes to, the personality of Katherine of Argaon is spot-on. Her strength, determination and unshakable faith that she was chosen by God to be queen of England shine through wonderfully. Catalina's gradual realization that her parents were fallible is also well done.I enjoyed this book much more than "The Virgin's Lover." While in both, the author takes liberties with history, at least in "The Constant Princess" the character of the protragonist is accurate.
4 Philippa's Gregory novel, "The Constant Princess," is part of the Boleyn series that naturally leads to her break-out novel, "The Other Boleyn Girl." In this novel, the Princess of Spain who would later become the infamous Queen Katherine of Aragon has her life traced from its early beginnings as the Princess of Spain and daughter to the two most powerful players in Spanish history-Isabella and Ferdinand.We trace her from her early beginnings as she witnesses the Crusade movement that her parents participated in and her move to England where she would complete her "destiny" as wife to Arthur.  Gregory cleverly reveals Katherine's discomfort as an outsider to a court and country whose culture, practices, and nuances get under her skin. She picks up on everything from hygiene to the food that was preferred by the English. Interestingly, Gregory constantly displays a contrast between the view the common people have of Katherine (who love her and find her to be a charming Spanish Princess) and those in the court who openly disparage her, such as Henry VIII's own grandmother and father.While the romance between Arthur and Katherine is short lived, it is an intense one, with her promising to become Queen at all costs-by marrying Arthur's younger brother Harry. This is probably where historians will disagree with Katherine's motives and accuracy of historical events.You witness her struggles as her father refuses to pay her dowry, which would bar her return to Spain, being essentially expelled from the court and living in near poverty, her questioning of her parent's attempt to dominate the Moors, and her increasing worry that perhaps she will never fulfill the deathbed promise she made to Arthur. What I most liked about this transition is her brutal lesson into court politics as it allows her to become a savvy politician and tactician.Once she marries Henry VIII, Katherine gradually gains control of him as he is portrayed as a selfish boy who was never taught to be a man. A young man who was never prepared to take on such a responsibility. She displays a lot of finesse and military wit as eventually her greatest challenge will be to fight the Scots.Stylistically, Gregory takes a great chance flipping between first person and third person point of view. At times the switch is seamless, though there are instances where it disrupts the flow of the story.  Katherine's internal conflict has been scoffed by other reviewers-her Catholic fate versus the impact Moorish culture had on her. I think this has to be taken in context. The best modern day example would be the conflict faced by Latinos who consider themselves Catholics but are entrenched in specific cultural acts such as "curanderos, fortune tellers, gay lifestyle, etc" things that are generally forbidden by the church. It's difficult to separate the two when your life and religious views are polar opposites. It's a great contrast, which not many people experience or understand. So, unless you've known someone whose faced such a conflict, it is difficult to empathize or understand.Historical accuracy is also another major point of contention, but as long as you accept this to be historical fiction and it ignites your curiosity to verify certain facts you will be satisfied. If you are searching for 100% faithfulness to historical canon, then stay far away.I liked the growth, the insight, and trials that Gregory shared with us through Katherine's eyes. I just wish she would have picked one point of view and stuck with it. Otherwise, it throws off an otherwise decent novel.
4 Katherine of Aragon: most fans of Gregory's Tudor books know her as a supporting character from the author's bestselling novel, The Other Boleyn Girl, the first of Henry VIII's ill-fated wives, cast aside in favor of her vivacious young rival, Anne Boleyn. The Constant Princess is a prequel that chronicles the childhood and adolescence of Katherine--born Catalina of Spain--and her two marriages to two very different brothers: Arthur and Henry Tudor. Gregory recognizes the potential that Katherine the historical figure has to offer as a fictional character, and uses this novel to examine the inner strength of a queen usually overshadowed by her ambitious usurper. For a reader familiar with English history, this will be a satisfying, if flawed, read. Gregory's method of storytelling in this novel is a bit peculiar: she alternates between third-person past tense and first-person present tense, so that readers get the full picture with Katherine's voice acting as a running commentary on events. Not only is the switch between styles jarring, this reviewer can see no aspects of this method that betters the story in any way. Another factor that detracts from the novel's quality is its dependence on the reader's familiarity with English history, or, if not that, Gregory's novel, The Other Boleyn Girl, published four years before this one. The last pages of the book describes Katherine's successful campaign against the Scots in 1513, as well as the revelation of a long-desired pregnancy (disappointingly, it did not produce the much-needed male heir, but a daughter who would become known as Bloody Mary, scourge of the Protestant cause). The narrative then jumps ahead to 1529, where the reader finds Katherine, calm and collected, on trial by her husband, who seeks to annul their marriage in order to marry the younger, more fertile Anne, since the medieval Catholic church did not recognize divorce. Although this is a nice way to celebrate her remarkable strength of character and bring her character arc full circle, readers not familiar with historical events may find themselves confused by our heroine's sudden change in fortunes. Therefore, this book is not recommended as a starting point for readers coming to the series for the first time.
5 I really enjoyed this book. Philippa Gregory did an excellent job writing this work of fiction.  I love how she makes you feel like you are in the 1500's with these timeless characters.  Well done.
3 Who is this woman, whose fame rests on her inability to produce a male heir for Henry VIII?  In this book the author attempts to envision her life.The first part is credible. The author describes how Catalina, the child of Spain's powerful co-monarchs, could have developed a belief in her destiny. From this seed, Ms. Gregory builds the case for a steely purposeful woman who affects all the airs of the monarch she aspires to be and exudes its sense of entitlement. This is the attitude and the outlook she would have to have to endure her later abandonment.I don't know the evidence on which history rests a judgment that Arthur was too sickly to consummate his marriage, but Gregory doesn't buy it... at all. Arthur is shown to be healthy.  His fatal illness is sudden. His deathbed charge to his wife, while not realistic for the time, does have some novelistic development in how the young couple plans their future reign.History pays little attention to the emotions of this abandoned 16 year old girl/widow. She is subject to international games over which she has no control and little access to knowledge. Gregory is at her best as she imagines Catalina's thoughts and feelings in the 7 years uncertain wait for Henry VIII.  I don't know the historical probability of the attentions of Henry VII to his daughter-in-law but the writing (or maybe this plot line) doesn't ring true.Another difficult plot line is the imagined pregnancy and the call to the doctor who is a Moor. Catalina's attitude to Moors would be highly unusual. After this, the story races to an end.While the whole telling doesn't fully hold together, the book gives a different look at Katherine and posits some interesting ideas as to her character and how she might have interacted with her new English family.
5 I have to disagree with others who are disappointed in this book; I have found every one of Philippa Gregory's books well worth reading.  I am aware they are fiction, and as in watching movies or television, we must be careful to not get "facts" from fictional portrayals.  Having said that, these books are always a good read and make the characters come to life.  A history student can, and should, look up more; the contrast between fiction and fact will prove an interesting study in itself.
4 It is 1491 and Catalina is Infanta of Spain and Princess of Wales, her parents Ferdinand and Isabella. In the Spanish court, religion reigns alongside the regents, Christianity engaged in a centuries-long battle with Islam for dominance of the region. Katherine is promised to Arthur of England, son of Henry VII, her destiny proscribed by necessity. As a child, Catalina cannot fathom the drama that will overtake her life in that far away place or the controversy that will surround her in the Tudor court. At sixteen, Katherine's marriage to Arthur is short-lived, a brief, passionate pairing unusual in such a marriage. But Katherine is confronted with a more serious problem after Arthur's untimely death: she must make England and the Church believe that she and Arthur never consummated their marriage, avoid a dalliance with Arthur's father, wed Henry VIII and retain the throne of England. Katherine manages the great deception, facing down her critics and the Church, a tribute to her strength, although she is later attacked on the same grounds by the usurper, Anne Boleyn.Gregory's particular talent lies in exposing the hopes and flaws of these larger-than-life historical figures, personalizing their dramas, recreating a world circumscribed by court intrigue, the excesses of power and the constant jockeying for favor with the royal family. Katherine gives Henry VIII one child, a girl, Mary Tudor, but she is to know the humiliation of Henry's greed and insatiable appetites, her marriage turned bitter by the subtle preoccupations of Anne Boleyn in a bid to unseat the Queen and capture the throne for herself. A formidable woman, Katherine accomplishes a great historical coup early in her reign, although she pays dearly for her fidelity and devotion to purpose. During a time of tremendous historical import, Christianity challenging the power of the Arabs, and the world stage poised for a battle of civilizations, Gregory inserts Katherine into this era, breathing life into a tumultuous century, humanizing the men and women who fascinate us even today.For all the draconian politics of the Tudor court, Katherine is the child of Christianity, religious fervor grounded in her childhood and nurtured throughout her life. Katherine's early exposure to Arab culture is part of the charm of this novel, the exotic dress and love of knowledge carried to England by a young woman who has her mother's warrior blood and steady resolve, an iron will that allows her to resist Henry VII's advances, her eye fixed on the throne. Though she will be cast aside, piety weighing down her every move, Katherine is a presence to be reckoned with, assuming her place among the royal women who give birth to the great legends of history. Luan Gaines/ 2005.
5 This fictional biography is well written and researched. It mainly  focuses on Katherine's childhood and early years as queen. Philippe Gregory makes the presumption that Katherine had not only consummated her marriage to Prince Aurtur, but also made a bedside promise to him to continue their plans of development of England as king and queen. Her slant on their relationship makes more sense than believing the marriage was only an aquaintenship.The only disappointment was skipping over the hardships Katherine faces when Anne Bolyn came into the picture. It skipped to a very brief description of her trial, and didn't address the years of exile until her death.  Even with this lack, it is one of the author's best works. I highly recommend it.
4 However the final chapter was disappointing.  I was expecting more chapters which dealt with the following years and the end was rather abrupt as if several chapters were missing
3 This book is a little weird for me, because of the simple fact that there were moments when I wanted to shake Katherine of Aragon.  The sections about her life with Arthur were a little far fetched but if you are purely romantic you will like the idea of the time that she spent with her first husband.  I have to say that I have never believed that the marriage was consummated and the fact that this book made me sort of dislike Kathrine, made me a little upset. I have always loved Katherine of Aragon for her steadfast nature, being a stubborn woman myself, I will always think of her as portrayed by Irene Papas in Anne of the Thousand Days....which is super good.  I think that she was a woman who was walking the fine line of religion intolerance and radicalism but in her inner most heart she was a great lady.
5 This historical romance is so well written that it swept me away.  I absolutely loved the romance and the strenght of Catarina.  She stayed strong and true always.  A very good read.
4 I was less than enthusiastic when I picked up this book.  I'm not particularly interested in Katherine of Aragon, as I find her to be a bit religious for my tastes.  However, Philippa Gregory is an amazing author.  She paints her characters is such a way that they become alive and the reader sympathizes and cheers for them.  As such, I recommend this book to anyone interested in historical fiction or the Tudor's.The story begins with Katherine of Aragon's childhood in the battle camps of her mother, Isabella and father, Ferdinand.  As the youngest child she is adored by her parents and considered the favored child.  From the age of three she was betrothed to Arthur, prince of England, and called Princess of Wales.  Once sent to England she married Arthur, only to have him die within the year.  Determined to become Queen of England, Katherine lies, claiming that her marriage to Arthur was never consummated.
4 As a huge Anne Boleyn fan, I have never had much compassion for Katherine of Aragon. This book changed all that. While I am well-aware that this is a work of fiction, Phillipa Gregory's attempt to get inside the mind of the put-aside queen puts a unique perspective on Henry VIII. This book spurred me to do more non-fiction on Katherine and moved her from a place of quiet dismissal to one of great admiration. A must-read for fans of Tudor history.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book.how different it might have been if the first son who died at ten days old had lived to manhoodand been the heir Henry so desperately wanted.
5 I loved reading about her and have read everything I can find that Phiilipa Has written about her. She is a wonderful writer and draws you into the story on page 1  ...... thank you, Philippa.
4 This is a great book of the tudor period.  It seems to have been researched thoroughly and the imagery is great.  This is not historical actuality, but historical fiction which some people should keep in mind.
5 Like most people, when I think of Katherine of Aragon, I think of Henry VIII's aging wife, whom he threw over for Anne Boleyn. In this book, Gregory delivers a fascinating tale from the point of view of the young Catalina, Infanta of Spain, conceived and born in a war camp by Ferdinand and Isabella, then raised in the splendor of the Alhambra. How strange the English customs would have seemed to her, how squalid their castles, how wrong her treatment by Henry when she had done her duty to God and country.Impossible to put down, even if you know the outcome of the tale.
3 "The Constant Princess" was written by Philippa Gregory, the author of many excellent books including "The Other Boleyn Girl" and "The Virgin's Lover." I expected it to be a lot better than it actually is.This book is about Catalina, the daughter of Spain's King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella. Catalina has been betrothed to Prince Arthur, son of the King of England, ever since she was a young girl. Catalina grows up and fulfills her destiny by marrying Arthur when she is 15 years old. Their marriage is uncertain at first, but soon the newlyweds fall in love and plan their future together. Their happiness is cut short when Arthur falls ill and dies several months after the wedding. Catalina is forced to grieve for her husband in secret so she can find a way to honor the deathbed promise she made to him, which was to marry his younger brother instead so that Catalina can still become Queen of England.It takes many years of waiting (and fending off the unwanted advances of her father-in-law) before Catalina finally gets her way. She marries the headstrong Henry VIII and becomes Queen Katherine of England. Never letting go of her love for Arthur, Katherine carries on with her life and struggles to carry a child to term, maintain her husband's affections, and rule a country.There are parts of this book that are very interesting, but a lot of the content is repetitive and dull. Catalina is an admirable character, but her whole "I am the Infanta of Spain!" song and dance gets really annoying after a while, as does her constant whining about her "destiny." Also, the portion of the book devoted to Catalina and Arthur's romance is supposed to be very touching, but I think it contains way too many chapters detailing the two of them telling stories and singing songs in bed. How boring. Finally, the whole concept of Henry VIII's father lusting after Catalina seemed a bit farfetched to me, and that aspect of the story took away from the rest of the book.This is the fourth book of Gregory's that I've read so far, and it is definitely my least favorite. If you're interested in learning more about Katherine of Aragon, I'm sure you will appreciate bits and pieces of the story, but it just isn't as gripping of a novel as Gregory's other works.
4 This is the first work of several by Philippa Gregory dealing with the wives of England's King Henry VIII.  This week tells the story of Henry's first wife, Queen Katherine of Aragon, the daughter of Isabella and Fredinand.  However, Catalina originally traveled to England as the bride of Henry's older brother, Arthur, raised since birth to be the next king of England.  As a young couple, Catalina and Arthur make plans to bring about a glorious kingdom.  However, after Arthur falls ill, Katherine knows that she must take drastic measures if she is going to achieve her destiny as she has been taught since childhood- to be Queen of England.Quote: "In those days before her coronation, Catalina established herself as the undeniable queen, and those who had ignored her years of poverty now discovered in themselves tremendous affection and respect for the princess.  She accepted their admiration, just as she had accepted their neglect."I liked this book a lot, especially because I really enjoy this period in history, both in fiction and nonfiction.  Katherine does not always get a lot of press among Henry's wives, especially in her early years, before another future queen comes on the scene.  I am looking forward to reading the next two books of Gregory's about wives of this court, although it will be difficult to adjust to leaving Katherine's perspective.  I am hoping that Gregory will next turn her attention to the monarchs of Scotland who lived during this time.
3 I have read several of Philippa Gregory's books, and found them to be enjoyable.  I could not wait to read this one, as I have always admired Queen Katherine of Aragon.  I also found the premise of this novel to be  interesting, as it is based on the idea that Queen Katherine was truly in love with her first husband, Arthur.  Unfortunately, I was very disappointed.  The narrative was quite repetitive, and the characters were rather flat and one-dimensional.  I kept reading the book with the hope that it would get better, and I really struggled to finish it.  If you are looking for a really good Philippa Gregory read, I strongly recommend "The Other Boleyn Girl".
4 Phillipa Gregory's newest novel is a hit.  It gives an insgightful look into English history from the vantage point of Caitilina of Spain, the Infanta, who was later to become Queen Catherine of Aragon.  Living in male-dominated English society, Catherine, the daughter of the powerful Isabella of Spain, struggles to secure on her own the fate that she believes God intends her to have: she is to be Queen of England.As a teacher of English literature who is also fascinated by English history, I found the historical richness of the novel mentally invigorating.  As an anspiring novelist currently researching another embattled female royal of England, I am sensing a definite trend in the plights of the women of England, especially those "imported" by the Royal Family from other countries.Throughout most of the novel, as I followed Catilina's dreams and ambitions, I found myself reading this as a feminist text.  Shadows of Adrienne Rich and Gloria Steinam passed through my brain as it occurred to me how this book as much about systematic patriarchy as it is about a woman coming into her own.Gregory manages to keep her readers engaged in Catherine's story until the last page.  She accomplishes this in spite of the fact that even the average high school student knows the fate of Catherine of Aragon at the hands of Henry VIII.  All of this being said, my one complaint about the book is that, unlike Gregory's other books, in this one she seems to emphasize history at the expense of story. One must always remember one picking up this book that one is reading a NOVEL, not a history text book. Phillipa Gregory may have done well to remember that while she was revising it.
4 This is the fictionalized story of Catalina, the first wife of Henry the VIII, and the one he was wedded to the longest, unless you buy that the marriage was fairly annulled.The thing with historical fiction is that you have to read it with acceptance that a writer will make up or fill in that which she cannot know, railing against a writer for doing this when the book is labeled historical fiction is silly.What we do now about Catalina is that she was the daughter of two strong rulers -- Ferdinand and Isabella. The royal upbringing taught her how to endure with dignity and the royal blood probably saved her life. History shows her to be a woman who again and again patiently accepted adversity and indignities for her belief that she was the rightful Queen of England. The book embellishes this trait, but the truth of it is well-represented in the history books.Catalina came for a warm, sunny palace into a cold rainy land filled with strangers. She was widowed early, having married Henry's older brother, and then spent years in limbo while her father-in-law tried to see if she could do better than her for the spare who was now the heir. She was reduced to tatters, couldn't pay her staff, and had to sell her valuables, but she waited. And she did this when she was still a child, really.Decades later her husband sought to deny their marriage, to have it annulled. He kept her daughter from her. She stripped her of her title, only allowing her the title of Dowager Princess due her for being his brother's widow. In seeking to take away her dignity he lost his own.This is the historical truth and it's fascinating, but these facts alone don't make a novel, they don't honor the fact that this woman lived. What the book does is imagine what the flesh and blood woman would have been like, where did she get her resolve? Did she love Henry? Did she love his brother, Arthur? Did she ever doubt? Did she ever want to waiver? She'd denied her first marriage was consummated and Henry was eager to believe it until he wanted her gone. What the author does is give one theory on her first marriage that there would be no way to verify...But that's okay.It doesn't matter if Gregory is right, and it's doubtful that she was exactly right, because that ceases to be the point. We don't know and will never know what Catalina did or felt, but what Gregory reminds us is that she lived, and that she felt love for her countries -- Spain and England -- and that she was cast aside for no other reason than she hit menopause before producing a male heir for a man who'd become a petulant child. And that she deserved better than that, but that she knew that.I like the historical woman and I liked the fictional version I met in the book, and I don't need to think that Gregory got her exactly right, because writing this genre seems pretty thankless. I can enjoy both the framework of history, as well as the made-up story.The journey of the fictional woman was from a place of a well-indoctrinated child with many admirable qualities, but also the prejudices of her parent, to a place where she can question her past beliefs. There is no indication this is factually true, but  was believable and interesting in the context of fiction.When history buffs get angry at fictional elements in a book clearly marked as such, when they get wild-eyed because a writer doesn't support their pet theory, they harm the memory of the historical character more than help that memory, because they don't allow the person a chance to live again. They also insult the reader by saying they can't comprehend the difference between the truth and the make-believe parts. I'm sure there are confused people, aren't there always?I recommend this story for history buffs, for people who enjoy women's fiction, and for those people who can handle both in one book.
3 I am a fan of historical fiction and I usually like Ms. Gregory's work. However, this book just would not end. It was, in my opinion, long and drawn out. Nonetheless, the storyline was good and it kept my interest. I just wish it had a bit less 'fillers'.
2 I loved The Other Boleyn Girl and The Queen's Fool, but this novel is not up the standards Philippa Gregory set in those two books. It started out strong, but became repetitive and boring, with little for the title character to do but pace around various castles and prisons reciting internal monologs about why she "must be queen!"  For readers who enjoy historical fiction written about this era, I strongly recommend Margaret George's Autobiography of Henry VIII or Mary Queen of Scotland and the Isles, both truly brilliant historical novels.
2 Those of you familiar with all things Tudor already know the basics of the long-suffering Katherine of Aragon and the husband who dumped her when she couldn't produce a male heir. Those who aren't might consider this review rather spoilerish so consider yourself warned. That said, since the author skims through a big chunk of the latter part of Katherine's life and "The King's Great Matter", I wouldn't recommend this for newbies as you'll be scratching your head at the end wondering what in the heck you missed. Just be warned, this is Tudor history PG style so expect historical accuracy at your own peril...In this book, Gregory purports that the marriage between Catalina (Katherine) of Spain and Arthur Tudor was a love match and their union was most definitely consummated - a secret they kept from everyone. When Arthur realizes he'll not survive the sweating sickness, he commands Catalina to marry his younger brother Henry, so that she can still become Queen of England as they'd always dreamed. Catalina is determined to stay *constant* to her beloved's commands, but there's a lot of political turmoil ahead of her, especially over the fact of whether the marriage was consummated,"I shall keep my promise. I shall be constant to my husband and to my destiny. And I shall plan and plot and consider how I shall conquer this misfortune and be what I was born to be. How I shall be the pretender who becomes queen.""At Arthur's request I told the greatest lie a woman has ever told, and I will tell it to the very grave...He asked me to say that we had never been lovers and he commanded me to marry his brother and be queen...I was constant to my promise."But you all know the *rest of the story* so I'll not rehash it one more time, I'm just here to discuss the reading experience. Whether or not Katherine and Arthur consummated the marriage or not is a subject of debate and despite my previous conviction that Katherine spoke the truth about it during "The King's Great Matter", I was willing to keep an open mind (kind of). However, I didn't buy into the twu wuv fowever between Arthur and Catalina, nor did I buy into Henry VIII's portrayal as a bit of an ignorant dolt with no business sitting on the throne of England,"He is bright and clever, perhaps even as quick witted as Arthur. But where Arthur had been trained to think, had been educated as a king from birth, they let this second son slide by on his charm and his ready tongue."Bah. Worse yet, towards the end the author appears to run out of steam (and page count) and makes a last minute push to finish in a big hurry as Katherine's latter years as queen and the whole business of "The King's Great Matter" is barely touched upon. Add to that the switches to the first person narrative (Katherine's) appear much too often and become increasingly annoying and soporific. Seriously, did we need to have her recount actual dialog with others, thus telling us what's happened instead of using the third person and showing us? As for Katherine's voice itself, she's very full of herself and her own self-importance and makes for a rather unsympathetic main character, particularly over her disdain for Henry VIII. Then there's the portrayal of Henry VII. Why, oh why does he always have to be portrayed lusting after the main female character from his very first sight of her?The book started off all right, when the switches to Katherine's narrative were short and well spaced, but by the end I was nodding off at them and was praying for the book to end, and I'd only recommended it for PG fans only. If you are looking for a well rounded, historically accurate look at Katherine of Aragon I suggest you look elsewhere. Oh, and before anyone gets in a tizzy as to why this non-PG fan decided to read another, this is for a group read for the European Royalty Group at Goodreads. I expect lively discussions.FTC disclosure. I obtained this book from my county library.
4 Since there is a lot of buzz going around regarding Philippa Gregory's new novel ('The Other Queen,' scheduled for release on 9/16/08), I thought I'd post a quick review of one of her earlier novels, 'The Constant Princess.'While there's been a lot of non-fiction books written about Henry VIII's first wife, Katherine of Aragon, there hasn't been too much written in the historical fiction arena, other than as a minor character in other novel's about Henry, Anne Boleyn, Elizabeth I, or Mary I.This well-written novel is written from the perspective of Katherine herself.  It begins with her childhood as the daughter of Isabella and Ferdinand and tells the story of her betrothal to Arthur, the eldest son of Henry VII and heir to the English throne.  A beautiful love story emerges between Katherine and Arthur as they grow up together and Katherine is raised in the English court in preparation for her future role as Queen of England.I don't want to give away any spoilers for those who are unfamiliar with Katherine's story beyond this.  It's enough to say that her life took many unfortunate turns and she was very much alone in a foreign and hostile country far away from her family who eventually abandons her, too.  She relied on her faith to endure and sustain her through some horrific circumstances and maintained her dignity throughout.  This novel is never boring or slow....it keeps your attention and draws you into Katherine's world.  She is a very sympathetic character and inspires admiration for her perseverance and dignity.  I highly recommend this novel if you're just now discovering Philippa Gregory.
1 I was quite disappointed with the Constant Princess after having LOVED The Other Boleyn Girl and The Queens' Fool and having enjoyed The Virgin's Lover (although it wasn't as good as the previous two).What can be seen as a prequel to The Other Boleyn Girl, this novel tells the story of Catalina, Infanta of Spain, Princess of Wales as she moves to England from her beloved Spain to marry Prince Arthur and eventually become the Queen of England, her lifelong goal as we are so frequently reminded. The author breaks from her usual writing style to introduce Catalina's thoughts in the form of stream-of-consciousness rants which interrupt the third person storyteller every few pages or so. It is completely distracting and did nothing but take away from the telling of the story.What could have been an extremely riviting tale became boring and monotonous- pages upon pages described simply her idolization of her parents King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella and her "especial relationship" with her G-d which proved she was born to be Queen of England, despite what she had to go through to claim her title.Additionally, about 2/3 of the way through the novel it shifted from a love story/hardship story to a novel about plotting and waging a war, which was utterly boring and disjointed.I hope the author can return to the greatness of her prior novels (The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queens Fool).  If her subsequent novels are going the direction of this one, I will no longer be reading them.
2 While "The Other Boleyn Girl" was richly imagined in great detail, most of this book was repetitive and generalized. It did give me the barest background on Kathryn, for which I was grateful, but I expected mastery and got averageness.
3 I've read some of Philippa Gregory's other works and enjoyed them.  That being said, this is not one of my favorites of hers.Catalina, the Infanta of Spain, was born to be Princess of Wales and Queen of England.  She believes it is her duty and right by birth.  When she finally reaches of age, she makes the journey to England where she is married to Arthur, future King of England.  After Arthur's untimely death however, she has to find a way to reclaim her place and try to betroth herself to his younger brother, King Henry VIII.  Through this she has to stand courageous and face down her opposers and those in the royal family who do not wish her to become a part of it, namely the King's mother.Since these characters are all based on real people it is hard to say whether or not they are accurate.  We have accounts in history but the vast majority of this book is speculation on what they may have thought or did.  Catalina is pretty full of herself despite being the protaganist to choose for and you can't help but wonder if she could have had an easier happier life if she would have just put down her ambition.  Arthur, her first husband, seemed to be a nice thoughtful man and it makes for a not so nice comparison to his brother Henry.  Henry is described as a very selfish person and while history leads us to believe it is true, it is still hard to conceive that his brother could be so different.Since most of this book did happen in history it stands to reason that it is a very accurate representation of the historical events.  I don't know too much about English history, but I would imagine that if it were too different from what actually happened, there would be more criticisms of the books.  For the parts that can't be verified, I thought Gregory did a great job at expressing what these characters wanted or needed in their life.  I do have to say that I wasn't thrilled with the way she bounced around in viewpoints though.  The whole book is filled with italicized sections that are supposed to be Catalina's personal thoughts and I found them hard to read and they disrupted the flow of the book.  The book too moved very slowly and considering that a large part of Catalina's time was spent with Henry, it was only reflected as less than half of the book while the main parts were dedicated to her childhood and her time with Arthur.  While these are important parts it just felt like it took forever to get to the main premise of the book.Not the best but not terrible.  I much prefer some of Gregory's other books over this one.The Constant Princesscopyright 2005390 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2011
4 Phillipa Gregory is well-known for pushing the envelope of historical fiction -- in "The Virgin's Lover" she had Robert Dudley and Elizabeth I consummate their relationship and painted a very unflattering word portrait of the young queen. In this book, Ms Gregory has Katherine of Aragon and Prince Arthur consummate their marriage as well, although there is very little historical evidence to support this view -- any more than there is any strong evidence that Elizabeth was not indeed the Virgin Queen.This is one of the few novels I have read that presents Katherine in anything other than a flattering light, which is why I gave the book 4 stars. Usually Katherine is presented as the next thing to a saint -- patient and pious, long-suffering and sexless. Ms Gregory's Katherine is sultry and sexy, the spoiled youngest child of two of the greatest rulers of Spain. She is generally seen as a passive pawn of her parents and her father-in-law, Henry VII, which is a contrast to her stubborness in middle age, where she defied her husband Henry VIII when he informed her he wanted a divorce. From where did that steel and spine come? Ms Gregory states that Katherine always had a sense of destiny (born to be Princess of Wales and Queen of England), and was determined to fullfill what she saw as the will of God at all costs, including lying about the nature of the sexual relationship with her first husband.Unfortunately, Katherine frequently comes across as being arrogant and insensitive, especially in her dealings with the Spanish ambassador and Henry VII. Her dismissive attitude toward a king who lead a hand-to-mouth existance for many years before winning the crown in battle, is so scornful that I found myself in the position of letting out a silent cheer when Henry bested her after the death of the Prince of Wales. But, to give the author her due, I have now no trouble seeing the stubborn Katherine of the later years.All historical novels take liberties. As someone else pointed out, there is no evidence that Henry VII did not love his wife, Queen Elizabeth. Almost every account of the life of Henry VII indicates that he deeply mourned her death. The queen's feelings toward him may not be as well documented, but there seems to have been a mutual fondness. The fact that he considered re-marriage after her death is no indication that he did not love her. I have seen little evidence that Henry lusted after Katherine, although her early beauty may have pleased him.Some reviewers here felt that Katherine was not a fully realized character, something with which I disagree. I think that the interior monologues are very revealing of her thinking -- the fact that she sometimes comes across as monsterous in her ambition for the crown of England is somewhat understandable, given her background and her religious convictions. Unfortunately, the narrative portions of the book are not as compelling as the monologues. Arthur never seems like a real person, and some of the other characters as well seem like cardboard cutouts.If you cannot suspend your disbelief over the premise that Katherine was sexually experienced when she wed Henry VIII, then this may not be the book for you. It is a shame that the author did not include a more detailed ending essay to the book explaining how she arrived at her conclusion that Arthur and Katherine were fully man and wife. If you can deal with the author's premise, whether you believe it or not, I think you will enjoy this offbeat portrait of a woman who has captured the public imagination for almost 500 years: did they or didn't they, that is the question!
5 I read Constant Princess and was totally hooked!  I found the author's website and learned that there were three more books that would continue Chronologically. Next is The Other Bolyn, then Queens Fool, then Virgins Lover.  It just got better and better. These stories are SO AMAZING you will want to read the next one and the next!!!  Now I'm reading Earthly Joys and find this author truly has the that rare talent of having the reader just NEVER wanting the book to end!!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was just a juicy story, full of drama, backstabbing, heartache & romance. I liked Catalinas character, she was a strong woman, very naive at first, but determined. I like the love story between her and Arthur. I will be reading more of Philippa Gregory novels.
4 I had just finished watching Showtime's production of The Tudors and found that I wasn't ready to say good-bye to King Henry VIII and his court.  What better thing to do than to continue with the Philippa Gregory series, hence my picking up The Constant Princess.  I know many readers here have talked about reading these books in their chronological order as opposed to the order in which the author wrote them.  I chose to read them in the written order so this was actually the fourth one for me....The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queen's Fool, The Virgin's Lover and now The Constant Princess.While The Other Boleyn Girl concentrated on the Boleyn sisters and The Queen's Fool took us into Queen Mary's inner sanctum through the eyes of her "fool" Hannah and The Virgin's Lover explored Queen Elizabeth's reign, The Constant Princess takes us through the marriage of Queen Katharine and King Henry VIII as seen through Katharine's eyes.  I actually find I prefer reading these books in the order the author has written them because I don't think I would have enjoyed reading about Katharine had I not already known what she went through in The Other Boleyn Girl (which still remains my favorite).I felt the beginning half of the book was a bit tedious especially as Katharine reminisces about her life in Spain with her parents King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella.  These sections are all written in italics and usually, when I got to these parts, I found myself getting bored.  Once she finally married Henry, the book took on a different spin and became a lot more enjoyable.  I'm not going to rehash the entire storyline because so many other reviewers have already done so.  I'm just here to give you my thoughts.I love reading historical fiction but I also realize that there's some danger in doing so -- especially if the author takes liberties in reporting the history.  If you're not familiar with the actual history, what happens then is that fiction sometimes becomes fact to the reader because you're believing what you're reading.  Whether or not Queen Katharine lied to Henry about consummating her marriage to his brother Arthur is probably something no one will ever know to be true or not but, as far as Katharine leading an army to the borders to defeat the Scots is very questionable.  However, it made for good reading and I'll probably always now think this truly happened exactly this way.I just find it so amazing how much women had to do with some of the most incredible turns in history. Just to think that an entire kingdom was turned on its heal because of King Henry VIII's love/lust for Anne Boleyn which brought about the Reformation.  It's just unbelievable to me how men will continue to be taken down in history by women. It's beguiling to say the least and it continues to this day.So next in line is The Boleyn Inheritance which continues Henry's dalliances as he marries Jane Seymour, then Ann of Cleves and then Katherine Howard.  Hopefully, by the time I'm done reading that, Showtime will be ready with Season 3 of the fabulous Tudor's production.  If you're a fan of The Tudor family, I highly recommend you get your hands on these DVD's.  That's my tip for the day.  Enjoy!!
3 I'm reading Philippa Gregory's books out of order--Other Boleyn Girl, Boleyn Inheritance, Queen's Fool, Constant Princess, Virgin Princess.  However, the back story of Queen Katherine is not to be missed.  I believe this is one of Philippa's earlier books, and arguably not her best--but I still couldn't wait to see how it turned out.  (Yes, I must have missed English history in high school and college--at least I'm catching up now!)  Not a romance novel and not a bland history book--excellent historical fiction.  I'm wasn't previously interested in this era, but it was an excellent book recommendation from a friend.  Thanks again, Philippa.
5 This book is by far the best of the lot I read this year.  It tells a captivating, compelling and moving story of a woman that fought all her life, fought for everything she held.  She is proud, she is wise, she is patient, she is strong.  Left all alone in a foreign country with no means of support, she fought her way to become Queen and to protect the country in her charge.The book made me laugh and made me cry (albeit more often the latter).  I thought it was a great choice by the author to intercept third-party narration of the book with first-person confession-like segments, for it allows the reader to see the real person behind the political figure of the Katherine, Queen of England, her feelings, her pain, her anguish and her proudest moments.  She is a very strong character and as such, one cannot remain impassive towards her.  She truly shaped her own destiny because she believed in it so.The book really moved and inspired me.  It was a very enjoyable read and I highly recommend it.
2 I have read The White Queen, The Red Queen, and all of the others leading from the Plantagenets to the Tudors, and have finally gotten to The Constant Princess.  I absolutely loved all of the other books, but The Constant Princess is sooooo boring!  I am having to force myself to finish it, and I still lack about 40 pages.  Since I have read all the others, and plan to continue to read through the history, I wouldn't have passed this one by and I'm glad I got it, but the story is lackluster.
4 The author has a unique ability to make historical figures come alive. Rather than studying their biography in the classroom; a reader gets to know the person. The Constant Princess is Katherine of Aragon. Princess Catalina, the youngest child of Spain's Isabella and Ferdinand, has been destined since birth to be the Queen of England. Catalina becomes known as Katherine when she arrives in England. A 15 year old Katherine promises her husband Arthur, Prince of Wales, on his deathbed that she will renounce their marriage and marry his younger brother Henry, who will become King Henry XIII. This novel does seem to be lacking the same pizzazz as the author's two most recent novels; as though it was hurriedly written. It moves awkwardly at times from Katherine's writing and thoughts to the third person narrative. Overall it is successful in describing what life was like for a young noble woman in early 16th century England.
5 Currently working my way through P Gregory novels . Wonderful stuff .
4 Once again, Philippa Gregory sucks me into the Tudor court and doesn't let me go. I love her stories; part fact, part fiction. Reading The Other Boleyn Girl first, I knew what eventually happened to Queen Katherine. But it was still really interesting to read and learn about her life before she became Queen. She had so many struggles, and lost the love of her life. She then had to lie about their life together, basically saying it didn't mean very much. I can't wait to read the third book in the series! I will have to refresh my memory about what happens in TOBG though, because I read it quite a while ago. Highly recommend if you enjoy learning about the Tudor court! :)pagesofcomfort.blogspot.com
5 I love the Philippa Gregory series and this was yet another winner for me. I love how she engages you in the story as if you are there. I really enjoyed it.
3 Overall, I've loved Ms. Gregory's work, but I was sorely disappointed in this. This could have been a perfect book - except. The liberties taken with history were too much to overlook, and if you read much historical fiction, eventually they become so overwhelming as to pull you out of the fiction magic. Henry the 7th saying, perhaps we can all live contentedly without war as "People of the Book," Muslims, Jews, and Christians? A lovely 21st century thought, but certainly not 15th century. I wanted to like this book. I really did. I will go pull some Margaret George or Sharon Kay Penman off of the shelf instead.
5 Excellent author. I have read everything I can find with her name on it. I have never been disappointed by any. I believe it is a true gift to be able to make historical novels come to life as she does. Never dull or boring. If you love historical novels try Phillipa Gregory, you will not be disappointed.
5 This was my favorite (so far) of the Philippa Gregory Tudor novels (I have also read "The Boleyn Inheritance," "The Queen's Fool," and "The Other Queen").  Many characters based on the real-life Tudors are compelling but not very likable.  This is not the case with Catalina in this novel!  She is stubborn, cunning and spoiled, but I instantly loved her.  If you have not read any of the Tudor novels, this is a good one to start with;  Catalina (aka Katherine of Aragon) becomes the first wife of Henry the VIII, and you can continue the series with "The Other Boleyn Girl" (wife #2), "The Boleyn Inheritance" (wives 4 & 5).  Philippa Gregory draws such an intricate picture of Catalina, (Katherine of Aragon went on to become one of my favorite characters on "The Tudors" television series as well), I would read this book again, and plan to have my daughter read it someday.  Very lovely, fascinating way to get inside the head of a historical figure!
4 A very interesting book!Born to Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, Catalina (as she was then known) married Arthur - prince of Wales, who was to become king of England and therefore she would be queen of England, thus uniting the countries England and Spain. But Arthur died a few months after the marriage.The ups and downs in this story was riveting. Katherine and Arthur's younger brother Harry/Henry eventually marry and they become king and queen of England.Frustrated by her inability to produce a live, healthy heir to the throne, Katherine secretly obtains the services of a Moor/Nubian physician. She learns from his humility and wisdom. Her parents had driven the Moors from Spain and consequently lost their wisdom, skills and knowledge as well.One of Katherine's great accomplishments was her victory over Scotland while Henry was away in France. But Henry easily accepted credit for this victory. Just as her beloved husband Arthur had predicted Henry was a selfish boy grown into a selfish man. His new lover is Elizabeth Boleyn's girl, who Katherine knows desires not Henry but her throne.
5 After seeing The Other Boleyn Girl in the theatre, I decided to read the book. While waiting for it to come in from amazon, I picked up a copy of The Constant Princess at a local store to pass the time and find out more about Henry VIII's first wife and queen, Catalina, The Infanta of Spain, Katherine, Queen of England.This book starts out with Catalina at the age of 3 and continues until the turmoil surrounding the Boleyn debacle, however the Boleyn debacle is not widely covered. Instead, an intense understanding of who Katherine is and the changes she goes through in her heart through the years are discovered. Catalina, born and bred to reign and bound by unforeseen promises must fulfill her destiny and in the process grow from a girl to a woman and a true Queen. We also get a clear picture of Henry VIII from childhood through adulthood.Intensely satisfying, deeply moving, and yearnfully heartfelt, this novel will take you places in your thoughts that you were not expecting. You will pore over the ideas presented, and wonder over the scenarios and reactions of the characters involved. You will live the events of Katherine's life as if you were she, or perhaps one of her ladies in waiting.Full of suspense, betrayal, misunderstanding, longful yearning, tenacity, and the exposure of the dark thoughts of the every person's inner heart, this book will remind you that we are indeed all human, from the peasant to the royal. A quick, and satisfying read, this one will have you turning pages long after the lights should be out for a restful night's sleep. Instead you'll be up late thinking about a woman who lived 500 years ago and half a world away.A must read.
4 A good novel, good characters... well written.The historical facts lack some of the excitement in Henry's later marriages, but this fluffy piece of historical fiction is entertaining.This is a less juicy tale, and sometimes that less scandalous historical fiction leaves you numb with the lack of action.  You take a deep breath and as the novel wraps up make a mental note to read a more factual account of the events.There is something to be said about how quickly her recent novels are coming together.  Her earlier works were disturbing, probing and eerie... as she plants her characters in history there is a change of tone.
2 This is, I think, one of the worst of Philippa Gregory's books that I've read, but it is not without its merits. There are parts of this book that will leave you cringing, they are so very contrived; but others are interesting, and keep you reading in spite of the less than believable portions.Let me first address the bad. One of the most egregious things Gregory attempts is her explanation of Catherine's "lie"; it is Gregory's opinion, and the basis for her novel, that Arthur and Catalina (Catherine/Katherine) were indeed lovers, and that Catherine lied to Henry VIII about this. To that end, she weaves an absurd scenario where the two passionate lovers conceal, entirely, from everyone, their love, going so far as to curb even their glances. Why? Well, because they don't want Arthur's evil grandmother to find out about their love for one another; we're never told why, exactly, but left to assume it's because she's controlling (she's gone so far as to tell Arthur how often they're to sleep together: once a week) and this somehow would be unwelcome to her. Ok, but what about the fact that she has spies, everywhere, who know everything (which is why they make sure even their glances are repressed), and yet no one notices that the young prince is always in the princess' room? Either those spies are fantastic, or else they're not. On the one hand, they're hawks who can pick up on even the slightest hint of interest - a lingering glance, an affectionate smile - but they're also inept hacks, who miss the fact that the prince never sleeps in his own room. It seems farfetched at best.That's the first part to "the lie". The next (best?) part comes in when Arthur is dying, and makes Catalina swear that she will lie to everyone, and claim that she is a virgin, so that she may marry his hated brother, and assume the throne. I guess it distracted too much from her perfect love story to come up with anything less than a selfless, I did it for love, reason: so Gregory explains Catherine's motivation to lie as such.And, finally, it wraps up with Catalina enticing Henry into believing her - and wanting her - by disparaging and unmanning his dead brother. Brothers are often rivals, and at odds because of that; but it's hard to believe that someone would be enticed by his brother's widow mocking him after he's dead. It doesn't seem like a realistic understanding of childhood rivalries between brothers.There is also the question of the Moor - a physician that Catherine summons who is able to help her reach an enlightened state of mind, wherein she realizes that holy wars and religious persecutions are unjustified, and that mankind should give up its inquisitions and instead all live in the benevolent, tolerant way of the Moors. Fortunately for Catherine's intellectual progress, she (like Gregory) must have missed those less than enlightened parts of Islamic history in her country (the Grenada massacre of 1066, anyone?). It's all well and good to find fault with the barbarous practices of mediaeval Christendom, and to attempt to make a logical path toward enlightenment for your main character, but it's rather absurd to ignore history to do it. In Gregory's case, she used the example of Muslim history and the Moor's kindness as the guiding force toward enlightenment; too bad, because the history of theocracies is never an enlightened one, and she is fighting darkness with darkness.There were also moments when this story had an over-the-top, cheesy romance feel to it: like, for instance, when old king Henry VII meets her for the first time ("a scene of ravishment", etc., etc., etc. ... * gag, gag * ). Subsequent meetings with Henry are equally gag-worthy.These are the main points at which this story fails. Where it succeeds, though, is in taking on the history that Gregory covers in her book: Catalina's life story is, simply, fascinating. Born to the masterminds of the unification of Spain and the Inquisition, married into the family of the unifier of England, a pawn between great connivers, Catherine's story is more incredible than fiction. There is also the rest of Gregory's writing - which, when not suffering from the failings I've mentioned above, ranges from readable to quite entertaining. This is not a great book, but it's not a horrible one either. Worth a read, once, if you've got the time.
1 A friend of mine LOVES Phillipa Gregory, and she encouraged me to start with this one saying, "It's not the best book, but it has good background information."  Understatement.  It's definitely NOT the best book and the background information can't possibly be worth the time I just invested in it.Whatever you do, do not spend money on this book.  If you MUST read it, BORROW it!  I got to page 160 and nearly quit reading it after seeing that all the 1-star reviews here on Amazon were saying what I was already feeling about the book.  It got mildly better in the 2nd third of the book, but then awful in the last third again.The book is written in 3rd and 1st person narrative, the 1st person being all in italics which is jarring and distracting.  It's choppy and repetitive.  I started skipping those sections entirely, but the last third of the book is practically all italics, and I don't know why.I'll save you the trouble of reading it. Here are the bullet points:-- Catherine of Aragon was betrothed to Arthur, son of King Henry VII, first Tudor king;-- she repeatedly refers to herself as "Infanta of Spain, Princess of Wales, Queen of England";-- she marries Arthur, consummates the marriage (contrary to actual history), loves him passionately;-- he dies;-- she spends years in poverty waiting to marry Henry VIII;-- she has a miscarriage and a newborn death;-- there's some war with France and Scotland;-- there are two pages of a courtroom scene after Henry falls for Anne Boleyn;-- thank God, the end of the book!!!Wikipedia would be far more interesting (and quicker) to read.
3 Before the slings and arrows start up, I will say that yes, this is a work of fiction. However, given my previous encounters with the works of Philippa Gregory, I didn't have much hope either of the novel being that good either.Gregory's Katherine (or Catalina, as she is known through most of the book) is continually aware that she is the adored, youngest daughter of Spain's Isabella and Ferdinand, and destined for greatness. We first encounter her as a small child, with her parents' armies, watching the conquest of the last outpost of the Moors in Spain, Granada. She learns not to ever show fear, and that absolute faith in God is what is needed for survival. When she arrives in England to become the bride of King Henry VII's son, Arthur, both of those traits will serve her for what awaits ahead. Catalina has a grand marriage, but her young bridegroom is shy, and not quite what she had expected, still she makes the best of it, and falls passionately in love with her Arthur, only to face disgrace and poverty after a short marriage of mere months. A deathbed promise has her tenaciously hanging onto her rank as Arthur's widow, and she stubbornly maintains that she is still a virgin, even though she knows it's a lie, even though that lie will haunt her for the rest of her life, and bring her to disaster.Along the way, we are treated to some florid writing, a world where everyone lies, quite a few inaccuracies (I can't imagine the Spanish court adopting moorish dress in private), a Katherine of Aragon who was noted for her sincerity, piety and kindness becoming a Machivellian schemer, a Henry VII who is lusting after his daughter-in-law, and a Henry VIII who is as dense as he is charming. Despite the author's note, and her use of a bibliography, I found this to be a disappointing read. Part of the problem is that I'm familiar with the history of the period, and Gregory's twisting of the facts and that she focuses mostly on the more base emotions is off-putting after a while, and the main turn of the plot -- namely that Katherine's one true love is Arthur -- is ludicrous, given her defense of her marriage later on in life in the face of the divorce and fight that Henry put up. I honestly can't see this woman putting up with twenty years of marriage to a man that she's stringing along and manipulating.If you haven't read the recent excellent nonfiction works on Henry VIII and his queens by Starkey, Fraser and Weir, you might enjoy this one, but those who have studied the Tudors may find themselves either laughing at this work or flinging it at the wall in disgust.
4 I enjoyed this historical-ish romantic story.  I enjoy how Philippa Gregory writes these novels.  I wish I could see the lovely world and clothing she writes about.
3 Philippa Gregory tells a beautiful story about a tantalizing period in history.  At age 3,Catalina, Infanta of Spain and dauthter of Ferdinand of Aragon, is bethothed to Arthur, son of King Henry of England.  She leaves Granada and the warmth of her families Moorish palace at age 15 and travels to cold, damp, dark England to wed.  Arthur dies of a fever soon after the marriage and Catalina marries his brother Henry, Prince of Wales. Upon Henry's ascention to the throne he is crowned Henry  VIII and Catalina becomes Catherine, Queen of England. It's then that her troubles really begin.Little is actually known about Catherine of Aragon, but Ms. Gregory has demonstrated the fine art of taking the few facts available and embellishing them to weave an interesting historical novel featuring a central character you can't help but empathize with. (Rating 3 1/2 stars.)
2 I know this is historical fiction but this book is totally askew and if the events really took place, would have changed the course of history and events around the "King's Great Matter." The first part about Catherine, her parents and sisters is historically accurate, but when Catherine loses her virginity to and falls madly in love with Prince Arthur, it falls apart. Catherine was a staunch Catholic who prayed, saw her confessor regularly, and even wore a hairshirt, she wouldn't renounce her marriage to Henry VIII: her argument, the dispensation from the Pope to marry Henry based on Catherine's statement that she went to Henry's bed a virgin. People were executed (including St. Thomas More) because they were unwilling to recognize Henry's divorce from Catherine. And wouldn't some witness have come forwarded to testify to Catherine's wedded bliss with Arthur (with marriage consummated) so Catherine wouldn't have had a leg to stand on during the trials involving Henry's "Great Matter" of divorcing Catherine? And despite the healthy sex life, Catherine (who did have many pregnancies with Henry, but only one child living to adulthood), never became pregnant with Arthur's baby.According to all historical accounts, Catherine was married to a sickly teenager, Prince Arthur (Arthur didn't just become sick overnight, as in Gregory's book, but was rather weak and sickly prior to the marriage), but fell in love with her second husband Henry VIII. Early in their marriage Henry and Catherine were blissfully in love and Catherine did go to her second marriage bed a virgin. Catherine even remained devoted to Henry after he renounced her; her last letter to him before she died was in essence a love letter. It is something a woman who was more in love with her first husband would never write.There were other inaccuracies: Gregory's book has Elizabeth, wife of Henry VII, dying in childbirth after having a son, her last child. In reality, Elizabeth died soon after giving birth to her last child, a daughter, who outlived her. Why the change in the sex of the baby in the fictional account? Henry VII and Elizabeth did love each other; in the fictional account Henry VII lusts after Catherine even while Elizabeth is still alive.Henry VIII also wasn't the boyish, shallow young man. He was a Renaissance Prince, well educated and Henry and Catherine even brought in the best tutors for their daughter Princess Mary. Mary, the only daughter of Henry and Catherine is barely mentioned. Wouldn't the birth of a living, healthy child that survived infancy and lived to adulthood, be a high point in the life of Catherine. Catherine cherished her only child; it is unfortunate the author doesn't spend much time on Mary's story.If Gregory is trying to get us to be sympathetic to Catherine via this revisionist historical fiction, she doesn't succeed. Catherine's argument against Henry divorcing her becomes totally meaningless and Catherine looks like a cold, calculating liar certainly not a religious woman. And people believed Catherine's story and died for it, being executed by Henry VIII. It is doubtful the real Catherine would have lied and watched those loyal to her be executed--certainly she would have confessed to prevent these executions. But with this lie Catherine looks very selfish and self centered. This is not the real Catherine of Aragon, not by a long shot.If the names were changed it would be a beautiful tragic love story, but this account does not come close to the real story of Henry and Catherine.
2 I was expecting a lot more from this book.  I found it actually kind of boring at times.  I love Philippa Gregory but I wasn't impressed by this one.  I think Katherine was a great and admirable woman and I hate how her life ended but nothing too much happened in this book.  Here's a summary: Katherine came from a powerful kingdom whose parents were great warriors.  She married King Henry VIII's brother out of love but he died and married King Henry VIII who was much younger than her and who did have a boy's puppy love for her.  They reined side by side for the first few years of their marriage and Henry trusted and honored Katherine.  Until he began to come into manhood and became paranoid and had a wondering eye.  From there it tells how Henry falls out of love with Katherine and in love with Anne Boleyn and how he tries to denounce their marriage and cast her out which she eventually dies of emotional and physcial neglect.  That sums it up.
3 A very disappointing read. Way too much fiction and not enough facts. And while her early years are interesting, the book ends with the arrival of Anne Boleyn and a brief view of her divorce.
4 Before reading this book I knew that Katharine of Aragon was the wife that Henry VIII divorced to marry Anne Boleyn. I also knew that she had been married to Henry's older brother Arthur and that the question of the consummation of that marriage was central to the divorce, but reading "The Constant Princess" gave me an insight into her life as a Spanish infanta and what she had to go through to fulfill her destiny to become Queen of England. Katharine was so much more than the plump, middle-aged woman cast aside by Henry. A very satisfying book for lovers of reliable historical fiction.
5 This is a wonderful book!!! I couldn't put it down. The author is a wonderful story teller. You will love this book.
5 Very interesting novel.  Very good reading.Very close to historical facts.I came to admire and feel sorrow for that brave woman.
4 The youngest daughter of two of the most famous monarchs in Spanish history, Isabella of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon, Catalina, the Infanta of Spain, knew her destiny from the time she was three years old. Betrothed to Arthur, the Prince of Wales and Tudor heir, Catalina was destined to become the Princess of Wales and then Queen of England, carrying her mother's passion to defend the faith of the Roman Church to England's shores, securing a critical alliance and cementing a lasting peace between Spain and the newly-installed Tudor king, Henry VII. Though she has prepared her entire life to be God's anointed queen in England, Catalina finds herself ill-prepared for the emotional and physical adjustments her new life requires. Though she finds her intended attractive and harbors hopes for an affectionate union, those girlish dreams are soon dashed by the political machinations of the English court that put such pressure on her marital relations the young couple become even further estranged with little impetus to overcome their personal and cultural differences.But Catalina perseveres, and falls deeply in love with Arthur, who proves to be a dedicated prince and a promising ruler. The future the young princess was raised to believe her birthright seems secure, and the un-imagined gift of passion she feels for her young husband is a blessing that surely signals their union and marriage are highly favored -- until disaster strikes, and in the damp and cold Welsh climate Arthur falls ill and dies, but not before exacting a promise from Catalina that will change the course of her life forever. Demanding that she claim their five-month marriage was unconsummated in order to marry his younger brother Henry, and in so doing fulfill her destiny to be queen, and in so doing assume a position of power and responsibility that will allow her to fulfill their shared dreams for Arthur's rule. Devastated by her loss but determined to keep her word, Catalina embarks on a game of intrigue and danger that will cost her far more than she'd ever dreamed -- for to keep her promise she must find the strength within her to withstand the power plays and political machinations within and without her household that would seek to see her denied her birthright. But the girl who arrived on English shores an innocent will not be denied, and Catalina, daughter of kings, fights to achieve her destiny as queen of England and in so doing her constancy and passion leave an indelible mark on the pages of history.After revisiting several Tudor-era films (among them Elizabeth and Elizabeth: The Golden Age) I found myself wanting to explore more Tudor-set fiction, and so decided to try my first novel by the prolific Philippa Gregory. Katherine, the wife whom Henry VIII abandoned after over twenty years of marriage has always held a special fascination for me. She not only one of the wives to have survived Henry's mercurial temperament when it comes to women, but she never ceased fighting for her place, her rights, or denying Henry's right to have their marriage invalidated, a sacred promise she believed in and respected in spite of Henry's betrayal. While her life has always been marked by faithfulness and constancy in my mind, I have always tended to picture her as the middle-aged matron, failing to ever imagine her in the first bloom of youth, and how that vibrancy and the years she endured as a young widow must have marked her and informed her later decisions and beliefs.Following Arthur's death, following the generally accepted historical record Catalina vowed she was a virgin, and therefore provided a dispensation from the pope was provided, as such was therefore able to marry her one-time brother-in-law Henry, when he reached his majority. Gregory, however, takes this one step further, by asserting that Catalina lied -- that her marriage to Arthur was in fact a marriage in word and deed, and the lie was therefore necessary to maintain her position as queen-to-be. Frankly, I've always thought it a little unlikely that her first marriage wasn't consummated, so I had no issue with this scenario -- nor does it, in my mind, invalidate Katherine's famously devout nature. At this point in her life, little more than a child, in danger of losing everything she was raised to be -- her very identity -- one can imagine that such a falsehood might be viewed as a matter of survival. Given how Henry treats Katherine after twenty-plus years of marriage -- setting aside the all important issue of the lack of a male heir -- I loved Gregory's idea that, once upon a time, a vibrant, loving marriage was within Catalina's reach. And if keeping a deathbed promise to her beloved Arthur meant securing a marriage with Henry at any cost -- it's a lie I can imagine was not spoken lightly or without great personal cost.Gregory divides the novel between third-person narrative and first-person, italicized "diary entries" told from Catalina's perspective. The balance between third- and first-person point-of-view works less well than one could have wished -- I think Gregory would've been better served to stick with a third-person account of Catalina's life, as more often than not the italicized entries recap action already covered or are frankly too long for the italicized format. Whether or not you like Gregory's take on Catalina's early life, she's produced a highly readable, entertaining account of Catalina's first years in England. Gregory's succeeded in crafting a narrative that is evocative of the time period and a highly sympathetic portrait of a princess who, time and again, refused to be bowed by circumstance. Sure to provoke further interest in the time period and its heroine, The Constant Princess has dramatically increased my respect and admiration for a woman whose faith and constancy in the face of her marriage's dissolution is arguably the result of a lifetime of determination and dedication to her faith and principles.
4 From the moment of her birth, Katherine (Catalina) of Aragon, daughter of the well-known Spanish rulers Ferdinand and Isabella, has known that her destiny is to be the Queen of England. Upon coming of age and marrying Arthur, the Prince of Wales, she is pleased to find love in a marriage born of her parents' political tactics, and that she and her husband share the same dreams and ambitions for the land they will eventually rule together. However, her happiness is short-lived when she tragically loses Arthur to illness. A deathbed promise and a colossal lie result in her marriage to Arthur's younger brother Harry (eventually the infamous Henry VIII), but unless she can produce an heir to his throne, her position is still insecure.The book seemed to end rather abruptly, and the later but nevertheless important events in Katherine's life are merely glossed over. However, it is still a rich, enjoyable read.
4 Starts off slows and ends with a whimper, but the meat of the story, Catherine of Aragon's widowhood after the death of Arthur, Prince of Wales, and her eventual marriage to his brother, Henry VIII, is rich and thoughtful. Gregory does Tudor fiction like no one else.
4 I've lived in Spain on two occasions, and pride myself on having travelled to many Moorish cultural legacies in Spain, as well as important strategic sites in the Reconquista. I am fascinated by the 700-year rule of the Moors, who made the Caliphate in Spain the gem of a Europe plunged into the Dark Ages; Granada and Cordoba were centers for learning, medicine, culture, and architecture, vastly advanced in terms of technology and hygiene, their learning unmatched. Unfortunately, after Isabel and Ferdinand captured Granada, the last stronghold of a weakening Moorish empire, all of the wise physicians, poets, and scholars were expelled, executed as heretics, or forced to convert to Christianity in the Holy Inquisition.The beginning of "The Constant Princess" finds a young Princess Catalina of Aragon on the battlefield near Granada, terrified as an accidental fire turns the camp into an inferno. Queen Isabel rides out to calm the panicking soldiers, and Catalina learns early on the power a leader has on her men, the show of invincibility, and her mother's absolute belief that she is favoured and chosen by God. There are numerous episodes between the Christian monarchs and their soldiers in recapturing Spain from the Moors, including battles between Moorish and Christian soldiers and the anecdote of Boabdil fleeing Granada in defeat, with his mother's admonishment of "weeping like a woman for the land he could not defend as a man." There are beautful descriptions of the Catholic monarchs entering Granada to take control of the city.These early years as the daughter of monarchs on a crusade have shaped her to her very core, teaching her how to effectively lead, strategize, and respect one's enemy. Catalina is betrothed to Arthur, Prince of Wales, and as a homesick sixteen-year-old, finds herself alone in dreary England. She strives to keep some semblance of her Spanish court around her. Not speaking English, she is only able to converse in French and Latin, and finds her new husband to be cold and aloof.Eventually, Catalina, now Katherine, and Arthur learn to love each other passionately, but her heart is broken when Arthur dies only five months after their marriage. She makes a deathbed promise to Arthur that she will lie about being a virgin and wed his younger brother Harry instead, but King Henry lustfully wants her for himself and attempts to force Katherine to marry him. Refusing, she is spited by being forced to live as a pauper on the fringes of court for seven long years in exile, with her surviving father King Ferdinand and her husband-in-law bargaining over her dowry.Katherine courts favour with the young prince, and is finally Queen of England, a title she has owned since childhood. She discovers in her long trials that her mother was not the saint that she believed as a child; after a series of miscarriages, Catalina secretly enlists the help of a Moorish physician, recoiling from him as a heathen, but realizes that when Ferdinand and Isabel expelled the Jews and Muslims from Spain, so, too, did they rid Europe of its most accomplished physicians, poets, and scholars.Catalina comes to realize her parents' grave error as there are no learned doctors in England, no libraries to match the splendours of the Alhambra, with its translated Greek manuscripts and treatises on medicine and learning, no hygiene (the Alhambra had hot baths and piped running water; in England, some English bathed only once a year), and poor dietary habits: fruits and vegetables are not viewed as edible food in England, nor is most water potable. The wretched weather dampens her spirit as she longs for the searingly hot summers of Andalusia.The Alhambra in particular is brought to beautiful life in the days when it was still an enchanted palace; neglect, later invasions and misguided restorations have since destroyed portions of this beautiful surviving Arabic palace, with its delicate stucco filigree, intricate tiling, secret gardens, and omnipresent fountains (it is truly one of the wonders of the world and should be visited). Gregory's loving attention to the Alhambra's architecture, sacred Qur'an inscriptions, and Moorish ballads, dress, food, and customs rang true with my scholarly studies of Moorish culture in Spain.I found "The Constant Princess" to be well-written and absorbing, particularly in its detailled descriptions of life in Granada under the Moors and its high praise for Moorish culture (once despised and destroyed after the Reconquista) and its attention to historical detail and daily life in Spanish and English courts. Catalina is a powerful narrator, and much of the action is solely comprised of her internal thoughts as she struggles with years of exile in England waiting to finally ascend the throne and rule England as she was trained to do since childhood. Fans of historical fiction and Spanish history should greatly enjoy "The Constant Princess," but if you prefer swashbuckling action to details of court life, you'd best look elsewhere as "The Constant Princess" tends to meander.
4 Catalina is daughter of two of the greatest monarch's Europe has seen. She has known since she was three that in addition to being an Infanta of Spain she is the Princess of Wales and will one day be Queen of England. Nothing will stop her from claiming these titles that she see's as her birth right. Not the death of her first husband Arthur, her parents refusal to pay the rest of her dowry or her inability to secure a betrothal to Arthur's younger brother, Harry.I'm a Gregory fan, for the most part. There are always things about her novels that make them slightly irritating, but that rarely effects the breakneck pace I read them at. The Constant Princess was no different. I really enjoyed Catalina/Katherine's thoughts and life as she journeyed from Spain to England. Her life is usually thought of as the First wife of Henry VIII, the woman set aside for Anne Boleyn, and the mother of 'Bloody" Mary I.  It was nice to see her young and in love, even if her first, love filled marriage is short.Her time waiting to become princess again is a bit long. Catalina's italicized thoughts take up pages and pages where before they book up a page at the very most. Her waiting and scheming would be very irritating if you didn't know she would be successful. All the odds are against her and her attitude, as well as Henry VII and his mother Margaret Beaufort are irritating.Her actual reign as Henry's queen is  more interesting and gives a lot of insigt into a time I didn't know much about. She was a much stronger woman that I would have previously given her credit for. I'd been putting off reading The Constant Princess because Katherine didn't interest me as much as Henry's other wives/other historical women, but I'm glad I did pick it up. A very enjoyable read.
5 Anyone interested in this era would love this book. The author makes the characters come to life and she describes the scenery in such a way that the reader can imagine the conditions easily. I gave this book a five star rating because I could hardly put it down, it's a real page turner. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed the tv series The White Queen and/or the Boelyn Sisters movie (both were based on this author's novels).
5 This is the story of Katherine of Aragon.  It begins with her life in Spain as a girl, Catalina the Infanta.  She grows up watching Ferdinand and Isabel rule and fighting in battle.  She is betrothed since she could remember to Prince Arthur of Wales, thus joining Spain and England against France.  The descriptions of Spain and the Moors in Cordova, the Alhambra, La Granja, etc. made you wish you could be there to see the colors of the gardens, the smell of the spices and the colorful garments.  Gregory excells in taking you there.It is a bittersweet story for Katherine who does marry Arthur and after his death his brother King Henry VIII.  She is the first of his wives.  She ends up being the better leader, taking command of his army as Regent and defeating the Scots soundly.  Alas, we know how she is rewarded.  The ending was too rushed, but otherwise a great read, my favorite of the Tudor Court series.
5 Get me started on this series of six books by Phillippa Gregory. This was one of the very good ones. Kept me interested from beginning to end. I would recommend it.
3 I enjoyed this book for the historical knowledge.  I was aware of Catherine of Aragon's parents, Ferdinand and Isabella, but I had no idea of their battles in Spain and Isabella's battle experience. Of course Catherine's relationship with Arthur is purely conjecture but it makes for an interesting read.
3 My feelings on this story are so completely torn. I love Philippa Gregory and I love almost everything I have read. Also, let me say I go into everyone of her works knowing that it is historical fiction...emphasis on the word fiction. I was excited about this considering there is not a large body of work on this era of Catherine's life.Now, lets get down to brass tacks shall we?Concerns/Issues: (My list is pretty much identitical to most of the other reviewers)1) The consensus of most historians seems to be that the marriage between Catherine and Arthur was not consummated.2) Henry VII was one of the few Kings throughout history who was not know for infidelity and there are many historians who believe he really loved his wife (of course there are many who just believed he was just not an amorous man, consider how pious his mother was that is actually quite believable). The only reference to him having an illegitimate offspring was before his marriage. The idea that he would have lusted after Catherine is a but much.3) Catherine's forward thinking and use of Moorish doctors seems a bit of stretch. Her parents were such vigilant Christian warriors and were never tolerant people.Now, with all of that said, I really enjoyed this book. After an initial heistancy I let go of all the documented history that I am aware of and really allowed myself to fall in love with Catherine and Arthur. It was a truly beautiful love story.Overall I enjoyed this story. I would recommend it to others.
5 Philippa Gregory is a prolific writer of historical fiction.  She is usually very accurate with her facts, and her fictional dialogue for the real characters is always appropriate and intriguing.  As an avid fan of female novelists, she ranks at the top to me, and The Constant Princess sheds light on the facts surrounding this most interesting of Henry VIII's wives, and fills in the complexities of character that this dynamic woman brought to her century.  Bravo again to Philippa Gregory and to Mary the Infanta of Spain, much mailgned by inference and mostly unknown in character.
3 My first Gregory book, The Other Boleyn Girl, blew me away. Even before I finished reading it I was ordering her other books. When I finished The Other Boleyn Girl I jumped right into The Constant Princess. What a disappointment. The "voice over" style is cheesy and unwelcomed. It seems like an unimaginative method of communicating Katharine's thoughts. You could make the argument that it was appropriate given Katharine's circumstances of being in a strange land and not being able to trust anyone around her but it simply does not fit. I found myself loathing the italicized passages, often skipping through to pick up a few words for each line just to make sure I didn't miss anything but not wanting to waste my time on them.I don't recommend this. In this case, the non-fiction was a more exciting read than this.
2 I've been reading about the Tudors for many many years but this is the first book I read about Katherine. I was always interested in her and felt pity for her because of the whole Boleyn affair. But I found it hard to stay interested in this book. Not that Katherine isn't a fascinating person, it's just that there is nothing that really leaps off the pages of this book. It almost felt like Gregory got bored with the book herself and decided instead of researching and writing more about Katherine's reign, to leap ahead about 20 years to the trial at Blackfriars just to get it done. But perhaps the biggest annoyance to me was the switch to Katherine's thoughts by using italics. Reading pages and pages of italicized text is not so easy on the eyes and I found myself skipping those parts a lot.
5 I really loved this book. I think it was probably here best one. Philippa Gregory has a great way of making history come alive.
3 I usually enjoy Gregory's writing but with this book and her last, The Virgin's Lover, I am beginning to wonder if her need to churn something out is overcoming her research.  Gregory takes the truly interesting story of Catalina of Aragon and gives it a spin that is highly improbable according to historical facts.  At times the story is out and out false:  Catalina (also known as Katherine) never had a "phantom" pregnancy; that was her tragic daughter, Mary I.  Highly illogical as well is the idea that Catalina deliberately lied about being a virgin at her marriage to Henry since every record known paints her as an extremely pious woman who would never willingly imperil her mortal soul.  These were just a few of the sticking points that detracted from my enjoyment of this novel. I tried to suspend belief and go along with the idea that it *might* have happened this way, but Catalina's character is just so opposite to anything I've ever read or studied that it was very difficult for me.  I wanted to like this book; Gregory's style is accessible and engaging.  As a novel, I at times could find myself caught up, but more often than not, the over-the-top behavior as depicted by Gregory just pulled me out of the story.  My main concern is that a novice history lover will take this book as fact and allow it to color his opinion of Henry the 8th and his first wife.I look forward to Gregory's return to the style and flair that made The Other Boleyn Girl so captivating.
1 Yes, I know it's a historical novel, and thus a work of fiction.  However ...Catharine of Aragon was an incredibly devout Catholic, devout to the degree that very few people would even comprehend today.  It was her rigid faith that caused her to refuse to admit that her marriage to Henry VIII was not valid due to her marriage to Prince Arthur being consummated, even though it cost her and her daughter dearly.  For expedience's sake, she could have gone along with Henry and lived in incredible comfort, but she insisted on telling the truth, and ended up in miserable circumstances for the rest of her life.  She swore on the Host that her first marriage was never consummated.  She would never have done this and lied, because she would have believed that doing so would send her eternal soul directly to Hell for all time.So what is the point of writing a historical novel based on something that absolutely never happened?  Catharine's marriage to Henry VIII was cooked up between her father and his, so that Henry VII could keep her dowry in England.  It was not some plan cooked up between the young lovers, Catharine and Arthur!If a historical novel doesn't have some grounding in reality, it's not really "historical" now, is it?  Sorry, this one is just way too far out in left field for me.
4 I gave this book 4 stars, mostly because it was such an enjoyable read (I read a lot of books, but this one I actually listened to as audio recording on CDs, which I highly recommend, great voice performances for the different characters).  There are a few problems with how both Katherine (or Catalina, if you prefer the Spanish variant of her name) and Henry VIII, her eventual husband, are portrayed.  But given the disproportionate share of attention given by many writers to his later wives, such as Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard, I felt this was a welcome glimpse into the (supposed) motivations and feelings of what must have been a very interesting woman.  It would take a great deal of perseverance and belief in one's self for a foreign princess, even one from such royal parentage as King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain, to successfully navigate the treacherous waters of England's Tudor court.What I liked:  Katherine and Arthur's young marriage was portrayed sweetly; I think arranged royal marriages were rarely happy, but this one could have been, once they worked their way into it.  And the portrayal of Katherine being fixated on her royal destiny ("I was born to be a queen . . . "), although self-serving and single-minded, rang true to me.  This author, Phillipa Gregory, has a talent for developing the characters of lesser-known supporting players, I enjoyed several of these.What I didn't like:  much has been written on the question of whether or not Katherine's marriage to Arthur was ever consummated, let's just say that I think the author's assumption helps her story line, but seems unlikely as a question of history. And Henry is portrayed in a very unflattering way vis-a-vis his brother Arthur; I'm not sure this view is very balanced.But if you're interested in this historical period and setting, her books are well-written and informative, and I'd recommend this one.
4 I enjoyed it always good books by Philppa Gregory. will buy more. that is all I have to say. !
5 Even though I have found Philippa Gregory's Tudor series ("The Other Boleyn Girl;" "The Queen's Fool;" "The Virgin's Lover" & "The Constant Princess," to be excellent reads -- Gregory writes well and in an engaging manner -- I will have to admit that "The Queen's Fool" & "The Virgin's Lover" did not quite measure up (for me) to "The Other Boleyn Girl." I found those two books to be less emotionally engaging and a little less complex. Of course, this could well be because I'm not so partial to Elizabeth I. Whatever the reason, it was with relief that I found myself becoming totally involved and engaged with the plight of Catalina of Aragon as she circumvated her way through the treacherous English court politics of Henry VII.Catalina of Spain, youngest daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, had been raised to believe fervently in her parents' causes (to unite all of Spain and make it a completely Christian country, and to create alliances with other Christian European countries that would enable them to beat back the Muslims) and to know her place in her parents schemes -- to marry the English Prince of Wales and become Queen of England, and to ensure England's help in her parents' crusade against the Muslims. But even though Catalina had anticipated that her life would not be a completely easy one (being so very far away from home and family, and feeling so completely alien in a foreign land), even she had not imagined how much pain, sorrow and heartache her life in England would be. Or just how tenacious she would have to be in order to ensure that she retained her rightful place.Soon after her arrival in England, Catalina finds herself married off to the young Prince of Wales, Arthur, who behaves both in a rather immature and rather resentful way towards her initially-- something that the princess of the blood finds difficult to endure. But just as things begin to look up for our princess, disaster strikes; and Catalina finds herself a widow with no secure place in the English court. As Catalina battles for her rightful place, she comes face to face, for the first time, with the petty cruelties of Henry VII, as well as the almost casual indifference of her own parents. And faces the bitter truth that she can only depend on herself to survive (a lesson that will help her in future times) . With her faith and her pride as her only props, Catalina stubbornly clings to her belief that she was born to be Queen of England -- something that keeps her going through her long hard years living on the fringes of Henry's court, until he finally dies and Arthur's younger, charming but lazy brother becomes king. Will Catalina's faith and tenacity finally pay off?I enjoyed Philippa Gregory's portrayal of the Princess of Aragon, warts and all. We see Catalina at her very best and at her worst -- her pride and her arrogance, her stubborn faith in her parents' manifestoes, refusing to see that her parents' claims were often at odds with their actions; but we also see Catalina at her most vulnerable and get to admire her for her courage and tenacity -- one may not always like the manner in which this Catherine acts, but one cannot help but admire the bravery and strength of mind she exhibits in order to obtain the results she so desires. I also liked the manner in which the author portrayed Henry VIII, laying the foundations for what would happen in the years to come, by showing the man to be a very vain, lazy and easily manipulated character. And what a wonderfully chilling portrait of autocratic and proud Margaret of Beaufort (Henry VII's mother) Ms Gregory provides us with! She definitely hit the nail on the head for me with that characterisation. And if I didn't totally buy Philippa Gregory's contention that Catherine and Arthur's marriage was consummated (too many people would have known and Henry VIII's henchmen would have left no stone unturned in their bid to discredit Catherine), I found myself devoutly wishing that it had been so, as this would definitely transform Catherine from the pious and devout wife who allowed Henry to ride roughshod over her, to a Queen who had loved and lost, but who survived her loss and achieved her ultimate goal to be Queen of England. All in all, a captivating and riveting read.
5 Dr. Gregory writes a great novel,  Set during the reign of the Lancaster line.  A must read for anyone who loves History.
5 At risk of sounding like a cheesy writer of book-cover blurbs, I have to say "Gregory delivers another gem."The Constant Princess follows the story of Queen Katherine of Aragon, daughter of Isabella and Ferdinand, wife of first Prince Arthur and then his younger brother, King Henry VIII. Katherine may just be Gregory's strongest heroine yet. Her faith and poise never falter - from the five-year-old raised on the Crusade trail, to the young girl who takes her destiny in her hands, to the Queen who battles both Scotland and Anne Boleyn. She's not blinded by passion like Queen Elizabeth - yet the blossoming love between she and Arthur had me in tears. And despite her steadfast nature, she grows throughout the novel, eventually recognizing her mother's persecution of the Moors for what it was.I would be remiss if I didn't mention Gregory's descriptions of the Alhambra Palace in Grenada. If I hadn't seen the photos of it to know it is indeed real, I would think it was the most glorious fantasy palace any princess could dream up. I'm not sure if this book could quite edge out The Other Boleyn Girl as my favorite from Gregory, but I think it just might.
5 I picked up a reviewers copy of this book last week and was so excited, since I had loved The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queen's Fool and The Virgin Queen -- I was not disappointed. While The Other Boleyn Girl is still my favorite, this is a very close second; I love the way the author goes back and forth between third person and first person.  It's also very interesting to learn the background of Katherine of Aragon before she was married to Henry VIII. I had felt so sorry for her and what she went through during the time of Anne Boleyn, and this sheds light on her life leading up to then. I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction, and specifically 16th Century England.
5 As with all Phillipa Gregory's books it is hard to put down her interpretation of the life and times of Katherine  is quiet intelligent and makes you believe and hope that it was like that
2 I've been a big fan of Philippa Gregory and I'd looked forward to reading her new novel. But I have to say this is a total disappointment.1) Unsatisfactory ending: The story ended when it got interesting. (When Anne began to threaten her status.) Where's the beef? How can you talk about Katherine's life without her divorce or the painful process leading to the divorce?2) Weak and contradictory charactor development. Her description of Katherine's personality/charactor in this novel and that in Other Bolyne Girl do not really match. I didn't feel the Queen in "Constant..." and the Queen in "The Other..." are the same person. Katherine in "The Other" was totally in love with Henry but Katherine in "Constant" was a very calculative woman who married him b/c of his status.3) Lack of continuity: Except for Henry, Katherine and other minor charactors, no major charactors in "The Other..." appeared in "Constant."I hope her next novel will be much better than this. It's got to be.
5 Every book of Gregory's that I read always keeps me entertained and wanting for more! When I finish one, I cannot wait to pick up the next. Great book.
5 Really have enjoyed all of the 5 books that this lady has written.  The Other Boelyn Sister continues to be my favorite but everything I have read by Ms. Gregory continues to be a page turner!
1 Historically inaccurate, a painfully rushed third act, and not up to the high standards set by Philippa Gregory's other Tudor novels. It reads like something written by a well-intentioned romance author. What amazed me was the author's decision to write a Katharine of Aragon that bore absolutely no resemblance to the historical figure. I've found all her previous Tudor character studies to be incredibly believeable(notwithstanding Elizabeth I's excessive randiness in The Virgin's Lover). Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, Anne of Cleves, Henry VIII himself, all seem to come alive. Why then is Katharine of Aragon groping her husband on her wedding night, dressing in the Tudor equivalent of a naughty negligee, and seducing her father-in-law for the sake of politics?This "racy" view is completely at odds with every historical source which portrays Catalina de Aragon as a intensely religious, reserved woman who would never repeatedly perjure herself. For a rigorously devoted Roman Catholic to live such a lie her entire life (to say nothing of the sexual politics she is depicted as playing) would be live a life of sin. There is nothing in the historical record to ever suggest Katharine would choose that path.If Philippa Gregory wants to write a purely fictitious re-imagining of Katharine of Aragon, that's fine (I've always wanted more exploration of what her life might have been like if Prince Arthur hadn't died). But to claim this character is based on fact is both laughable and insulting to all authors who strive for historical accuracy.
5 I love Gregory's Tudor historical fiction (more than the others she has written).  There isn't much about Catherine of Aragon, so this is very much appreciated.
3 Assuming that Queen Katherine's claim that she was a virgin was a lie, this book's explanation for the lie was nothing less than brilliant. This was a rich, beautiful story that followed very closely what I have read in history books. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is that the the book skips back and forth from being told by a narrator and being told by the character of Katherine herself. Katherine and the narrator often told of the same events with different perspectives, which made the story drag--unfortunate since the story itself was riveting and I could hardly put it down. I loved the story but I would have preferred that it be told either by the narrator or the queen rather than both.
3 But they don't allow it!  Having to chose between 3 or 4, I sadly have to opt for a 3 star rating.  The novel was enjoyable to read, but definitely not one of the author's best.  I previously read "The Other Bolyne Girl" (which was wonderful by the way) and found it strange how totally different Katherine is portrayed in each book.  She seemed too simple in this novel.  I have to agree with other reviewers' opinions that this book seemed rushed.  One last annoyance:  I also at time felt lectured to about Islam.
5 This is an historical novel set during the American War of Independence. Much of its action focuses on Manhattan, the last area of the United States under the control of King George. Into Manhattan flood all those British loyalists dispossessed by the expanding rebel armies.The story is about Edward Savill, a clerk sent from London to investigate the claims for compensation by the dispossessed colonists. Even before his arrival in Manhattan, nothing is really as it first appears and he soon finds himself embroiled in murder investigations and is tempted into affairs which are, perhaps, best left undiscovered.As his tour of duty is extended and extended he finds himself involved with the family of Wintour family and when the husband returns from the army he is inveigled into undertaking a mission into enemy territory, the real purpose of which he could not have guessed at. When Savill receives bad news about his marriage and his posting finally arrives from England, he at last learns the truth and how in the fires of conflict, all is at the mercy of the armies who require gold to help them continue to wage war.This is an excellent novel with brilliant attention to historical detail and to the characterisation of individuals. The author creates a compelling picture of revolutionary America in the late eighteenth century.
5 Diamond Dagger winner Andrew Taylor has applied his formidable research and writing talents to serve up a compelling tale of greed and violence during the turbulent years of the American Revolution.  London clerk Edward Savill travels to New York to verify the claims of dispossessed Loyalists who find themselves on the wrong side during the American War of Independence.  When a member of a family he&#8217;s staying with disappears behind rebel lines, and a body is discovered in the notorious slums of Canvas town, Savill becomes involved.  A fas-cinating take on ordinary people caught up in the sweep of events that will shape a new nation.
3 Good book but slow I kept waiting for something to happen which it did half way through the book.First time I read anything by this author and I am not sure I would read another book written by him.Perhaps it was the location and the description of the cold weather and bleakness of New York (created by the author) that left me feeling a bit low which when you think about it is the work of a good writer, I will read more written by Andrew Taylor but based in a moderate climate.
5 I've read a lot of his books and loved American Boy but this one is just as good, if not better.  A long story, which I&#34;m always glad of as I hate adjusting to a new book, but I really did not want this one to come to an end.  Beautifully written.
4 I very much enjoyed Andrew Taylor's The Anatomy of Ghosts and was looking forward to this one.  It is not as good, but is still an enjoyable read.Set in New York in 1779-79 during the War of Independence, the plot concerns Edward Savill, an English civil servant sent from London to deal with claims by Loyalists who have lost property during the fighting.  Narrated in the first person by Savill the story develops into a mystery and an adventure in which he and his acquaintances become embroiled and endangered.  I won't give away any plot &#8211; I wouldn't have wanted to know more than that before I started &#8211; but it is a period mystery/thriller which began well, dragged somewhat and then picked up for the last two hundred pages or so.Taylor creates a very good sense of place and of period.  The privations of a freezing winter are especially well done and I thought this a real strength of the book.  His prose is easy to read and preserves a good sense of the language of the time while not sticking rigidly to it: a difficult balance which he pulls off very well.  The plot unfolds at a leisurely pace, and while this can be very effective, I did feel that there wasn't quite enough real content to carry the book for quite long periods in the central section and I thought it could do with being a good deal shorter.Nevertheless, I think this is a generally involving and enjoyable book, and I recommend it, especially if you like historical fiction.
5 I pre-ordered this book quite a while back and it finally arrived yesterday. WOW! Was it ever worth the wait! Every page is inspirational. I am primarily an oil painter but this book has inspired me to get back into watercolor. I must have 100 watercolor books but this is the one I would save in case of fire. What a great book!!!
1 I love Ann Blockley but this book is a waste of money. It really does not show any techniques that she uses. Directions are not there to learn from her.
5 If you are familiar with Ann Blockley's flower paintings, you will be surprised by this book. (You can see a gallery of Blockley's paintings on her website.) It is no ordinary, watercolour how-to book, and the cover and title give nothing away. In this book, the author admits that she has stepped well outside her comfort zone to explore an entirely new approach to the painting process.  We can be very glad that she did.The simple chapter headings give no idea of the innovations Blockley presents.  There are the usual texture mediums described in other art instruction books, but Blockely  applies these mediums in entirely new ways: clingfilm, salt, inks, granulation medium, bubbles and foam, gold and silver pigments, paint resist and more. The beautiful colour illustrations inspire and encourage the reader to experiment, but the text is even more important.You could approach this book in one of two ways: either you can use it for the techniques alone, or you can use the techniques to move outside your artistic comfort zone as Blockley has done - beyond what is familiar in your established approach to painting.  Blockley admits that it took courage to do this publicly in a book.  Any artist - of any medium - can take heart - and inspiration - from what the author shares of her out-of-the-zone process.This book has plenty of demonstrations and includes three guest artists: Shirley Trevena, Moira Huntly and John Blockley, all of whom explored art mediums in daring ways.  You can google all three names and take a look at their on-line galleries.I nearly didn't buy this book because watercolour is not my medium.  I am so glad I did. It's one of the best books I've come across for encouraging the exploration of new ways of artistic expression - in any medium.  Better still, Blockley makes the process simple, interesting and fun.
5 I have been painting in watercolor for 15 years and have been re-inspired by this book. It gives a new slant to old techniques and is filled with beautiful artwork samples. The demonstrations can be used as a "jumping off place" for paintings in your own style, or you can recreate the sample artwork. It's a refreshing book for experienced artists because it doesn't spend pages and pages on suggested materials, brushes, paints etc. that we already have or know about. It gets right to the meat of the techniques and artwork.
5 I just love Ann Blockley and her style. I look forward to reading and studying her techniques and hopefully gain some of her wonderful magic of painting in watercolors.
4 I loved this story as a child, so I wanted a copy for my own children. I was lucky to find a board book format - and now my twin toddlers (2 years) love it too. It's an excellent little story for learning sequencing. It provides sentence structures a little different and more sophisticated than some other children's books. It also serves as a fun interactive discussion point, "Do you think that tigers usually drink tea? Where do they live, in a house?"
5 This is a nice little story. The story is ridiculous- which is why my toddler/almost pre-schooler and I love it. And the language is not baby-ish, it is a proper book. This is a book that will span many years of reading.Storyline is that a tiger came over and ate and drank everything in the house so when Father got home from work there was nothing for dinner. So he suggests going out to a cafe for dinner.I liked this book so much I have looked up other books by this author that i plan to buy. I will also give this book as a gift.
5 .Illustrations and keen story line will bring on a smile. Should elicit discussion and appreciation for all. The Tiger, while not perfect, is a takeoff on The Man who Came forTEATIME and cleaned out the fridge.
5 This book is an absolute winner. Every little girl I give it to accepts it immediately as a firm favorite. It all started with my memories of not wanting to return it to the library. Modern little girls like to carry it about with them (Hoping that someone new will read it to them? As an opportunity to admire it in public? Because they can't bear the thought of being parted from it?) Who knows.  All I know is that this is a great book.
4 The drawings in this book are charming, the text is rather simplistic, and at the end, the fact that the Tiger will never again return, leaves even me, an adult reader, disappointed.
5 When I first read this book to my  3 year old granddaughter she wanted me to read it again and again. It has become her favorite book. Highly recommended.
3 This was recommended to me and is quite popular however, I just don't get it.  The story is odd- about a tiger who shows up for tea and eats the family out of house and home.  Then, they buy new food and go out for dinner.  The tiger never returns....  it's just kind of an odd ending.  My three year old isn't too impressed with this one- probably not one I'd say is a must for your library.
5 THIS IS A GREAT BOOK!  I'M BUYING A 2ND COPY TO HAVE A MINT CONDITION BOOK FOR LATER.  OUR TODDLER WANTED THIS READ 7 TIMES IN A ROW UNTIL WE FINALLY SAID IT'S NAP TIME.  IT'S NO SURPRISE OVER 3 MILLION COPIES HAVE BEEN SOLD!
5 Another book we discovered when living in England, this is a fun keeper made more fun if read aloud in a British accent. Sophie and her mum are astounded by their unexpected and ravenous guest, but maintain proper manners. Fun repetitious phrases, British terms (at least in our version). Judith Kerr also writes the delightful Mog seriesMog the Forgetful Cat
5 Kiwi Magazine Review:Tea parties are the perfect occasion for practicing good manners and clever conversation. However, when your guest turns out to be a tiger and eats you out of house and home, it's a spectacular party to even rival Alice's tea party. This sweet book tells the tale of the day the tiger came for tea. Methinks it may have been inspired by a stuffed animal sitting at the table but one can only wonder how such a fun story came to be more than 40 years ago.
4 I enjoyed this story and so did my children.  I would have given it 5 stars but the reference to beer Ina picture book lowered my score by one star.  I otherwise thought the book was quite enjoyable.
5 This is a classic book with messages relevant for both young and old. The young will enjoy Suess' quirky prose and the wonderful illustrations, and the older reader will take away messages of life's tendency to be a precarious balancing act.
5 Love anything Val McDermid writes. She never fails to please her readers! I am impatiently waiting for her next book!
5 Loved this book from the first to the last page, Bought already the next two books in the series. Think that says it all.
1 Setting aside a gaping hole or two in the plot, the scenes of gay nightlife and the way the mystery progresses triggered all my "latent homophobia" radar. I understand McDermid has written excellent books featuring a lesbian detective, but based on this book, I figured her to be an over-simplifying dolt, not quite a "gay basher" but having more of a "Look at these ever so *intersting* people in the zoo!" kind of vibe, which in some ways is worse. I also read "Place of Execution" which i liked much better, but in both cases you wish the author were sitting beside you so you could ask a few basic questions and point out glaring inconsistances or ask about ridiculous assumptions on which the plot rests.
1 I am not a squeamish reader. Having said that, I put this book down two-thirds of the way through, sickened by the author's apparent fascination with torture and its various medieval devices. The descriptions of torture machines and how they work on the human body are quite graphic, almost as if the author was truly enjoying herself while writing the descriptions. Yuck.The plot works quite well, but unless you're willing to read this gross stuff that will surely stay with you afterwards, move on to something better.
3 I would recommend this book to anyone with a taste for gory mysteries and a strong stomach. The mystery in itself is interesting but the torture scenes are way too graphic for me!I wanted to give it a 2.5 stars but that's not allowed so it get 3.
5 This is far and away, one of the best serial killer novels I've ever read!In the northern English city of Bradfield a killer is on the loose. The police, in a politically-incorrect sort of way have dubbed the murderer the Queer Killer because of the gruesome way his victims are tortured and killed(not going into details) and the locations where their bodies are dumped: well-known gay neighborhoods. Detective Inspector Carol Jordan, a jaded, tough city copper and member of the task force set up to catch the criminal, meets up with profiler Dr. Tony Hill, an enigmatic man who seems to crawl into the dark minds of the killers he profiles. Dr. Hill has an altogether different name for the killer: Handy Andy.Working together night after night leads Carol Jordan and Tony Hill into the dangerous territory of a relationship. Amidst the pressures of Carol's job and the hidden demons from Tony's past, they fight to make it work and catch a killer.This is an enthralling, grappling novel of terror and suspense. The two main characters are deeply explored and fully fleshed-out. Their relationship is unique, so resists becoming cliched or contrite. The writing is excellent and Val McDermid shows obvious intelligence and knowledge of the police system, as well as criminal profiling.In one review, the author was likened to Thomas Harris. I believe this is unfair. To say that McDermid merely rivals Harris would be an understatement. Val McDermid's gritty, realistic, and suspenseful tales prove she is absolutely one of the best writers working in this field today.
5 I have seldom been disappointed by the condition of used books purchased sight unseen through Amazon.  As to the book itself, I really enjoyed the story and McDermid's writing style.  The characters are in depth and I can identify with them.  It is an excellent mystery thriller.
3 THE MERMAIDS SINGING is the first of three novels that introduces the team of Detective Sergeant Carol Jordan and profiler Tony Hill. Dr. Hill leads the National Criminal Task Force and together working with DS Jordan they are going to investigate a series of torture murders occurring in the northern town of Bradfield.The author lets us go inside the serial killer's psyche by starting each chapter of the book with a sample of the murderer's diary. It might have been insightful for the book's readers were it not for Hill's analytical reports. McDermid provides all the excruciating details of the Doctor's writing as it is being presented to the cops investigating the case. Were it not for Val McDermid's other superb novels, one might be turned off by this book.As a whole, the book is slightly above average. The author does a good job with her characterization of Carol Jordan and Tony Hill making us wish for more. They both have some issues that the author develops well. The mystery was good while it started but the ending seemed to be abrupt and anticlimactic. Hopefully, THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD will be better. After all, Val McDermid is still one of my favorite authors.
4 Fast moving. Would not recommend it for anyone under 18 years of age. If you like books on serial killers you will love this one
2 As a work of genre fiction, I found The Mermaids Singing an enjoyable read.As with A Place of Execution (the other book by Ms McDermid that I've read), she holds back a major surprise toward the end.  (Don't worry no spoiler here.)  One can almost imagine her while writing thinking, "ooh this is a good one."  By holding this back, however, she strains some of the credibility that she's built up throughout the story.  While this type of thing is common in this genre, it leaves the reader with the feeling of having been deceived.That being said if you like crime/suspense/mystery novels, I think you'll enjoy reading The Mermaids Singing.
5 of all val mcdermid books I have read this would be the best by far and I am a fantasy person , but her stories up right up there.
4 Interesting story. It kept me guessing and it was twisted as hell. I like it! 4 1/2 stars. McDermid is one sick cookie. In a good way!
5 This is a brilliant piece of crime fiction that earned its 5 stars from the first chapter through to the last.In a fictitious northern England town 4 young men have been found murdered with their bodies showing evidence of the most gruesome torture before death. All the broken bodies have been meticulously washed spotlessly clean of any obvious forensic evidence such as blood, skin, hair, fibres or the like which could provide a link to the killer. The police force is split between old-fashioned coppers with their traditional crime solving methods and the forward thinking university educated detectives who know that modern tools and techniques are what are required.  The decision to bring in criminal psychologist Tony Hill to come up with a profile of the killer is thus a divisive one. The old-time detective leading the manhunt will not admit that there may be a serial killer on his patch, preferring to let the public think it is merely a wave or unrelated murders. The early conclusion by Tony Hill that it is certainly the work of a serial killer further alienates him from the chief investigator.Author Val McDermid allows us to read the diary of the psychopath as an introduction to each chapter, keeping up a parallel story in the same time frame. We see how each victim is selected and stalked in the lead up to his capture. We also see how the killer selects the torture instrument of choice and designs, builds and tests it. McDermid cleverly researches these mediaeval instruments.Hill's main support from within the crime squad is Detective Inspector Carol Jordan who campaigned successfully for the services of a criminal psychologist. A tenuous relationship gradually builds up between Carol and Tony, which despite their best efforts strays just beyond the professional. This relationship provides an element of relief and romance from the otherwise black storyline.The whole story is beautifully written and each character comes to life with his or her foibles, weaknesses and strengths. The plot is well conceived, well developed and the tension allowed to build to breaking point as the climax is reached.
3 Why I read ItI have been working through McDermid's backlist and this is book one in her Tony Hill/Carol Jordan series. The characters have been adapted into a very successful BBC television series called Wire in the Blood.The GoodSolid mystery and the two main characters really work. Usually new characters take time to find themselves (i.e. think Friends season 1 versus season 8), but these two are smooth from page one.The BadThis is one of the most pornographically violent books I have read in some time - I have to think back to Thomas Harris' Red Dragon or Silence of the Lambs for a similar feel. It seemed a little over the top but how many serial killers recreate Inquisition era torture devices to kill men for sexual pleasure? Over the top may be the only way to tell that story. The conclusion was a little too convenient and forced - everything worked out just so and just in time.The Ugly (my opinion)I liked the characters and will definitely read book two in the series, but if it continues with the extreme violence I will probably put her books on the back burner (i.e. only read when I can find NOTHING else in the library). I really do not have much interest in serial killer fiction because it is usually way to romanticized. By that I mean is overly elaborate and choreographed. I prefer my mysteries more realistic wherein most murders aren't planned, or at least they are pretty straight forward. But that is probably just me.I hate sounding so negative when overall I really like McDermid's writing. The words flow and the story is laid out clearly. There are no lulls in the plot and I get through them very quickly. Most of my dislike comes from a personal preference and that is a statement about me and NOT the writing. What do I know? I think Surviving Christmas is a fantastic movie
1 No spoilers included, but this book has a major gimmick in it that's popular now and thus totally overused. The characters are all neurotic. The mystery is not compelling. I liked the other McDermids I read a lot better. I think the author was only partially attentive, or was distracted by something horrible and boring, while writing this tedious slab of overwrought verbiage.
2 This was my first Val McDermid book, and as skilled a writer as McDermid obviously is, I'm not sure I can handle another one!Serial killers seem to dominate crime fiction today, and TV shows like CSI have made extremely graphic blood and gore fairly commonplace.  Nevertheless, the truly horrifying serial killer in "The Mermaids Singing" (a title I still don't understand) and the frightening graphic descriptions of torture in this book will probably be giving me nightmares for quite some time.Even the main characters, profiler Dr. Tony Hill, and Detective Inspector Carol Jordan, are depicted as seriously flawed individuals.  While I was rooting them on in their search for the serial killer nicknamed "Handy Andy" (another reference that didn't make any sense to me), I found myself wishing for a "hero" and "heroine" with fewer emotional insecurities.  I guess I like my heroes a little more heroic.Instead of another Tony Hill - Carol Jordan story, I've decided to try one of McDermid's Kate Brannigan novels.  Hopefully, it will be a bit "lighter" and won't keep me awake at night.
4 Psychologist, Tony Hill, has upward climbs trying to convince the traditional law enforcement people of Bradfield to take his profiling seriously. It is definitely a psychological murder mystery, which is full of action and intrigue. An interesting turn of events when the hunter becomes the hunted. The use of ancient torture techniques brings a macabre twist to the story. A good read even though it has its gruesome moments.
4 For all the people who say that this book is too graphic and violent.....did you read the dust jacket before reading the book? You do know it is about a serial killer, right? Not about kittens jumping over rainbows.Having said all that, I loved the book. Reading the killer's diary really made it for me.
4 The novel is creepy and scary.  Also gross.  Most of the characters are well drawn and believable, although a McDermid could have done better with the female journalist - who is about as complex as Rita Skeeter in "Harry Potter," but without the sense of humor.  I'm not sure that the denouement is entirely believable, but by that point I was willing to go with the flow.
5 If you like psychological thrillers you will love this. I found it a fantastic read. I loved everything about this book. Best of all, it's the first in the series and I can't wait to read the rest. One of the reasons I haven't previously read any of this series is I enjoyed the TV series and sometimes that ruins the book. Not in this case. The casting and acting is superb and closely follows the book.Dr Hill is called in for the first time to profile a serial killer who tortures his victims and dumps them in the gay community area of the city. The characters, settings and psychology are all brutally believable and the plot is full of twists and surprises. Dr Hill's skills are put to the ultimate test. Best read of 2014 so far.
5 This is the book that introduced Tony Hill to the reading public. We see into the thought processes of all of the major characters, this allows us to see how they misunderstand each other (especially Tony and Carol). The crimes are particularly gruesome, so be warned. A classic of the profiler sub-genre, still worth reading today, nearly twenty years after it was first published.
3 I enjoyed the storyline, characters, and it was really well-written - however - I chose to skip over sections where the violence was graphic. I may read more books in this series because of the great writing, but will skip over the gratuitous violence.
5 This lady writes with Super Glue. It's just impossible to put her stories down. Yeah, they're that brilliant, captivating and so very wonderfully written.
5 This introduction to Carol Jordan and Tony Hill is an ode to excellent characterization.  There are no stock players straight from central casting here.  McDermid takes the time to crawl around in people's heads and make the story interesting from that angle.  This is something few authors do.The mystery itself was top notch. It moved in unexpected ways and finished off with a bang.  Tension between Tony and Carol gives the book an extra spark, especially with Tony's personal demons.I'll be back for more of this series.
3 Val's characters are complex and interesting. The story was sufficiently twisty and satisfying.  I love the TV series and in reading the book and watching the show I felt a clear disconnect between the two.  This is a series you should read if you haven't seen the TV show.  The mystery would be more satisfying and the differences in the characters wouldn't be so jarring.
5 I have read a number of Val McDermid books but was unaware that this was the first Tony Hill venture. I only wish I had read it first as it would have helped understand Tony's character so much better. A truly great read and undeniably well written book. I love the tony Hill thrillers!
3 This book is slow to start "police detecting wise" if one can say that.  A lot of space is used in describing what is going on from everyone's point of view but not much is being elucidated, as in information collected, or progress is made on the case by cops.  Finally the end is somewhat surreal and unconvincing.  This is still a worthwhile book to read compared to what is awailable out there on the market.p.s. To the author, please just make the two of them a couple and stop mudding the waters with endless lack of sexual arousal stories and teenage kind of love troubles.
4 A super book. Well plotted, great character development, and like all good reads, it seems to end 100 pages too soon. I would rate it second in my list of favourite serial killer books, after Morton Bain's 'Psychopath!'
3 In deciding to try a new author, we picked out McDermid's first novel to feature psychologist Dr. Tony Hill and police Homicide Inspector Carol Jordan. Shades of John Sandford, a horrid serial killer is on the loose, whose idea of fun is constructing medieval torture machines to pull apart (or otherwise desecrate, to say the least) the bodies of his victims as part of their murders. Some sort of sexual theme incites his sadism, and his habit of leaving the bodies posed in various gay community settings seems part of the issue. The chapters alternate between the murderer himself telling us in detail of his plans and accomplishments, and how stupid the police are; and the detective work of the police to identify the killer and their ensuing manhunt. The budding relationship between Dr. Hill, a profiler who is anxious to have his efforts receive some credibility from a skeptical police force, and the clever Carol Jordan (mostly a detective in this story), adds some additional sexual tension to the story - and some disturbing scenes with Dr. Hill having telephone sex with a (presumably paid) service is yet another odd element in the action.We felt the suspenseful ending had quite a twist to it, so can't say much more about the plot. Ironically we liked the book a tad better after finishing it than we did while reading it - parts were rather dry, and the constant sexual angles to almost all facets of the story were often tough to take. How the police zeroed in on the solution was particularly entertaining, showing off some excellent plotting skills by the author. We'd probably give another entry in this set a try with the hope it has fewer sexual themes dominating the "puzzle."
3 Maybe the best thing I realized when reading this book is that I like my mystery and police procedural novels to be much more sanitized than this one was. Because of specific mind sets within the police department in the town of Bradfield in northern England, it takes a long time for the connection to be made between three young men being murdered and a serial killer.  Assistant Chief Constable John Brandon is in Manchester listening to the rationalization presented by Dr. Tony Hill for how he can help law enforcement in his role as a criminal profiler.  The Home Office is setting up a network of forensic psychologists to help police solve crimes involving serial offenders.  Just as the conference breaks up Brandon receives word that the fourth young, gay man has been found dead after being horribly tortured.  Hill, Brandon and Detective Inspector Carol Jordan assemble a team to begin to understand this murderer and stop the killings.The novel is written so that the chapters alternate between the point of view of the killer and the official investigation.  That would have been interesting except the author went into extensive detail regarding how each of the men was tortured.  Ultimately these became much too graphic for me, hence my learning that I need more sanitized descriptions of death.  The other characters were interesting, but somehow none of them managed to interest me enough to actually begin to care for them.  The novel was written in 1995, and has not held up very well. I enjoy reading novels published years ago, but this one just felt very dated and completely overcome by the advances made in computer and forensic technology.  There is the aspect of a struggle between opposing sides within the police force for how the investigation should be handled and the press figures very prominently in the story with policemen providing information to the newspapers which affect the cases.With a mixture of horrible descriptions of torture, almost constant anti-gay derogatory statements and name calling, a plot twist at the ending which came as no surprise, and not really forming any kind of connection with the principal characters involved I'm afraid this book was just okay.  One other difficulty I had was that the author never convinced me that the murdered men were actually gay.  That factor needed to be much stronger and crystal clear because it was purported to be the reason behind the killings.  This book certainly did not make me want to rush out and buy something else in this series or, as a matter of fact, any novels written by this author.  Sadly, not every book you pick up is going to be a favorite and not every author is going to light that spark within you which makes you eager to read more of their work.  This was just such a book for me.
4 The story opens with the murder of a man whose body was found outside a bar in a gay district.  He happens to be the fourth of a series of murders with similar characteristics.  The police superintendant is reluctant to classify these as connected to one serial murderer but is forced to do so when the DCI brings in a profiler.  Tony Hunt is a criminal psychologist is asked to work with Carol Jordan, a recently promoted Detective Inspector.  They work together to marry the profile with police work.This was a particularly interesting story made even more so because of some of the writing methods.  The police are analyzing clues in the present day while we are given portions of the killer's journal to read at the beginning of chapter, starting with the onset of the first murder.  Additionally, not only is the profile of the killer presented to us but Tony Hunt's process for developing it is detailed.The characters in this story are richly defined, with all of the flaws, shortcomings and admirable traits you'd expect to find in a police department.  Even the profiler brings his share of baggage to the party.  The killings are pretty gruesome so be prepared for some pretty rough moments.  I must admit that after Googling some of the torture mechanisms, I decided to skim over the actual murders.I was surprised at the outcome but mostly because of the skill of the writing.  It's a well-written story with a host of interesting players to keep you hooked.  I plan to continue this series.
4 Val McDermid's "The Mermaids Singing" is a decent, fast-moving serial killer thriller that thankfully pays as much attention to its likable police investigator characters as it does to the frequent and disturbing sexual crimes on hand.  Otherwise the novel, based in London and its environs, might have been a bit too much to take.The friendship between police detective Carol Jordan and serial killer profiler Doctor Tony Hill, which quickly develops when Dr. Hill is called in to help the police with a string of killings in the gay community, is a particuarly enjoyable aspect of the novel.  Interestingly, however, that friendship and developing flirtation is complicated by the fact that Tony is tormented by his own unusual sexual problems when he isn't trying to unravel the weird sexual predilections of the killer he and the police are chasing.With frequent changes in viewpoint- sometimes the story is told from Tony's point of view, sometimes Carol's, and often via the killer himself- the story avoids one particular flavor, which keeps the reading experience fresh.  Again, though, readers should be warned that some of those flavors are fairly dark and brutal."The Mermaids Singing", which originally came out in the mid-1990's, has since spawned several more novels featuring Dr. Tony Hill and police investigator Carol Jordan.  I plan to check them out at some point, as- darkness and all- this was an enjoyable crime story.
5 Wow. The Mermaids Singing is the second book by Val McDermid that I read, and iI found as good as the first, if not better. It's not for the faint-hearted. A number of supposedly gay men are tortured and murdered by a serial killer, their bodies left washed and naked in the streets of Bradfield. The whole community is on edge, and the police too, who is using the services of a profiler, Tony Hill. Carol Jordan is an inspector who is taking part in the investigation, and her character adds to the interest of the story. What did I like about this book? First, the characters are real. Second, the plot is very good (You'll get a surprise at the end). Third, the writing flows. Fourth, the murder "weapons" and killings are unusual. Fifth, ditto for the murderer. Read it, you won't be disappointed.
5 I loved the  tension and interaction between  Tony Hill and Carol Jordon. I have already started reading the next book in the series.
1 This book only had one significant moment, after which the whole purposefully gory crime was a piece of cake! The so called &#34; profiling&#34; of the culprit had no significance for the plot whatsoever, and the characters served only the meagre task of filling space and creating more trivial content.
4 I read this book in a day. I could not stop once I got going. The real strength is clash of characters that Val McDermid creates throughout the book. She can create a character in a few lines and then you feel as if you know them.It has a strong narrative. The pressure builds as the book progresses, and you cannot stop reading. It is not really a who dunnit, but how on earth are they going to catch a serial killer mastermind.I suspect McDermid has been influenced by Thomas Harris but she reworks the formula and avoids making her serial killer into a 'bogey man' like Hannibal Lecter. Lecter is a force and not a real being. The killer in Mermaids is a real person and the novel is more scary as a result.An enormously enjoyable read as a clinical psychologist Tony Hill - who has his own problems - matches wits with a very sick and intelligent killer.
4 Van McDermid, a first-rate writer of psychological thrillers, can be tantalizing in her detail and measured pace.  I'm just used to fast paced, gory stories.This book introduces the Tony Hill and Carole Jordan characters and the uncertainty of their relationship is believable.  The characters gradually develop depth and start a reltionship that will last for a number of books and TV movies.I can't tell you how it ends, but you will be surprised.The pace of the book presented the only negative part of the experience.  The TV movies don't waste any time, but McDermid, much like P.D. James, takes a lot of time building characters and settings.Overall I enjoyed this book.  I did find it tiring.
5 This is the first in the series of Tony Hill and Carol Jordan books that BBC made into a series, called "Wire in the Blood," the name of the second book.  Fortunately for viewers, the characters on the screen are not as flawed as the ones in the book.  Tony Hill is one messed up shrink - we know why HE chose his career! and Carol has her own problems as a woman in the CID.  A serial killer strikes the mid-sized community of Bradford, and appears to be killing gay men. But is he? or could they just seem to be gay? The Bradford CID is working on a Home Office project to use profilers with the police, so this is the perfect opportunity for Tony Hill to practice his specialty.  He tends to get a little too involved in his work.  This is not for the squeamish - the violence is graphic. But the writing is compelling, and it's a real page-turner. It isn't until after you've finished the book that you start to see holes in the plot - small ones in this book, but they get larger as the series progresses. But, I don't want to be a spoiler! If you can handle graphic violence, torture, and gore along with page-turning prose, and you like watching the workings of the psychotic mind, then this is the book for you. It's un-put-downable once you pass the first two pages.
4 I've read quite a few of Val McDermid's mysteries. I find she's an engrossing, skillful author; I like her but she's not at the top of my list. I happened to buy and read The Retribution, but this is the second Tony/Carol book I've read; I've seen none of the TV series. Going from a late book to the earliest in the series probably wasn't a good idea; the view from the end makes the jags in their relationship in this book seem very smooth, and makes Carol seem like milquetoast.The relationship, and the series of murders, are both still interesting and this book is well structured. Both main characters are very appealing, so far.  I give Mermaids only four stars because some secondary characters are quite stereotypic, even silly, and Tony makes some wildly inaccurate predictions that don't get revisited late, and finally the identity of the villain is dumb--I thought of it and said to myself 'Nyah, McDermid's waving a red herring--she _couldn't_ create that goofy a wind-up!' Well, she fooled me.  Mermaids is still entertaining and probably very good grounding for later volumes.
5 I really enjoy the Tony Hill/Carol Jordan series as well as other books written by Val McDermid.  This is the first in the series and is engrossing.  I almost couldn't wait til the end to see &#34;who-dunit&#34;.  If you like murder mysteries, you won't be disappointed.
5 So with great anticipation I set off on my re-read of all Val McDermids novels and I began with "The Mermaids Singing" the first in the series featuring Tony Hill and Carol Jordan. (UK Paperback)In Bradfield the bodies of four men have been discovered...with the police reluctant to link them Dr Tony Hill is already certain that a serial killer is operating in the area. When forward thinking ACC John Bradfield enlists Tony's help to profile the killer, he is teamed up with Carol Jordan and so begins their story...Not for the faint hearted, Ms McDermid weaves a gruesome tale....the killer being obsessed with medieval torture instruments means that none of the victims died easily..and there are no punches pulled. The mystery element, as will become a trend in the series, is pyschologically complicated and compelling...and it makes for an involving read.The seeds of the ongoing relationship between Tony and Carol is astutely done..once you have finished this you will want to know whats next. They are both well drawn characters with hidden depths - in this, the early stages of knowing them, Ms McDermid gives us an intriguing and captivating peek into their lives. And I can promise you it gets better.All in all a high standard of Crime Fiction with protagonists you will want to follow and a formidable villain to boot - if you are a fan of this genre they don't come much better than this. And if you only dip your toe in Crime you might want to take a paddle....Happy Reading Folks!
5 Very good mystery, however it has some graphic scenes that may be too intense for some.Val McDermid is definitely becoming one of my favourite authors in this genre.
5 Ms. McDermid is a sensational author, and her characters, Tony Hill and Carol Jordan, are riveting protagonists.  I have read 5 of the 7 Hill/Jordan books in the canon, and every one has been fabulous.  Highly recommended (as are all of the other books in the series!).
4 This is a typical Val McDermid book, which means it is well written with a good plot and very well developed characters, but also has some graphic murder details that prevent me from recommending it to the squeamish. If you can handle the gore, it is great.  If not, this is not the author for you.  The gory parts are few and can be skimmed over fairly easily. If you like books like "Girl With the Dragon Tattoo", you will love this.  Like "Tattoo", the characters are flawed but you really like them and the plot has enough twists to keep you on your toes. This is the second of the Tony Hill series I have read, after "The Torment of Other". I only wish I had read them in order.  It is not critical, but helpful to read this one first as the two main characters, Tony and Carol, meet in this book.  Recommended.
5 I recently tried to read a book from my library. I didn't like the beginning of the book and turned off. Val McDermid was the author's name. Then I started watching the Lewis mysteries on Netflix, which led me to seek for other British mysteries. I watched a 4 part series on Netflix about a female writer searching for the truth about a child rapist. It was excellent, and I noticed it was written by Val McDermid. I started searching for other British Masterpiece Mysteries; and accidentally discovered Wire In The Blood. This is my favorite series of murder mysteries of all time. I love this program. I watched all 23 episodes and felt empty when I watched the last one. So I went to my library and took out The mermaids Singing, which is book one, the introduction of Tony Hill and Carol Jordan. I pictured the actor's as I read the book, so I cannot judge the book on it's own. But I enjoyed it immensely, although I have to warn that it is explicit and disturbing. I won't go in to all the plot details, but I would like to mention a few differences, for anyone like me who comes to this from the TV series. SPOILER ALERTS!. In the book, Tony has been having phone sex with the killer. This is a major plot device which works well, it gives us insight into Tony's psychology and makes him real. In the book, Tony has to convince the killer that Tony loves her, in order to buy himself some time. Tony is tied up and tortured and is almost definitely going to die, so he has only his brains and his voice to survive. Tony almost makes it, but has to actually kill Angelica; which he does before the police arrive. It was nice to read the words, because like all of the British mysteries, the dialogue is hard to follow. The actors have heavy accents and use really strange terms. I estimate that there are at least 200 or more terms in this book that are odd or different, and mean nothing to an American audience. This book is well constructed and includes the thoughts of the killer and descritions of the abductions and torture, which might be too disturbing for some readers.
5 I have just discovered Val McDermid's series of Dr. Tony Hill and I am so glad I did.  I have always been a huge fan of Elizabeth George and I to say that I enjoy this series more.  Sometimes it's hard to keep up with the flow of the novel.  And for long periods Tony goes on and on about points that are at times hard to follow..  But, th end result is so worth the effort.  This has to be one of the best crime novels I have ever read.  Very graphic.  Not for the faint of heart.  I am reading second in series now.
5 As serial killer novels go, this one is first class. Certainly one of the best i have ever read, almost as good as "The Silence of the Lambs" and her very own "Killing the Shadows". In a genre in which originality is a rare commodity, this book really shines. IN many instances it does contain every aspect we would expect from a serial killer novel, but Val McDermid builds on that, giving us, as Thomas Harris did so many years ago now, an excellent all round novel, rather than just a piece of genre fiction.The two lead characters are probably the best duo you will come across in all thriller-dom. The ... tension between the two just smoulders the pages beneath your eyes, and the rigid professionalism and determination of both adds a hard edge and hint of stubbornness to their relationship. They are both very human and very likeable. The reader warms to both Carol and Tony instantly. They are well drawn, characterised, and are immensely real.The killer is chilling, and the murders come close to Mo Hayder's "Birdman" in terms of gruesomeness. The descriptons of the dead bodies, and how those bodies met their deaths, has great capability to turn stomachs.The writing is packed with detail and grittiness. It is also enfused with quite a well evoked sense of place. High class prose, styled as only a master can, manipulates the reader, preparing them for a stuning final twist to the story, which has you kicking yourself whilst stunned at the same time. And the showdown between hunter and hunted is a brilliant climax to the entire book.So, if you like good serial killer thrillers, this is definitely one of the best you could choose to read.
4 I thought that this book was very entertaining.  It had an interesting plot.  I liked the way it switched between the killers point of view and the cops.  The torture scenes were a bit gruesome and they had me twisting in my chair in discomfort, but isn't that what a good novel should do?  It made the horror of what the killer was doing to these men seem that much more disturbing and made the reader really want the cops to succeed in stopping the killings.  I was up until 2:30 in the morning the other night and I couldn't put it down, even though I had to be up early for work.  I really like the characters in this book (Jordan, Hill, Merrick).  I first picked up The Torment of Others in the Charles de Gaulle airport having never heard of the author.  I so enjoyed that novel and the characters therein, that I went and purchased all of McDermid's novels with these characters.  The Mermaids Singing did not disappoint, and I look forward to reading the Wire in the Blood.
5 Val McDermid has become one of my favorite authors. The depth of her research is just amazing, and it shows in how the writing draws the reader into the scene and inside the characters. Thanks, Val McDermid, for wonderful characters and craftful writing.
4 This is my first  Val McDermid book, it is most certainly not for the faint hearted ! I really like Tony Hill and his relationship with Carol, which I am sure develops in the other of this books . This was a great read and very well written. Looking forward to getting the next one.
5 England is faced with a serial killer.  He targets gay men and tortures them with medieval tactics and painstakingly recreated devices before killing them.  Baffled, the police bring in a new resource.  Dr. Tony Hill has been the head of the criminally insane hospital unit that houses England's existing serial killers for several years.  As such, he has more insight into the minds and motivations of such men than the average policeman.Detective Inspector Carol Jordan is intent on making her way to the top.  She realises that as a woman detective, she will have to work twice as hard, and she is fine with that.  Carol is selected to work with Dr. Hill, and she finds his methods fascinating.  His work, especially the psychological profile he prepares, shows her different ways of bringing investigations to a successful close.But the killings go on.  More men are killed and shockingly, one is a member of the police force.  The killer is obviously thumbing his nose at the police, defying them to discover his identity and end his murderous spree.  Will Dr. Hill and Dectective Jordan, along with the task force dedicated to the case manage to end his reign of terror?The Mermaids Singing is Val McDermid's introductory volume in the Hill/Jordan series.  She has since written six others. The books are very popular and have also been dramatized into a miniseries.  McDermid's forte is strong characterization and the relationships formed between members of a police force and between the law-breakers and the law-enforcers.  This book is enthusiastically recommended for all mystery or thriller fans.
5 I adore thrillers and serial killers are my best reads.I picked this book from my Libraryand must say that its one of the best books i have ever come across.......Val McDermid is now on my priority list and want to read all her books.The novel is very well written and will really keep you glued to your seats. The mudrers are gruesome and i strongly suggest that the weak better stay away from it. the killings are traumatic and really turns your stomach inside out.I invariably felt sorry for all the victims and felt they did not deserve such a cruel fate.The characters of Dr.Tony Hill and D.I.Carol Jordan are real and lovable.The end is gripping, taut and takes your breath away.A brilliant novel and i intend reading it once again this weekend.
1 The paperback copy I received from Amazon has printing so tiny I have to practically use a magnifying glass to read it
5 "The Mermaids Singing"(1995), a British mystery, was the first of  Scottish author Val McDermid's "Wire in The Blood" mystery series, and quite a stir it made, too. McDermid, who is now a prize-winning, best-selling author of 22 novels, is, of course, a leading exponent of the "tartan noir," school of mystery-writing: the specifically Scottish, bloody-minded, tough but slyly humorous approach to a thriller, lightened by the mordant wit for which the Scots are known.  As does the entire "Wire" series, "Mermaids" deals with the psychological profiling and stalking of serial killers. It introduces us to, and stars, Dr. Tony Hill, forensic psychologist and criminal profiler; also introduces us to Detective Inspector Carol Jordan, with whom he works.  It's a police procedural and rather a suspense/thriller.McDermid jumped to worldwide fame and popularity on the heels of her first published novel,A Place of Execution, which was nominated for an Edgar Award for Best Novel, won a Los Angeles Times Book Prize, and was named a New York Times Notable Book of the Year. She was born and raised in a Scottish mining town not far from Edinburgh, north of the Firth of Forth; won a scholarship to the ancient, highly-prestigious Oxford University, located in England, where she read English; and worked for sixteen years as a journalist in Manchester, England, where she still resides.Despite her current English residence, she must be considered, along with Ian Rankin and Denise Mina, one of the leading lights of the Scottish school of mystery writing, "Tartan noir."  This particular novel, as several others of hers, utilizes that technique so popular in the 1990's, of interspersing supposed "real" information, allegedly taken from books, newspapers, diaries and journals, through the text, and it really doesn't work well for the writer; it just slows things down every time.The book is set in the author's fictional Bradfield, which looks a lot like Manchester when it's at home.  Authorities have become aware that a sadistic sexual serial killer is torturing and murdering men possibly members of the city's gay community: the powers that be have reluctantly ventured to bring Dr. Tony Hill in on the chase.  In the writing of the book, McDermid has borrowed a fairly significant idea from that fountainhead of all serial killer books,The Silence of the Lambs, but the author makes good use of it, and pretty much makes it her own.  Her "Mermaids" is solidly constructed, well-plotted, and well-written, but be in no doubt: it's gory and violent: only you can know your taste in those matters.The author opens her narrative in Tuscany, where her killer is on vacation.  The unidentified killer has dutifully toured around Florence, and finally gets to go to nearby San Gimignano, which makes some lovely chianti, and is known in the tourist trade as the medieval Manhattan, because the hostile families that lived there erected more than 100 towers to protect themselves from each other.  In that walled city the killer finds the true object of the vacation, the "Museo Criminologico," a collection of instruments of torture.  Of course, I am an insane, crazed mystery fan, and not that long ago followed McDermid's killer, to Tuscany, Florence, San Gimignano.  Loved the ice cream the latter city had to offer, but didn't seem to notice said museum.  However, I found it in Florence; stood hesitating in front of it for fifteen minutes, in the pouring rain that washed out that vacation, and never went in.  The fellow who's now my husband would have none of it.  As I said, only you can know your feelings about these matters.
4 James Herriot notwithstanding, Ms. McDermid uncovers some slimy rocks residing in Yorkshire.  A series of gruesome murders with the victims being left in the gay section of medium sized city have the police at odds with one another.  The higher-ups don't want the word "serial killer" even mentioned in spite of the brutal similarity of the crimes.  The victims are upwardly mobile, handsome young men who, if homosexual, are deep in the closet.Dr. Tony Hill, a forensic profiler, and Det. Sgt. Carol Jordan are matched up to investigate these crimes.  Profiling was in its infancy at the time and so were women who were more than file clerks in the police department.  The old-time boys in blue had more faith in psychics and their mums than they did in this outsider pair.  The author does a nice job of characterizing this unlikely duo.  Tony, though a rivetingly handsome man, is quietly desperate about what he perceives as his sexual dysfunction.  He has even resorted to phone sex which induces horrible self-disgust.  Carol is a striking woman, used to vigilant male attention, finds herself in the unusual "chaser" role when she is attracted to Dr. Hill.  The "chaser" role is  unusually strange to her, and so both are uncomfortable most of the time.The killings and torture are graphically described via the unknown killer's diary that is also sprinkled with red herrings and a few viable clues.  As usual, Ms. McDermid has a cast of thousands, so we are not short on suspects.  The drama of infighting among police officials interwoven with the urgency of the killings and the protagonist's attraction to one another brew up a pulse pounding pace.  The reader may have to take an occasional time out to come to grips with the latest horror, but other than that, it is a non-stop read.  The finale is brilliant if a little far fetched.  I just wanted to see justice served with perhaps a few people still standing at the end.  Recommended for those times when you feel strong of body and stout of mind.
5 A frightening book, depicting badly disturbed people... Well written, realistic,unfortunately... Intriguing from the psychological viewpoint.. Makes one realise. The crucial importance of early family relations....
5 "Stormed Fortress" is actually the EIGHTH book in the Light/Shadow Wars series, beginning with "Curse of the Mistwraith."  These eight books take place on an imaginary planet whose existence is delineated in the detail required of a "world-building" science-fiction endeavor.  And this is the first time that a dragon actually shows up and does something.  The dragon's appearance is significant because dragons have been talked about ever since "Curse of the Mistwraith";  these seemingly invincible, immortal, top-of-the-food-chain mythical beasts actually rely upon their relationships with other species in order to live in this world, and for the previous seven books, the story made disclosure about the dragons through the viewpoints of those other species who co-exist with them.  The saga of the planet of Athera hinges greatly upon a Fellowship of Sorcerers (human mages), and this Fellowship would not even exist on Athera if the dragons of Athera did not need their presence.Relationships, and their relevance to life and existence, are the very fabric of this science-fiction/fantasy world;  these drive the plot, not the other way round.  Readers who prefer action to relationships will probably dislike these books and the way that they are written.  But this series pleases me, and this Dragon To The Rescue installment is one of my favorites out of the lot (nine published, with the tenth due before the end of 2014 we hope!).
5 Janny is the best fantasy author of this century and possibly of all time. Most fantasy falls from the Tolkien tree with elves and dwarves, but Janny's works are unique. Her stories are far more akin to Frank Herbert's deep novels that combined politics, religion, morality, and human conflict than Tolkien and yet they are distinctly fantasy novels. The physics of Athera are logical and provide plenty of room for conflict, surprise, and ingenious plot-twists.Stormed Fortress is simply a fantastic book in a series of great books. You may struggle at times to work through each book, but it is worth the pay off.I have read Stormed Fortress three times now. I rate it in the top ten greatest sci-fi/fantasy books of all time.I just wish all of the books were available in hardcover.
2 ...with bountiful weeping. It's as if a thesaurus vomited onto the page without purpose. The grandiose verbosity contrasts sharply with the dearth of emotional range. Eeryone weeps. Stubbed toe? Weep savage tears of eternal torment without end.I wonder if this book is a joke. Or the result of wager. I do not remember the authors earlier work being this horrid.
4 I have been a fan of Janny Wurts for many years, and rank her right up there with Raymond E. Feist and R.A. Salvatore. My initial introduction to her work was the amazing collaborative work on the Empire trilogy with Feist. Later I read "Curse of the Mistwraith" and became hooked on her in her own right.Stormed Fortress is the next in the Mistwraith series, which centers around two half brother Princes - Lysaer who wields the power of Light, and Arithon who wields the power of Shadow. In many respects, Wurts' books are an analysis of how people have a preconceived notion that things of light are good and things of darkness are bad, as we find ourselves rooting for Arithon, who has been dubbed the "evil" Spinner of Darkness.In this installment, Lysaer is bringing his war host of the Alliance of Light to bear on the ancestral home of the s'Brydion clan, Alestron - the fortress to which the title aludes. He does this as punishment for their actions, having worked as spies in Arithon's interests in prior books. Whilst Arithon had vowed to stay clear of the conflict, he finds himself dragged in to Alestron by his own cathdein - the steward of his realm. So the siege is set for a rather protracted siege.Is it slow? Some might say so, but personally I see Wurts as giving us greater insights into the characters, weaving in political machinations, assassination attempts, devastating sabotage and incredible magic. Yes, the book pretty much begins and ends with the siege of Alestron, yet so few of us understand the drawn-out conflict of a siege, the demoralization, the hunger, the frustration. Wurts captures all this and more so very well, while continuing to weave the complex threads of her plot and set the stage for the next book in the series.There are those who complain about the language she uses, stating that it is unnecessarily heady and verbose. It is true that she likes to use the fullness of the English language, however she uses words which exactly express and flesh out her vision. To those who complain, I would say simply to get a dictionary. Trust me, there are far worse authors - Tolkien's work tended to describe every blade of grass, while some others I recently read appear to have taken a dictionary with the express intent of finding impossible words while spattering language structure with an assortment of linguistic peculiarities of different nations (I won't mention names, but feel free to peruse my previous reviews if you're really curious).In all, it is a very good read and I highly recommend it. However, I urge the reader to go back to the beginning of the series or you'll be impossibly lost if you try jumping in with this book!
5 This was a long awaited book, I had somehow missed that it had been released, but the wait was well worth it, yet another great fantasy novel in the Alliance of Light series.
4 I enjoyed this book, the chapter about dragons was completely unnecessary so I skipped it. Maybe the author has to complete a certain number of pages to the publisher & needs to "bulk the book" as I have come across this in other books in the series. It is unnecessary & detracts from overall enjoyment.
5 I loved the fifth book! Very poetic in style with adventure at we very turn!Please read this series, you will love it!
4 She always seems to bring the story to life and has emotional investment of her characters with the reader that enriches the story..
5 Of all the superlatives I've used in reviewing these books, I have to say this one tops them all. The story comes to a thrilling pause on its way to the next Arc, which Janny says will be out in the Fall. "Initiate's Trial." I can hardly wait! Even though there is no cliff hanger here, the story must continue. I felt such sadness to come to the end (temporary, to be sure) of my time spent in the world of Athera. Sigh. You've got to read these books. In order, please.
5 Stormed Fortress is the eighth novel in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW series by Janny Wurts, and the fifth and final novel in the Alliance of Light sub-arc. I've reviewed every novel in the series so far, and all of those reviews have been extremely positive, so by now it's probably no secret that I'm a huge fan of these books and their author. That being said, Stormed Fortress is an outstanding novel even by the incredibly high standards of this series.The conflict between the half-brothers Lysaer and Arithon continues unabated. The fortress mentioned in the book's title is Alestron, home of the s'Brydion family which has played such a large and complex role in the conflict between Lysaer, the false avatar of the Light, and Arithon, the Master of Shadow. Lysaer leads the forces of his Alliance of Light to the s'Brydions' doorstep, and through no fault of his own Arithon is drawn there too, which sets up the confrontation between the two half-brothers that's been brewing throughout this arc.Plot threads that were introduced four books ago at the start of the Alliance of Light arc come to fruition in Stormed Fortress. All the setup that took place in the earlier books pays off here, from Arithon's involuntary doppelganger Fionn Areth to Lysaer's complex and fascinating henchman Sulfin Evend. The Koriathain continue to plot, with Arithon's love interest Elaira caught in the middle, and the Fellowship of Seven balances its long-term duties and goals with the immediate danger posed to the key players in this story.As you'd expect from the title, a siege plays an important part in the plot of Stormed Fortress. And as people who are familiar with Janny Wurts would probably expect, the author describes this siege in a way that's second to none. Just like the previous book in the series contained a description of a necromantic ritual that simply blew every other instance of necromancy in fantasy out of the water in terms of depth and attention to detail, what we get in Stormed Fortress is almost the platonic ideal of the description of a siege. The tension is practically unbearable, not in the least because the author manages to maintain it for hundreds of pages and describes it from various points of view, from the common soldier on up:"Let us do what we can for your people." Hard-set, dedicated to practical mercy, Talvish shouldered his captaincy. He was no sorcerer, no musician, no blood-born seer stung by the vista of far-sighted consequence. He accepted that he had naught else to give but the conviction of human resolve.The amazing thing about this series is that it's incredibly complex, but in a completely different way than you'd expect based on its size. Writing even a basic summary of the state of affairs at the end of this eighth novel would take up several pages. Janny Wurts achieves this level of complexity with a relatively small cast of characters, as opposed to series like Steven Erikson's MALAZAN BOOK OF THE FALLEN, which features huge numbers of characters and races. With Janny Wurts, the complexity lies instead in the web of motivations that drives each of her characters, both as individuals and as part of whatever group or faction they belong to. Before I started reading this series, I was told that "it doesn't sprawl, it deepens" -- and now, after having read everything but the newest novel Initiate's Trial, I understand completely what was meant by this: the story that's being told here is essentially the same as the one we started out with at the beginning of The Curse of the Mistwraith, but throughout the series the author continues to reveal additional layers, reposition the markers, and explore the characters' relationships and Athera's deepest mysteries in ever-increasing depth. It's no wonder that this is one of those series people end up reading and re-reading over and over.I'm starting to get to the point where I will buy extra copies of The Curse of the Mistwraith, the first book in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW, to hand out to fantasy fans who haven't discovered the series yet. It's simply incomprehensible to me that more people aren't reading these books. The entire series is back in print in the U.S., and the latest book in the series, Initiate's Trial, is coming out today, so if you are looking for an intellectually challenging but incredibly rewarding fantasy series to read, this is a great time to get started.
4 Bring your reading glasses and if you don't own any, go buy some. My only complaint of this book is that some genius at the publisher thought that 4 pt font was an acceptable mode for printing. Thankfully, I am still able to read this without the aid of glasses, but I feel for the large segment of the population that does require reading aids as the printed form will be inaccessible to them without an upgrade to their glasses.That said, this is my first book in the entire series, and while it took some time for me to become invested in the characters and story line; I did get the feel for them and felt compelled to continue reading well before my 100 page cutoff.The story is decidedly involved and the characters are well built through implicit characterization. The tension level carries the reader along through a well crafted political and geographic landscape.I would probably recommend that any reader start at the beginning to ease the introduction, but overall, I have no reservations recommending the book.P-)
5 I have been a major fan of Wurts since she co-wrote the "Empire" series with Feist. I love Feist, and Wurts/Feist combined remains one of my all-time favorite trilogies.Wurts writes female characters very well. They feel real, and not contrived. They have real emotions and deal with real issues, without reducing them to stereotypes, the princess who needs rescue, the evil conniving woman, the hysterical victim.This is the first volume of a follow-up to a very good trilogy, set centuries back, yet has the same characters due to their long lives.This "fast forward" affords us a chance to remain with the basic underlying premise of the earlier trilogy, but set with new dilemmas and problems facing our heroine.If you like Wurts, and you like this series/setting, then you'll definitely want to pick up this book.
2 I love fantasy and this book sounded like a great read. Unfortunately I will never be able to find out.This is a small 4 1/2" X 7" paperback book, but 1 1/2" thick. It has 6 pages of beautiful maps in the front and 26 pages of glossery in the back.  The book is 578 pages long, with 44 lines per page, with print that is much smaller than newsprint and italic even a little smaller. This makes it impossible for me, to enjoy reading even with my magnifying glasses.
3 Enjoyable fantasy book.  It's well written and easy to read.  As other people have noted the font is tiny and hard to read, which is a major disservice to the book.
5 I don't know who had the lamebrain idea to print this novel in the tiniest font possible. The font, Palatino, is an otherwise very nice font. But it needs to be a more readable size. This is an approximately 550-page book minus the glossary. I am certain that if a more reasonably sized font had been employed it would have been closer to 900.I would much rather have tried to manage a 900-page paperback than try to read a paperback with a magnifying glass. I wear bifocals. I don't think that is going to offer any appreciable help as I try to read a book I am dying to dive into.  I have been waiting for a continuation of this series for a long time, as I am sure all Janny Wurts fans have, and it is awful to now have it in my hands and be so tormented by the demented publisher.I will offer a fuller review of this book when I have found a way to read it. Unfortunately, it is not available in Kindle. I appreciate that trees were perhaps saved in the printing of this book, but I am more concerned about my vision.I will give it "5" stars based on the fact that Janny Wurts is the author and what little I have so far been able to read without headache setting in. But if like me you have trouble with tiny - and I do mean tiny - type, please consider your difficulty in actually reading it before making the purchase.
4 I have read all of the books in the series (and I highly recommend that a newcomer read the prior books first, otherwise they may be lost) and am a fan of her work. While she can be descriptive (and some might say word heavy), this is the first one I've read where the pacing felt slow and the final battle was too brief and a bit of an anticlimax.250 years have passed since the last book, and Arithon s'Ffalenn, Prince of Rathain and Master of Shadow, has finally freed the last wraith. Once the task is accomplished, he is freed from his prison, but this has 2 immediate effects: the witchy sisterhood of the Koriathain are at last free to continue their path of revenge against Arithon, and at the same time they force the Fellowship of Seven (a group of powerful sorcerers) to commit to a course of non-interference in their pursuit of the capture of Arithon.As a means of protecting him, the Biedar tribes of the Sanpashir erase Arithon's memory, thus rendering the Koriani's spells to locate him useless....at least temporarily. And so the chase is on to capture an amnesiac prince who also happens to be Athera's Masterbard and a powerful sorcerer in his own right. In order to indirectly help Arithon without violating their promise of non-interference, the Fellowship of the Seven kick out Dakar the Mad Prophet. Fortunately, Dakar has not been completely idle the last several hundred years, and has actually learned quite a bit under the tutelage of Asandir. We are re-introduced to old characters along the way, and meet new characters also, particularly Daliana. She is the descendent of Sulfin Effend...the Seven ask Daliana to stand by Lysaer's side in case he succumbs to the curse of the Mistwraith. Lysaer is Arithon's half brother and the Master of Light.It is a good book - Janny is a master at weaving a complex tale with many threads into a world wholly of her own making. There are those who might classify her as too "wordy", but the reality is that she is simply adept at finding exactly the right word to convey her meaning. While there is a lot of ground covered in this book, the point of is is partly a buildup to the short battle at the end, but more importantly to set the stage for the final books of the series.I highly recommend both the book and the series, particularly to those interested in epic fantasy tales.
4 I hadn't read any of the other books in the Wars of Light and Shadow series but that usually isn't a problem for me. Initiate's Trial gave me enough of an idea of what the series was about without bogging fans of the series down with too much repetition. It also gave me the desire to check the earlier books out since they're not completely spoiled.There is one significant problem with this paperback. The font is incredibly small. I use reading glasses, but this font would be a problem for anyone. I can understand why the publisher didn't want to make a massive book like the Song of Ice and Fire series, but this was hardly the way to go.I'd give the book five stars for content and the paperback 0 starts for delivery. I don't think it's fair to punish Wurts with a bad rating for a publisher's mistake, but this font is a significant issue, which may ultimately turn people off from reading the whole novel.
1 The 576 page length is enough to discourage the reader, and the teeny tiny print really does it.  I labored through this and wonder what it is about the fantasy genre that inspires so much unnecessary wordage.  Not for the general reader though those hooked on the series will probably love every word of this one.
4 Our author, Jamie Wurtz, places this fantasy story firmly in our future. It's now 250+ years or so ahead in time, and the world is now rife with Clansmen, Dragons,rebels, curses, Damsels in Distress, warriors, battles, fortresses, and of course-refuge.This is a rollicking good story, full of adventure and good humor and the occasional tear jerking pathos.For the lover of Fantasy literature, this is another great installment in the series. Have fun!
4 I had never heard of Janny Wurts going in to this book. It might have been good to have a prior knowledge of the series or world here, but I didn't feel incredibly lost or anything. And this book is quite good. Not the best fantasy I've ever read, but solid, engaging read. Well-developed characters, good world-building, and interesting plotting. Definitely recommended for fantasy fans, though you might want to read the prior books in the series. For me, this was my first but I'll now go back and read the others.
5 I've been a big fan of Ms. Wurts's art and writing for a number of years. It's great to see this new installment in Arithon's story. We pick up the story after Arithon is released from centuries of imprisonment serving the Koriathain, but with no memory of who or what he was. As he finds himself in the world, alone without any real help from the Fellowship Sorcerers, he finds assistance from an unlikely source - a crofter who finds himself with nothing to lose, but develops a fierce loyalty to Arithon. The story twists and turns, as you'd expect, through more stages and with multiple quests by Arithon, his beloved, and others. I eagerly await the next installment in the Sword of the Canon series!
3 Somebody has seriously deluded this author:nine of these so far in the series.This one is in very small type and just gets really boringpretty fast: the bad guys always lose...The dirty dark and nasty types are mostly just crude andignorant oafs.I got half way through and gave up because the eye strain wasn'tworth the effort.The author is very good and should be writingsomething at least a little socially worthwhile?More writing like this and I'll give up on sword and sorcery/fantasyfor entertainment.40 years and this is about as bad as they get...
1 I love Janny Wurts, I've read all of the books in this series, and have heartily enjoyed Arithon's wangsty relationship with his uptight brother. But I found this book unreadable. Whoever decided on the book's font size, I simply cannot read it. Far too tiny! It gives me a headache and bother my eyes just to read a few pages. This is the print edition.Unfortunately, this book is unreadable. The text is simply too small.
5 It's a great story, the author is very talented and it shows. There is a lot of complexity to the characters, a depth to the world in which they live, and a lot of thought was put into their interactions. This is perhaps one of the best stories I've read in a series of books, that can truly be called exceptional. Unfortunately, the book is rather hard to read because of the small typeset. Even though I don't require glasses to read, with this book I found I needed a pair of low magnification lenses to be able to read this book with less eyestrain.
3 Even though this is the ninth book in the total series it is the beginning of a new series within the series. Since I like Janny Wurtz I looked forward to reading it and maybe finding a new series that had a big back log for me to order on my kindle. Unfortunately I wasn't able to conned t to the character's and found the writing too dense for me to enjoy without already being invested. I think this was the wrong place to start.
5 First things first: Initiate's Trial is the ninth book in the Wars of Light and Shadow series by Janny Wurts. I've tried to avoid spoilers in this review, but if you haven't read the earlier books in the series and want to enter into it without any preconceived notions, you may want to skip this review and instead check out the one I wrote about series opener The Curse of the Mistwraith. (Short summary: it's brilliant, and any fantasy fan who enjoys intellectually and emotionally challenging novels should read this series.)Initiate's Trial may be the ninth book in this series, but it's also the first book in a new arc, meaning the start of a new subchapter within the larger series. In addition, for the first time Janny Wurts has allowed a significant amount of time to pass between the ending of the previous book and the beginning of the new one: Initiate's Trial starts about two and a half centuries after the events described in Stormed Fortress. Because of this, the new novel may initially feel like a series reboot, but you'll quickly find out that this is somewhat deceptive.After all, Janny Wurts has been exploring the same basic conflicts and characters since the very beginning of the series. Despite the elapsed time since the previous book, Initiate's Trial is very much a direct continuation of the ongoing story, following the same people (thanks to their unnaturally long life spans) and exploring the same setting. Back when I started reading this series, I was told that "it doesn't sprawl, it deepens". That's about as accurate a description of what Janny Wurts is doing here as I've read.At its most basic, the Wars of Light and Shadow series follows the conflict between the two half-brothers Arithon and Lysaer, who have been cursed with lifelong enmity. Their fates are closely intertwined with that of Paravia, a fantasy world with enormous detail and scope.  As the series continues, Janny Wurts gradually reveals more and more details about the history of the world and the origins of its various factions, resulting in a fascinating, multi-layered setting that, nine books in, still hasn't released all of its secrets. Likewise, the two main characters and their large supporting cast grow and evolve throughout the series until they reach a level of depth that's practically unparallelled in modern fantasy.One of the surprising things about Initiate's Trial is that Janny Wurts does introduce a few new characters to this already very rich mix: we meet a small family of farmers and quickly get immersed in their simple lives. Even though these are brand new characters, after fifty or sixty pages they quickly become surprisingly tangible, real humans. Fans of this series know that Janny Wurts can generate a truly astounding level of emotional intensity with her main players, but even this brand new family's relatively small, private drama very quickly becomes moving and memorable.Another interesting aspect of this new novel is connected to the two and a half centuries that passed since the end of Stormed Fortress. I don't want to spoil some of the bigger changes that occurred in that time span (the author gradually reveals them as the new novel progresses) but because of those 250 years, the events of the first three arcs in the series are starting to take on the aspect of history or even myth, embellished by years of recounting. It's becoming easier and easier to see how we could have reached the situation described in that mystifying prologue that started off the very first book of the series. As Janny wrote back then, "the factual account lay hopelessly entangled between legend and theology".Out of all the many strengths this series consistently displays, its vast historical scope is probably the one I admire the most. In my mind, that aspect of it falls somewhere on the intersection of the Malazan books by Steven Erikson and Ian C. Esslemont, the Recluce Saga by L.E. Modesitt Jr., and the Middle Earth books by Tolkien. Going into much more detail would ruin some of the juiciest mid-series revelations, so I'll leave it at that--as much as I want to throw some of them into this review to entice readers who may have no idea what to expect.One more thing, maybe: despite the vast historical scope of this story, it always puts the human perspective at an equal, if not higher, level of importance. It's just one of the many surprising qualities of these books: they contain elements that will please people who enjoy approaching a fantasy universe with an analytical mind-set (let's say, making a wiki or studying the Paravian language) while at the same time connecting to readers who first and foremost look for a deep emotional connection to story or characters. As a matter of fact, those two extremes feed off each other, with each one enhancing and emphasizing the other one as the layers are gradually revealed and the levels of emotionality reach new heights.The only minor issues I have with Initiate's Trial are in comparison to the rest of the series, because taken just on its own merits, it stands head and shoulders above 99% of today's fantasy output. It's a shame that the new novel doesn't include a summary of the events that happened in previous books, like many of the earlier installments in the series did. Because this is such a complex tale, it would have been helpful to be able to review that information, especially at the start of a new arc. On the other hand, Janny Wurts does weave the most pertinent bits of past story into the novel as usual, and the glossary has again been updated to include the events leading up to this point, so while you may experience some disorientation early on, you'll be able to find your bearings.Also, as the first book of a new arc, Initiate's Trial is in a sense the start of a new chapter in the series. Much like with Fugitive Prince, which launched the previous arc, that means this new novel spends some time setting up the story and so may not be as fully satisfying as other parts of the series when taken on its own. Despite the familiar mid-book climax followed by the relentless onslaught of tension leading up to the ending, it's clear that this is one half of a tale that will be completed in Destiny's Conflict, the novel Janny Wurts is currently working on.And after that, the eleventh and final volume of the series, Song of the Mysteries, which will conclude a series that's already two decades in the making. I can't wait. I may actually plan a vacation around that release, so I can seclude myself in a remote location for the first reading. I realize that I occasionally get a bit hyperbolical when reviewing the Wars of Light and Shadow series, but the simple truth is that it is, in my opinion, one of the most impressive accomplishments in all of modern fantasy. It's just that good, and as mentioned at the start of this review, any reader who enjoys intellectually and emotionally challenging fantasy literature should check it out.
1 In the first chapter, 18 pages, an unnamed man with no memory is trapped in a magical prison.  A robed woman appears, hands him a lyre, and disappears.  He plays the lyre and suddenly an invisible wraith enters and begins a deadly non-physical attack on him.  He defends himself with music.  Eventually, the wraith becomes another robed woman who tells him how to use music to escape.  He does and finds himself in a muddy field but still has no memory.Then a young woman and her two brothers squabble at their failing farm as they prepare to take their wagon to market.  They need to sell their only bull to stave off bankruptcy for a few more months.  On the way to town they have pity on a poor mentally challenged mute standing in the road and give him a lift into town.Janny Wurts with Raymond Feist wrote the excellent fantasy Empire trilogy (Daughter of the Empire).  Initiate's Trial is the 9th book of The Wars of Light and Shadow series, so thousands of readers are probably reading this series.  And this might be a good book for new readers to start the series, because this is the first book of the Sword of the Canon subseries.  To help the new readers, the book includes an extensive glossary and several (nearly unreadable) maps.But the print in this book is very small, which means reading the book will take far longer to read than implied by the 578 page count and tire the eyes.  Using music to fight a wraith seems implausible and the whole first chapter reads at an agonizingly slow pace.  For these reasons, many first time readers will probably find reading the whole book unsatisfactory.
4 Initiate's Trial by Janny WurtsCurse of the Mistwraith(Wars of Light& Shadow#1), Ships of Merior (Wars of Light& Shadow#2) and Warhost of Vastmark (Wars of Light& Shadow#3) hooked me on Janny Wurts.  This is volume nine and I have missed some in between.  It is a typical Wurts, a richly detailed plot with superb character development.One of the difficulties in reviewing or in my case recommending books is that often get a book that is out of synch with the order in which they were published.  I really don't like reading books out of order.  No matter how much the author tries it is difficult to not have veiled references to a previous book when it is a long series.  As a matter of fact, I normally love that when I have read the books in order.  It provides a sense of continuity that I like.  I would like to have seen a little more back story.This book may be a bit florid for many readers.  Waxing eloquently can be beautiful but a bit less prose might have increased the readability of the book.  Overall I liked it and it does work as a stand alone albeit a bit confusing without the full back story.I recommend the book.
5 Blackwater by Conn Iggulden is one of the best short stories I've read in a while, from both novel sized anthology collections and the books in the Quick Reads series.  It's a great dark thriller where you sort of wonder what you would do if faced with a similar situation to Davey the main character, although you'd hope you would be less of a doormat than Davey is, which gets him facing this terrifying situation in the first place.  You see Davey's let others bully and walk all over him his whole life.  Carol his wife, constantly cheats on him with the best concession he can get from her to wash the smell of her lovers off herself before sleeping beside him in their bed when she comes home in the early hours of the mornings.  However one of her lovers isn't content to share Carol with Davey and hires a thug to come round his house while she's between his sheets, beat Davey up and threatening Davey he'll get a lot worse if he doesn't get lost.If you're unfamiliar with the Quick Reads series, they are books published to increase literacy levels by encouraging those who don't like to read beyond magazines and comic books, to try fiction through cheap priced (current Quick Reads all sell of the rack for under two pounds in the UK, original Quick Reads like this 2006 published story were sold slightly more expensive at just under three pounds) short story length fiction and non fiction. I think Blackwater achieves these goals and those reading this as their first book ever, or just in a while, will definitely be encouraged to try other Quick Reads stories or regular length novels.
5 The title of my review is as close to a spoiler as I could get without giving anything away.Fantastic story!Gripping & contagious...
5 Blackwater by Conn Iggulden is a fast-moving story told by Davey, a man who has lived his life as a tragic victim, often suffering at the hands of those closest to him. The book starts with Davey standing in the cold, calm, dark, nocturnal sea at Brighton beach, wearing his best suit and reflecting on his awful life.Since childhood, his main tormentor has been his own brother, but things have recently got much worse. His wife treats him very badly, but he can suffer that because of his deep-seated love for her. It is because of her actions that two extremely violent men have joined the long list of people who have made his life a living hell.Davey's tale is easy to read as it is written in conversational English. It moves at such a pace that the reader is always wondering how it will conclude and that view changes continually throughout the book. Even when the last word has been read, one is left puzzling over what could happen next.Blackwater has a flavour of Ian McEwan's Saturday about it. I doubt that its pace and tension could be maintained to a lengthier version in a full-blown novel, but as a short story, I would rate it highly and would certainly recommend it to a friend.
5 A good story that is so completely gripping from the beginning that I couldn't leave it unfinished. Knowing what the plot is doesnt give you the slightest idea how thrilling and dark it really is. A fantastic read. Short but oh so sweet.
4 Blackwater is an excellent and fast moving shorter story by a writer who has made his name by producing excellent works of historical fiction. This book is not like those - set in the present day, it is as fast paced as his other works, but wraps up a psychologically gripping tale in under 100 pages.Quick reads is a great introduction to various authors, this one included. I did not like this one as much as his longer works, but only because it was so quickly over. The writing was still every bit as good.Recommended particularly to anyone in two minds as to whether to read books by this author.
4 A blood thirsty story of a mild mannered man with a beautiful wife and protective brother getting into deep trouble with the wrong person that threatens his existence. The twist is bloody and unexpected.
5 I read this book over the course of two days.  I had to put it down a few times because it felt like someone was ripping my heart out.  As someone with a small child, it is almost impossible to fathom a child being treated to this degree.  I've read these types of books before but this one was before the worst in terms of abuse.  It's sickening and a eye opener.
5 This book wakes you up to the realities of the world we live in. It's hard to fathom that any child could be this much abused and come out of it being a strong person helping other people in the same situation as an adult now. It reminded me so much of Dave Pelzer's story (The Lost Boy) and I was so touched by Judy's story.It's a very sad and hard story to read, but it is also so uplifting to know that these children CAN grow up to be wonderful people that put their lives out there to help other children. Judy Westwater is one of those remarkable people with many accomplisments, a true story to show that anyone can beat any obstacles if they put their minds to it. Judy came very close to dying but her human spirit fought back and suceeded!!
5 I loved this book. Tragic but the ending makes up for it. Lots of hope, inspiration, and insight.
5 I Have not got around to reading this Book yet.  I Will review it when I finish reading the book.
5 I really enjoyed this book, was absolutely rooted to it and was finished in less than two weeks....brilliant and very sad but good ending.....
5 This book is so intense. Everything about it teaches ,children and adults. I love it. A child's desperate chance of survival. Many things happen to this poor little kid. I haven't read this book in forever, but I would be glad to read it 500 more times. This book will never get old. "Street Kid" is a problem that makes you want to find a soultion.Everything about this book gives me chills. I pitty the children that go through these things, everyday.
4 This novel give the lie to stories going around that publishers are only interested in long books with one or more dead bodies in the first couple of pages, and not much description. This one is not about a series character, either. But if what you want is a high-tension thriller with plenty of twists, a couple of dead bodies, interesting characters, a grand setting and surprises right up to the final page, I recommend that master story-teller, Jack Higgins.EAST OF DESOLATION, is set in Greenland and follows engaging rogue Joe Martin, a charter pilot based at Cape Desolation. It&#8217;s a hard-scrabble life and most of the characters you&#8217;ll meet are stumbling along that fine line between right and wrong. This is not a novel of moral questions and high ethical considerations, nor is it a revelatory tale of social conditions. It&#8217;s just a cracking good story of conflict, thievery and murder. It&#8217;s a tale told by one of the world&#8217;s master story-tellers, set in a compelling part of the world.
5 Higgins has again produced another classic book.  Set in Greenland, Higgins has taken readers around the globe again in a fast paced adventure with an ending I doubt anyone not peeking will predict.  I've read over twenty of his books, and this one is one of my very favorites.
3 This fellow Higgins has an uncanny knack of placing his novels in places most of us have never visited. That's what makes them almost page-turners. This one will almost send chills to your bones due to its being thrust into cold, snowy climes. As with all of Jack Higgins' novels, the hero is endangered, yet rides it out and succeeds in living through danger and also, of course, gets the girl. It's just a tad outdated at this point, but still a good read. Charles A. Reap, jr., author, "Devil's Game," "My Friend Sam" and "Choices."
4 Not as great as every other book but wow what an ending!
5 Here are what a few of Jack Higgin's contempories have said: &#34;Unsurpassed by any adventure story in recent years.&#8221; &#8212;Alistair MacLean, author of The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare. &#34;Jack Higgins is the master.&#8221; &#8212;Tom Clancy. Read this book!! On a par with The Eagle Has Landed.
3 Higgins is cranking out reads faster than I can read them.  Little character development, but interesting story line.  Would make a good beach or vacation read.
4 I am a big fan of Jack Higgins so i guess i am somewhat bias. This was a quick read and i liked it.
4 Joe Martin doesn't want to be the leading man. He's quite content to leave that to his good friend, the famous actor Jack Desforge. All Joe wants to do is fly his plane, take what jobs come to him, and make his way as best he can. But when Joe is hired to take some insurance men and the widow Mrs. Kelso up to a Greenland ice cap to investigate and identify the remains of a wrecked plane, his nightmares come to life.If suspense is what you're looking for you'll find it here in East Of Desolation. Jack Higgins weaves a tale of twists and turns which will keep you guessing. Like the best roler coaster ride you won't see the next twist in the track till it takes your breath away. A fast paced story and a quick read, this is suspense adventure writing at it's best.
4 I liked the book very much but thought that Kitsune's (sp?) escape from the fire was a bit on the superhuman side.
3 Early Jack Higgins novel that has many of the elements that have made him a very popular author. The main characters are "likeable" and well-developed. The story moves quickly although there is very little action in the first half of the book (much more in the second half). However, once we find out the true motives and identities of many of the characters (about 3/4 of the way through the book) the story seems to fall apart and is hard to believe.
3 British national Joe Martin, a recovering alcoholic, serves as the narrator of East of Desolation by Jack Higgins.  Martin makes his living as a bush pilot in sparsely populated Greenland, flying passengers and cargo to the remotest of areas.  After a suspicious plane wreck is reported, he's recruited to transport some interested parties to the isolated site of the crash.This is a fast moving action-adventure/crime novel with a number of potentially interesting characters.  Unfortunately, most of the characters are either insufficiently fleshed out or fail to stand up to scrutiny.  Higgins' description of the spare, harsh Greenland terrain is vividly rendered and is the best thing about this book.The plot, farfetched and crudely cobbled together, falls apart completely in the final 50 pages.  A disappointing effort by an author capable of much better.
4 I love Jack Higgins and when I was sorting through some books at the college I go and saw this one I was excited.  The story flows really well and the characters are described well, however as a read quickly to reach a  great ending I was disappointed and kinda let down.  But overall just  another excellent book by Higgins...
5 This book us unlike Higgins' other novels. The Sean Dillon series are like a flash fire compared to the much slower tempo of this mystery thriller.  I rather enjoyed the change-up as the book seems to deliver a longer term enjoyment.  Lots of twists and turns, keeps you guessing, and the characters are well built and believable.  I highly recommend this book.
5 In the Arctic Circle of Greenland, charter pilot Joe Martin is hired to transport passengers to a newly discovered small plane crash to positively identify the bodies for an Insurance Company.  But Joe quickly figures out  that his passengers, are playing a much deeper game than an Insurance  investigation,  but, he doesn't quite know what.  Joe doesn't know the  object of the game yet, but the rules, as Joe intuitively understands them,  do not rule out murder...
4 Told from the view of the narrator, charter pilot Joe Martin, the tale was unfolded, introducing the desolation of remote communities in Greenland and how it affected the so-called civilised people when they left the exile of urbanisation and returned to nature.What was it about Cape Desolation, one of the most challenging places in the world to survive, that attracted various folks who had been born and bred in the big cities?  Movie stars, insurance agents, beautiful women all combined to produce volatile tension when an abandoned plane was discovered in the middle of nowhere with 2 dead bodies.  A supposed griefing widow, an overly solicitious insurance agent, Joe discovered that greed can rear its ugly head in the most unexpected quarters.In a fashion, this book followed the style of Alistair Maclean when the narrator described everything that he saw, heard and felt, but refrained from revealing all the knowledge available.A good mix of mystery and turns, even if the excitement of the wilderness and artic aviation failed to rouse you, the superb drama between lively characters, with all the human failings and foibles would serve to delight and entertain, making this book hard to put down.
5 Another inspired book by Patterson. Get comfortable and start reading. It will be difficult to put it down before you are finished.
3 This is an old story with a few new twists that is well written and kept my attention thru-out, the author did not take a &#34;vacation&#34; on this one
5 5 stars for this one.  I've read most of Jack Higgins novels and this is a second time on this one  (first as an eReader)  This is Higgins at his best.
5 Higgins builds from beginning to end.  His character development in this book helps the reader to identify with the character and lose himself in the action of the book.
3 Without giving away the plot, I will say there are numerous characters in this book that can cause some confusion unless you pay close attention.  I guess I wasn't paying that close attention because I kept getting them confused.  Furthermore, some of the characters assume other names to hide their identities and this adds to the confusion.  Higgins himself became confused a couple of times when he used the wrong name in reference to one of the characters.Overall, the story is worth reading but don't expect perfection in the characterizations or writing.
5 Good mix of history and fiction good read goes fast. Higgins is always good for a story, some one say perdictable endings but it does have a histor base and the Germans lost and the Allies won how else would it end.
4 enjoyed  deals with ww2 and possible continuation of nazis after the wari do not like to be forced to add more after i have said what i wanted
3 The story was 'ok' and it moved along pretty well. I find that some of his later books are more to my liking but I do still enjoy his writing.
4 Enjoyable, typical Higgins. Fairly predictable, but still a fun read. Especially good as a summer book to read on the beach.
3 If  you like to read about walking across glaciers and surviving  in the freezing temps in Norway.  A good WWII novel with a different twist.  The heroes are the common folk to help a hunted solder to survive.
2 The author wrote it is partly fiction and partly non-fiction.  I expected more info about the post war Bormann search
5 I think Jack Higgins is at his best when he's writing about World War II or the IRA. I've never really enjoyed his War on Terror stuff nearly as much as the WW2 thrillers he pumped out in the late 70's and 80's. Valhalla is classic Higgins' WW2 prose with good guys in the SS, a Martin Bormann double and the feeling that Higgins was in the Fuehrer Bunker himself in April of 1945. Jack, if you ever read any of these reviews, how about a couple more WW2 thrillers before it's all said and done? Cheers.
3 I really enjoy Jack Higgins as an author and this is a good effort.  I have read both better and worse from him.
4 This was a very enjoyable read.  I did not know how it was going to end, whether the good guys or bad guys would win.  I could almost feel the cold temperature through which the combatants in the story went through during the siege of the castle.
4 As a fan of Higgins, I knew what to expect when I started this book and he did not disappoint.  I give it four starts instead of five because it was not quite as supsenseful as some of his other books.  But it definitely held my interest and kept me wondering how the plot was going to sort itself out.  A good read.
3 Too many super soldiers and a predictable plot make this one of Higgin's books one of his poorer ones.  It does have an interestresting plot line about Borman's fate.
4 After the first dozen pages the book picks up very well, I found the writing engaging and the plot moved at an adequate pace. This writer is a good story teller, he avoid the devices that many current authors uses now, sex, graphic violence and language are left out- almost quaint to read it, but a good story, plot and writing.
5 Loved the book.  Would recommend this book highly to military and suspense readers.  Engrossing, engaging and suspenseful throughout the book.  Looking forward to more Jack Higgins books.
5 Well crafted, crisply written and interesting throughout.  Many of the German terms had to be defined but in doing so widened and enriched the story.  I intend to read this novel a second time just for the pleasure of enjoying a well-crafted story.
3 It was fast moving and interesting, suspenseful, and exciting but ended a little weakly. I would  recommend it to anyone interested in WWII.
5 Jack HIggins demonstrates what a real storyteller should be. This story is an intelligent, fast paced tale. Even though the character development is brief and economic, you feel a connection to them. Did some research on the various aircraft highlighted in the story, they are as interesting as the human characters.
5 Jack Higgins is an extraordinary author. His novels have thrilled me for many many years. I highly recommend his works to younger readers.
4 In the vein of other historical fiction (like Jeff Shaara novels) that is centered around actual people and events, the Valhalla exchange does a fantastic job of weaving a believable story. The characters are robust is not a little prototypical, but work together well. Great, quick read!
4 Another look at WWll from a Higgin's spinned yarn.  As usual Higgins shows a knowledge of the war and of the Hitler Germany.
3 No solid ending.  I categorize it as one that I enjoyed while reading it, but would not read it again.
5 Another of Jack Higgins great books!  Written as if the reader is actually there. Couldn't put it down from start to finish.
4 I have always liked this author; I can always count on him for a good story.  This book came through for me although it was not one of his best, I think this was the period of time when we used another name and was really pumping the books out.  There are other books that capture this period in time better and the plot was moving to the "no way" factor for me.  He did a good job with an interesting story
4 Jack Higgins is up to his expected standard in this book.  Difficult to put down until you reach the end.
2 Jack Higgins (aka Harry Patterson) usually writes interesting, albeit fantastic yarns. However, he suffers from empty characters and unbelievable situations more at home in a sci-fi novel. This is no exception; the characters are as empty as a crushed beer can, the plots fantastic and unsubstantiated and the action, infantile to say the best. His infatuation over teutonic heroes is rather sick. Something to read on a flight if theres not anything else.
4 It was good reading.  I felt like it skipped about and sometimes you could lose which characters went where. But the main thought was what I expected it to be.
3 I found it hard to follow. Plot was not clear.Not as good as his other books.His earlier books were much better
4 The end days of Nazi Germany is an intriguing setting and leads itself to intense action.  Yet, I found some aspects of the story's plot development to be too predictable.  Still, it was an entertaining light read.
5 I read some Jack Higgens books when I was younger and thought let me give it a try again. I was not disappointed, exellent ready!
4 A pretty good WW II suspense novel.  Lots of action and good character build up.  I enjoyed it and had a difficult time putting it down.
3 I love adventure/mysteries and Clive Cussler is my favorite.  Jack Higgins writes somewhat in the descriptive style of Cussler, yet lacks the rich use of language.  The characters were not fully developed and I did not finish the book, which is rare for me.  While  I love history, I do NOT seek out stories about the Nazis and the story line was not of interest.
4 This was a very interesting story of what happened in the last days of world war two in Europe. It was amazing how the Germans used their sleeper agents and their doubles to fool the allies. I enjoyed the history and the way the opposing leaders handled the situations.
4 I read this book almost 20 years ago and I remember it being one of Higgins' best. The storywas written under Jack Higgins' real name Harry Patterson. The story revolves around thehunt for Martin Bormann by a team of American soldiers.Yes, the story is somewhat hard to believe as it involves a body double, but it is very well executed. The storytakes place in WWII Berlin and is full of action with an ending that is quite memorable.
4 Kind of slow going at the beginning.  But by the end I was SO glad I'd read it. Intriguing story surrounding the end of the Reich and P.O.W.'s.
5 Excellent job of grabbing my attention and not letting it go. Great plot wonderful tightly drawn characters and wonderful writing.
4 Nancy in Seattle, WA  :  Well done tale of the nazi's death throes as the top command struggles to escape.  A microcosym of the war played out in one village and castle.  This is the first book I have read by this prolific author.  It will not be the last.
5 Have always enjoyed historical fiction novels set around wwII that weave authentic historical events with fictional characters to create thrilling action/adventure stories.
4 I love all of his books and I have read so many.  I hope he keeps writing such great thrillers
5 I really did enjoy this book as it took place during World War two, my favorite part of history.  In addition it was about Martin Bormann making it even more interesting.  Read and enjoy.
5 I haven't read it yet but I anticipate it will be good, everything I read authoried by Jack Higgins is good!!  Thanks.
3 WWII with a little modern twist.  All the classic ingredients, damsels, prisoners, Nazis, tea and crumpets!  A good read, but read it with patience!
3 The mystery was Intriguing, yet the story was drawn out.  I was expecting a faster pace.  It wasn't hard to put it down, but good to finish.
2 Was not one of his best books that I have read.  He usually keeps one interest and this one he did not.
4 I was immersed in the book, just like all of :Jack's books.  The different story line was only sauce to pique my interest.Ending epilog made it seem factual.
4 Jack Higgins always writes exciting and action packed books. WWII still has a little action left at the end of the war. I look forward to reading more of his books.
5 This was a book that I could not stop reading. It captures your imagination from the beginning and the ending made me gasp. I recommend this book to anyone who likes a good story.
4 If you like Higgins, you will like this story. A page turner for me and enjoyed every single page. I heartily recommend it.
3 I loved the premise of this book and in spots it was really interesting, but sometimes the story kind of lost my interest.
3 Ok. Not the best Higgins book, but OK. Not happy that more words are required in order to post on this.
4 Jack Higgins can always be relied upon for an easy-reading action-filled adventure story. His tales set in WWII are renowned, especially "The Eagle has Landed" and "Night of the Fox".  While this book is not quite as good, it is still a great action adventure using authentic WWII backgrounds.At the end of the war many top level Nazis had plans to escape from Germany to "friendly" countries, especially in South America. Rumours abounded that Martin Bormann, Hitler's powerful personal secretary, had made his escape and his whereabouts had always been a mystery.The Valhalla Exchange is a fictional account of Bormann's plans for escape, using a group of highly connected POW's as protection. The WWII action is authentic with Higgins creating a memorable group of characters from both sides and the prisoners, especially Ritter a war-weary highly decorated SS Officer and one of the prisoners, General Hamilton Canning who pursues Bormann for thirty years after the war.This book was written several years before DNA testing appeared to confirm that Bormann's remains had been found in Berlin - or were they?
4 Higgins writes anew about a much written about topic, the plans for top Nazi's to escape Germany at war's end and prepare for a new Reich.  It's a good read for those of us who hoped all these horrible people would have been caught and captured, even if the ending leaves some ambiguity about the fate of the central Nazi character in the book, Martin Bormann.
3 A well written thriller about a little known aspect of WWII.  A very interesting and exciting book from the well known author.
4 Enjoyed thestoryline, liked the escapism that it offers.As usual Jack Higgins  puts out a great story. Would love to see it as a movie.
4 Fast paced intrigue somewhat loosely based on historical events/figures at the close of WWII in Nazi Germany and then taken to the edge. Still can't figure out which bad guy was which at the end. If you like convoluted plots featuring a wide range of differing characters, this might be for you. I've read many of Higgins' novels and haven't found one that I didn't enjoy.The story itself reads almost like a history text. Not in the dry facts sense, but rather in that there might well be more truth than fiction in what you have just read. And that would really be scary!
5 Just got this awesome book, and am already inspired!... The description says it is for intermediate painters. I am really just a beginner. That being said, I think that excellence is in itself inspiration for any level of artist. Some of us &#34;would be&#34; artists find color theory and selection to be a real mystery. The author has covered the subject with examples and explanations that help make the choices easier to envision, and help in determining what colors of paint to buy to achieve the &#34;heart stopping&#34; color impact in her paintings. Choices of watercolor paint colors are  legion, and thus quite confusing.  Shirley Trevena is a modern day Matisse. I am also waiting for delivery of one of her dvd workshops. Can't hardly wait!!
5 Another book by Shirley Trevena I am happy to have in my library.  Own some DVD's of hers and now the books are something I can enjoy as well.
4 There is plenty of inspiration in this truly vibrant artist's works.  Great composition is not lost in these loosely rendered watercolors.  I enjoyed reading it, and only wished for more instruction in her style.  It's still well worth the purchase with the focus of instruction on color.While my personal style is far less random, her book has improved my painting immensely with an effort to present more vibrant, organic art.
5 I love this artists work. I bought her second book thru Amazon and found out she had published one before this, so of course must have it. Her approach to watercolor is very unique as in her book "breaking rules" explains her approach. This book is much more informative as to how she works, what she works with and her inspirations. It's a good study for those who are nonconformants. Some day I will get her video. Thanks D. Weed
5 Shirley Trevena is a most gifted watercolorist. Her work shown in this 2nd book of hers that I purchased through Amazon is so inspiring. Her use of color, her composition, her unique vision of still lifes, and her writing style is down to earth and very informative. Her paintings are very emotionally stirring every time I look at them. Do not pass this book up.
5 The art in this book is just lovely...  I collect many art instruction books and only a few are unforgettable... this is one of them!
3 Shirley is a interesting person.  I look her painting, but they are hard to follow.  She has complex designs and I would consider this advanced watercolor techniques.  Her paintings are lovely.
2 Unfortunately, this book does not have the technique instruction of her  earlier book, "Taking Risks with Watercolor".  Her paintings are wonderful, and her complex compositions have a style that is unique and fascinating, all her own.  But it is difficult to understand the techniques, colors, glazes, etc., that might have been used.  Disappointing, as I was very keen to learn more.
5 LENIN:"The destruction of Poland is the way to Germany and the Revolution in Europe!"Another "rarely"known fact of history not documented in classromms.
5 A lot of cliches turn out to be true. Evidence of this can be found in Adam Zamoyski's Warsaw 1920 as it "reads like a novel." The book came in the mail on Wednesday and I finished it on Thursday. Granted, it's only 140 pages long but the narrative that the author constructs is scholarly but very accessible. Previously, all I knew about the events of 1921 came from general surveys of Soviet history. I was grateful to obtain a book that focused on the events of Lenin's grand revolutionary plans for Europe alone. The big prize for the Bolsheviks was Germany and they hoped to invade that nation shortly after rolling through Poland.Thanks to the brilliance of Marshall Pilsudski, Lenin's fantasies were dashed with the trampling of cavalry. Most of the book can be summed up as follows: it's looks bad, it looks worse, it looks really bad, the Poles are toast, but then they are, in the words of then Major De Gaulle (who was on the scene): "Victory! Complete, triumphant Victory!"The genius of Pilsudski's maneuver which let to the Miracle on the Vistula still astounds. He gambled his nation, his people, his life, and bought his nation 19 years of collective freedom as a result. Looking at his plan and its effects--retreating Russians ran into the grinder of five independently moving Polish divisions--one has to wonder how few people at the time were able to share Pilsudski's vision. The Marshall was among the greatest of men and this is a stellar history of the Pole's timely defense of the west against a murderous red horde.
4 This book was very well written and researched. It provided quite a bit of insight into the strategy of Pilsudski and the actions of Tukhachevski and Budenny. I would recommend this book as necessary reading to understand the Russo-Polish war.
5 I think that most readers would have the same reaction I did when hearing of Adam Zamoyski's book Warsaw 1920: gosh, I didn't know Poland and Russia went to war in 1920.Poland and Russia had a long and often violent joint history. In 1920 there was communist unrest in Germany and Lenin assembled an army to cross Poland and support the German revolutionaries. The Polish, acting on intelligence, preempted any invasion by attacking the Russians. Consequently there is debate as to who "started" this war. The Russians drove back the Poles to the gates of Warsaw but were subsequently routed when the Polish army, under Marshall Jozef Pilsudski, outflanked them. Of interest to me was the youth of the Russian commanders, many in their early twenties and most fated to disappear in Stalin's show trials in the 1930s, and the involvement of figures such as Joseph Stalin (political commissar on the southern front) and Charles de Gaulle (the French military observer).The strength and weakness of Zamoyski's book are one in the same: a concentrated focus on the military activities in the field. Consequently the reader has a good understanding of the strategies, the battles and why the Polish army routed the Russians. The author is very clear about the military focus but it does leave the reader, especially those without prior knowledge, only the most rudimentary understanding of the political context and even less understanding of the concurrent social and economic effects of the war.Although Adam Zamoyski is a Polish historian I, without prior knowledge of the subject and independent of any Polish or Russian cultural ties, considered the book to be reasonably impartial. He is clearly pro-Polish and occasionally an adjective or adverb describing the Russians "pops" out as being deliberately negative. However the focus on military rather than political activities definitively minimizes any bias.The writing itself is quite clear and direct. The material is well organized, primarily on a chronological basis, and benefits significantly from the maps and photographs. The author, presumably recognizing the minimal context provided, has included an appendix with suggested further reading in English.To my mind the best type of book because I learnt something with every page.
5 Zamoyski has produced an excellent recounting of a long forgotten conflict.  The book, although containing only 138 pages, is quite dense.  He accomplished this account by clearly laying out the profound events:  establishing a prologue to the battle, describing the area of operations, and offering tables of organization and equipment for both sides, much in the same manner as I did with While Boston Watched.  He also provided good maps, which are not always the case with authors.  He also underscored how destitute the Poles and Bolsheviks were upon entering this bitter struggle.  The Reds were still mopping up the Whites, executing Greens (Government employees) and chasing Ukrainians.  The Poles were were just coalescing after serving in the armies of three different countries during the Great War and trying to solidify their borders.  There was no equipment or clothing or food.  The infrastructure of Poland was barely extant. (One might also want to read Norman Davies', Red Eagle White Star, and Jozef Pilsudski's, The Year 1920, with an introduction by Sosnkowski for a total enlightenment.)  Fortunately for the Poles, they had Jozef Pilsudski, the Commander, for a leader.  Pilsudski took no guff from anyone or any leader, to include Lenin, Stalin, Tukhachevski, or Budyonny.  What makes this story quite distinct, for me, is the recounting of the last cavalry battle fought between Budyonny's Golden Horde, and the Polish Cavalry.  This is a fantastic episode of history.  Too bad it's so little known.
5 This is an excellent, brief history of the Soviet-Polish War of 1920. Let me repeat. This is a military history. Its primary concern is with the composition of armies, military leadership, strategic objectives, battlefield tactics, weapons, etc. T. Kunikov's review notwithstanding, it is not a book about the grand political objectives of the Soviet regime or a treatise on the Communist threat to western civilization (although these are taken for granted by the author).Kunikov's review is typical of the kind of knee-jerk reaction so many Marxist apologists experience whenever they perceive the slightest criticism of Soviet (or Chinese or Cuban) Communism.As I have said, this is essentially a book of military history which makes only occasional, oblique references to the motives and objectives of the Soviet (and Polish) leaders. The Soviet leaders' desire to spread their revolution to Germany and Western Europe is alluded to in the book's subtitle, "Lenin's Failed Invasion of the West," which, if I know anything about the publishing business, was probably dreamed up by an editor eager to give the book more pizzazz. Subsequently, it is referred to in one short paragraph on page 2, which consists almost entirely of two quotations form Lenin himself; in one sentence on page 6 about the Bolshevik's general belief in the necessity of overthrowing the "established world order;"  a phrase on page 7 about "ensuring the survival of Communism in Russia" by exporting revolution to Germany; and another indefinite  remark on page 9 about the Communists' expectations of the "immanent triumph of revolution throughout the world." That's it.The rest of the book's 224 pages consist of a detailed history of military operations during the Soviet-Polish War of 1920, filled with excellent maps, easy to read and understand.Even the concluding chapter does not discuss Soviet intentions in their invasion of Poland, except for one sentence in which the author refers to Stalin's success in 1945 in achieving "much of what Lenin had set out to do in 1920," and noting "the dark night of Communism that engulfed [Poland] for half a century" thereafter. No one but an ideologically  blinded Marxist could deny the truth of that statement.The Polish attack on the Soviet armies massing on their eastern frontier in 1920 was clearly an act of pre-emptive self defense against an immanent, well prepared Soviet plan to invade their country (similar to Israel's pre-emptive attack on Egypt and Syria in 1967). The Soviet invasion was scheduled to be launched within forty eight hours. The Poles were well aware of Soviet intentions because they had the world's most highly developed capability for decoding and reading their opponents radio messages, a talent which was to prove invaluable to the British in World War II.I find it astonishing that certain reviewers can continue to ignore the openly declared intentions of Lenin, Trotsky, Stalin and the rest of the Soviet leadership of the time ("World Revolution" was their slogan), as well as all of the facts that have emerged from the Soviet Archives since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. Russian scholars like Viktor Suvorov, Dmitri Volkogonov, and Arkady Vaksburg, as well as their American and British counterparts such as Albert Weeks, Harvey Klehr, John Earl Haynes, Ronald Radosh, Richard Pipes and J. Arch Getty, have been using this material for nearly two decades now. Many of the original documents are also accessible to any interested reader in the Yale University Press "Annals of Communism" series, which consists of some twenty volumes of Soviet archival documents edited by American and Russian scholars. But, of course, one must first read the documents,  then make up their mind.
4 I wish it had a bit more information. I have always been interested in the battle and it's forgotten importance. Would love for Zamoyski to write another THICKER book about the whole war in detail and The battle of Warsaw.
5 This is a sort and concise book (about 150) pages, and it covers the same subject that was done more extensively by "White Eagle, Red Star", which I read and enjoyed several months ago. Having a short book tell an important story compels the author to be very precise in his writing, and relate only the essential events to explain what happened to the reader, especially to one who knows relatively nothing about the subject.The book details the Polish-Russian War of 1919-1920 which ended when the Polish army routed the Russians at the very gates of Warsaw and pushed them back to the East. It's a compelling story and one that is very well told by the author, who has written several books on Poland and its history.The politics of Eastern Europe always seem to be complicated, and from the Western perspective it's difficult to discern which side is right in any conflict. The author believes that this Polish victory saved Western Europe from being overrun by the Russians, with consequesnces that would have created Communist states in Germany, other Eastern European states, and possibly even as far West as France. Whether he is correct or not is really beyond knowing, but he is certainly entitled to his expert opinion.As a proud descendant of Polish ancestors I would like to believe that the author is correct and that, just as Sobieski's army saved the West from the Ottomans at the siege of Vienna, Polish arms once again rescued Europe from a grim future. Otheers may have their own opinions about this, but that's the good thing about book reviewing in this country: we all have our own thoughts, and are free to express them! If Zamoyski is correct, that may be one of the things that Poliand saved for us during those dark days when its army was backed against the eastern edge of Warsaw.
4 This book is illuminating.  It helps explains much of the twentieth century in Eastern Europe.  While it's subject is a thin slice of history, the author uses these events to reveal a lot about what came before (the dismemberment of the Polish nation and the Bolshevik Revolution) and how they influenced what came afterwards (the Polish resistance during World War II and the Solidarity movement). I recommend the book to those with a historical background and an interest in current events.
4 This is pretty much a description of each battle, the troops involved, the movements of the troops and the aftermath.  Some but not much discussion of where mistakes were made and what the alternate outcomes might have meant.  The bottom line of the invasion of Russia by Poland in 1919, was a totally miscalculated decision by Marshall Pilsudski (almost like Hitler) that the Russians were weakened by their Civil War.  He had hoped to capture more Russian land and create a Lithuanian/Byelorussian puppet state to his east.Lenin's response was one of overwhelming numerical superiority in weapons and men but the lack of a logistical model and the idea that the Russians would be able to live off the land like they did in their fight against the Whites.  Lenin had hoped for a quick victory in Poland, that would lead to a People's Revolution in Germany that would then merge with the Hungarian Bolshevik Republic to the take over the Balkans.  Didn't happen.The Russian attack was a two pronged approach with Tuchachevsky in the North towards Warsaw and then towards Berlin, and Voroshilov (with Stalin as his political Kommissar) to the South through Lvov and then onto Vienna and Prague.  As the Northern attack actually passed above Warsaw, Trotsky (War Kommissar) ordered Voroshilov to attack from the South.  Voroshilov refused (Trotsky wanted both him and Stalin executed but was stopped by Lenin) and sent Budionny and his cavalry to try and encircle Lvov.  Budionny and his accompanying infantry were fought to a standstill by the Poles and were almost surrounded.  These forces then had to retreat being no help to the northern attack.After almost a year of battle and the deaths of many soldiers on both sides, they ended up almost where the started and signed a peace treaty with boundaries that were the same as were approved final by the Allies at Versailles.  [NOTE: During the purges in the late 1930s of the Russian military, all of the officers involved in the Northern prong were liquidated, but Voroshilov and Budionny were left alone. What might have been the outcome of the execution of Stalin on the future USSR and World War 2?]Zeb Kantrowitz
5 Zamoyski presents a great story, that of Poland's finest hour when it stood alone, against the Reds who were on the march to spread their revolution around the world. Poland, which had risen from the ashes of the Great War and which was struggling to reestablish itself on the map of Europe after two centuries of occupation and division managed to stop the Red Army at the very gates of Warsaw.Lenin was not satisfied with taking over Russia when revolution broke out in the Russian Empire. Cutting a deal with the Germans for a respite he also signed several treaties with Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan and would later recognize the Far Eastern Republic... and eventually incorporate each into his Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In dealing with Poland the Bolsheviks only saw another errant property of Czarist Russia, a White outpost which was in the way of spreading Red Revolution to Germany, Hungary, Italy and beyond.Zamoyski's writing brings to life the struggle between Poland and the Soviets. Pilsudski, Poland's leader, is portayed as the leader he was, gruff and unsure had times but the man who could hold the fragile country together long enough to defeat the the Red units sent to crush the freedom-loving Poles (even as Lenin "negotiated" another treaty) and turned defeat into victory. He managed to stop the Bolsheviks and cause them to be more introspective and concentrate on "socialism in one country." He bought almost 20 years of peace for Poland and the rest of Eastern Europe, a legacy of democracy which would serve as a cornerstone for the post-USSR world.This is a great book and includes photos and, more importantly, maps to explain the action. I only wish it was longer!
5 Instead of repeating other reviewers, I focus mostly on specific issues.To begin with, there is no contradiction between the wartime emaciation of Russia and her expansionist ambitions. To the contrary: The commentary on the inside front cover states that: "In 1920 the new Soviet state was a mess, following a brutal civil war. The best way of insuring its survival appeared to be to export the revolution to Germany, itself economically ruined by defeat in World War I and racked by internal dissension."Nor is it true that the Poles started the 1920 War. In this overall geographic region, one set of political and combat events had succeeded another, and WWI had never ended. So talk of a "new war" is meaningless. The German armies, occupying this territory, began to withdraw and to be replaced by Russians. (So the Russians were conducting an invasion-by-osmosis: my term. This was called `Target Vistula': p. 8). After a short battle with some Polish units, the Soviets seized Wilno (Vilna, Vilnius) on January 5, 1919. (p. 8). (This was as much an act of war against Poland as if the Soviets had seized Warsaw or Krakow.) So Pilsudski's subsequent "attack" was actually a counterattack. (p. 9).In any case, it is absurd to suppose that the Poles and Russians had the same valid claim to the territories east of the Curzon line. These territories had belonged to Poland until the Partitions of the late eighteenth century. They had never belonged to Russia up to that time. Also, the territories contained a large Polish minority and considerable Polish cultural development. In contrast, the Russian population and Russian culture on these territories had been virtually nonexistent before the Partitions, and, even after over a century of Russian rule, remained much smaller than their Polish counterparts. So, by any rational measure, the Poles had much greater moral and political right to these territories than the Soviets. (Taking this further, note that the entire Russian empire, first tsarist and then Communist, consisted of numerous non-Russian peoples conquered by Russia. Ironic to Soviet protestations about Poland's "non-ethnographic" boundaries, most of the Russian empire had always consisted of territories where ethnic Russians formed a distinct minority).Polish-Ukrainian relations, etc., were a separate issue. Zamoyski notes that, regardless of the degree of eventual Polish possession of these territories (direct or federated), Pilsudski's top priority was to deny them to the Soviets. (p. 9). The Petlura (Petlyura) Ukrainian Army may have been small, but was nontrivial in size. It peaked at about 30,000 members. (p. 37, 135).This book contains details about such things as the beginnings of mechanized warfare by both sides (e. g., the Putilov armored cars), and the Polish successes in cracking the Russian military codes. (p. 28). The latter skill, of course, was later further developed into the Poles' cracking of the "invincible" Nazi German ENIGMA code.
3 I read this book for 2 reasons: firstly, because I had always been fascinated by this episode in Europe's fragmentation after WW1, ever since reading the chapter on it in JFC Fuller's Decisive Battles series whilst still at school (and for once his description of the battle as `decisive' is accurate here- the result of this battle really did change history). More importantly, I thought 2 of Zamoyski's earlier books, `The Last King of Poland' and `Moscow 1812' were models of popular history, being entertaining, well argued and well researched, and, not least, extremely well written.Whilst this is not a bad book, I was a bit disappointed after finishing Warsaw 1920. The treatment is often very superficial, which is I suppose inevitable in a book of 140 pages. I doubt that Zamoyski is capable of writing badly, but I did wonder what this book is for. Zamoyski acknowledges the help of his friend Norman Davies, who has written a more detailed book on this subject. As far as I know this is still considered the standard work in English, and, given that Davies' prose is typically as elegant as Zamoyski's, is no doubt highly readable as well as scholarly. Zamoyski does not claim to have done original research, and also acknowledges that all the essential documents have been widely available for a long time. I suppose the only rationale is that this book is shorter than Davies' and so provides a useful introduction (and I have to concede that until I read this book I was not aware of Davies' effort, even though I have read several of his books).The war began when the Poles and their Ukrainian allies attacked the Red Army in the Ukraine in April 1920, whilst the latter was engaged in fighting Denikin's army in the Russian Civil War. Zamoyski concedes that Pilsudski `committed a huge diplomatic blunder' in precipitating the war, but he did so because he realised that a Soviet attack was imminent, & that if Russia was able to mobilise her full potential the Polish Army would be swamped. However, as far as world opinion was concerned this appeared to be an unprovoked attack on the Soviet Union, especially as the Soviets had repudiated the historical partition treaties & recognised all the territory up to the Dneiper as Polish.This is an event of crucial importance to the interpretation of the conflict, and also to the wider subject of the development of the Soviet Union. Received opinion seems to be that Lenin was bent on exporting revolution as soon as the Civil War in Russia was settled in favour of the Communists. Zamoyski follows this view & on page 13 states that in January 1920 the Politburo resolved to invade Poland within 3 months (with Trotsky & Chicherin demurring). If this is true then Pilsudski was just guilty of poor tactics, rather than of starting a war of aggression. However, Zamoyski only offers references to secondary sources to support his claim (footnote 8), rather than primary evidence. This is disappointing in reference to something so fundamental. I am not a historian, and certainly no expert on this subject, but given that this point drives one's attitude to subsequent events I would like to be sure what the Bolsheviks had resolved to do.This campaign is fascinating for several reasons, not least the fact that it was so different than the recently ended World War where, albeit to a lesser extent on the Eastern Front than in the West, the war was often static due to the weight of materiel on both sides, and the difficultly of controlling large armies on the battlefield before effective radio communication became available. In the Polish-Soviet War, on the other hand, warfare was very mobile, with relatively small armies covering huge distances, and cavalry made a comeback onto the battlefield, although this was partly because of the Russian innovation of the `tachanka', a heavy machine gun on the back of an open horse drawn buggy. It could gallop up to a line of enemy infantry as an adjunct to the cavalry, & deliver rounds of withering fire as it veered round.Improvisation generally had to be the order of the day, obviously so for the Poles, who needed to create a new army alongside a new country, but also in the case of the Soviets. As Zamoyski points out, the Bolsheviks were hampered in building a new army by their success in destroying the old one: a pre-condition of their seizure of power in October 1917 was the destruction of the Imperial Russian Army, & the Bolsheviks achieved this by systematically undermining every aspect of military service, inciting mutiny, desertion, and wholesale slaughter of officers. But Trotsky, ever the realist, brushed aside ideological considerations when confronted with the need to win the Civil War, & sought out former Tsarist officers, re-designating them from 'enemies of the people' to 'specialists'. This created problems with existing volunteers, and suspect loyalties, so Trotsky solved this problem by giving each officer a `guardian angel' in the form of a political commissar, both to protect the officer from his troops, and to keep him in line.Pilsudski's attack on the Soviet Union was not just a diplomatic mistake, but he soon found himself in the situation faced by many other invaders of that vast country- the Russian armies he defeated disappeared & he found himself having to defend ever larger areas of territory. The Poles were repulsed around Kiev in the south, & then the Soviet commander on their Western Front, the 27 year old nihilistic nobleman Mikhail Tukhachevsky, attacked in the north. With the Soviet armies converging on Warsaw it seemed that nothing could stop them defeating Poland and marching into Germany & beyond.However, the topography of the front in the Soviet-Polish war gave the Poles an advantage, which became more important the further that Tukhachevsky marched into Poland. The Pripet Marshes in the middle of the front meant that movement had to be down 2 corridors, between Warsaw and Smolensk, or between Lublin and Kiev. The Russian armies had to operate independently from their bases at Smolensk & Kharkov, but the Polish armies could be more cohesive, as they had the common base of Warsaw even though they moved apart as they went east. So as they were pushed back towards Warsaw the Poles could cohere more whilst the wings of the Soviet forces found it ever more difficult to work together, although they didn't really want to either. Yegorov & Stalin, responsible for the southern wings of the Red Army moving out of the Ukraine, were guilty of insubordination on a grand scale during the Polish campaign. Although they cannot be blamed for failing to save the day at Warsaw, (Tukhachevsky knew that Yegorov's forces were too far away & didn't take any account of them in his final orders for the battle of Warsaw), both Yegorov & Stalin ignored Kamenev's orders to support the offensive & transfer forces to Tukhachevsy's front. Once Stalin seized power in the Soviet Union, Tukhachevsky was a marked man; he was killed during the purges in 1937 after the usual show trial.The Polish situation was desperate and it seemed that the army could disintegrate altogether. Trotsky's ruthless use of `barrier troops' or in the Soviet jargon `anti-retreat detachments,' with orders to shoot those in the front line who deserted, or even retreated without orders is well known. However, I did not know that Polish generals ordered military police to machine gun any retreating troops from positions taken behind the front line. Generals Haller & Rozwadowski resorted to such desperate measures because they were so alarmed by the performance in the defence of Warsaw, and they seemed to work as the troops seemed to show a `change of heart' (who wouldn't?) .This was the cue for Pilsudski's finest hour & the `Miracle on the Vistula'; he had gathered together 5 divisions and counter-attacked in the centre, south of Warsaw, in August. As is usual in the fog of war, both commanders had drawn up their plans based on false assumptions about the other's intentions: Pilsudski believed Tukhachevsky main attack was to be on the Warsaw bridgeheads, whereas the latter believed the main Polish force left was grouped north of Warsaw & intended to attack there. Tukhachevsky had even been given a copy of Pilsudski's orders for the counter-offensive but ignored them as he thought it was a hoax. This was because the dead officer from whom they were retrieved should not have died where he did due to the unit he was part of being expected to be elsewhere.Notwithstanding Pilsudski's mistakes, the operation was a complete success & the Soviets were routed & driven back behind the new borders. Zamoyski describes the ebb & flow of the battle well but again one would want more detail here. The focus is just on the commanders: what did it feel to fight in this gruesome, ruthless struggle? How did the ordinary soldiers & civilians cope?The concluding `Aftermath' chapter again feels a bit light. Zamoyski states that it would be idle to speculate about the consequences of a Soviet victory, but then proceeds to do so, mentioning that the states that ended up behind the iron curtain after the Second World War would have done so before `and maybe Germany' as well. I don't think that these `counterfactuals' are idle speculation, they help to remind us that historical events are not inevitable, that contemporaries had choices and outcomes could have been very different. Zamoyski underplays the significance of the battle here; given the anarchy prevailing in Germany at the time and the strength of the Left, it seems quite likely that Germany would also be overrun, & given the exhaustion of the Western Powers, would the invasion have stopped there?Zamoyski also claims that the prevalence of Jews in the Bolshevik leadership, coupled with the scare given to Western Europe by the war, helped to foster Anti-Semitism between the world wars, particularly in Poland. This is a very large claim for which no evidence is produced or references cited. I'm all in favour of short books, but in many respects this one is too short to give the subject justice, in spite of its many virtues.
4 Adam Zamoyski's nice little history of the last major cavalry battle in European History is well worth looking into. The Soviets were intoxicated with the unexpected success of their revolution and really did believe that the world would soon be dominated by Marxism. The Poles, Ukranians, and Lithuanians were less than thrilled by the prospect. Zamoyski gives us well drawn portraits of the major actors in this drama. James Mitchner describes one of the battles in his novel "Poland" and I was always curious to learn more about the struggle. This book filled that desire.
4 Poland's history is tinged in blood. For a long period the country had been battle ground for warring powers. Thrice in her tragic past Poland was partitioned among big powers. New Polish state emerged thanks to Allied powers during the end of Great War. Soon it incurred the wrath of powerful neighbours. Poland and Russia always at daggers drawn.Supreme Command of Allied powers fixed Poland's eastern frontier along river Bug which came to be called Curzon line. This did not satisfy Poland's strong man Josef Pilsudski. He sought to re establish country's frontier of 1772: the line of Dvina - Dneiper.By this time Bolsheviks  seized power in Russia. Allied intervention in the civil war in Russia made it apparent for Lenin that West intended to stifle Bolshevik revolution. Under the circumstances for Bolsheviks only hope for ensuring survival was to export revolution. To make this possible they established Third International/ Comintern. Wracked by civil strife ,political dissension, mounting unemployment  Germany looked a tempting prospect. Road to Berlin lay through Poland. Above facts form background of this book.Russians mustered overwhelming strength along the Western Front to the north of Pripet marshes. Lenin increased the number of divisions from 5 to 20. The operation was to be supported by armies of South Western Front from Ukraine. Plan of campaign was worked out by Chief of Operations Branch of Red Army General Staff Boris M. Shaposhnikov.Author shows how Poles successfully resisted the onslaught of Russian colossus.But firstly he provides quantitative/ qualitative features of the forces of the two adversaries. Russian 'Tachanka' impressed me  a lot. This weapon was a combination of mobility and firepower. It was a machine gun mounted on a horse-drawn buggy having a crew of three. One man driving the horses and the other two manned the machine guns.It galloped towards the enemy infantry . After coming to a close range it veered around and let loose withering fire before galloping away. Author then gives a topographical analysis of zone of operations which he says resembled a triangle. Front was nearly thousand kilometres long and the wedge bisected the triangle into two halves. This was a great expanse of bogs, rivers , forests called Pripet marshes.  What that meant was armies advancing from west to east or reverse would be channeled along either of the two corridors.Either of the adversary armies if advanced too far would find their flanks exposed.Another striking thing Poles developed techniques for monitoring communications of her foes. Russian ciphers were pierced.By the beginning of 1920s she was listening every radio station in Western Russia. Russian radio security procedures were also loose which made the task easier. Poles knew Red Army massing troops along her eastern border.This made Pilsudski initiate hostilities, for he realised Russia had to knocked out quickly otherwise Poland would be swamped.Polish army lunged into Ukraine seized Kiev but could not hold out for long. Soon dislodged by forces of Marshal Semion Budionny 's South Western Front. Simultaneously Marshal Tukhachevsky Western Front began its relentless advance which took Bolsheviks to the gates of Warsaw. Disintegration of the Polish state appeared imminent.Front near Warsaw ran diagonally from northwest to southeast . As Tukhachevski's forces forged ahead , it came to be separated by Red Army units of South Western Front . Two fronts were loosely connected by a weak centre. Pilsudski reasoned the weak centre could be easily brushed aside by launching a strong counter offensive. Wedge can be driven between the two fronts besides turning Tukhachevski's  southern flank.Further by exploiting the thrust Poles can fall behind the rear of Russian armies consequently unhinging Tukhachevski 's dispositions facing Warsaw.  The manoeuvre was successfully executed which led what some historians call the 'Miracle at Vistula'. Strike resembled what Alexander executed at Arbela in 331 BC. Here it should be remembered the Macedonian pinned down the Persian right, broke through weak  left centre and enveloped Persian right wing and fell upon its rear.Russian Polish conflict was extraordinary in many ways. Unlike the positional warfare in the marshy and muddy terrain of Flanders in Great War; mobility, surprise , manoeuvre formed the hall marks of this campaign. Cavalry proved decisive. Poles while retreating made no attempt to entrench. Their commanders realised its futility. Front was wide and forces available to hold were small. Entrenchments could always be turned by superior Russian cavalry.Russian repulse at the gates of Warsaw had far -reaching consequences upon the destiny of Poland. Later Soviet dictator took a terrible revenge when he connived with Hitler in partioning the country again. Flower of Polish officer corps was liquidated by NKVD troops in Katyn forest in Byelorussia. Poland has not regained and will never regain her old borders.She had to settle for much disliked Curzon line. Such are the eternal laws of History: For victors the fruits ,the losers the spoils.Finally, tenor of the book is virulently anti Russian. Author has made some caustic comments and has vehemently berated Bolsheviks. Russian apologists may find this offending. Nevertheless he has done a good job by bringing into limelight a conflict which faded away from human memory . A clash which had profound impact on the course of World History.
4 Adam Zamoyski has produced a fascinating account of a little remembered war, full of portents for the future.  In 1920, Soviet Russia was two years old, Bolshevik rule was barely consolidated after a vicious civil war but Lenin was already eager for world revolution. Even younger was the re-established Poland, one of the many creations of the Versailles Peace Conference with borders its nationalist leaders wished to expand.  Into this high stakes arena came a cast of characters who would later play seminal roles in WWII.  Stalin and Budyenny who would become household names to a future generation, cut their teeth as military strategists for the Red Army.  General Weygrand and a young Colonel de Gaulle were French observers in Poland, each drew different conclusions from the new forms of warfare on display - Weygrand unable to break from the defensive mindset of the Maginot Line, de Gaulle grasping quickly the devastating impact of mobile armour deployed in fast moving pincer strikes.  And the Polish officer corps who would later be destroyed in Katyn Forest and the brave but doomed Warsaw uprising.Was there ever a war where fortunes swung as dramatically as this one, between two such bitter and historic enemies?  A pre-emptive attack by Pilsudski brought the Polish forces deep into Russian territory.  Only months later they were fighting a desperate defence of Warsaw itself, hundreds of kilometers away.  In the end, the truce agreed by the exhausted protagonists simply deferred the big issues in this region where conflict has been endemic for centuries.  Less than 20 years later, brutal conflict broke out again, leaving devastation in its wake on a scale the world had never seen before.
4 I think the author gave a good account of how Red Russia nearly caused a portion of East and Central Europe to become Communist in 1919.  Lenin and his associates wished for a Polish grab at the Ukraine, and when that happened, took the chance to push the Poles back and then invade Poland proper.  Not only were the Soviets looking to establishing a people's republic in Poland, but also to move into Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Austria.  The Poles under the dynamic leadership of Pilsudski lured the Reds into a trap, and then clamped it shut causing the Soviet Armies to flee back to Russia.This is a nice, although short story of the Polish-Soviet War of 1919-1920.  I think the author could have gone into more detail about the conflict and the eventual outcome of the battle.
4 When the Treaty of Versailles was signed, the war wasn't really over in many parts of Europe. Many countries like Germany and Russia were still riven by internal turmoil and in Southeastern Europe, the Greeks and the Turks went at it again. Additionally, many states born of the treaty like Yugoslavia and Poland struggled mightily to maintain independence and territorial integrity.In this slim volume, author Adam Zamoyski recounts how Lenin and Trotsky sent ragged armies pouring into Poland in an attempt to forcibly export Bolshevism and revolution throughout Europe, even though their own civil war still raged and the immediate future of the Communist experiment was far from certain. It is a story of savagery and heroism, as Marshal Pilsudski and the Poles came within a whisker of losing and yet were able to turn the tables on the numerically superior Russian hordes with a mixture of luck and tactical surprise.In Warsaw 1920, the reader is introduced to a number of Poles such as Sikorski, Pilsudski, and Smigly-Rydz who will be important in Poland for years to come. On the Soviet side, names such as Stalin, Budionny, Tukhachevsky, Chicherin, and Gai are among those who will be similarly important.The author seems to share my own view that the humiliation of the 1920 defeat led Stalin to treat the Poles with unbridled savagery from 1939 onwards once he and Hitler partitioned Poland. As you read, you might be amazed that anyone had any fight left in them on either side after the years of WWI which had essentially devastated both Russia and the territory of Poland to the point of pre-industrial subsistence. Yet poorly equipped and poorly trained troops on both sides often fought, pillaged, raped and murdered as if possessed by demons.Warsaw 1920 is a succinct introduction to an obscure conflict. Knowing something of it helps to make some sense of events 20 years later. If history animates your mind, you'll find this a quick, informative, and exciting read.
4 This book provides a concise history of a seminal battle between a newly independent Poland and Bolshevik Russia. Lenin sought to take advantage of the chaos that had taken hold in Central and Eastern Europe in the immediate aftermath of the First World War by overrunning Poland and thereby invading Germany and using it as a springboard for European domination and worldwide revolution.Had the Poles been defeated in August 1920, the course of European history would have been very different. It is precisely because of the Poles' success in preventing a Bolshevik victory and Europe's preoccupation with postwar recovery that the Battle of Warsaw was overlooked and quickly forgotten. Yet the impact of that battle is evidenced by "the democratic and civic instinct" in Central and Eastern Europe today, which is "largely the product of the two decades of freedom secured by [J&oacute;zef] Piudski and his armies on the Vistula in 1920."
5 This is a very detailed account of the battles fought by Gen. Joseph Pilsudski and the Polish army that stopped the Soviet armies from sweeping across Europe.  The Poles received minimal support from the Allies who were yet to recover from World War I.  This underreported event had huge consequences on European, and thus, world history.Any military historian will enjoy the exhaustive details of the battle fronts. The centuries long antagonism between Poland and Russia are referred to but not as exhaustively reported.  While the book is sympathetic to the Polish cause, I did not find it unfair in its reporting.
5 While other more scholarly books apparently exist out there this is the first book I've read in relation to the little known conflict between Poland and Soviet Russia as they both jostled for position rattling sabres that were more cardboard cutout than steel. But as this book shows it doesn't matter if the war you are in is sidebar stuff to world affairs, when it's your country and your life on the line then it's centre court stuff.Starting with a bit of background this brief book was a perfect primer for me and the concise nature of the thing was one of it's appeals. Diving straight into the combat sections the author has managed to convey the brutal nature of the fighting between these age old foes and the utter despair and desperation commanders and troops on both sides went through. One wonders as they flip the pages with reckless abandon just how long a certain Polish unit can possibly hold on in the face of Russian assaults and just how far a Russian cavalry unit can possibly push both itself, it's horses and supply lines before an inevitable bloody nose is delivered. Once the scene is set the lively pace just doesn't let up even when rear echelon matters are being discussed such is the impetus implied throughout.This book succeeds in my view because it takes a little known aspect of history and makes it both interesting from an historical and a military point of view. I devoured it in a single domestic flight.
5 Although the Russo-Polish War of 1920 was an important conflict for many reasons - it prevented the armed export of Communism into Eastern Europe in the chaos following the end of the First World War - it is not well known in the West. Noted historian Adam Zamoyski provides an insightful look into this little-known war in Warsaw 1920, which packs sufficient military detail to satisfy specialists but also serves well as a general introduction to the subject. Furthermore, Zamoyski is a gifted writer whose crisp prose moves the narrative along at a good pace and even though the actual text is only 138 pages, there is no sense that it is rushed or incomplete. While it is clear that the author's sympathies lie with the hard-pressed Polish defenders, he is fair to the Soviets and provides good insight into their strengths and weaknesses. Warsaw 1920 is a solid piece of historical writing and highly recommended.Warsaw 1920 consists of six chapters and begins with the re-creation of the Polish State at the end of the First World War. The author notes that the Poles were aided by an intense nationalism, held together by the glue of Catholicism; a large number of combat-experienced veterans; and strongman Josef Pilsudski at the helm - it was these three factors which proved the salvation of Poland. On the other hand, the author shows how Lenin was determined to destroy bourgeois Poland as a precursor to spreading Communism westward to the rest of Europe and he had the means at hand to accomplish it, with a large Red Army.In the second chapter, the author covers the strengths and weaknesses of the Polish and Soviet armies, both of which started the war in less than ideal condition. He points to the better quality of the Polish cavalry but the numerical superiority of the Red cavalry. In particular, the Red Cavalry corps, led by Budenny and Gai proved incredibly dangerous in the invasion of Poland and the campaign hinged upon the ability of the smaller Polish forces to counter these mobile strike forces. The author also makes interesting points how the Polish armies were composed of veterans who had served in three different armies in the First World War (Germany, Austrian and Russian) and consequently, had different styles and tactics that often hindered operations in 1920. However, he notes that the Poles had a huge advantage in signals intelligence (SIGINT) which they used to intercept unsecure Red Army communications, giving them some operational advantages. In the third chapter, he describes the Polish advance into the Ukraine and capture of Kiev - which the author assesses as a mistake since it justified the later Soviet invasion - followed by the Soviet counter-response.It is in the fourth and fifth chapters where the author concentrates on the "Miracle on the Vistula," where Pilsudski defeated the Red Army at the gates of Warsaw and threw their forces back toward Byelorussia. These chapters are exciting and the author does a great job describing the tense days of mid-August 1920, when the iron dice were rolling. To support the text, the volume has a total of 11 mono-chromatic sketch maps, which are simple but effective and depict units down to division level. Using the maps, I could easily follow the author's campaign narrative. There are also 40 B/W photos that nicely augment the text, particularly photos of Stalin and other Soviet leaders as they looked in 1920. The author also provides 9 pages of footnotes and a 3-page bibliography.  Overall, a very satisfying book.
5 In this timely and important book the reader is reminded about an obscure war that had great ramifications.  Coming as it did between the World Wars the Soviet-Polish war of 1919-1921 has been largely forgotten in history.  But many leading historians of European history have long recognized that it was pivotal in stemming the Soviet advance into Europe and in saving the Versailles peace conference and a reconstructed Poland (White Eagle, Red Star: The Polish-Soviet War 1919-1920 and "The Miracle on the Vistula"andDevelopment of Class Structure in Eastern Europe: Poland and Her Southern Neighbors).  This book is primarily a military history of this conflict and the book is accompanied by a large number of very helpful maps.The first section of the book examines the two armies that faced eachother, the Russian Red Army which at the time was a creature of Trotsky, complete with commissars and some professional officers.  It also included the Cavalry army of Semion Budionny.  The Polish army was far less homogenous.  It had been built from nothing by the Polish national leader Josef Pilsudski who had helped single handedly to revive Poland as a state.  It included Ukrainian allies and Polish units that had fought for all sides during the First World War.  For this reason the Polish army suffered terribly during the first half of 1920, watching there state, which had stretched to Kiev, shrink to almost nothing.  However during the `miracle on the Vistula' the Polish army was able, in several engagements, to destroy the Russian army that had hitherto been brilliantly commanded by Michael Tukhachevsky (the brilliant general later shot by Stalin).Arguments that this book is biased hold little water.  The premise that Lenin's decision to invade Poland presaged an invasion of Europe may be overstate on the cover to make the subject seem more pertinent, but in fact the book presents a very clear matter of fact story that is neither sensationalist nor extremist in its interpretation of events.  In fact there is little room for interpretation in a book that is both short and covers mostly military affairs and the leaders on both sides.This is a quick read about an important subject.  The writing is masterful and the emphasis on military affairs is a pleasant surprise given the fact that so many books today, even ones on war, seem to concentrate entirely on social and economic matters.Seth J. Frantzman
2 Being a history buff I expected much more from this volume. Even though the subject is esoteric, this volume is a rehash of basic facts. May be of some value if you are a newcomer to the subject but not much else.
3 This is a short book, some 140 pages of text and I have to say I am disappointed in the author. I read Zamoyski's book on Napoleon's invasion of Russia and thought it was quite good, but here, I'd say he's very much lacking. This is a 'niche' subject that few have covered and to date, as this book shows, it is a subject filled with bias and hypocrisy. The reader is confronted by the old idea that the not yet created Soviet Union wanted to and WOULD HAVE exported their revolution to Germany through Poland. That is an idea that is not based in fact, there were many who wanted to export the Revolution but at the same time, and this is in fact what really happened, there were those who understood that in time a revolution would begin anyway. That is the reason for signing the Brest-Litovsk treaty, they gave away land that they expected to take back at one point or another. When that point would come was anyone's guess since these people were not fortune tellers but revolutionaries who jumped at opportunities and, undoubtedly, at times tried to make those opportunities come about.Zamoyski himself states on pg. 9 that it was the Poles who first attacked Soviet troops by taking Wilno (Vilnius) and then Minsk. The idea here, apparently, is that it is OK for the Poles to take lands that belonged to them over a century ago before Poland was partitioned, but the Russians cannot do the same thing (for which they also can bring up a claim as they DID control the land for the past century, etc, one should also note that Ukrainians, Lithuanians, etc also have claims. But who has a claim matters little if they do not have an army to back that claim up with). Apparently, if you are only interested in nationalistic ideals that is OK with Zamoyski, but if you want to eventually spread the Communist ideal, that is going overboard. One has to keep in mind that when the Poles attacked the Red Army was facing Denikin in the south and on pg. 10 the author explains that the Army created in the West by the Russians was not strong enough to fight its way across Poland but rather only to fill a power-vacuum when available. The problem here is that the author, as far as I can tell, confuses what the Russians wanted to do with what they eventually would do. Just because some wanted to spread the revolution doesn't mean that's what would have happened. This can be seen by the fact that at least two of the leading Bolsheviks were against the war, Trotsky and Chicherin. Would Lenin still have attacked if the Poles didn't attack first? And then while peace negotiations were going on attack again and take the city of Dunaberg from the Russians and give it over to the anti-Bolshevik government of Lativa? A historian would not be able to give a concrete answer, but the author, apparently, can. Taking an extreme and making it seem as the only viable route is not the job of a historian. My real problem with this book is not the idea that if successful the Bolsheviks might have taken their revolution abroad, or that some wanted this from the start, but that the author is asserting this as a fact and that nothing could change it from happening, aside from, apparently, what did happen, makes sense?If someone followed everything the Bolsheviks said and took it to heart, how can they then explain how Russian officers, known as 'enemies of the people', were then taken into the Red Army and named 'specialists' and in fact, put in charge of the Red Army (according to the author, by 1920 over 80% of the Red Army officer cadre would be made up of them)? Bolshevik rhetoric is just that, one has to be cautious in assuming that everything Lenin or anyone else said is what would have happened, especially during such a chaotic and turbulent time.Bottom line is that the Red Army responded to a Polish threat. If there was no Polish threat there is no evidence one can point to which would undoubtedly show that the Red Army would have been used to spread the Revolution, especially considering the position Russia/Soviet Union found itself in after a bloody civil war. What happened in 1920 can be compared to what happened at the end of WWII, the Soviets did not export the revolution but they did enter Eastern Europe and Germany because they were on the COUNTERoffensive rather than an offensive. Hitler also claimed he was preempting a Soviet invasion, the Polish claim is taken seriously today while the German is known, by most, to be a complete fabrication. One can only wonder why that is.A statement I vehemently disagree with is on pg. 13 when Zamoyski claims that for Russia and Lenin "...the best way of mobilizing support was war..." how can that be when not getting out of WWI is what ended Kerensky's run in the government and the Bolsheviks understood that they would be supported if they ended the war, thus the Brest Litovsk treaty! This can only be valid if seen in the context of the Polish invasion of Russia rather than any undertaking the Russians did before hand. With the Polish invasion many officers who had left the armed forces or never joined the Red Army in the first place came to it in droves and offered their support, such as the famous Brusilov. So, it might be argued that the Polish invasion helped increase support for the Bolshevik cause, but this is when the country is on the defensive, not the offensive, which is the author's original claim here. This can also be seen as the Poles rushed to support their troops when Warsaw was threatened, in both cases it was 'defensive' and 'counteroffensive' actions that rallied support, not outright offensive intentions.If this book would have presented both sides in the same light, and I will readily admit that in some instances it does - for instance Polish and Russian atrocities against each other are listed, as well as some of the motley formations that were being led by both sides, their 'armies' at times were the furthest thing from what we picture in our minds as 'armies' - but overall this is in the end a biased looked at the events in question, and for that reason, I would not recommend it.
3 I'm still trying to figure out why Adam Zamoyski wrote "Warsaw 1920." Polonophile-chauvinist Norman Davies had already written a decent history of the Polish-Soviet War in 1972 with White Eagle, Red Star (278 pages). Warsaw 1920 was published thirty-six years later but it offers no new revealing insights on the subject. In fact, it can claim only 138 pages, and they are very small pages at that. As much as I prefer Zamoyski over Davies, if you're interested in reading about the little-known Polish-Soviet War, find a copy of Davies.
5 Another author who really doesn't need my reviews. You see his name, you're blown away with awe, and you buy his book. Right? Right. This is the guy who first published at age 66 and won hisself a Pulitzer. This go-round, over 30 years of teaching in New York City fuel his creative fire. I read it almost non-stop and kept bugging Jan by reading passages aloud and such. I couldn't stop myself, damn you Mr McCourt. Get this book and you'll love it. You know you will. You remember ANGELA'S ASHES and 'TIS, so you know this book's hilarious yet serious. I'll definitely be reading it again. Sometimes hardcover is welcome.
3 Doggone it....... one of my favorite books of all time is ANGELE'S ASHES: A MEMOIR by Frank McCourt. It is the story of this author and his horrendous childhood years growing up in Ireland during the 1930's & 40's. The hardships that he (as a child) and his family endured in a depressed Ireland at that time were amazing. The fact that he ever survived his childhood, and the way he told his story are equally amazing and entertaining. The book went on to win a Pulitzer Prize. I highly recommend ANGELA'S ASHES, but it's for mature audiences and the reader has to have a strong stomach. It's an awesome story. It was also a movie....don't waste your time with the movie.The author followed up with a second book........ TIZ: A MEMOIR in which he describes his early adult years and move to America. Wow....what a crumby book. I loved the author as a child, but my whole image of the kind of person he became was washed away with this book. I wish I'd never read it.So I caved in and decided to read this third memoir (a trilogy of his life) as I hoped it would reflect the kind of Frank McCourt I'd wished he would eventually become. Though I enjoyed this book better than book #2 (TIS), I still have trouble reconciling my feelings about the kind of person he is. First off, the story focuses on McCort's entire teaching career. I thought I would enjoy this story because being a teacher is something that I'd also considered back in college. I respect teachers and had a wonderful aunt as my 4th grade teacher in Walla Walla (Hi Aunt Bev....I love you). I had many wonderful teachers, but I also had many teachers that were pretty worthless. In retrospect, I must admit that I was probably not my teacher's favorite student most of the time......I was always getting into trouble.Anyway, let's get back to the book...... I enjoyed some of the stories that McCourt shared with the reader and the stories he constantly shared with his students, but I also think that some of the stories seemed a bit far-fetched (which then makes me wonder about each of his books, and all of his recollections.......does he stretch the truth to make for a better read?). I still think he's not the most wonderful person (book two popped that bubble). I think he was an easy "A" grade for his students. I think the book is a story of survival, as this third book in the trilogy sums up his life. I do believe he loved his students, but I also think they knew how to manipulate him.If you are at all interested in reading a McCourt book. I'd read ANGELA'S ASHES first. I'd then skip the other two in the trilogy. Maybe I was just in the right frame of mind when I first read ANGELA'S ASHES, but for everyone else I've ever recommended it to, they've also enjoyed it tremendously. It was awesome. Unfortunately, the second two books fell flat and their shadows have affected the memories I have of book one and how I now perceive the author. TEACHER MAN was OK, but it wasn't great.
3 I loved Angel's Ashes. I thought Tis was pretty good, too but Teacher Man did not move me. I kept waiting the whole book for him to figure it out. He started to, and had a few poignant moments but it wasn't till the very when he seemed to begin to connect with this students and that's really what teaching is all about, isn't it? It never grabbed me.
4 In this funny and touching work, Frank McCort summarizes the life he lead as a teacher. His unorthodox style and Irish wit save the day. Any teacher would love this book.
3 Enjoyable enough read, but somehow not as insightful as I had expected given his earlier books.  Reading it did not put me in a better position to understand how to be a better teacher, and even just as a story it was not as compelling as his earlier stuff.
5 Author of Angela's Ashes, Frank McCourt recounts the amazing stories and wisdom he gained from his 40 years of teaching in the New York high school system. This inspiring book is one that many won't want to miss out on.-- Reviewed by Jonathan Stephens
3 This was not as entertaining as the first two books in his trilogy.  The book is more about the state of teaching than it is about his life.
4 I read this book with heavy interest because of my profession as a teacher. Frank McCourt came through with a voice that was insightful and sympathetic. McCourt focused almost exclusively on his classroom life instead, and he barely mentioned the outside stressors.Progressing through his work, it seemed McCourt's voice was one of hope and determination. He seemed to want to try to reach every student. He talks about his first experiences within the classroom dealing with fights, speaking correctly, and student questions about things not involved in the lessons. McCourt informs the reader that the one rule he controls is to be standing in front of the classroom when the students walk in. It's a simple rule that speaks loudly to students even if they aren't aware of it.McCourt also seems to be humble about his role as teacher. He seems to be in constant study of his students. Being an inner-city educator, he seems to look at the good in each student. McCourt tells of his life as a dockworker, and sporadically mentions tumultuous, and ultimately empty, lovelife. Yet he does not include things happening outside the classroom cloud his storyline.This book is an easy read but an inspirational one. It's neither gloating nor spiteful of teaching or students. It shows one man's stumble into a professional that became a large part of his life. This provides a look into the mind of people who start out in the education field- their doubts and struggles - and juxtaposes it with successes which McCourt mentions humbly.
3 I enjoyed this as a fellow teacher of English but would not call it compelling. It is most interesting to teachers.
4 I liked Frank McCourt's humor in this book. It's a testament to his perseverance that he stayed in teaching so long and influenced so many young people to find their inner voice through writing. I think this book could help other teachers find ways to teach out of the curriculum.
5 I am a veteran teacher, and I avoid teacher movies like the plague because they are usually very predictable and pollyanish. McCourt, on the other hand, has been where I have been for the past 30 years, and it shows in "Teacher Man." If you're looking for another "Angela's Ashes," however, you won't find it here. That book is and will continue to be a true classic. "Teacher Man" is just what it claims to be: one man's experiences in very different schools. If you're a teacher, whether you're in your first year or your 40th, you owe it to yourself to read this gem. And when you find you're just having a horrible day in the classroom, just turn to chapter 10 of "Teacher Man" and read about McCourt's experience taking his class on a field trip to a movie theater in Times Square. Any obstacle coming your way will seem trivial by comparison.
5 Frank is so brutally honest with a humble sincerity.  He told it like it was!  His weaknesses are not hidden or apologized for.  I envy the students who had their horizons broadened through Frank Mc Court.
5 McCourt has a very consistent writing style with a very appealing, and revealing style.I listened to the Audio Book as McCourt read it himself.  I highly recommend that.  There are very strong meanings and reinforced patterns to be gained by listening to his lilting Irish Brogue.McCourt writes as he thinks, and in doing so his book is both biographical and very psychologically revealing.  Sure it gives insight to the teacher.  But it really shows us ourselves.  Self-doubt, pride, arrogance, mistakes, warts and all it is there.  McCourt has found the avenue to meet the self-doubting scared little child in all of us.  His experiences recounted in the book with regard to group therapy come full circle as we sit with him in group and hear him share what we all are experiencing.McCourt fans will not be disappointed.This should be required reading, or listening for all teachers as well as students, or former students.Hits the mark!
5 The familiar lilt of Frank McCourt's voice (somehow you can hear it even on the printed page) from the previous book "Angela's Ashes" is now applied to McCourt's years as an English teacher in the public high schools of New York City.  In reading this endearing combination I've learned more about teaching than I ever could from a textbook, and been quite entertained in the meantime.The backbone of the book are McCourt's stories about the classroom - the romances, the games students and teachers play to see who's boss, the sheer creative force and improvisation a good teacher must develop in order to make something good happen in the classroom.  Clearly McCourt started with great instincts and became a master:  a student drops a sandwich in defiance, McCourt picks it up and eats it.  Students provide a prodigious number of forged excuse notes "from their parents," McCourt gets them to write excuse notes from characters in history (Adam and Eve to God, for example).Around this backbone McCourt fleshes out the story with his personal history - his marriage, his failed attempt at getting a PhD at Trinity College, his daughter, his own struggles to write. These stories are well told (although they don't have the pathos of his "Angela's Ashes" childhood), but McCourt seems most alive in class.This would make a great gift for any McCourt fan, but particularly for any teacher you know. I particularly recommend the audiobook form, which is read by McCourt himself.
5 Frank McCourt has authored an uplifting book.  "Teacher Man," is an intimate account of a 30-year career in the New York City educational system.  McCourt is not afraid to display his emotional shortcomings...some of his finest writing is about difficult times in his life.However, this book has none of the walloping anguish of Angela's Ashes or 'Tis...the tone is upbeat and nurturing.  Ultimately, McCourt credits his success to his, "doggedness."  The doggedness allows him to escape a, "cocoon of Irish history and Catholicism."McCourt was more than a teacher. "In the high school classroom you are a drill sergeant, a rabbi, a shoulder to cry on, a disciplinarian, a singer, a low-level scholar, a clerk, a referee, a clown, a counselor, a dress-code enforcer, a conductor, an apologist, a philosopher, a collaborator, a tap dancer, a politician, a therapist, a fool, a traffic cop, a priest, a mother-father-brother-sister-uncle-aunt, a bookkeeper, a critic, a psychologist, the last straw," he explains.On the downside...there are only two pictures of the Pulitzer Prize winning author...a young McCourt on the front cover...and the elderly McCourt on the rear inside flap.  Nevertheless, this well-written book is filled with valuable lessons and plenty of laughs.  Recommended.Bert Ruiz
3 For Jack, the Prevaricator who just doesn't know any better.Reporters need to strive for the professionalism of major newspapers in large cities to create "mainstream" or "conventional" points of view. This is what media power is really about. At a subsequent meeting to be told about the design for a proposed "passenger friendly" center to wait in out of the elements, only one member of the committee attended; but a city official told the television reporter that the bus station would be 'airport quality.' I have not been in McGhee Tyson but, if it's as primitive as this 'biased' design for the transit center, it's proof of the backwardness of this town -- and the gullibility of the press.As a correspondent on the CBS national t.v. network, Bernard Goldberg worked into his own segment on 'CBS Evening News' called "Bernard Goldberg's America." This gives him the right to feel self-important and proud, as the winner of seven Emmy Awards for news reporting. His latest book, 100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA (AND AL FRANKEN IS #37), has been parodied by Jack Huberman's 100 PEOPLE WHO ARE REALLY SCREWING UP AMERICA: (AND BERNARD GOLDBERG IS ONLY #84). BIAS identified the problem. ARROGANCE offers a solution, Mr. Goldberg's solution.
5 Frank McCourt undoubtedly had a very hard childhood in Ireland and another hard time in the service and through college ... and then on into his teaching career ... before he was able to do what he had always wanted to do: WRITE!And thank God he finally managed to do that, because he really knows how to weave his experiences into edge-of-the-seat reading adventures.Some of the classroom antics in this book are hilarious; others are bittersweet, but all are believable and realistic.I thoroughly enjoyed every book he's written, and was blown away by the title of his second one: 'Tis ...  Isn't that the coolest title?Buy this one, too.  It's money well-spent.
4 I am in the middle of a life-career change. I'm going to be a teacher.A friend of mine lent me this book a while ago simply because she had read it. I don't think she had any idea how pertinent it would be for me.This is the circuitous tale of Mr. McCourt teaching in the schools of New York City. He starts  (and spends a good deal of time) teaching in vo-tech schools and eventually ends up in one of the premier private schools in the city.Throughout the book, his self-deprication is humorous and apparent, as is his appreciation for the people he teaches. Yes, he's frustrated, often. But at the same time, he's the strangest english teacher I've ever heard of.Reciting recipes as a part of creative writing? That's weird. Sorry.I really found the tales amusing, and I can understand how he'd be a wildly popular teacher: he has the Irish Bard's gift of the tale. Teachers like that often do.This is, however, not his first book, and it seems like he's searching for some tales to fill this tome. Not by much, though.A solid 4 stars.(*)>
2 He may be a good writer, but after reading this not only do I think he was a bad teacher, but a jerk too.  Skip this one.
4 This is Frank McCourt's third book about his thirty years teaching in various New York City high schools. He taught English and also Creative Writing. Most of the schools he taught at were vocational schools, and he struggled five times a day, five days a week, to keep the attention of the teenagers he taught. One of the ways that he did this was telling stories, stories of his miserable Irish childhood (you can read in depth about that in Angela's Ashes.) Surprisingly, Teacher Man was my favorite of his three books (Angela's Ashes, 'Tis, Teacher Man.) It wasn't quite as grim as Angela's Ashes, but also very humorous. And 'Tis, looking back on it, it was kind of boring. Or just less interesting.McCourt is obviously a very disturbed person, because of his horrible upbringing. He has problems relating to people around him, and yet he seems like a very interesting teacher. Not your typical vocational high school English teacher. For example, in one class, he has them reciting recipes to a musical accompaniment. It would be interesting to sit in on one of those classes, and that's exactly what McCourt does in Teacher Man. He's very honest, as usual, and he portrays the various characters in his various classes very well.You can read all of my reviews at my blog novareviews.blogspot.com.
5 TEACHER MAN by Frank McCourtis the one of the best books I have ever read about teaching . . . itdescribes the author's 30-year career in the teaching profession andshows how this work shaped his present career as a writer.I could relate to much of what McCourt writes, in that I too havebeen teaching for some 30 years . . . actually, make that 35--butwho counts?Parts of the book were funny; almost all of it was touching . . . I feltfor many of McCourt's students (that you really get to know throughhis writing), and reading TEACHER MAN made me feel grateful forthe fact that most of my teaching life has been at the college level.It's not easy being a high school teacher--and particularly one ofhigh school students!There were many thought-provoking passages; among them:* Professors of education at New York University never lecturedon how to handle flying-sandwich situations. They talked abouttheories and philosophies of education, about moral and ethicalimperatives, about the necessity of dealing with the whole child,the gestalt, if you don't mind, the child's felt needs, but neverabout critical moments in the classroom.* Oh. I felt desperate. I blurted, I'd tell them to write ahundred-and-fifty-word suicide note. That would be a good wayof encouraging them to think about life itself, because SamuelJohnson said the prospect of hanging in the morning focusesthe mind wonderfully.* I had to be careful if the dad was sitting there. If I made negativecomments about Harry the dad might go home and punch him andword would get out to my other students that I was not to be trusted.I was learning that teachers and kids have to stick together in the faceof parents, supervisors and the world in general.TEACHER MAN should be required reading for any educator. . . oranybody else contemplating the profession.
5 I will first admit that I am, most likely, the only reader of Teacher Man that has not yet read McCord's Angela's Ashes. I have no excuse except that that I heard so much about it that I thought I had heard the story before. Even Teacher Man held little interest when my wife brought it home from a recent book buying binge. She even manage to get Mr. McCourt to sign the book at the Los Angeles Times book fair at UCLA this year. Then while searching the aisles of the library for a book to listen to while on a business trip I saw Frank McCord had recorded his own book and I thought maybe this would be interesting. Well it was more than interesting, it was amazing. All good fun, and illuminating told with charm and warmth. Stories of a career choice he might not have chosen, students he remembers, and lessons that teacher and student both learn.Here is where I admit that I too thought I would become a teacher. I didn't. Student teaching taught me one thing. This was a damned hard profession and I had no taste for the discipline one must keep in the classroom. McCourt re-enforces my decision was correct. And I recommend his book to anyone who has the notion they want to enter teaching. This is simply the best book on teaching I have ever heard and read (as I found myself reading large sections of it later).I really recommend if you can, to listen to the book. McCord has a way of putting you into his story. His writing and reading are simple and declarative which much humor and insight. He says in the text he felt it was his job to open up the path from FEAR to FREEDOM in his students. His latest book is a monument to all the Teachers who attempt to generate creative thinking and know that true education is more than a test score. I doubt McCourt left any students behind. I highly recommend this fine recording and the book.
5 For any level of either afferent or efferent pedagoguery and learning this makes the 72 hour weeks and the help Every Child Left Behind by a certain semiliterate Wolfram all worth while. Buy this thing.
4 I bought this book because someone I know recently published several books in succession. I was amazed! When I asked where he got the time to write, he told me he completely wrote at least one of the books in McCourt's class, growing up in New York City. He just did not do anything with it until now. Obviously, I thought, McCourt challenged his students to be imaginative and creative in many ways. Therefore, I was very curious to learn more about him than I did in reading Angela's Ashes. I wanted to know more about his teaching style, etc.My first impression of Teacher Man, however, was that it was a sequel to McCourt's first book, Angela's Ashes. I say that because it was the same rant about an impoverished and miserable childhood, the mother, the alcoholic and abandoning father, the Catholic Church, the teachings of the Church, priests, and many sorrows, insecurities, and other things that influenced his upbringing and still seem to have somewhat of a grasp on him--how he lives--how he thinks.The triumph of the book is that to a certain extent, he rose above the many number of obstacles that have kept numerous people down. He found a measure of success and satisfaction in life. As you hear him describe this, you might think that he is more surprised at this than anything else. His success turned him into an accomplished author. Nevertheless, I would say that he sees his success more in having been able to influence tens of thousands of high school students in a positive and lasting way. When I look back over my childhood education, what stands out the most are those teachers and influences that taught me how to think--to think for myself--and the value of it. It affords us a tool, that combined with determination, can allow us to work through all the avenues and ups and downs that life takes us and that a formal education by itself just cannot prepare us for. It gives us confidence in ourselves.McCourt does not go into strategies and all that in this. Sometimes he seems to be all over the place and not organized enough to do something like that. What he does well is: he shows himself, very human, with all his weaknesses. In view of that, I believe he came across as being genuine to his students. They trusted him. Once there, he taught them, in his own way, to think and to write by thinking. It was all very subtle. He gives the clues, even during his rants, if you pay attention. Neither his delivery nor his vocabulary is always good. He can easily turn vulgar. Maybe, the Irish Brogue, injected with his Irish wit makes this seem humorous many times when normally people would take offence. Although, sometimes you wonder if, because of unresolved anger, he just is giving someone what the Irish call a "tongue-lashing!" Sometimes, I think he went too far and into the unnecessary. Therefore, I gave only the "four stars."The book is not a lesson in teaching. It's helpful. I think it's more about life. It covers parts of his upbringing again, his education and further education, his jobs before teaching, his marriage and its failure, his struggles and his demons. It's funny! It's sad! It's exhilarating! It's sometimes despairing. It's encouraging! It's inspiring! Somehow, he wraps all of this together and draws us with him through the peaks and the valleys. It's a serious book, but his humor tempers things so that they are not too serious. With a certain amount of openness, you can enjoy this and profit from it. If you liked Angela's Ashes, I am sure you will like this. To some extent, I came to find some of what my writer friend had for an influence to start him off.
4 It seems as though one's life often gives you the theme for a book and in McCourt's case, this is true.  He writes about his early life in New York as a school teacher and his vivid depiction of life there in the fifties, is true and clear.  Although he grew up in Limerick, Ireland, he was born in New York and returned there to become an English teacher.  His ability to bring to life, on paper, his own fascinating life, is a gift in itself.  His style is flowing and thought-provoking and easy to follow and you immerse yourself into the various situations and circumstances of his story.
1 This book is filled with McCourt's excuses for being a poor teacher.  A shame that he spent so much time in the classroom and then a further shame that he wrote about it.He can be proud he survived his childhood,accepted his past and was able to put it in perspective but there is nothing to be proud of in this book.McCourt needs a new topic.
3 As a prospective teacher, I was really eager to read this book about McCourt's experiences as a teacher in New York. While the book certainly touched on this, it was not as central to the book as I expected.I was turned off by the strong focus on his private, personal life. And often in details that seemed beyond necessary for the book. The first few chapters and the last few were quite good. But even the end seemed a little bit over-done. I guess I can appreciate why some people would really like this book as a purely whimsical summary of a man's life. But this is not, by any means, a must-read for prospective teachers.
5 I listened to the audio version read by the author.  It is totally hilarious, in addition to moving and touching.  I first listened to a book on tape from the library, and it was so great I knew I'd have to listen many more times so I bought it for myself.  I laugh out loud frequently.  McCourt's accent and tone enhance the reading, and sections of it come off like prose poetry, as engaging, funny and startling as a Bukowski reading.  Anytime I'm bored I pop in the Teacher Man tape and it doesn't matter what part of the story I land in, and it never gets old.  This audiobook is the best!
5 This book is phenomenal. I highly recommend this book for book clubs and teachers. It should be studied and required in college education programs. Buy this book (or rent this book) and read it!
5 It's about time a book was published detailing the endless irritations that teachers face EVERY SINGLE DAY.  I'm sick of those teachers who sugar-coat the education profession claiming that "reaching one student is worth 30 years." The simple truth is that it is NOT worth it, not with everything that a teacher must deal with daily.  If we could do away with the standards that don't necessarily allow us to teach students how to think, we could make more of a difference.  And we should also stop the hypocrisy of having old white men in Washington who have NEVER been a teacher writing all of the education laws!
5 The worst kids usualy shut up during story time, because it's the one time of the day when there's no pressure. Frank McCourt learned this on his first day at McKee Vocational High School in Staten Island, back in 1957. But fortunately, he learned it early. He learned that the "tough" kids aren't going to just sit through class and "pay attention." They need to be engaged with something amusing.Ireland is a place where people love stories, and anyone who's read "Angela's Ashes" and "Tis" knows that Frank McCourt can tell a great story. He can write a great story without messing it up, even though many of his stories are about him messing things up all by himself! But the humor in his stories is twofold; first, he messes up while trying to help the kids out, and second, the "mess-up" usually benefits him in some way. Take for instance, the part where a girl bugs him about the girls Ireland and he says "we didn't need girls, we had sheep!" Soon the Principal is on his case about promoting beastiality, but he can now be assured that there won't be anymore truancy!The psychological subplot of this memoir is that McCourt is always haunted by memories of his alcoholic good-for-nothing father. He wants to be more responsible than his father, and not as brutal as the teachers he had. But when he becomes a teacher, he finds that some teachers have no choice but to be brutal, as the kids are far worse behaved than the kids he knew back home. But in Ireland, he (like many others) left school at 14. Here in the USA, kids stay in school longer, in this case to learn trades. English and math aren't exactly on their minds; the boys are only interested in mechanics class and the girls only care about getting their cosmetology licenses.When I'm in a classroom of 16 year olds, I keep in mind something Joe Clark (Lean on Me) once said; "you can't force a teenager to come to school and learn, and sometimes that student has to decide for him/her self if they want to stay in school or take their chances in the job market." I say to myself, if the kid is not going to do any work, why not do something amusing? I need to keep the kids there, and I don't want to make myself miserable. So I always have a good story to shock them with.After all, if you're going to do a messy job, you might as well have fun, no?
2 It's amazing what a great runway one really fabulous book can give an author.  "Angela's Ashes" deserved all of the kudos it received and then some, and I can only imagine that it is an intimidating act to follow, to be sure.  But as far as I'm concerend Frank McCourt hasn't had a smooth take-off since.  Even though I was terribly disappointed by "'Tis," "Teacher Man" was at the top of my holiday wish list.  I guess once you have tasted really great writing it's hard to give it up.  Sadly, this is a bumpy take-off of a book that never reaches altitude and ends up taking a crash landing.  As many of the other reviews here attest to, there will undoubtedly be some teachers that find solace in McCourt's up and down story of his years working in the New York City Public Schools.  Teaching in any setting is a glorious vocation and I admire one and all who take it on.  But there's absolutely nothing in "Teacher Man" that hasn't been written about the nation's largest school system before.  His narrative of getting fired from one school to the next; dealing with students who don't want to be there, class clowns and the rough  diamonds; bureaucrtaic red tape; principals caught up in their own self-importance and so forth is anything but inspiring to future teachers and parents are likely to come away wondering why these schools kept taking him on after his spotty track record.  Two-thirds of the way through you wonder what he will do next to get fired yet again.  The sidelights here and there into what has been happening in his personal life go only so far in shedding light on what may have been behind his classroom shortcomings and McCourt certainly accepts his share of the blame, as well he should.  But the end result are the disjointed ramblings of a man that seems to have one mid-life crisis after another telling a story of his years toiling in the education vineyards that never would have been published if not for the fact that he's now famous.  The wry humor and fundamental sense of dignity and hope that lurked in his first book is largely absent yet again.  Most of the passengers and crew will weather this trip and take more flights; this is after all a really great pilot and they always deserve another chance.  But I hope that this one will take a long deep breath before he gets back in the cockpit.  McCourt has now told his life story from three different vantage points.  We feel your pain and suffering.  We are thrilled you perservered and came out on top.  Enough already.  Everyone involved deserves better next time around.
4 This book does not exclusively relate McCourt's adventures and misadventures in the classroom:  frequently he digresses to other things that were going on in his life at the time, such as problems with his marriage.I thought the first third of the book quite good:  there McCourt recounts, honestly and grippingly, his first stints as a teacher and the horrendous mistakes he made in the classroom.  You really get pulled in by McCourt's obvious humanity, and the spell of listening to a talented teacher describe the various head-slapping and life-altering mistakes he has made in his career.So good was this part that the book can easily justify being read by any teacher, although you shouldn't get the idea that it's full of practical advice on how to teach.  It's more of memoir.Unfortunately, the book loses focus about halfway through, as McCourt strays into other areas of his life which are only tenously connected to what he was learning about teaching (such as his escapades in various bars).In short, a fine book, but one that could have been a lot shorter.  I wish there were more books out there, not by teachers who think they're brilliant and know everything you need to know, but by teachers who have failed in myriad ways and are willing to relate their failures honestly, for whatever insight they might offer.I find things like this immensely useful, so I must say McCourt has partially satisfied me.
5 I love the audio books narrated by the author Frank McCourt.  I listened to all 3 of the books by Frank McCourt but this is definitely my favorite one.  You do need to start with book 1 to get the whole story.  A Highly recommended series. Go for the audio book version. You will be glad you did.
5 Frank McCort's books are well-written and an insight into his life.  His Teacher Man resonates with me, an English teacher in an inter-city school.
5 Dad said it was like Frank McCourt was telling his families story. I read it too and enjoyed it a lot.
2 Frank McCort should have stopped writing his life story after Angela's Ashes, his incredible childhood memoir. Both Tis and Teacher Man pale in comparison.  In them, we read about a Frank McCort who is a real slacker, adrift professionally and personally, and without the  splendid back-up cast provided by his mother, father, brothers and sisters, as well as the Catholic church and school system. His sense of humor and lively Irish wit have disappeared. Teacher Man is a real disappointment.
5 Having read and enjoyed both Angela's Ashes (through blurry eyes) and `Tis, I was looking forward to Teacher Man. I was not disappointed. It is always amazing to me that a child with a truly miserable, even lethal, childhood like the one Frank McCourt endured, survives to adulthood in the first place and then, in McCourt's case, goes on to became a successful teacher and an accomplished writer. It can only be innate talent.While his method of teaching seemed a bit unorthodox to me in the beginning, I came to see his relaxed, less intimidating style as an appropriate approach with the students he faced every day. Since his primary purpose as a teacher was to teach creative writing, his style seemed to serve his students fairly well. While he didn't reach them all (no teacher does), he reached many of the `unreachable'. His personal stories added a rich texture to the woven fabric of his often spontaneous lessons. They also allowed his students to identify with him in ways they likely could not with many of their other teachers.McCourt's stream-of-consciousness style of writing worked very well in Teacher Man. His prose flowed smoothly from description and memory recall to discourse. McCourt tells his students that as psychology is the study of the way people behave, "grammar is the study of the way language behaves." Good analogy. He sang to them. They read recipes in class and then put music to them as other students (or, in once case, a mother) prepared them right in class. Because the schools in the New York City School Systems are very cosmopolitan, the recipes and music came from many different cultures. It would seem to me this is excellent fodder for creative writing.I thoroughly enjoyed Frank McCourt's sense of humor, felt for his constant struggle to find his place in the world and his purpose for being in it, and his greater struggle in coming to terms with his Irish Catholic upbringing. Though some may question his methods, McCourt's experiences as a teacher warm the heart, provide an enormous insight into the minds of adolescents of any stripe, and give the reader a chance to appreciate the effort it takes to reach adolescents in the classroom. I know an excellent high school biology teacher who will get a copy of Teacher Man for Father's Day.Carolyn Rowe Hill
5 I was so touched by this one. I listened on CD, Frank himself read the book, it would not have been the same by any other person.I often wonder if he was too hard on himself. The idea of his students writing excuse notes from Adam to God, or Eve to God got their creative juices going. It also allowed them to hear other points of view on different topics.I hated doing the sentence thing, I would have understood better with his PEN idea. Just read the book. It goes quickly. I had the CD playing in my house while cleaning, in my car while commuting, it was fascinating.
3 Having read Angela's Ashes I came across Teacher Man in my local bookstore. What really amazed me was the difference between the two books.Whereas the author in Angela's Ashes just 'grabs you' and takes you on his rollercoaster for a fantastic ride, this was not so in Teacher Man. In Teacher Man it may have been that the author has written more for his readers than for himself. This in my view gave the book a more reflective and distanced feel to it while still being very funny. Having said this, I think I am hooked on the G-forces created by the rollercoaster ride in Angela's Ashes; there can in fact be no comparison.
5 A fan of Frank McCourt's first two memoirs, ANGELA'S ASHES and `TIS, I ordered TEACHER MAN the minute its publication was announced.  It is at once that distinctive McCourt narrative voice from the other books but something else entirely, and that's not a bad thing at all.For a man who drew his early life in extraordinary detail, there was one area of his being on which he had heretofore been less garrulous, his 3 decades as an English teacher in New York City, rising from the halls of McKee Technical High School on Staten Island in the 50's to the academic pride and joy of the district, Stuyvensant High School, from which he eventually retired.  TEACHER MAN fills in that gap in a narrative that explores what it means to be an educator, what processes work and what fail, who the students are, what the politics of teaching are and why do it at all, through the lens of McCourt's personal peregrinations.McCourt was not particularly focused on what it was to be a teacher, and he had no practical experience when he was hired for his first job.  His greatest fear and concern was gaining control of the class and commanding the students' attention.  He came to find that a little audacity and storytelling out of his own life was one way, and he improvised some successful techniques along the way to prompt writing, vocabulary skills and connecting to literature.  McCourt's childhood demons keep him second guessing himself all the way, but he never gives up. He resists self-indulgent psychological interpretation, so the reader marvels without him at how at the acme of his career, he who starved as a child hits upon using food and the family dinner table as the metaphor for opening minds and building skills. You can see, though he refuses to foreshadow, the groundswell of the experience building up to become the 4th act in his life, the retired, modest school teacher who would dominate the memoirist genre in the contemporary golden era of the memoir.In the end, TEACHER MAN is an ode to storytelling, its power and necessity in our lives.  That's an important message in an era where public policy makers are saying all that matters is that students pass a dry, impersonal and storyless test to look good.
3 I read with shock Angela's Ashes, I cheered up with "Tis".  I wouldn't put this book in those catagories.  Reading "teacher man" was good, due to the great style of McCourt. I just didn't learn anything.  I learned a bunch from those other two.
5 As a veteran teacher and author of the book,Our Kids: Building Relationships in the Classroom, building relationships with kids is my stock-in-trade. It's how I manage my classroom, one kid at a time.  I was already a fan when I found this book and it did not disappoint.  McCourt's days in the classroom show the true learning curve that comes with mastery of the craft.  It is honest, heartfelt, open, and vulnerable, which is how some of the best teachers approach the field.  A great teacher and a powerful writer.  He is truly missed.
2 This book refreshingly relates the realities of teaching. Rather than offering a "quick fix" sappy story, as do so many stories of teaching, the book outlines McCourt's gradual metamorphosis into a good teacher. It was pretty tough going at the beginning, though. McCourt's derogatory view of women as nothing but sex objects was tiresome to endure as he told tales of his sexual escapades. His "chip on the shoulder" attitude to college professors - who work every bit as hard as he does - was offensive. His tales of his teaching at technical schools was a bit mystifying: did he ever actually teach anything, or simply read at his desk while they chatted? The book gets a lot better toward the end, as McCourt hits his stride in creative writing classes at an elite high school. Is the moral of his story that good teachers need good students?
4 If Angela's Ashes is about the struggle for raw survival, Teacher Man is about the struggle for happiness in the affluent if alienated world of the latter half of the Twentieth Century.  McCourt is wonderfully honest about his strengths and weaknesses as a teacher, and his story to survive and excel as a teacher has real drama.McCourt is able to show the crushing burdens and limited rewards of his profession.  But his humor and his ability to show how he ultimately connects with his students make this book in some ways more emotionally rewarding than Angela's Ashes.The story can be a bit desultory at times, and greater detail, particularly regarding his later years at Stuyvesant High, would have made this a better book.  While administration is painted as the great obstacle to teachers, McCourt's treatment of this issue is a bit one-sided and superficial.  He may be right, but he does not make his point effectively.The strength of the book is its emotional honesty and the vividness with which he can portray his own internal conflicts as well as the connections he is able to make with his students.
3 After having read Angela's Ashes and Tis, I was disappointed with Teacher Man. Having taught school myself for a few years,I was expecting a little more meat in the book. Teaching is one of the hardest jobs in the world and I am a little bewildered by the complete confusion Mr McCourt seemed to show in the classroom. On the other hand, perhaps it worked for him and his class. There is still a sadness in the unhappiness in his life, like he has been wandering aimlessly. As someone else noted, I got a little tired of the negativity and whining.  This book is far from the quality of Angela's Ashes which is one of the best I've read.
3 Easy quick read. Lack of quotation marks for dialogue takes a bit to get used to, hence 3 stars instead of 4. Entertaining and enlightening read about being a HS teacher decades ago in NYC . Some of the stories a bit scary, some heart-warming yet none of them dull. Can't come away from reading this w/out thinking how much a teacher's experience is incredibly important and that teacher's generally deserve all the money or benefits they can get. Angela's Ashes is now on my short list.
4 "Teacher Man" never achieved the success and critical acclaim of "Angela's Ashes", but it's still a very good book, the last one McCourt wrote before his death in 2009.  Some reviewers have criticized "Teacher Man" for being a retread of his first two memoirs.  But I don't think that's a fair assessment.  Sure, McCourt lapses into a few old yarns about his childhood in Ireland, but for the most part the book felt fresh to me, focusing mostly on his years in the classrooms of New York's public schools from 1958 to 1987.I found "Teacher Man" to be as well written and humorous as his prior books.  McCourt has an honest and lucid style that's always a pleasure to read.  The difference with this book is that the stories aren't always about himself.  He shares anecdotes about the lives of his students which are every bit as poignant as the recollections of his own life.  Sure, there's some overlap.  But if you're a fan of McCourt don't let this common ground scare you off.  And if you've never read him before, this book is just as likely (or unlikely) to turn you into a fan as his others.
5 This is a very funny book that tackles some tough issues. I highly recommend the audio version with Frank himself reading. You'll love his accent and inflection; a truly gifted storyteller. Absolutely not necessary to be an educator to enjoy this book...
5 This is a review of the nine disc (actually eight plus a bonus preview of Tis and Angela's Ashes recordings by the author) recording of Professor Frank McCourt's reading of his own Teacher Man, which recording proves the Irish literary tradition is ever and always best illiterate but orally spoken, sung, shouted and whispered. We are fortunate to have but a fragment of the greatest novelist James Joyce recording in his own voice a key passage of his Irish epic Ulysses, Donal Donnely best and unabridged completes that overwhelming task. Here in this recording by the author himself of Teacher Man we have the work as it was integrally intended, with every intonation, dripping with irony where intended, and sincere sentiment where needed. Hear this and weep, and laugh and reJoyce.Those whom Irishman Oscar Wilde required to sit by his side upon a British park bench to hear his stories, the vast majority of which were never published let alone written down, lamented that in the writing they lost most of their charm. Here we observe, or rather hear, the same phenomenom. Reading Frank McCourt is a joy, of course, but to hear him read his own writing, as he told these true tales for decades to his students, is to experience and live them holistically, as they were intended, and to breathe with Francis.Irish literature remains an oral tradition.In this recording, Frank takes us through his entire life up to retirement when he begins to write down his stories. He begins with how it was to go from Brooklyn to Ireland as a small boy not yet four, and to defend himself from attack by the Limerick lane boys for being a red skin and yankee, until he acquired his distinctive Irish accent. In these infant narratives we feel the opening pages of the Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, in which we similarly feel a small child relating his perceptions through a sly and hidden adult narrative voice. It took me a few listenings to realize we were hearing the words of a boy of four or five, yet this in no way detracts from the narrative; it enhances the narrative.A few sidebars here: Frank's voice is wonderful, a delight. If you have heard Seamus Heaney's recoding of his own translation of Beowulf, you hear a similar dry burr, but here with Frank it has life and joy; under Heaney it remains unrelentingly grim throughout, as due his gruesome subject matter. Frank brings his voice to unforced yet skillful inflections, reflecting each of the several characters and emotions he has to tell. We laugh with Frank; we get angry with Frank; we weep with Frank. This is as it must be.The second sidebar is that this recording only improves with repeated listenings, and the fact the author himself reads means we feel his sincerity and urgency and truth, and so the recording does not ever ring false, but ever more profound. You quickly find yourself entranced ever more by this story, and repeated listenings are well rewarded. Hearing the same stories again does not wear them thin, but deepens them.End of sidebars. Frank takes us through his journey back from Ireland to New York, his achieving his teaching license, his experiences as teacher, and his facing retirement, with a brilliance and completeness that is very satisfying. At every point he has much to say about teacher preparation and education in America, and what he says is true. Those who can't teach, teach teachers (a trite adage which Frank's taste and talent do not permit him to quote; he says it his own way more truly and originally). His experience with students and parents ring true for any teacher in America, not just New YOrk City of forty or fifty years ago.In fact, Frank teaches us much very well about teaching itself, as a calling, a career and a professional practice. This recording is the best text for teacher preparation around. As a long time teacher myself, I learn much about how to teach, and receive much strength, from Frank's relatin of his experiences, and the wisdom he has derived from it, which he freely shares here. I am very grateful to Frank for this.A very valuable recording as enterntainment, as wisdom, as comforting food for thought. You will not be disappointed hearing this talented and comprehensive shanachie of a thousand and one tales; you will listen to him again and again. You will sell your hi-def television and let Frank handle the entertainment responsibilities in your home. You will let Frank take up an honored residence within your lonely home and turn to him whenever you are at home for companionship, joy and strength, playing these disks constantly without fear of wearing out. It is that good. Let it grow on you.
4 Teacher Man, McCourt's third memoir, focuses on his career as a teacher in New York City but he also touches on his "Miserable Irish Childhood," finding his way in New York, and some family issues.McCourt's gifted style of writing creates a pleasurable experience for readers of all of his books.  Like Angela's Ashes, Teacher Man offers eloquently, sometimes playfully written narratives that highlight a 30 year teaching career.Teacher Man tells classroom stories that include the full range of emotions from tragic to hilarious.  His writing always includes introspective comments that reveal his struggles to gain self-esteem and self-worth.Teacher Man only relates limited stories of his family in Ireland and New York.  i would have enjoyed hearing more about his life outside the classroom in New York City, but "Tis" covered some of that while this book is about his teaching.The highlights of his teaching career make for interesting and entertaining reading.  Readers who enjoyed Angela's Ashes and 'Tis won't be disappointed.  McCourt has a beautiful voice on the written page and i hope he does not stop writing.Craig Stephans, author of Shakespeare On Spirituality: Life-Changing Wisdom from Shakespeare's Plays
4 I thoroughly enjoyed Frank McCourt's Pulitzer Prize-winner Angela's Ashes, but was a bit disappointed with his second book, Tis.  I'm happy to report that McCourt has once again hit his stride with Teacher Man.  This book should be required reading for any past, present or future teacher.  Even a layman will find Teacher Man funny, sad, poignant, moving and always entertaining.McCourt begins Teacher Man with a very brief personal history including his impoverished childhood in Ireland, his teenage journey to the US, his enlistment in the service and his earning a college degree through the GI Bill.  But the bulk of this book spans McCourt's 30 years as a teacher in the New York City School System.  As a teacher of 29 years, I identified with everything McCourt writes about.  He recounts how nothing in college can really prepare you for your first day in the classroom, and how it's possible to feel like a fraud.  He identifies the various types of students who populate each classroom (class clown, drama queen, rebel, bully, etc.) and how many times the classroom becomes a place for group therapy.  He also shares the many roles a teacher must play including "a drill sergeant, a rabbi, a disciplinarian, a low-level scholar, a clerk, a referee, a clown, a counselor, and therapist, etc.).  He writes of trying to instill in his students a passion for learning, and he manages to succeed through trial and error.  There are many sad stories.  When McCourt calls home to report on a misbehaving child, the father shows up at school to beat his son in front of a horrified classroom.  Or McCourt is castigated by a guidance counselor for encouraging a bright vo-tech student to aim for college.  But there are also happy, gratifying moments.  Years after graduation, McCourt runs into a former (indifferent) student, who tells the author how much he learned in his class.  Along the way, McCourt gives us snapshots of his marriage and his attempt at a PhD.One aspect of Teacher Man that proved to be a distraction was that it reminded me so much of Pat Conroy's The Water is Wide.  Both men are Irish storytellers who suffered through miserable childhoods.  Both started out as young, idealist educators whose zeal was stifled by uncaring administrators.  Both had to resort to innovative and unorthodox teaching styles to motivate their students.  And although both authors have very different writing styles, I found that their dialogs with their students were surprisingly similar.  I had to keep reminding myself that I was reading McCourt and not Conroy.  But while Conroy taught for only a few years before becoming a fulltime novelist, McCourt taught for 30 years before he wrote his first novel, and he has many more educational experiences to share.As educators, we all share the same hopes and dreams, challenges and fears, disappointments and roadblocks.  It's a schizophrenic profession where you can love being a teacher one minute, and rue the day you first picked up a piece of chalk the next.  It is nice of McCourt to put our feelings and experiences on paper so eloquently.  I have been told by colleagues that the only thing better than reading Teacher Man is to listen to the audio book.  They say it is a special treat to hear McCourt read his own story.
4 Frank has a very engaging narrative style that really makes you feel inside of his head and life.  More really can not be said about an author.  It is what everyone strives for but few really achieve.  Perhaps what makes his writing so authentic is that he is very candid about his failings as well as his successes.
5 In TEACHER MAN, Frank McCourt starts out as a bit of a whiner. He has trouble holding a teaching job; he has personality conflicts with administrators; he can't finish his thesis when he attends Trinity College in Dublin.That's not to say that McCourt doesn't have his moments. The funniest part of the book occurs while he's teaching at Seward Park High School, where he teaches English a class consisting of 29 black girls and two Puerto Rican boys. They look at him "as if you were a white snowman about to melt." He takes them on a field trip to see a movie on Times Square, where they set about wreaking havoc. Serena, the ring leader, refers to the two boys as Spic and Span. When the movie is finally over, the girls refuse to leave. They want to see the movie again.McCourt hits his stride when he takes a job at exclusive Stuyvesant High in New York City. He really is an innovative teacher. Some of his methods include having his students read recipes aloud, with musical accompaniment, as poetry. Then there's "dinner interrogation." He asks James what he had for dinner last night, which ultimately leads to the realization that James and his father don't lift a finger to help James's mother and sister prepare the meal. Some of the girls in class are outraged and a raucous discussion ensues.  Daniel says he had veal medallions for dinner, served by the maid. Through interrogation, McCourt ultimately discovers that Daniel ate alone because his father is at Sloan Kettering dying of cancer.As a former English teacher I could relate to much of what McCourt said. He says, "Of course I favor the girls. Give me five classes with a majority of girls and I'm in heaven." Girls do their homework; girls participate in class. If I had taught in a girls' school, I'd still be teaching. He also obsesses over the amount of compositions he's got to read, always on the lookout for excuses not to grade them.What I always liked about teaching was that you got to meet new people every semester; McCourt really comes alive when he talks about some of his special students. Ben Stein wanted to be a farmer, a pig farmer to be specific, which really upset his Rabbi father. I defy you not to cry when McCourt and Ben meet up six years after graduation. Then there's Phyllis who wrote about alternating between watching Neil Armstrong land on the moon on TV and attending her father who was on his death bed in the bedroom.Probably the most uplifting thing about TEACHER MAN, besides the human connections McCourt makes, is the realization that McCourt achieved his greatest success at the age of 66, when he published ANGELA'S ASHES and he wrote TEACHER MAN while in his seventies. I guess it's true that it's never over until it's over.
3 It's hard not to root for the loveable Frank McCourt. While Teacher Man is by no means on the same level of earth-shattering greatness as Angela's Ashes, it's still a fun, entertaining and poignant reminder of McCourt's gift of gab. He describes the post-Angela's Ashes Frank McCourt as the "Mick of the moment". Perhaps he is being brutally honest with us to a fault. Even though Teacher Man has a few wonderfully entertaining moments, it appears as if his star is fading just a bit. Borrow this book from the library and enjoy it on a flight across the country, then return it...
1 I read books by teachers about their experiences teaching all the time. They are uniformly hopeful, touching, exhilarating, and intimate. And this book is the worst of the lot. It shares none of these characteristics of good teaching memoirs. It seemed as though McCourt would rather have been in a prison in Mozambique than in a classroom, would rather have been spending his time with a cockraoch than with students.Truly abysmal. Another decade of students has been lucky that McCourt found another career.
2 Since I am a teacher in NYC, several friends have recommended Teacher Man. Some even sent me the book.After about 75 pages, I can't get into it. Here is why:1. He turns the kids into cartoon characters. He describes them as "the mouth," "the saint" etc. I don't think that McCourt's writer-heroes use cliches in place of characters.2. He uses the kids as a foil to tell his own stories, in the pages I have read. A kid asks something, and that is a chance for McCourt to talk about his life extensively.3. His deprived childhood was fascinating in Angela's Ashes, especially because he wrote the story so well. I related. I think he is stuck there now, coming back to the same type of material with tired repetition. Angela's Ashes was a much more affecting and profound book than Teacher Man. He has run out of mileage on his deprived childhood and its effects, which was no worse than the lives of 3/4 of the world's children now, and no worse than the lives of 1/4 of my current students. I have one student living in a shelter, barely making it. I related to Angela's Ashes, but once was enough on McCourt not having toilet paper as a kid. Now it just sounds self-absorbed.4. He strains to be cute. His humor is forced, and often not even funny. He uses cute phrases and slang as humor, and it comes across as dated and a little silly.5. His attempts at lyricism don't work. Pigeons copulating on the window sill while his student's breasts are revealed under their blouses is poor imagery. It is offensive enough to be stupid, and not gritty enough to transcend cliche. Plus, pigeons copulating, for a New Yorker, hardly seem lyrical. They do it on my air conditioner all the time and then defecate. So what.6. If I talked this much about myself to my students they would yell at me that I was boring, then knock their desks over and run out of the room. Granted, he is writing about kids over 30 years ago, but I was hoping that I could relate to something, since I am a teacher.Maybe I should not judge so harshly, having read only the first 75 pages. Maybe it suddenly gets much better. But I have to quit. I have a stack of good books to read. And what a disappointment after Angela's Ashes.
5 Excuses, Excuses: An Excerpt from Teacher ManMy students forged the notes. I turned them into a lesson plan.From Reader's Digest, Originally in Teacher ManI was in my third year of teaching creative writing at Ralph McKee Vocational School in Staten Island, New York, when one of my students, 16-year-old Mikey, gave me a note from his mother. It explained his absence from class the day before:"Dear Mr. McCort, Mikey's grandmother who is eighty years of age fell down the stairs from too much coffee and I kept Mikey at home to take care of her and his baby sister so I could go to my job at the ferry terminal. Please excuse Mikey and he'll do his best in the future. P.S. His grandmother is ok."I had seen Mikey writing the note at his desk, using his left hand to disguise his handwriting. I said nothing. Most parental-excuse notes I received back in those days were penned by my students. They'd been forging excuse notes since they learned to write, and if I were to confront each forger I'd be busy 24 hours a day.I threw Mikey's note into a desk drawer along with dozens of other notes. While my classes took a test, I decided to read all the notes I'd only glanced at before. I made two piles, one for the genuine ones written by mothers, the other for forgeries. The second was the larger pile, with writing that ranged from imaginative to lunatic.I was having an epiphany.Isn't it remarkable, I thought, how the students whined and said it was hard putting 200 words together on any subject? But when they forged excuse notes, they were brilliant. The notes I had could be turned into an anthology of Great American Excuses. They were samples of talent never mentioned in song, story or study.How could I have ignored this treasure trove, these gems of fiction and fantasy? Here was American high school writing at its best--raw, real, urgent, lucid, brief, and lying. I read:* The stove caught fire and the wallpaper went up and the fire department kept us out of the house all night.* Arnold was getting off the train and the door closed on his school bag and the train took it away. He yelled to the conductor who said very vulgar things as the train drove away.* His sister's dog ate his homework and I hope it chokes him.* We were evicted from our apartment and the mean sheriff said if my son kept yelling for his notebook he'd have us all arrested.The writers of these notes didn't realize that honest excuse notes were usually dull: "Peter was late because the alarm clock didn't go off."One day I typed out a dozen excuse notes and distributed them to my senior classes. The students read them silently, intently. "Mr. McCourt, who wrote these?" asked one boy."You did," I said. "I omitted names to protect the guilty. They're supposed to be written by parents, but you and I know the real authors. Yes, Mikey?""So what are we supposed to do?""This is the first class to study the art of the excuse note--the first class, ever, to practice writing them. You're so lucky to have a teacher like me who has taken your best writing and turned it into a subject worthy of study."Everyone smiled as I went on, "You didn't settle for the old alarm clock story. You used your imaginations. One day you might be writing excuses for your own children when they're late or absent or up to some devilment. So try it now. Imagine you have a 15-year-old who needs an excuse for falling behind in English. Let it rip."The students produced a rhapsody of excuses, ranging from a 16-wheeler crashing into a house to a severe case of food poisoning blamed on the school cafeteria. They said, "More, more. Can we do more?"So I said, "I'd like you to write--" And I finished, " `An Excuse Note from Adam to God' or `An Excuse Note from Eve to God.' " Heads went down. Pens raced across paper.[...]
5 There is a bit of something in this book for everyone.  This is the story of the author's thirty years teaching in our public school systems.  As with his previous works, the author's insight and wit hit you page after page.  I cannot think of an author writing today whose style and syntax is more unique or captivating.  He of course well deserved the Pulitzer for Angela's Ashes and the same skill in writing and in story telling shines through in this latest work.  This work is well thought out, well organized and certainly has a strong message.  All teachers should read it as well as all parents (it would not hurt a few students I know to give it a go either).  All in all, this is a very insightful book, into the author himself and into our society as a whole.  I highly recommend this one.
4 What wonderful stories, my favorite is &#34;Tis&#34; .Wish you would have written more Mr. McCourt. Such  a way with words.
5 As was the case with both "Angela's Ashes" and "Tis", Frank McCourt's writing has the amazing ability to bring the reader into his world and live it along side him.  As a teacher, I try to help my students write with their own voice - if nothing else, Mr. McCourt has VOICE!  I can hear his lyrical Irish brogue in every line of this book as though I'm sitting across the table from him listening to his stories in person.  Very few writers have this gift - I hope Mr. McCourt will continue to write his stories so I can pull up a chair and listen with all ears!.
5 I loved Angela's Ashes and didn't want it to end, so I bought his second book 'Tis and didn't want it to end, so I bought Teacher Man: A Memoir. I must say it gave me a new perspective on teachers from them until now.
4 Frank McCourt continues his trip through the blackboard jungle into the sunshine.  He masters the system by keeping the faith (so to speak) and turns himself into the teacher he wants to be.  I wonder if it could be done today?
5 That he didn't write when he was younger I can only imagine how funny those stories might have been. As far as this book goes it most definately is a keeper.
4 In his memoir entitled, "Teacher Man" Frank McCourt wrote about his teaching experience in various public high schools as well as vocational schools. He wrote about how he started teaching in high school, and the difficulties he had as he did not have much teaching experience. According to McCourt, it was extremely challenging to be a teacher especially since there was little respect for teachers in general. He used unconventional methods of teaching his students such as asking them to recite nursery rhymes as reading recipes from cookbooks. In this book, McCourt wrote at length about his students, their likes and dislikes and their personalities.This was a honest memoir about teaching in public high schools and the challenges that teachers faced. I have always known that it wasn't an easy job but I had no idea it can be this difficult and challenging. This is a must read for readers who had read McCourt's previous two memoirs, "Angela's Ashes" and "Tis" but even if you have never read the previous two, it would not be difficult to follow up.
5 "Listen - are you listening" is one of the catch phrases that Mr McCourt used on his students over the years and now I can't get it out of my head.  I listened to Mr McCourt's A.A. & 'Tis and loved them both!! (each a 5 star)  Teacher Man is not on the same level as his two previous works but never-the-less, a real joy to listen to.  Maybe start with one of his previous two works before you dive in to Teacher Man.  It will set the stage and more importantly the mood with which you should approach Teacher Man.  Teacher Man by itself is a worthy 4 stars.  I mean who hasn't had a teacher that didn't ramble on every time and again.Although I am not one of his lucky 12,000 former students, after reading all three books I would like to consider myself as one. That makes my review bias.  I loved this audio book!!  Mr McCourt shows his mastery of the great works in English literature throughout but his greatest skill lies in his wonderful ability to tell a story, his story and the students and teachers he encounters during his travels.  The title describes exactly what the book is all about.  A teacher in the classroom and the man within who employes him. I even learned something unexpected - and isn't that what teachers are suppose to do? He taught me to look at the English language in a completely new light when he said, "The study of psychology is the study of how people act, just like grammar is the study of how words act."  I LOVE that!"Listen - are you listening."  Yes I did - and if you like a good story so should you.Rating  Buy (for the audio version)
5 All of us have had experiences with teachers and school - yet few know what it is like to stand in front of a class of America's youth and DO the thing.  Frank McCourt humorously and honestly tells it like it is.In his typical self-depreciating manner, he retells of thirty years in the teaching profession and his attempts at engaging students, making lessons relevant, questioning, probing, prodding, beging and pleading for kids to learn and to love learning.His experiences range from teaching the poor, working class and immigrant kids, to the children of the affluent at one of New York's most prestigeous high schools.  The irony is, kids are kids.  And good teaching is good teaching: let the students explore, let them work things out; encourage them, listen.As a teacher, I see pieces of myself in many of his stories.  I also see my kids in most of his tales.  It is heart-warming, frustrating and moving - like teaching itself.  Highly recommended.
5 Frank McCourt's third book is as incredibly enjoyable as his first two.  In spite of his "miserable childhood", Frank is able to laugh at himself and at life.  In this memoir he tells of his experiences teaching thousands of NYC high school students.  These memories are probably a lot more enjoyable in retrospect, than they were at the time they took place *laugh*.  From the large bodied Jewish boy whose ambition was to become a pig farmer, and wore a jacket he said had belonged to Orson Welles, accompanied by short pants worn in all weather, to stories of Frank's personal experiences in group therapy (one participant in the group told of having sex with a jar of chicken livers), and many other touching and amusing stories, told with honesty and candor.  After reading the book, I hope to listen to it on audio as well, especially if it is read by Frank himself.  Frank McCourt is one of the most entertaining writers around.
5 I am excited to recommend this book. It tells about Frank McCourt's years as an English teacher in the public high schools of New York City. In reading this endearing book I've learned more about teaching than I ever could from a textbook, and have been quite entertained at the same time. The students have the best teacher ever. He thinks up ideas to keep them interested, such as, having them write excuse notes for characters in history (Adam or Eve to God). I just loved it. Best of all it was an audio book so I heard it in the voice of Frank McCourt accent and all! Priceless! Don't forget to read "Tis" on CD as well.Teacher Man [Unabridged] (AUDIO CD/AUDIO BOOK)
5 Teacher Man is one of the best books I have read in years. Written in a manner that brings you into the classroom with him, Mr. McCourt shows us that it is no simple task to teach students in a New York City school.He shows such a depth of compassion for his students and delves deeply into the dynamics of how kids learn and sometimes try to avoid learning. His life in teaching, he asserts, was not planned and nevertheless an opportunity to do something significant for the young children he came in contact with.What is most interesting is his insights into the fundamental flaws of the school system. He shows how many administrators leave the classroom before they themselves really get a grasp for what it is the teacher does. They flee the work of a teacher and become an obstacle to good teaching rather than a supporter and mentor.No teacher or would be teacher should be without the insights and inspiration McCourt provides.Furthermore, for those of us who spent our early life teaching, McCourt shows that there is a another life afterward and one that can be equally fulfilling. I have become a writer and hope to follow in his footsteps.
5 Frank Mc Court has written an engaging, humorous, relevant look inside the world of teaching.  The book is not only for teachers and parents, although they would probably appreciate it the most.  I am neither, yet I thoroughly enjoyed the author's passage through life.  Find what you love and do it- he suggests.  Now that is a universal theme anyone can relate to.  Not easy to do,  but well worth the journey.One of Mr. McCourt's students suggested he write a book-.  He responded-  I'll try.He did.  "Teacher Man"  kept me interested in its  engrossing action and rich imagery from start to finish.  Whether showing us  Ireland, New York, bars, parks, classrooms challenging young minds to wake-up,  think , analyze for themselves,-- failed relationships, failed marriage,  self-doubt, --Mr Mc Ccourt tells it honestly.  Maybe that's why this book is so refreshingly good!Highly recommended reading for anyone who enjoys excellent writing.By the way,  Teachers of New York just gave their  prestigious "2006 Teacher of the Year Award "  to Frank Mc Court.  Well deserved!
4 This is my first McCourt book, as I am apparently the only person in the English-speaking world that has not read "Angela's Ashes".The book started like a house afire for me - full of the trepidation of the first day of school for a brand new teacher. What would he say? First impressions are vital - how much more vital is the first impression for an entire career? As is normal on a first day (I've had 17 years of them!), the first words from McCourt are not planned - they are a reaction to what the kids say and do - he has to yell, "Stop throwing sandwiches!"McCourt's classroom rememberings are enjoyable - his style is not mine (at least not as of yet - styles evolve and change over time) but it was certainly original and caused the kids to think and he had their attention - more than half the battle is won if you have your attention. His rantings against administrators seem, for the most part, true (sad to say).I found myself irritated at the middle of the book - seemingly great stretches that wander away from the classroom and deal with his failed attempt at a doctorate from an Irish university and a bad marriage. At the end, we are back in the classroom and the book sings along happily once again.So, final grade. I give it a "B". Great start and finish.
5 This is an absolutely fantastic book for anyone who teaches, wishes to teach, or been a student.  It is an enjoyable read and you never want to put the book down.  I learned a great deal about teaching from the McCourt's autobiographical account.  One point is that a teacher never truly understands or knows whom they influence the most.  Get the book immediately if you want something very enjoyable to read.
4 In "Teacher Man," Frank McCourt sheepishly looks back on his thirty years of teaching, and admits that he wasn't always comfortable educating adolescents.  He candidly states in his prologue, "How I became a teacher at all and remained one is a miracle."  This memoir is a bittersweet look back at McCourt's not entirely successful career in the New York City Public High Schools, and at the often hilarious goings-on in his classrooms.As he made clear in his Pulitzer-Prize winning "Angela's Ashes," McCourt had a miserable and impoverished childhood in Ireland.  His alcoholic father walked out when Frank was ten.  Three of his siblings died. Frank's schoolmasters were always quick to beat their recalcitrant charges with sticks, straps, and canes.  He left school at fourteen and fled to America, where he worked as a manual laborer.  McCourt was a man with horrible memories, low self-esteem, and no goals.After he served a stint in the U. S. army, McCourt dozed through four years of New York University on the GI Bill.  At the age of twenty-seven, he became a teacher after barely passing his licensing examination.  When he began his first teaching job at McKee Vocational and Technical High School in Staten Island, it didn't take long for him to realize that he was in way over his head.  Merely getting the kids to pay attention to him would count as a major triumph."Teacher Man" is a story of survival.  McCourt basically threw out the standard English curriculum and played it by ear.  He told stories of his wretched years in Ireland instead of diagramming sentences and discussing great works of literature.  He had the students talk about their experiences and make up original stories.  He instructed his pupils to bring in cookbooks and read recipes out loud, which they did, accompanied by music.  Some parents complained about McCourt and he was shown the door a few times.  However, he bounced back long enough to collect his pension and go on to do what he truly loved--writing."Teacher Man" is an offbeat, steam-of-consciousness book about a man shuffling through life, drifting into marriage and parenthood, and eventually finding himself.  Frank McCourt is honest and self-deprecating, freely admitting that he was chronically disorganized and lacked self-discipline.  He tells poignant and funny tales about the women he loved, his supervisors and colleagues, and most of all, his students.  In his last teaching job, at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, McCourt faced bright and upwardly mobile college-bound teenagers.  There, he says, "I was finding my voice and my own style of teaching."  He still shunned traditional teaching methods, but the students in Stuyvesant had so much energy that they inspired him to reach higher than he ever had before; he enjoyed his greatest success in his creative writing classes.  McCourt himself might admit that he should have heeded the advice he once gave to a prospective teacher: "Find what you love and do it."
4 Having taught (kindergarten, first grade, middle school), I understand the frustration, but oh,my, Frank does do a lot of whining. However -- I enjoyed the accounts of his first, all-too-familiar, fumbling attempts to control a classroom. There were some laugh-out-loud moments. And if you can make it to the last few chapters, you get into the real meat of the story -- how to become a writer. I've been working at becoming a writer for most of my life, and the last few chapters gave me a lot to think about and work towards. So, thanks, Frank. I'm sure I'll refer back to those precious last few chapters over and over. It may be the only creative writing class anyone needs to take.
5 Frank McCourt's self-deprecating humor is a hoot. For example, on page 211 he's talking about being uncomfortably happy, asking himself if he should do something about it: "Maybe you could find a way of enjoying yourself less." On the same page, he says: "Why fear the criticism of others when you, yourself, are first out of the critical gate?"As an editor and writer, I appreciate that McCourt fell upon a way to explain grammar: "the study of the way language behaves." I love a reading/writing exercise he had his advanced students do, which was to dramatically read recipes. What a great way to bring language home.
5 McCourt reaches his students in NYC by telling them about his alcoholic father, growing up in Ireland, moving to New York at 19, his failed first marraige and other life experiences both big and small.The dialogue is wonderful. The interplay between McCourt and his students is both real and instructional.He tells his students to write better excuse notes and to do resturant reviews on neighborhood eateries and report back to him.It's a quick read. After teaching in NYC for about 30 years, he obviously knows what works. If you were a teacher, are a teacher or are thinking about becoming a teacher, read it and borrow some of his ideas.I just started teaching in the inner city last week, and I'm going to use some of them myself.
4 The rest of the story of Frank McCourt, I especially enjoyed it as I lived in NY and was in school during the years he was teaching.
4 I read much of this but didn't finish. It's interesting enough, but not a classic like Angela's Ashes. I think he had so much time to write that one it just got better and better. It is a memoir where the other book is like a fairy tale.
5 I listened to this book on unabridged audio CD, and I loved every moment of it. Frank McCourt narrated the book and his strong Irish accent gave a wonderful color and rhythm to the writing and to his story.One thing that really touched me about this book is that McCourt didn't pull any punches when recounting his own actions and feelings. I think sometimes memoirists like to see themselves in a glowing light, and often downplay any negative characteristics they have. McCourt outlines his initial incompetance as a teacher and then shows how he slowly grew, as a person and in his work, into a teacher and person that we can respect.I loved Angela's Ashes and Tis, and found this an excellent addition to the two books. I truly enjoyed every moment of the audio book. His humor and interest in life shone through, and made this a touching and enjoyable read. I can't recommend the audio edition enough - I think McCourt's words lose a little something when put on paper, and his voice brings out the richness and interest of the stories he has to share.
5 Teacher Man is one of the best books I have read. No teacher should be without the insights that McCourt offers. This non-fiction work weaves his tragic childhood into his career as a high school and college English teacher. The best stories are the true ones, and McCourt's is the best I have read in a long time. For other real live stories I suggest the bookThe Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Timewhich I have reviewed in the past.
2 I really wanted to like Teacher Man by Frank McCourt. There were bits here and there, mostly anecdotes from his time in the classroom, that were fascinating. Mostly, though, it was just ridiculous, meaningless, rambling drivel. It was very annoying to read due to the many, many quotes without quotation marks. I also felt the constant negativity about himself got old fast. Mr. McCourt was clearly a good teacher and tried hard to teach the kids English in a way they understood no matter their background and previous knowledge. Focusing on that rather than his affairs and perceived failures (many of which weren&#8217;t) would have made this a much better book (reducing the amount of foul language would have been nice, too).
4 I can't decide if I'd love Frank McCourt's job or hate it: teaching creative writing to high school students. Neither can I decide whether I enjoyed reading this book.TEACHER MAN barely has a plot, but it leaves you fully aware of the path your own life is taking. It highlights people who are far from spectacular, but causes you to love everyone more.The reason I can't decide whether I enjoyed the book or not is because it took some work to get myself to keep flipping the pages--which is often true of things that are good for us.
5 A smile.  A reminiscence of the good old school days.  How many times did our teachers address us with that remark?  If you are a teacher, how often did/do you say it to your students?  Countless times.  Mr. McCourt recounts his 30+ years as a teacher in various high schools in New York.  For those of you who were, are or will be teachers, and for those who were, or are students, or if you simply like real-life stories, this is the book for you.Honing his teacher's skills as the years went by, Mr. McCourt delivers a true insight of life in the classroom, with its laughs, its tears, its frustrations, its joys.  This book is constellated with memories of his past, which he would often talk about to his pupils who always listened avidly and eagerly and were encouraged, in turn, to open up and believe in themselves.His passion for teaching is all there in those laughs, tears, frustrations and joys.  Unquestionably, teaching was what Mr. McCourt was meant to do, no matter how undervalued a profession it often was/is, but if you love it, that passion is the fuel igniting everything.His writing is, as usual, witty, harrowing, poignant and humorous at the same time.  He explores his own weaknesses and strengths squarely, learning as he teaches, facing hundreds of challenging minds every day.After "Angela's Ashes" and " 'Tis ", this is perceived by the author as the last book about himself.  Should it be the case, please allow me to quote him once again by saying that I'm so glad that he "sang his song, danced his dance, told his tale".  Auspiciously, he'll write some more.
5 A "must read" for every teacher and for anyone wanting a rich, well written story of classroom life in the trenches in the New York school system. My favorite Frank McCourt book.
5 After the enormous success of "Angela's Ashes", it would be difficlut to imagine another Frank McCourt memoir that was as touching as the Pulitzer prize-winning work. However, in detailing his thirty years as a high school English teacher in New York, McCourt has managed to capture the spirit of his first book with "Teacher Man".Fresh out of NYU in the late 1950s, Frank McCourt became a high school English teacher, first on Staten Island, and later throughout other parts of New York City. His first few days (and years) were a struggle to find his identity as a teacher; he details his constant questioning of his own worth as an educator, his ability to give his students what they need, and his fears of being exposed as a fraud. Like all teachers, he has a hard time with classroom discipline, the mountain of papers to grade, how to inspire his students, and identifying his role as teacher - part parent, part confidante, part stranger.Anyone who has taught in a classroom needs to read this one; years of college, studying pedagogy cannot prepare one for the reality of a classroom, and this is a lesson that McCourt comes back to again and again. As a fellow secondary teacher, I found myself identifying with a lot of his feelings throughout this book. The anxiety of being expected to "know it all", the stress of dealing with hundreds of students each day, complete with their home lives and hormones, and the fear of losing one's life to the classroom. He details, with great humor and humility, his difficulty in asserting his authority, figuring out what to teach and how to teach it, and his fears of never doing anything else. Through the lyrical tones of Ireland itself, Frank McCourt has made the classroom come alive on the pages. It's a journey that everyone should take.
5 Oh how I loved reading Frank McCourt's words again.  The unique way of looking at life and the easy way he takes the reader into the New York school system will charm you.  Or maybe it's the Irish brogue present throughout the work?  Regardless, this book is engaging and well told.  His distinctive style will create images in your mind of the kids, parents, teachers, and classrooms he speaks of - so much so that you'll wonder what happened to each and every kid he mentions.  Thank goodness we know what happened to their teacher....keep writing Frank!
5 I just read Teacher Man, four years after it was published because my mother e-mailed and said it was a "must read." She and I met Frank McCourt years back when he was signing books (Angela's Ashes) at a BJs in Waltham, Mass. He sat there, seemingly unflapped by a long queue of admirers, completely focused on the person with him at the moment, unbothered by requests for photos. When it was our turn, I thought he was simply gracious. I liked Teacher Man immensely, and found it to be entertaining, honest and at times both funny and quite meaningful. I also enjoyed getting suggestions for reading books and authors I've missed along the way (Santayana for one). McCourt doesn't explicitly state this, but it comes across: ultimately, the teacher decides what happens in h/her classroom. And McCourt's classrooms provided rich experiences for his students because of what I would call his "inspired creativeness." (He also had the ability to take the ball -- no matter what ball he was passed -- and run with it.) He managed to tie English structure and grammar, (which can be deadly) vocabulary and writing into what interested his students, creating student-centered lessons long before it was the pedagogical rage. I loved his account of student's enthusiasm for recipes and how they added music and turned them into songs and raps. I loved how the students all brought an ethnic dish and shared them with each other and anyone passing by on the streets of New York. McCourt was a conductor who brought out the best in his players by getting them to relate to each other and to him. But, all is not always well in Teacher Land (and here's where McCourt's honesty was especially appreciated): the low pay, fatigue, and sometimes impossible task of pleasing parents and administrators are not omitted. Another book well written, Mr. McCourt. Kudos!
5 I have taught high school English for 15 years and I have never read anything that comes so close to what it is really like in the trenches.  In particular, his chapter on the first day of his career portrayed accurately the feelings of loneliness and dread that most teachers must have on their first day of school.  The chapter on parent-teacher conferences was dead on as well.  His style is not preachy, but definitely unapologetic.  McCourt's life story is quite interesting as well (as a bonus).  He weaves it in and out of his teaching anecdotes.
5 Frank McCourt's "Teacher Man" is a definite must read for all teachers, and also those who would want to know more of what it takes to be and live as a teacher. This short Memoir really illustrates the travails of the teaching job.
1 TEACHER MAN is so rambling, so off topic, at times, it is laughable as literature.  It is a partial autobiography of a man that admits failure as a teacher for most of his teaching career.  And when he does luck upon a plum of a school in one of the best sections of New York City, he still shares very little that would be expected by the book's title.  I don't care one whit that he is a Pulitizer-prize-winning author (ANGELA'S ASHES, which was another terribly rambling write)--this book is an account of his earlier manhood and he JUST HAPPENS to be a teacher, mostly in name only.  I, too, was a teacher in sometimes-gang territory, had my life and limb threatened more than once, had rocks thrown at me, parents (who couldn't control their little darlings at home) in my face, (and I could go on), but I still was able to manage , challenge and improve the skills of most of my students, who, over the years, have placed me in WHO'S WHO AMONG AMERICA'S TEACHERS four times (less than one percent of teachers get that honor from their students).  Should I have been a near-failure for most of that time, as was McCourt, hey, I could have gotten a book out of it.  The point is I wouldn't have written about it.  Who cares about the intimacy of his personal life? Or his lust for a student or two?  Or wants to know that his foul mouth was a natural ingredient in his teaching style?  I haven't read his book TIS yet.  I'm leary.  (Hey, since I was tough on McCourt, I'll take the heat, too, as a veteran teacher in a big city.  Compare my recent release, THE CREATIVE TEACHER: ACTIVITIES FOR LANGUAGE ARTS (GRADES 4 THROUGH 8 AND UP). It is mostly aimed at middle and junior high students, but half the book is suitable for senior high, too.)The Creative Teacher: Activities for Language Arts (Grades 4 through 8 and Up)
2 In the words of Frank McCourt, I don't "give a fiddler's fart" about his sex life. This book tries to be cute right up until Chapter 18 when Frank says, "I'll try" in answer to someone's suggestion that he should write a book.It's not amusing to make fun of students, their parents and other teachers. It's not good writing to use the same voices for all of his students over 30 years. It's not entertaining to stereotype everyone who crosses his path.What "Teacher Man" does is to cash in on the popularity of "Angela's Ashes." He blithely offends people right and left but gets away with it by playing the Irish card.This book is a disappointing bore out of what could have been an interesting look into what it is like to teach for 30 years in a city like New York, a city which deserved much better from him.
5 I've been a teacher almost as long as Frank McCourt was and I loved this book. Thankfully, I've never experienced the frustration he did in the technical schools that dominated his first two decades. For reasons of pure luck I've spent my time in the Stuyvesants of California's suburbs. From my very first year I have worked with students who make my days worthwhile and interesting. And I work with colleagues I trust and who trust me.On the other side of the continent, Frank McCourt taught high school English for 30 years in New York City. It seems likely to me that he was always a talented teacher, but for most of his career teaching was his private hell filled with idiot administrators, stupider parents and damaged students. In these early technical schools he was bothered and belittled by his betters: "I was uncomfortable with the bureaucrats, the higher-ups, who had escaped classrooms only to turn and bother the occupants of those classrooms, teachers and students. I never wanted to fill out their forms, follow their guidelines, administer their examinations, tolerate their snooping, adjust myself to their programs and courses of study."But his biggest mistake, I think, was in taking the teacher training seriously. At NYU he was told to present a consistent image of composure and self-confidence. Teach the curriculum, don't let them into your private life, maintain a distant-discipline. Tellingly, all that was said by some of the worst "teachers" imaginable. Why would anyone take them seriously?From the start, when McCourt got in classroom trouble, he told the stories of his formerly Irish life and the students listened. In the beginning he thinks these stories, and his other classroom solutions, are mistakes. He even confesses to feeling doomed during his NY teacher's exam. (When trapped then he suggests the students write a suicide note.) But he passes and he gets to experience all of those frustrating years in "trade schools." Eventually he ends up at Stuyvesant High with kids who were prepared to learn what he was prepared to teach. At Stuyvesant his "betters" saw themselves as colleagues and knew enough to trust him to stimulate.In a way, McCourt's story is the opening scene of Brave New World where the embryo Alphas get clean nutrients and embryos at the bottom of the stairs get nutrients laced with alcohol. In a way, it is the story of Jonathan Kozol's firing after his first year in Boston then his awards for doing the same things at a private school the next. In a way, it is the story of the contemporary crisis in American-national education. But what becomes clear is that knowing more about the problem doesn't point to any easy solutions. (Unless we can begin with honest discussions, new parents, new administrators, fresh teachers, and new buildings.)Of course, all the talk about school rules and school discipline is important. But in the schools I've been a part of, at Stuyvesant, rules and discipline are just there - neither is focused on, at least not focused on seriously. The "high stakes' tests are given, but they are mostly ignored because the students do so well. (And therefore, by definition, they are not "high stakes.") In the marginal schools, at McKee Vocational and Technical in 1958, the rules, the discipline and, now, the "high stakes" tests are ends in themselves; crosses for new crucifixions; reasons to fire Frank McCourt.Some reviewers have written that it took three decades for McCourt to figure out how to be an effective teacher. They are wrong. It just took him that long to find a school with administrators able to relax and students willing (and able) to learn what he had to teach.Apropos of nothing in particular here is my favorite part. In the Prologue, soon-to-be-teacher-McCourt fantasizes about what it will be like when he finally makes it in the classroom."Principals and other figures of authority passing in the hallways will hear sounds of excitement from your room....You'll be nominated for awards: Teacher of the Year, Teacher of the Century. You'll be invited to Washington. Eisenhower will shake your hand. Newspapers will ask you, a mere teacher, for your opinion on education. This will be big news: A teacher asked for his opinion on education. Wow. You'll be on television. Television. Imagine: A teacher on television."Buy the book for yourself and your neighbors and discuss it. And imagine a teacher, a mere teacher, asked for an opinion on education.
4 Frank McCourt is a genius with words and able to describe situations in ways that call out from the reader emotions like the frustration of not being listened to, the anxiety of not knowing what you are supposed to know as a professional teacher and the deep joy of success when something that you teach makes a difference.  It is a great read.
5 I am a Senior in High School still. I took a Popular Fiction class last semester, my teacher recommended it and I read it. This book is a great book to see what teachers go through. Many people, including myself, thought that teachers had it easy; the school tells them what to teach, when, and where. I didn't think they had much control over their classes. However, after reading the book, I know now that teachers have a lot of decisions to make and they have to deal with a lot of problems. Teachers seem really composed and in control, but in reality, they just put on a front to get through the day. I recommend this book to all teachers and students.
1 When a friend gave me McCourt's newest volume, Teacher Man, because I am a teacher as is she, I groaned silently. I finally read it and found McCourt's description of teaching often spot on. He captures the both the euphoric heights and the melancholic depths of teaching. When describing the lessons that worked, the students' reaction, that feeling of affecting someone's life forever, he is at his very best. In one instance, he uses the parts of a ball point pen to explain how grammar works, and even his antagonistic department chairman offers an atypical moment of praise for "hitting pedagogical paydirt."McCourt humorously describes the most difficult obstacle in teaching, parents. Toward end of his career, while teaching at the exclusive Stuyvesant High School, a colleague offers a pointed insight into parents and the perceived role of the teacher:"All they care about is success and money, money, money, says Connie. They have expectations for their kids, high hopes, and we're like workers on an assembly line sticking a little part in here, another little part in there till the tinished product comes out at the end all ready to perform for parent and corporation."The deficiency of Teacher Man is McCourt's description of teaching comprises only about half the book. The other half is a m&eacute;lange of self-loathing, self-doubt, and self-pity. McCourt is angry--at himself, at Ireland, at the Catholic Church, at authority of all kinds--and his memoir is the worst sort of introspection. There are no great discoveries, and he is almost as miserable at the end as he was at the beginning.Teacher Man will be read by millions no doubt, by fans of Angela's Ashes and 'Tis as well as just about everyone in education, but be warned. This is not a memoir of teaching; it is just more of Frank McCourt ruminating on his miserable life. "You don't have to be poor and Catholic and Irish to be miserable," he tells his students, "but it gives you something to write about and an excuse for drinking." Three books is enough writing, maybe he should just get to the drinking.
2 For Book Club we are reading  Teacher Man : A Memoir by Frank McCourt.I loved McCourt's first book, Angela's Ashes, SO very much!Conversely, Teacher Man was waaaay too much rambling and quite pointless.  It was like an Irish "Welcome Back Kotter".  Pffft.  His Editor should have sat him down and had him embellish- create some inspiration, fire- at least a STORY.  Chapter by chapter mediocrity- an uninspired Dead Poet's Society.Tracy Kidder did a better job of telling the "Teacher's Story" in Among Schoolchildren.Howard Stern (NY public school Survivor)should interview McCourt and find out if anything interesting ever happened during the 30 years McCourt taught!Everything in this book was a non-story.  The red-headed chair-tipping boy (who could have possibly belonged to McCourt) was a dead end character that we never heard from again.  His daughter is born: another non-story.  His doctoral dissertation- a dead end.  His divorce, non-story.Dead End story- try adding a little creativity or enthusiasm, even if you have to invent something, Mr. McCourt.  I'd bet his Book Tours were more interesting than this book- maybe he will share that in his next book...
3 Not up to his earlier workTEACHER MAN continues McCourt's autobiographical journey started inAngela's Ashes: A Memoir. With this book McCourt's takes the reader through his thirty years as an educator in NYC public school system. His career starts out far less than promising, with unmotivated students being led by an ill-prepared teacher. McCourt honestly portrays his weaknesses as a young teacher; his lack of preparation accompanied by a crippling deficiency of self-esteem, do not add up to an effective teacher. Bouncing from job to job, running afoul of narrow-minded administrators, and an aborted pursuit of a doctorate back in Ireland provides the reader with some understanding of McCourt's life, but this book lacks the dark poetry McCourt has shown he's capable of. The episodic nature of the book is very disjointed, years pass with hardly a mention, and McCourt's joy as an educator only really arrives when he starts to teach students who actually thrive in an academic environment. Creative lessons do make an appearance and brighten up the book, but the overall effect pales in comparison to McCourt's earlier work.
5 An admitted late bloomer, Frank McCourt more than makes up for his tardiness with "Teacher Man,"  the third installment (after "Angela's Ashes" and "'Tis") of his life story. In the years between his miserable childhood in Ireland and his late-in-life success as a writer, McCourt spent thirty years teaching in New York City's high schools and community colleges. "Teacher Man" shows McCourt as he begins to make it in America, moving from the docks by dint of a teaching certificate and even higher degrees. Meanwhile, he struggles with the insecurities and esteem problems that stem from his Irish Catholic upbringing. Ironically, his genius and self-doubt combine to make him (at least in his own telling) a fairly successful teacher who can connect with kids that his more experienced colleagues cannot.McCourt incisively recalls and communicates the motivations and methods of the major players. There are the other teachers, full of loathing for their students and ever-ambitious for a chance to get into administration. There are the no-nothing teacher college professors, whose lack of first-hand knowledge condemns their lessons to irrelevance. There are the kids, ever on the lookout for an angle to distract teachers from their lesson plans. There is McCourt himself, telling his life stories, first as a way to keep the kids quiet, then as he grows in confidence, as a way to reach them and even teach them. McCourt's honesty is refreshing and often painful. His painful and loutish groping toward relationships with women only lightly veils the most intimate of details. The "Frank McCourt" character he creates here is bumbling, prickly (sometimes to the point of violence), always vulnerable but ultimately true to himself.McCourt's style, a kind of rolling narrative, dips into the past as often as it pushes the narrative forward. Some may see him tapping his previous works overmuch. But it is a perfect parallel to the way of memory of one as sensitive as McCourt -- ever circling back to touchstones in memory to make sense of the present."Teacher Man" is entertaining, illuminating and hard to put down. For an extra bonus, listen to the audio book voiced by author.
5 What a great guide afor the soul that is within the classroom. This novel is filled with very funny and poignent stories of a man/teacher and his many journeys while becoming and being a teacher in the classroom. McCourt's humorous tales of what and how the opposition (students) acts and treats teachers and each other. Very worth the time to read it. You will have much trouble putting it down!!!
5 I found Angela's Ashes so depressing and repetitive that I gave up on it after about 80 pages.  But, as a teacher, I thought I might like Teacher Man -- and I sure did.  I recommend it to any teacher.
5 highly recommended for anyone interested in teaching and humanity in general. this is a stripped-down no pretensions look at one man's struggle to teach and stay sane and find meaning in his work. all of the warts are there. this book reminds me of someones life flashing before their eyes with all of the most memorable moments included. u won't be sorry. i am very interested in the dynamics of the teacher-pupil relationship and i loved this book. it is filled with great humor and insight. rip--frank.
5 I must admit, I listened to this on CD (unabridged).  With the author's narration, the story "lived".  McCourt's writing has taken on a deeper texture and grace then his previous works.  The story of an American teacher during the last part of the last century is something most of us baby boomers can relate to.  It's inspiring, touching, enormously humorous and at times very sad.
5 If you pay attention to the Irish, you will soon learn that the greatest compliment that can be made is that simple word 'Brilliant'They tend to use it more often than others who speak English, and they use it with great flair.Frank uses it perfectly on page 254.Before I started to read this book,I was feeling that maybe it was not going to be as good as Angela's Ashes or 'Tis and probably just taking advantage of the unbelievable successes that they were.I was only a few pages into the book and my fears were gone.This book is even better than his others.As others said, Frank relates his experiences since his first days as a school teacher until his retirement.I'm not sure if he realized it or not,but this is much,much more than that.He really gets into what the whole business of teaching is all about.As you read the book, you can't help thinking about your own experiences as you went through your own school days and even advanced education at college or university.Sure, he writes from a teachers viewpoint, but he clearly understands that the point of all teaching is the student not the teacher and even more so ,not the system.I always felt that teaching leaned too much on correction and not nearly as much on inspiration.Frank understood this in spades;and for that reason he became a great exception.Reading the book,brought me back to a discussion I once had with a retired university president.I was saying that in all the teachers I came across in my school days and later in university,I can only think of a couple who ever inspired me.In response he said that if I had encountered a couple,I should consider myself very fortunate,many are not so lucky.It is obvious that Frank was one of those rarities.Generally, teachers dish out the material,ask it to be returned and then correct it and evaluate the student.If you really believe the object of education is to inspire the student,maybe it is the student who should be heard as to whether or not inspiration has been achieved.All arguments against this are really arguments in defense of 'the system'.It is obvious that Frank believed if he was going to succeed with his students he, more than anything else, had to inspire them.The students saw through this,became inspired,and learned.There is no doubt in my mind that his students would have graded him as the best teacher they ever had.I know I would have loved to have him as my teacher or the teacher of my kids.I've lived long enough to know that nobody learns unless they are motivated,and conversely anyone who is motivated will learn regardless of the obstacles placed in their way.This is going to be a book that will be a beacon for teachers and students alike.In my opinion it surpasses his Pulitzer winner because it was really just about him.This book is very different ,it is about him as well,but it is about all of us ;be it teachers or students.Every student deserves to encounter someone like McCourt,and if they do,they will recognize it,and be affected the rest of their lives.I predict this book will be a prize winner and a classic on teaching and learning.
4 If you picked up TEACHER MAN hoping to read the story of a veteran master teacher and the secrets of his success, you will be disappointed. TEACHER MAN is so titled because that was exactly what McCourt was for almost half of his life.  You should read this book if you like McCourt and want to learn about the years of this lovable, witty, humble man's life when he was a public high school teacher.Always candid, he shares stories from his teaching career of failures, blunders, dismissals, and large mistakes, of kids who mostly aren't interested in school, of inspired lessons that got his students thinking, of times when his classroom hummed with creativity and of times when it droned on, maddeningly so due to boredom and a lack of relevance.  He relays well the ups and downs of the teaching profession, how you can be flying one second and proud of what a good teacher you are only to be brought low by the honesty and indifference of a teenager the next.McCourt seems to have swung from high to low constantly, from running an inspired class to barely surviving from bell to bell, merely passing the time with his stories because he didn't know what else to do with the kids. I've been a teacher for almost 20 years, and reading this book reinforced my beliefs about the need for a two-sided approach in the classroom.  I believe that a truly successful teacher is the one who can run a disciplined, organized classroom and yet remain open to the moments when a tangent can teach more than the day's lesson ever will, who recognizes the need for play and for fun and manages to balance it all so that the class is never too heavy on one side or the other.McCourt freely admits that he rarely accomplished this, but the reason is simple.  Those who should teach, do; those who can't merely survive.  True, it seems that some of McCourt's writing classes at Stuyvesant High would have been fun to be in and were inspiring, but there's the matter of all those kids who needed their grammar skills developed, too.More than anything else, this book will leave you smiling and shaking your head over the person of Frank McCourt, the man who survived so much in childhood, led a life of near obscurity, fumbled about in a classroom for 30 years, and THEN discovered what he was born to do.***I listened to this book on tape, read by McCourt, and enjoyed very much listening to the man tell his tale.
5 What can I say...Frank McCourt does the Irish justice with his natural talent for storytelling: the humor is off the charts, the heart tugs at your tears only begging you for more tales. As an Irish girl with Limerick in her blood, I am instinctively drawn to Mr. McCourt, so similar to my own relatives to the point to where its uncanny. He paints his life in words that emanate laughter and tears interchangeably. Teacher Man is an excellent bookend to the previous Angela's Ashes and 'Tis. Three books high on my shelf of preservation and forever in my heart.
4 I believe as we grow older, our lives become filled with memories and regrets. One of the regrets I have is never having met Frank McCourt. I read both &#34;Tis&#34; and &#34;Angela's Ashes&#34; when they very first came out and I recall how McCourt could tell a story that could at one instant make you laugh and at the blink of an eye, he could create a melancholy moment with its own twist of irony.Teacher Man is McCourt's memoir which recounts the stories covering the years inclusive of repatriated young adulthood and his range of experiences - as an adult - up to the point just prior to his writing of Angela's Ashes when he retired from teaching in New York.I found his stories to be effective in that they did not paint him in some heroic light. He told stories that were touching without being schmaltzy. I wish I had met him because he seemed like a decent Human Being - in my book, such a reference sits among the highest of compliments I could ever give someone.As I recently explained to a friend, the stars aligned recently that I was given an opportunity to tutor at-risk High School kids in Mathematics. They attend a local Charter, night-school whose aim is to utilize construction, engineering and architectural topics as the curriculum. As it turns out, I have had a modicum of success in getting through to these kids and I have been asked to assume more responsibilities since the teacher hired for the position didn't work out. Thus, at least for the short run, it looks like I am the night school Math teacher. Feeling woefully under prepared, I decided to seek out books and materials that might help me to be of better service to my recently inherited clientele.McCourt's book is one of the few that seem to have found their way to me and I really do appreciate it. He has a way of pointing out that real teaching goes on when a connection is made and that makes sense to me because in some way or another, all the jobs I've ever had have been of the variety where some form or other of pedagogy was involved. I am not certain whether our brains have the ability to seek out information germane to our respective wants or current conditions but I found so much of what McCourt had to say as helpful and full of wisdom. Regardless of whatever the case may be, all I have to say is thank you to the man. Again, I so wish I had met him and gotten to know him as a person. Regardless, I take comfort in having his written work not only as human interest stories but as personal communiques that this Human Being took the time to reach out across the time-space continuum for future beneficiaries of such a remarkable rendition of his ordinary yet heroic life.
4 After surviving a miserable childhood in Ireland and making his way to New York City as a young man, Frank McCourt shares anecdotes about his next 30 years -- teaching high school and community college English classes.McCourt's somewhat unconventional teaching style, he readily admits, didn't reach everyone or even succeed as often as he would have liked. Yet many of his classes, filled with students from poverty-stricken and hopeless homes, found real enthusiasm and understanding through such lessons as writing excuse notes for their own teachers, for setting recipes to music, and setting up impromptu ethnic feasts in the park.As no section of any person's life can possibly be extricated from all others, readers will find some familiar tidbits first mentioned in AA and 'Tis. This is, in my opinion, just light enough to establish familiarity with previous material; it is certainly not a recycling of the first two books.As always, McCourt is honest and humorous, giving readers a glimpse into the world that was and is uniquely his.
2 I liked his other books much more. I thought this book would be stories about teaching and his individual students' struggles to learn, his relationships with them, etc. Instead, it seemed to be just a platform to tell more stories of his life, in that he would tell his life stories to his students, because the students wanted to hear stories rather than the subject he was teaching.It wasn't really what I was expecting and I believe he used most of his best stories of his childhood and youth in the first two books.
5 There are over 300 Amazon Reviews about this book!  All I can do is echo that this book is "worth your time".  It won't change your life and it won't make you rich.  And the segments about "how poor we were in Ireland" didn't impress me favorably---everyone knows "the poor people in Ireland used to be poor"---because poor people are/were  poor wherever you are/were! (By the way, the people in Ireland are pretty well off these days as I observed a few years ago during my first trip over there.)AFTERWORD:  Mr. "Teacher Man" McCourt is obviously a very decent person.  His decency comes through in many ways.  For example, he tells how he and some other teachers  helped "pass" some of the students on their "Regency Exam" which is the final exam for high school graduation in New York City--on the English Essay part of the test.  "Let's see", they are quoted,  "This kid shows up in class.  Three points for showing up. He made some paragaraphs.  Three points for that.  His father ran off and left his mother.  Three points for father running off.  He caused trouble in class this semester only once----three points for causing trouble in class only once....."...etc..etc.  Yea, he's a "nice guy".But.....it sounds to me like he might have been "more productive" and wasted the kids time less.  For example,  he's quoted as saying to the effect paraphrased, "A certain black male student used 'big words' in his essays.  I told him to 'simplify, simplify, simplify' and NOT to use these 'big words'.  The kid responded to me (Mr. McCourt) that his other English teacher advised him to LEARN and USE these 'big words'.  Mr. McCourt still didn't see anything 'wrong' with his admonition NOT to use 'big words'".  What Mr. McCourt did there was to discourage a student from learning VOCABULARY----or  "SAT type words".  Mr. McCourt, and many other English teachers who would probably give the same advice and admonition are HAMPERING their students from learning "educated English vocabulary".  "Educated English Vocabulary" is VERY useful in getting in the 90th per centile and above on the SAT and also VERY useful in understanding well written books such as the Victorian Novels.  In addition, knowing more than one way to say something is "good" helps in writing interestingly rather than boringly.  Mr. McCourt was "wrong" in this advice and in not having ALL his students learn "educated English"---he was not a "good teacher" in all respects and he wasted the students time in the regard to teaching them a VERY important part of English---"educated vocabulary words."  (But, I would have liked to have been in his class when he started to "tell stories" of his life in Ireland---especially if I could just sit there and listen! :o)Overall, the love of Mr. McCourt for his students comes through the narrative and "stories" of individual students.  God bless Mr. McCourt and teachers like him who love their students and who love their fellow man!  :o)  Email: boland7214@aol.
5 McCourties of the world rejoice! You have nothing to lose but your tears of woe anticipating when he'd return with his next book; the foremost memoirist of our time is back. Frank McCourt's "Teacher Man" is a spellbinding lyrical ode to the craft of teaching. It is a rollicking, delightful trek across nearly thirty years in New York City public school classrooms that will surely please his devout legion of fans, and perhaps win some new admirers too.  Truly, without question, it is a splendid concluding volume in his trilogy of memoirs that began in spectacular fashion with "Angela's Ashes". Indeed, we find much of the same plain, yet rather poetic, prose and rich dark humor that defines his first book, along with his undiminished, seemingly timeless, skill as a mesmerizing raconteur. Is McCourt truly now one of the great writers of our time if he isn't already, with the publication of "Teacher Man"? I will say only that he was a marvellous teacher (I still feel lucky to have been a prize-winning student of his.), and that this new memoir truly captures the spirit of what it was like to be a student in his classroom."Teacher Man" opens with a hilarious Prologue that would seem quite self-serving if written by someone other than Frank McCourt, in which he reviews his star-struck existence in the nine years since the original publication of "Angela's Ashes".  In Part I (It's a Long Road to Pedagogy) he dwells on the eight years he spent at McKee Vocational High School in Staten Island. It starts, promisingly enough, with him on the verge of ending his teaching career, just as it begins in the lawless Wild West frontier of a McKee classroom (I was nearly in stitches laughing out loud, after learning why he was nearly fired on two consecutive days, no less.).  Frank manages to break every rule learned in his Education courses at New York University, but he succeeds in motivating his students, raising the craft of excuse note writing to a high literary art. He finds time too to fall in love with his first wife, Alberta Small, and then earn a M. A. degree in English from Brooklyn College.Part II (Donkey on a Thistle) has the funniest tale; an unbelievable odyssey to a Times Square movie theater with Frank as chaperone to an unruly tribe of thirty Seward Park High School girls. But before we get there, we're treated to a spellbinding account of his all too brief time as an adjunct lecturer of English at Brooklyn's New York Community College, and of another short stint at Fashion Industries High School, where he receives a surprising, and poignant, reminder from his past. Soon Frank will forsake high school teaching, sail off to Dublin, and enroll in a doctoral program at Trinity College, in pursuit of a thesis on Irish-American literature. But, that too fails, and with Alberta pregnant, he accepts an offer to become a substitute teacher at prestigious Stuyvesant High School (The nation's oldest high school devoted to the sciences and mathematics; its alumni now include four Nobel Prize laureates in chemistry, medicine and economics; for more information please look at my ABOUT ME section, or at history at [...] or famous alumni at en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stuyvesant_High_School or Notables at [...]Surprisingly, Part III (Coming Alive in Room 205) is the shortest section of "Teacher Man". After having spent fifteen years teaching at Stuyvesant High School, you'd think that this would be this memoir's longest section, replete with many tales rich in mirth (Room 205, located a few doors from the principal's office, was Frank's room throughout his years teaching full-time at Stuyvesant High School.). Indeed I'm surprised that it is so brief. Yet there is still ample fodder for Frank's lyrical prose to dwell on, most notably a hilarious episode on cookbooks and how he taught his creative writing class to write recipes for them. He describes with equal doses of hilarity and eloquence, his unique style of teaching at Stuyvesant, which he compares and contrasts with math teachers Philip Fisher and Edward Marcantonio - the dark and good sides of Stuyvesant mathematics education in the 1970s and 1980s (I was a student of both and will let the reader decide who was my teacher while I was a student in Frank's creative writing class.) -  but he still implies that his students were having the most fun.Will "Teacher Man" earn the same critical acclaim bestowed upon "Angela's Ashes"?  Who knows? Is it deserving of it? I think the answer is a resounding yes. Regardless, Frank's many devout fans - his flock of McCourties - will cherish this book as yet another inspirational tale from the foremost memoirist of our time.(EDITORIAL NOTE 7/22/09: Elsewhere online I posted this tribute to my favorite high school teacher, and I think it is worth noting here:I've been fortunate to have had many fine teachers in high school, college and graduate school, but there was no one like Frank McCourt. Without a doubt, he was the most inspirational, most compelling, and the funniest, teacher I ever had. I am still grateful to him for instilling in me a life-long love of literature and a keen interest in writing prose. Am still amazed that he encouraged me to enter a citywide essay contest on New York City's waterfront, and would, more than a year later, in my senior yearbook acknowledge my second prize award by thanking me for winning him money (His was also, not surprisingly, the most eloquent set of comments I had inscribed in my yearbook from teachers.). He is gone now, but I am sure that for me, and for many of my fellow alumni of his Stuyvesant High School classes, he will live in our hearts and minds for the rest of our lives.)
4 I've taught in the same types of schools (inner-city, adult evening, adjunct college--except for the college prep elite track at his Stuyvesant!) and recognize, despite the changing slang over the decades since, the struggles that McCourt captures on the page. At first, this memoir, third one on, may seem slight and hurriedly and casually written. You have to surrender yourself to his garrulousness, his self-lacerating analysis, and his tendency to rant in the service of a good story, or even a long tangent or two!But, unlike "Tis," in which I found a frustrating lack of cohesion between the strong passages about teaching vs. the reticent and garbled sections about his domestic and intimate life, "Teacher Man" offers more consistency. I do wish he had given more about his interaction with his fellow teachers--this aspect is for the most part absent, and surely he could have enriched his story more with this added contribution?Still, by focusing upon the most engaging element--how he spent his time in the classroom-- McCourt allows the rhythms of his prose style that mirrors his "interior monologue" to blend better with the patter and the blather that he recreates--of himself and of his students, bits of the millions of conversations he must have had over three decades. You can see, despite the endless grading that as he notes makes any teacher weary and wary, that he thrived within the confines of four walls--rather than on the docks--where he never expected to endure for so many years.The interlude at Trinity College Dublin, the two years he spent aimlessly in avoiding a doctoral degree, is by comparison a letdown, True, this section confirms that he belonged in the classroom rather than in academia, but I do wish he had better explained his failure of nerve to take advantage of a wonderful and rare opportunity that could have gained him a college teaching position. Certainly when he is able to teach students at higher levels more often than constantly monitoring and admonishing them at the lower levels, he finds the space to reach out to them more and the time to develop their thinking at a more sustained and more rewarding pace. It seems as if this would have benefitted him greatly; his refusal earlier not to go on for graduate work so as to keep his junior college teaching post appears rash by hindsight. But, he leaves this unexplained for the most part, a reticence that (as at times in "Tis,") chafes against the otherwise fluent style here. As with "Tis," also, the evident discomfort he has about his failed marriage and his relationship with his daughter means that these scenes--while adding tension--dissipate the energy that he creates elsewhere. Perhaps this is intentional, but his reluctance to divulge more from the family front diminishes the impact of this otherwise unsparingly self-critical memoir. Overall, on the other hand, this is about teaching in a way that "Tis" only partially had begun to investigate, and while the uneasy mixture of family strife and classroom challenges continues from his second book, the stress on teaching rescues most of this third memoir by keeping most of the attention where it belongs, given the title: primarily in the classroom.Certainly, the last section, at Stuyvesant, attests to how McCourt could thrive given the proper stimulus from his students and the freedom (relatively) from his bureaucratic enemies to do what he wanted to help himself and his students learn--the cookbook and the "My Papa's Waltz" examples in their repartee show finally in this book how a gifted teacher can spark and be sparked by students eager and liberated to explore and gain the power of self-knowledge and careful critical observation. Too often, as McCourt never tires (and rightly so) of reminding us, the administrators and the curriculum standards and the endless paperwork thwart this excitement in classrooms, and to his credit, McCourt takes us, whether we have only been students or teachers as well, into a depiction of the tensions and freedoms found within schools each day.
5 Frank McCourt made his bones in "Angela's Ashes" by recounting the tales of his life in Ireland to the millions who understood where he was coming from. Many have read Angela's Ashes more than once -- so close to the heart did it hit.In his next novel, "Tis," he did what any self-respecting Irishman would do - he took a Mulligan and milked the notoriety of "Angela's Ashes" for all it was worth. His fans forgave him and waited for this writer of lyrical prose to get his act together.With the publishing of "Teacher Man" the wait has ended. He did what his story-telling nature does best - he told of the events in his real life as a teacher in the ethnic public schools around NY City.The book is a 5-star delight. To his millions of Irish fans, he has undoubtedly added the teachers who struggle to educate reluctant adolescents.
2 This is simply average.  Although I found some of the stories entertaining, it was hard to stay motivated to keep reading the entire book.
4 I found this book to start a bit slowly; it took me a while to become accustomed to McCourt's whimsy, his somewhat mannered style, and his constant references to his Irish roots.Then he hit his stride when he began to distill the lessons he learned as a New York City teacher into hilarious anecdotes and deft character sketches. The &#34;singing recipes&#34; that he taught at Stuyvesant high school were absolutely hilarious. This book falls into the great tradition of mocking the educational establishment and the way teaching is supposed to be done and emphasizing the dailiness of life and the importance of treating students as unique human beings.Does anyone remember Up the Down Staircase?
3 An upbeat autobiography of a teacher's experience in the 1060's.  Thoughtful & positive, but at times too self indulging for this retired teacher.  The highlight of the story was when the returning students thanked the author and shared their own experiences.  Confirmation of the power of excellent teaching.
4 I had more respect for McCourt in this book than his other two books. He shows his vulnerability and humanity.
5 Wonderful story of this man's life.  I think it much more interesting if you start with his first book and read them all in order.
5 I read both Frank McCourt books Teacher Man & Tis Memoirs. I loved the story line in both books. Excellent!
5 "What was there to write about?" Before he wrote the bestselling, Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir in his mid-sixties, "Angela's Ashes," the late Frank McCourt taught English and writing in the NY school system.  He shares the joys and frustrations of his thirty years in the profession  in "Teacher Man," warts and all.  He learns what his students have to teach  him, and finds poetry in unlikely places (including recipes).  "The bell rings and they sprinkle me with confetti.  I'm told to have a good life." and then he's retired.  And I missed "Teacher Man" already.  I listened to the audiobook; McCourt (who is author as well as narrator) could have gone on at least twice as long on the ups and downs of his teaching career for my liking.
5 Frank McCourt's latest non-fiction work weaves his tragic childhood into his career as a high school and college English teacher.  What I particularly enjoyed about this account is its honest portrayal of the day to day life of a teacher.  McCourt's book does not glorify the heroic aspects of teaching, but it instead gives the reader snapshots into days, students, and specific classes.  This is what it's really like to be a teacher; Little moments that are remembered years after the fact.McCourt's writing delights and inspires.  Read this book and then go thank a teacher.
4 After three novels of Frank McCourt's trial and tribulations through life I guess I was overdosed in reality.. It is a story of triumph over adversity but did I ever really feel the joy in his victory. Not really.. I guess the moral of this trilogy is the old adage :&#34;He who laughs last  laughs best&#34;.. He wrote these novels and hopefully spent his last days in some sort of financial comfort.. I just would have liked to have felt him smiling in the end..
3 This book is not as good as the first two books this author wrote &#34;Angela's Ashes&#34; and &#34;Tis&#34;. It  is a good read.
4 Teacher Man is a Memoir that would be enjoyable to anyone, but it is a "must read" for anyone who has ever been or still is a teacher. Along with McCourt's warm and wonderful angst, there is also a strong elegy on what makes a teacher keep teaching, even when the environment leaves much to be desired. He shows his own discovering of his strengths and how he learns to bring the teacher out in himself. This is something, I think that all good teachers need to find within themselves. I laughed and I cried with his wonderful book.
4 When I read this book I realized that I am not a freak and am not alone.  As a teacher (2nd career) I began to get burned out and disgusted with the educational system.  After the newness of teaching wore off I realized its all about the test scores and data.  I felt stunted every time I turned around by administration.  I felt the same way that Mr. McCourt did.  I also was told never share personal info-yet I did and my stories of my adventures and lessons learned in life were a way to become closer to my students and get them interested.  My unique approach to teaching didn't always go over well with my administators.  So I decided to give up teaching and the stress.  After reading this account and realizing that sometimes the teacher does know best I've decided to try it again!  Thank you Frank McCourt for a great read and the inspiration to do what I was put on the earth for!
4 I haven't expected a lot from this book, as usually about eighty percent of reviews are hyperinflated. Surprisingly, I liked it. It is simple memoir, without false pretenses, telling about experiences that most people - immigrants, teachers, students, parents - can easily relate to. This is one of the books that makes you remember, reminiscence and think. I am glad that McCourt took up writing. The world has now one more good writer... and may be, because of this, it became a slightly better place.
5 I enjoyed Teacher Man as much as Mr. McCourt's other books - which is to say very, very much.  Instead of adding my two cents to the bountiful reviews here, I'll keep my comments to the audio version for folks who like books on tape.  I listened to Teacher Man unabridged, on audio, read by Mr. McCourt himself.  It's just terrific.  As good as Mr. McCourt's s prose is read, it soars, dips, cries and laughs like a beautiful song when heard aloud.  It's like journeying back in time if you listened to Mr. McCourt back in Room 205 at Stuyvesant High School.
1 I was disappointed---I expected better.This is my first, and last, McCOURT.I have a relative who is 30 years a gym teacher,that, could have written this book---maybe better!!!I found the writing about word-for-word conversationswith students from 27 years ago---annoying.  After thatI could not believe anything that was written.I, just, expected better that's all!!
4 I thought that it dragged in the middle and at times and was a bit choppy. It did, however, hold my interest.
5 McCourt's accounts of his struggles and triumphs as a teacher in New York's vocational and other schools rang true with me, a teacher. His prose was enchanting and he kept me flipping pages faster than anything I've read in a long time. It had Irish angst and the fighting spirit he had used to overcome his childhood. An inspiration to young teachers everywhere.
5 This is a must read for anyone that is thinking of going into teaching it will give you confidence as well as support into what it will be like.
5 The lightest of McCourt's three memoirs, "Teacher Man" picks up where "'Tis" left off, as the author embarks on his teaching career in the public high schools of New York City.McCourt pulls no punches in his recollections, taking on the school adminstration, B-class writers he bumps into on the outskirts of the City's literary circles, blue-collar parents of his  students, and himself. We respect his criticisms of others because he turns the same pink-rimmed eye to his own foibles and errors, whether it be infidelities, inability to complete his doctoral thesis, or lack of knowledge about how to teach.Over thirty years, McCourt becomes the teacher he always wished he could be -- himself, yet the best self he has to offer his students. And they love him for it. And I loved this book. God bless Frank McCourt. May he live many more quirky years, and may he have the energy to write about them.
3 Although it will be unpopular, I cannot give this book a great review.  I loved Angela's Ashes and Tis and was engrossed in the stories.  Teacher man is enjoyable but not engrossing or compelling and frankly not as well written as McCourt's other two novels.  With that said, let me explain that what I felt this book lacked was cohesiveness.  Was it an exploration of McCourt's feelings on students, teaching, life as an adult, adult life as a result of his childhood, individual vingnettes of his students, his students lives or the frustrations of teaching in a system etc...  There was all of this in the book, tied together in great humorous fashion in a way only McCourt can do but without the polish, the depth and heart of the other two books.  It was by no means terrible but it wasn't what I had hoped for either.
5 I have a habit of not beginning a new book until I complete the "old". However once I began Teacher Man I could not put it down. McCourt is a great story teller and will now seek Tis. Treat yourself to wonderful writing and thank you Frank McCourt.
4 "Teacher Man" tells about Frank McCourt's (author of Pulitzer-winning "Angela's Ashes") 30-year teaching career, at first struggling to find his way in the classroom, his rocky marriage, his failed attempt to get a Ph.D. at Trinity College in Dublin, his repeated firings, and his landing at New York City's most prestigious school - Stuyvesant High.Some have asked McCourt 'What took you so long to publish?' His response is 'I was teaching - five high school classes/day, five days/week - leaving little inclination to go home to clear your head and fashion deathless prose.'On the first day of his teaching career he was almost fired for eating the sandwich of a student who had thrown it at another (no eating in class), and again the second day for maintaining the possibility of friendship with sheep (a joking and exasperated response to a student question). Things picked up after that, though McCourt did find himself 'non-renewed' a few times en route to retirement, having to work as a substitute while searching for another position. He reports that the students are experts on teachers - 'always try to get married teachers with kids' - they have no time to grade homework.Fellow teachers warned McCourt not to tell students anything about oneself, maintain privacy. McCourt, however, found success through telling stories about his early life, and giving unusual assignments - eg. writing excuse notes from Adam or Eve to God.Much of McCourt's career involved teaching English or composition to vocational students, leaving him with the problem of making the time relevant to those planning on a plumbing, printing, secretarial, etc. career. How this also included diagramming sentences is a bit hard to comprehend. Grading homework was another problem - he estimated reviewing the compositions of his 175 students (hopefully only 350 words) required over 14 hours. And as teacher he's also expected to fill innumerable other roles for his students, including intervening in disputes with parents.Clearly McCourt's early experiences helped him relate to and engage his pupils.  The "bad news" is that I was also hoping to discover much more about how McCourt got his pupils to strive and to learn; also I never had Mr. McCourt as a teacher. The 'good news' is that I did have a number of other very fine teachers. A belated "Thank you" to them all.
5 Out of the book's admirably ironic mix of reminiscences of his Irish past, his personal life (with a disastrous therapy) and his teaching job (beginning with `clarity first' grammar and later creative writing), one can learn two extremely important lessons from Frank McCourt.In the first place, everybody has a right to think for himself.Nearly all his students had an inferiority complex (`I'm nobody, professor. Nobody.') Nobody had ever told them they had a right to an opinion. Whatever ideas they had about the world they lived in came from the media.Frank McCourt's message was: `from fear to freedom'.Secondly, `find what you love and do it.'Frank McCourt's positive view on teaching with its potential `therapeutic catharsis' for his students notwithstanding all their gender, racial, generation and culture differences made him in fact a `Great Liberating Teacher'.This book is a gem, a must read for all those working in the education sector and for all those who want to try to make a better world to live in.
4 I found this a book to be read quite leisurely, without concern about a dramatic outcome or message to be learned.  Not that those aren't important in other books, but McCourt's way of telling his story is a pleasure in itself.  The turn of a phrase, repeated at strategically humorous moments, enlivens his account repeatedly.  There are serious moments, difficult times for the young teacher, but McCourt's general bouyancy carries us through.  He admits to having rough edges that affected his teaching and personal life, but for us these qualities make him more human and provide a better story.  It tends to be episodic, of course, with some periods covered much more than others, but the book is highly worthwhile as a teacher's humorous personal history.  I enjoyed it.
5 This book is entertaining and informative, I thoroughly enjoyed it all and would highly recommend it especially to teachers everywhere.
5 If you are thinking about reading Frank McCourt's autobiography, take the extra step and purchase the Audio CD.  Hearing Frank McCourt's voice adds another layer of texture to his self portrait.  Like a master painter, McCourt adds subtle shades and nuances to his written words.  He is a superb narrator and listening to the Audio CD will make the experience more complete.
5 I've never even read "angela's ashes" but this one caught my eye, and I love it. Honest, fresh,  funny. Completely captivating. Buy this book (or cd!)
5 I read this book every summer before I start another school year.  I purchased this one to share with one of my colleagues because I did not want to loan out my prized, dog-eared copy.
3 The striking feature of Frank McCourt's first novel, "Angela's Ashes," is that he presents each stage of his life from the perspective of a child of the age about which he's writing, without the benefit of adult hindsight, reflection, or insight, almost as a series of fragmentary scenes frozen in memory, like those of a an abused and traumatized child, (which he was.)  His second book, "Tis," was almost as compelling, describing as it did his adolescence and early adulthood as a struggling immigrant who becomes successful.  His latest book, describing his teaching career and adulthood, is less appealing than either of the former, because although the author is able to reflect a bit on his life and gain some perspective, it is mostly with a somewhat shallow sardonic, bitter, humor and arrested adolescent perspective, which demonstrates how damaged he was by his earlier experiences, and how stuck he remained in many ways,in terms of his ability to be close to people, including his wife and child, or to engage deeply and meaningfully in life, despite his triumph as a successful writer.  Much of his commentary is adolescent anti-authority griping, without much novelty or depth of insight, so it is neither as compelling nor appealing as his earlier works.  It lacks the originality and illumination (for the reader) of the earlier works.
5 This "teacher memoir" is a funny, compelling read. I'm a teacher, and tend to enjoy classroom memoirs. This one had heart and humor, and stands above most. It's a real page-turner that I recommend to teachers and non-teachers alike.
4 By the time he published this memoir, "Teacher Man," in 2005, Frank McCourt was over seventy, and his great triumph, "Angela's Ashes," had been published nearly ten years earlier. He had also published "'Tis," about his early years in New York. However, for teachers and retired teachers, like me, this is perhaps an even more fascinating book to read.After struggling through his introduction to high school teaching at some of New York's more difficult schools, McCourt finally complered his career at the prestigious Stuyvesant High School, where his unorthodox techniques were criticized, but ultimately appreciated more often than not. He had his creative writing students reading recipe books aloud, with musical accompaniment. He told them, "Every moment in your life, you're writing. Even in your dreams you're writing. When you walk the halls in this school you meet various people and you write furiously in your head."I like McCourt's "writing is for everyone" message and his advice to his students to write down their grandparents' stories before it is too late. I was impressed with his growing understanding of his students' reactions and their lives and their problems.If Frank McCourt's insecurities seem a bit overemphasized at times, the book does arrive at a positive message that we can share: writing material is everywhere, for everyone, and we should all make use of it as we move from fear to freedom. This is possible for the young (like our students) and the old (like Mr. McCourt and me).
4 This doesn't hold the interest of the reader the same way Angela's Ashes did.  I think anyone who has taught in large city schools will understand the 5 classes daily and the number of bodys!  He developed some very good lesson plans, but after several of those experiences, it got a bit tiresome.  His explanations of some the  students was entertaining as he taught some interesting individuals.
5 I hope every high school English teacher has a copy of this book and cherishes it in their personal collection!
2 I was very eager to read this book since I am a teacher myself and have enjoyed other work by McCourt. I began to read it and found it amusing and entertaining. The stories he began to share about his days in the classroom certainly gave me a little laugh. I was about 100 pages into the story when I began to really get bored, though. All the anecdotes seemed the same, all the events were similar, and it was the same thing over and over with no real direction. Cute, funny anecdotes only take you so far. A book of this length needs to show some progress over the pages and needs to be moving in some direction. That is where McCourt fails in this writing. It appears he wrote this book for the sole purpose of writing another book. If I knew I could write a book and sell a mountain of copies, I would do the same thing he did. Unfortunately it lacks what Angela's Ashes had. As much as I enjoyed his previous work, Frank McCourt produced a real disappointment with this one. As I said, it is good for about 80-100 pages, then it just gets old and stale from the same jakes being repeated over and over.
5 Frank McCourt's account of teaching is refreshingly honest. His memories of former students and teachers keep you entertained and make you think about the plight of many a teacher. This is a great book to read not only for the entertainment value but also as a study into what's wrong with the way our teachers are told they should teach in public schools. I think he shows why the process of learning is more important than memorizing facts for tests.
4 Another wonderful memoir from McCourt, famed author of "Angela's Ashes," about his childhood in Ireland. McCourt wrote "Angela's" when he was in his 60's, and this book takes us back to the thirty years before he became an author, when he was a decidedly less-famous high school English teacher in New York City. As the book opens, McCourt is a brand new teacher struggling to get his footing in a difficult career. Unable to get his students interested in the actual curricula, McCourt instead spends most of his class periods telling his kids the stories of his youth -- stories that eventually became "Angela's Ashes" and its sequel, "'Tis." In the middle of his tales, he'd often slip in some lesson about grammar or literature, sneaking every bit of education into his students' brains that he could. Though he was sure he'd get fired any day for his unorthodox teaching methods. Instead, he is mostly embraced by his peers and superiors, and, over time, grows to love his job intensely.This book made me both wish I were a teacher and feel glad that I wasn't, which, I think, means it perfectly describes both the experience and profession (I'm the only non-teacher in a family full of teachers, so I know somewhat of what I speak). Another masterfully-written and thoroughly engaging book by one of today's most talented memoirists. Not to be missed!
5 To suggest this work is less than is exceptional is to do injustice to the literary world.  While no one would term this book a literary masterpiece, it certainly is a contemporary classic.  It is not just the stories, and the manner they were conveyed, but McCourt's self-effacing insight that makes this a book that should be required reading, be it teacher or student.  Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a classic because of the manner it speaks to the human heart.  Teacher Man is a classic because of the manner it speaks to the human condition.  As someone who, at heart, is quite critical I can only offer that any person considering this book would do well to ignore any review less than a 4-star rating.  This is a timeless, high-quality piece of work deserving of appropriate merit.
4 I'll start out by stating that "Teacher Man" was the first of Frank McCourt's books that I've read, so I can't really comment on how well it compares to "Angela's Ashes" and "'Tis." "Teacher Man" is an in-depth recollection of McCourt's 30-year career as a high school English teacher in New York City. McCourt is brutally honest about the fact that he considered himself to be a mediocre teacher during most of his tenure. However, this book reveals McCourt's insights into the psychological and physical makeup of his students and the unorthodox ways he learned to motivate them. McCourt acknowledges the different kinds of problems he faced with students, parents, and administrators, and ultimately the person who learned the most in his classroom was himself."Teacher Man" is a light and easy read that will probably be appreciated by teachers the most, but anyone who's stepped foot into a high school classroom at some point in their lives will be able to relate to the story. I wasn't as impressed with this book as I thought I would be, though...it's kind of disorganized and a lot of the stories are very similar and repetitive in nature. Still, "Teacher Man" was definitely worth reading.
4 Though not exceptionally well written, the story of this best-selling author's life as a high school teacher was fascinating.  The anecdotes were developed nicely and the cast of characters was colorful.  I got the impression that the book could have been 4 times it's length - with 30 years of teaching experience and the Irish gift for storytelling, Frank Mc Court could have gone on and on.  Maybe he'll manage to squeeze out another novel now that he's warmed up from the first 3....
5 Frank McCourt writes about his teaching years and the students he remembers most.  When I finished the book, I had the same question as with his previous books - "and then what happened next?"  In other words I never want the stories to end, I could keep reading forever.  His writing is unique, exciting, and brings to life everyone he writes about.  I especially recommend the audio version - he records them himself in his wonderful Irish accent - they are just a joy to listen to.
3 I was very surprized about this book. Frank McCourt was not the jovial , funny loving man I thought he would be. In this memoir, Mc Court  writes  briefly about his college education, his early years teaching at vocational high schools, and finally  with pride some interesting lessons he taught at Stuyvesant High School.McCourt writes honestly about the difficulty of teaching . There is some  humor in his story ( McCourt developed his students' writing skills by having them practice writing excuse notes). McCourt  also had some sexual affaires before and during his unhappy marriage.I liked this book. It was honest.I came away from the book thinking that we shouldn't give up on ourselves. No matter how old we are we can still make a differnce. Frank McCourt was 66 years old when he wrote his first book.
5 This is the third autobiographic novel of the life of McCourt, and because it deals with the mind and attitudes and language of the young adult, it succeeds in many of the ways which earned "Angela's Ashes" the Pulitzer Prize.In the life of McCourt, "Teacher Man" follows "`Tis"  which follows "Angela's Ashes."  All were written after he retired as a teacher.  "Angela's Ashes" was exemplary in its ability to look at things in the perspective of a young man. McCourt's ability to show impressionable insight amid the squander and pallor of the Irish slum was both bitter sweet and amazing.  Delivering such childlike tales literally 40 or more years after the actual incidents, and after having his own mind calloused with age and cynicism, was the wonder of his first novel."`Tis" was not as wonderful as it dealt with adult minds, with adult issues and missed that wanderlust perspective which adorned "Angela's Ashes." But, "Teacher Man" returns to the child - young adult at least - and provides us with the perspective of a young teacher amid young students in a very rough New York school. Truthfully, it was a match made only in America - McCourt never attended high school - let alone an American high school - and was placed in charge of an American high school class within moments of finishing university.The book can be described as a calling out by teachers.  It could be recommended reading for teachers.  It could be an instructional book for teachers.  "Those who can't do, teach." "Those who can't teach, teach teachers."  Unfortunately, university professors have probably never encountered the shenanigans within a high school classroom, and their curriculum reflects such ignorance as they do not specify precisely how to discipline the chaos which so often arises within the schools' walls. McCourt's "Teacher Man" may be a response to such an academic vacuum.In the meantime, he will tour America and Europe, and may even be invited as a guest on a late night talk show. Imagine that - a teacher on a talk show.
5 Mr. McCourt has added a third volume to his very readable life story. The narrative is presented in a series of vingettes and this works extremely well. He is quite honest in his telling of his career, personal and professional flaws. He offers a glimpse into the teacher profession with all it's pimples and warts. He does not hail himself as a master teacher but he probably was one. This was an excellent addition to the McCourt collection.
4 Overall, I must contend that this book was worth the read. As a fan of Frank McCourt- citing "Angela's Ashes" as one of my all-time favorite books-his latest effort, "Teacher Man," is full of the same lilting charm that pulls you in from the first page and doesn't want to let you go.Sadly, however, at various points during this memoir primarily focusing on his life as an English/Creative Writing teacher to (mostly) high school students in New York, his focus shifts to periodic, self-indulgent lapses of existentialism. This is what turns it into a four-star review, rather than a five for this reviewer. The detours did make me turn pages quickly, hoping always to get back to the classroom.Personal stories about both his students and his untested teaching methods are what drive the story. For example, McCourt describes an epiphany he undergoes one day in his early teaching years, when he received a clearly forged excuse note. He added it to his massive pile of such notes stored in his desk, and then divided them into two piles. One pile contained the real, the other, the fakes. Reading them, he discovered some true creative writing talent on behalf of his students, and came up with the idea to have these teen-agers write excuse notes for their future 15-year-old children. Brilliant.While you certainly don't have to be a teacher to benefit from reading "Teacher Man," I do believe anyone who has spent time in front of a classroom will especially relate to the material. Further, anyone who has had the experience of learning from a gifted and unique teacher will appreciate time spent with Mr. McCort. Uh, sorry . . . Mr. McCourt.Michele Cozzens, Author of A Line Between Friends and The Things I Wish I'd Said.
3 An amusing book and the author can to spin a good yarn. It is noble that he sings the praises of being a teacher for it is a profession well worthy of being written of.  However there are times where he seems self-absorbed and draws too much attention to himself (Woody Allen style).The book can be a little too much of "McCourt and his students" instead of being "the students and McCourt". There is self-centredness of how the students feel about the author. The writing can be wonderful when he focuses on the students rather than on his personal feelings.There are needless tangents, like his trip back to Ireland. Plus some of the tales seem to spin out of control (exaggeration, embellished) - the hyperbole of whom he slept with on his ocean crossing to Ireland for one thing. These anecdotes should have been saved for a novel.
3 Another reviewer who assigned three stars said: "I enjoyed this as a fellow teacher of English but would not call it compelling. It is most interesting to teachers."And former teachers. In a previous career incarnation, I experienced many of the same travails with irrelevant teacher training and then with restive and disinterested students, disconnected parents, and incomprehensible administrators. Those, like McCourt, who find ways to adapt and soldier on, cherising the occasional triumphs and moving past the downfalls, deserve the admiration and encouragement of us all.As per the other reviewer: enjoyable, but not compelling. Still, is McCourt's underlying message of educational malaise, particularly in inner city schools, one that our society wants to hear?
5 A former student from Styversant wrote a review.  My school was down the hill from McKee where he had his first teaching job.  It's on StatNisland (all right, so the map says Staten Island but what do they know about how to pronounce it??).Loved the part where he was walking out of the school after an interview and the principal (?) -- long time since I read it -- went running after him.  Can you start today?  N-o-w???He turned my high school beau into a reader.  I own the book and was deLIGHTED when McKee was finally mentioned.  Oh, I know the hill he walked up to school -- so did I, tho my school was reached first.  I have been to a lot of the places he describes.  Know the StatNisland Ferry wellLoved it and will likely read it again.  Yes, worth reading.Margie and Mimi (Hearing Dog)
5 I tried to read Frank McCourt's  Angela's Ashes some years ago, and could not slog my way through to the end. The dismal  movie version did not motivate me either--and I dismissed McCourt. However upon his recent(2009)  demise, I happened upon a television tribute to him including his being interviewed about "Teacher Man". He read a passage from the book and I was compelled to give him another try. I did not regret it. Have you even wondered what your English teacher was really thinking about his  students and his hapless job? Read this book. Imagine teaching nearly everyday for 30 years and only at the end finding the motivation to finally write something yourself after having talked about writing (and reading)  forever. Those that can do and those that cannot teach. McCourt did both, eventually. The book reads swiftly. I imagine any teacher, English major, writer or Irishperson will love it. And so will everyone else.
4 I purchased this book because the story of a man who spent 30 years teaching in New York public schools interested me.  I knew little if anything about Frank McCourt or his two other books.  I enjoyed this book and because of it, I picked up a copy of "Angela's Ashes."The book starts with an introduction from McCourt, where he says he was nearly fired on both of his first two days teaching.  He talks about the disinterest of the students at his first teaching job at a vocational high school.  McCourt bounced around quite a bit in his life, and that is discussed as well.  He also talks about his problems with authority figures and his seemingly loveless first marriage.The third part of the book is nice and McCourt really seems to enjoy his final teaching spot.  In what can certainly be called an unusual teaching method, he has students recite recipes from a cookbook while other students play musical instruments along with the recitation.  What knocked my rating down to four stars was McCourt's complaining eventually started to wear on me.  Still, that doesn't deter me from recommending this book.
4 couldn't put it down once i started.  however angela's ashes was my favorite.  it's also inspirational as well as entertaining.
5 Awesome.  Extremely well written.  A real pageturner. Frank McCourt reflects the challenges of a fair and truly dedicated teacher in a very complex social environment, and does this in an outstanding manner.  Wonderful style.
4 Having enjoyed ANGELA'S ASHES and 'TIS, I was looking forward to finally reading this one and I was not disappointed.  While the late Mr. McCourt was an admittedly flawed fellow, his candor & humor about it speak well for him and serve to enhance his assortment of recollections regarding his teaching career.  This is one of those wonderful books that may seem to wander off in its narrative, but then winds back around to sneak up on you with its powerful emotion and admittedly sentimental affect.
4 Although not as compelling as Angela's Ashes still a fascinating look at public education in New York at the time.
4 I enjoyed McCourt's book Angela's Ashes a great deal, and so decided to dig into this memoir. It's an interesting tale of his days as a teacher, and the challenges with both the students and his own self-perceived lack of motivation in doling out a formal curriculum. Found the inner story a bit repetitive at times, but enjoyed the read nonetheless.
5 Frank McCourt has written another wonderfull memoir.  This is the third installment of his life with this edition focusing on his teaching career.  McCourt writes about his inability to get along with his superiors and his constant feeling being a fraud to his students.  He writes about his attempts to engage his students to succeed and the various lessons he learned along the way.  He was taught to have the fear of god placed into his students only to realize that was not his way.  He figured his own path and became a very popular teacher in a one of the best schools in New York City.McCourt writes about other parts of his life, including his attempt at earning a Phd at Trinity University.  He didn't succeed, partly due to being lost and being unable to overcome his heritage and the feeling that Trinity was too good for him.  McCourt also writes about working on the docks while earning an education and some of the lumps he takes on those docks.  One of the more poingment moments of the book is when he is entagnled with a group of intellectuals.  One of his intellectual "friends" is trying to bed his wife while at the same time abusing him in front of the rest of the group for enjoying a book because it was a good story.McCourt is a truly gifted writer.  He writes his memoir like a great novel.  Very compelling and enjoyable.  I could not put the book down and it is an easy read.  Somehow he writes about melancholy that you enjoy.  "Teacher Man" is almost as good as "Angela's Ashes" and better than "Tis" ans non of them are bad by any standard.  Highly Reccommended
5 After having read Angela's Ashes and then Tis, I couldn't wait to read the long anticipated Teacher Man.  And once again, McCourt does not disappoint.  No one weaves a story as well as this author.  From start to finish, he pulls the reader into his life and never lets go.  McCourt makes his experiences come alive as the reader gets to share in his experiences as a teacher in New York.  He imparts wisdom to these street-wise American kids that goes far beyond the standard classroom curriculum.  McCourt allows us to peer into his psyche and we feel almost viscerally his fear and apprehension as he enters the classroom on his first day of school. His charm and wit allow him to break through the most recalcitrant student and his unorthodox teaching methods confound school administrators but succeed in producing curious and enthusiastic teens.  How I wish I had had a teacher like Frank McCourt.
4 In this book Frank McCourt describes his life as a teacher - both in high schools and as a college professor in New York city and shows how after his retirement at the age of 66, he burst on to the literary scene.There is no shortage of teacher/student conflict during his teaching career. For the most part this book is a hard luck story. I wondered whether McCourt's depression and lack of focus may well have been caused by the beer at those bars for which he seemed to have a strong affinity.However, towards the last quarter of the book he is finally 'finding his voice' although his teaching style like his writing style is rather unconventional. At last he feels free and comfortable in the classroom and his students respond very positively.Many interesting points and a fair amount of humour throughout the book, which keeps the readers' interest.That story about Mary in Dublin was a bit..... but it was balanced out by the many good stories throughout the book, which was certainly not of the calibre of Angela's Ashes - his masterpiece.
4 Concluding the trilogy that was started in 1996 with "Angela's Ashes" and continued in 1999 with "Tis", Frank McCourt brings the most recent chapter of his life (teaching in NY high schools for 30-some years) back to life."Teacher Man" (258 pages) continues the saga of McCourt's life. And, as he did with the earlier memoirs, he brings it with incredible detail. McCourt must have a memory of steel. Names and places remain fixed in his mind forever. Some of the most interesting pages in the book don't have anything to do with McCourt's teaching at various high schools, but instead detail McCourt's failed attempt to get a doctorate in English Literature at Dublin's Trinity College: at age 38, he goes back to Ireland and basically wastes away 2 years, only to realize how much he misses New York. In the last part of the book McCourt finally finds his groove when teaching at Stuyvesant High School. That is, until he retires and finally takes up the challenge thrown out by one of his students on McCourt's last day of teaching: "Hey Mr. McCourt, you should write a book." McCourt responds: "I'll try..." The rest, of course, is history.With this trology behind him, McCourt has shown he can write a non-fiction book as good as anyone out there. Being a young 75 years old, the question now is: what is next for this brilliant author? I'd love to see McCourt try his hand at fiction...
4 I dearly enjoyed Angela's Ashes, but found the sequel 'Tis to not be worth finishing. This book completes the trilogy, and 'tis much better than the last installment, although not as mesmerizing as Angela's Ashes. The reason it's so much better than 'Tis can be explained by the fact that McCourt came into his own as a teacher, and he clearly loved his job. One of his great strengths as a teacher traces to his vivid recollections of his own childhood, his willingness to disclose that childhood to his students, and his power to alchemize the tedium and oppression inflicted upon kids into a great story. His pedagogy was very playful, encouraging students to set cookbook recipes to music, write excuse notes for historical villains, and throw their hearts into their craft. (Note: the 9th CD actually contains excerpts from McCourt's two previous books. I suppose this is in place of the typical "Author interview" which pads the final disc in audiobooks).
4 McCourt is in fine form in this autobiographical tale of his 30 years in the New York City public school system.  He beautifully describes the terror of facing his first class of students.  And how you can know a student just by the way they drop into his/her chair.  McCourt estimates that he has taught over 12,000 students in his career.  The book is full of wonderful stories about specific students and classes.  He reminds us that if he assigned a 300-word essay, the next day he would have to read 45,000 words. He tells us what it is like facing 175 students every day - all of them with raging hormones.Every new teacher should read this book for its insights into what teaching is really like.  Every "old" teacher should read this book for its appreciation of what they do day in and day out and to be able to nod his/her head as they recognize their own students in McCourt's stories. This is a loving tribute to those professionals who have the future of our world in their hands every day.  He doesn't let us forget that teaching is a difficult profession and the best teachers are those who love not only their jobs but the students as well.  He tells us that part of the difficulty of this essential profession is that it is one of the lowest paid professions in this country and that each year he is given only a handful of the supplies he needs to do his job - the rest of the supplies are paid for out of his pocket.
4 Frank McCourt tells his story like  he seemed to have lived his life.  His writing style reminded me of conversations with my Irish family, humorously dry and witty. Like his life, the story takes its own sweet time to develop. His descriptive development of his journey to nowhere in particular will make you want to shake him and tell him to sit down and write the book. But life and pint or two have a way of delaying the process. Drifting from one job to the next is vexing to his wife who wants him to be something more than he cares to begin.He seems torn between loving to teach and hating spending time with so many adolescents filling his brain. How he cultivates his students and became an inspiration to so many is the untold story of a great teacher until now.
5 Angela's Ashes was a masterpiece, so I felt a bit disappointed by his second book, 'Tis. Teacher Man is again wonderful. Full of great stories and honest insights with sentences that read like music.
5 I'm a big fan of Frank McCourt.  I've read Angela's Ashes and Teacher Man.  While most people seem to prefer Angela's Ashes - I definitely enjoyed Teacher Man more.  I think Teacher Man has been greatly underestimated.  When Frank has the students reading recipes as poetry - genius!  Wonderful wit, wonderful man.
5 This wonderful audio narrated by the author is a pinicle in contemporary autobiography/memoir.  McCourt focuses on aspects of his life as a H.S. teacher and thru this process transcends his personal history to find the 'deeper meaning' he both dreads: as the death of teaching and creativity thru over/false analsysis, but also inadvertanly finds the meaning of life which he has always been seeking.  He finds his place in the world that is wonderfully open and ultimately celebratory and emotionally optimistic.  McCourt as writer and performer connects emotionally with everyone thru his 'stories' which carry his personal history to a universal plane.  His humanistic view of the teacher and student exalts them both as human and makes them universal.  I can think of no higher measure of a man and his success than this book.P.S.  The jewish future framer of america vignette told here is the perfect embodyment of this book : funny, bittersweet, heartfelt, accepting, emotional and humanistic.  With this book McCourt finds his (and our) deeper meaning (- and without fanfare or preaching)
5 For those who have criticized this book, because it doesn't deal with teaching, I suggest they read one of Marva Collin's books.  This book is first and foremost about FEAR.  He says the "Little Slum Boy is always waiting for the ax to fall."  He feels the FEAR and he does it anyway!!  He says teaching was by doggedness and how I wish I'd had that in my life so I'd have become a doctor.  For all those who never felt like they deserved being what they longed to be, this book shows how one man did it.  He never tries to be great, because he is just too busy trying to manage each day.  The poor students in the schools of New York can't see the value in education that he can see, but he tries to teach them anyway.  He is chosen "Teacher of the Year" at the top high school in New York, so I'm sure the students there learned from him, otherwise he wouldn't have lasted in "a high school where I could have never gotten in as a student" for 18 years.  For the critics who are upset that he talks about his sex life, I suppose that is the shock that a Teacher would lhave one!  I just found him to be very human.
5 Before gaining worldwide fame and acclaim for writing his memoir of a terrible Irish Catholic childhood, Frank McCourt used the stories of his life to teach high school English for thirty years.  "Teacher Man", his third foray into memoir writing, examines those years spent teaching from the very beginning to the bittersweet end.  Scattered in between stories of the classroom are bits of Frank's life at those times, some comic, some searing, all of them evocative of his colorful life.After serving in the U.S. Army, Frank McCourt went to New York University on the G.I. Bill and decided to become a teacher, knowing that people back home would be amazed and respect him.  He chronicles his struggle to get (and sometimes keep) a teaching job in the various high schools in New York, and his time wondering if he really wants to spend the rest of his life worrying about grading those 175 essays of 350+ words each.  McCourt is a wonderful storyteller, and readers can easily understand how he could captivate classrooms, even the unruliest, with tales of his childhood.  Anyone who has taught will appreciate his raw admission that he often felt like a fraud in front of the classroom, wondering why certain things (like how to handle unruly kids) isn't taught in those college education classes, and whether or not to admit they don't know the answer to something.  Readers can also recognize the struggle that is common to everyone, of finally figuring out what they want to do in life, and where they finally belong."Teacher Man" is a quick, honest, and sometimes brutal examination of teaching.  So many are quick to dismiss teachers since they have the summer off, and teachers are treated as the lowest of the low on the professional totem pole.  McCourt nails these feelings exactly, especially the image of his schoolbag full of ungraded papers sitting in the corner with eyes that follow you everywhere.  Some people may find it hard to believe that he can recall the names of these students and aspects about their lives so many years later, but McCourt is right on when he talks about your life as a teacher: these lives stay inside your head, whether you want to give them that room or not.  The struggles and glories of the classroom remain even as you try to go to bed at night, and will remain for years on end.
5 TEACHER MAN is a lively and memorable story about former New York City public school teacher, Frank McCourt.  After twenty-nine years of teaching English in the New York public schools and a brief job at one college, McCourt shares his experiences of as an educator.  It is a story filled with mixed emotions.Upon reading TEACHER MAN, it also a story about second chances.  McCourt immediately debunks F. Scott Fitzgerald's idea that "in American lives there are no second acts," and after reading TEACHER MAN, Fitzgerald was wrong.  McCourt retells his story with cunning detail accompanied with very colorful language.  The most compelling part of the book is how some of the students' lives paralleled his own, children of immigrants.  Their stories are heart wrenching, but also funny at times.  From the street-smart atmosphere of his first school, McKee Vocational and Technical High School, and the smorgasbord of activity that occurred within the halls, such as his infamous first day of class where he ate a student's sandwich to writing creative and laughable excuse notes, McCourt attempted to teach English and American literature.  However, it is at his final school, Stuyvesant High School where McCourt finally sees the fruits of his labor come full bloom.  With the discussion of the Theodore Roethke poem, "My Papa's Waltz," one can see the power of language and poetry.TEACHER MAN is definitely a moving, inspiring and uplifting story that yet again acknowledges life's adversities and the ability to overcome them in order to reach one's aspirations.  This is a highly recommended book.
2 I am puzzled by this book. The first paragraph stated McCourt's pride over having made something of himself after a terrible childhood. He then proceeds to tell the story of his teaching as part of this. He admits himself that he felt like a fraud much of the time. I can see why! Most of the anecdotes cover stories of his childhood and he admits to not having control over the students. (He seems to waver between intense pride and self loathing.) Although I enjoyed many of his anecdotes(the assignments to write a suicide note, a excuse note to God from Eve, and reading recipes to music), I spent a lot of time wondering how he could have been a wonderful teacher and had kids flocking to the classroom. I must assume that there is something key to McCourt's charming classroom manner that he left out.
5 I read this book as a high school English teacher who loved Angela's Ashes, and, as a by product, fell in love with Frank McCourt's style and charm.  Teacher Man does not disappoint.  His style and charm are all over the book, but, for me, the compelling part of the story are his experiences with his students.  I find it amazing that the same kids who sat in his classes in 1958 are the same ones that sit in my classroom in 2006!! Proof to me that kids are kids, no matter what! There's something so universal and tender in the the way that students and teachers relate to one another.  I'm so glad to have the joy of sharing this profession- warts and all- with someone like Frank McCourt and the countless others who will never write a book about their experiences.  This is a great read-for everyone who's connected to a kid who's going to or has been in school.
5 This is the third book I have read from this writer. It's great news as a senior citizen to hear that his first publication came after his 65th birthday. Maybe because I'm Irish, but I don't want his stories to end. He literally makes the reader feel like he/she is in the classroom. His publications may have come late in his life, but hooray for the reader. His long, hard growing years produced rich and powerful food for his readers.
3 Goodreads Description- Nearly a decade ago Frank McCourt became an unlikely star when, at the age of 66, he burst onto the literary scene with Angela's Ashes, the Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir of his childhood in Limerick, Ireland. Then came 'Tis, his glorious account of his early years in New York.Now here at last, is McCourt's long-awaited audiobook about how his thirty-year teaching career shaped his second act as a writer. Teacher Man is also an urgent tribute to teachers everywhere. In bold and spirited prose featuring his irreverent wit and heartbreaking honesty, McCourt records the trials, triumphs and surprises he faces in public high schools around New York City.Teacher Man shows McCourt developing his unparalleled ability to tell a great story as he works to gain the attention and respect of unruly, hormonally-charged or indifferent adolescents. McCourt's rocky marriage, his failed attempt to get a Ph.D. at Trinity College, Dublin, and his repeated firings due to his propensity to talk back to his superiors ironically lead him to New York's most prestigious school, Stuyvesant High School, where he finally finds a place and a voice.For McCourt, storytelling itself is the source of salvation and in Teacher Man the journey to redemption and literary fame is an exhilarating adventure.After reading Angela's Ashes several years ago and still able to remember the details as if I read it just yesterday, Teacher Man fell flat to me.  I can appreciate, as a teacher, all of the hard work he put into teaching the many different kinds of students, I just didn't feel as if I learned very much about McCourt.  I don't think he would ever be able to top Angela's Ashes in the memoir genre.  I could only give this book 3 stars.
5 This is my first year teaching in a New York City Public School. I listened to this book prior to moving to New York and enjoyed it immensely. Hearing the author read his own words, especially in this author's expressive brogue, was outstanding. I highly recommend the CD simply for entertainment purposes.For anyone considering following in Mr. McCourt's footsteps, beware! The city schools are every bit as challenging as they were in Mr. McCourt's day, but more so in that principals hide the disruptive and violent behavior of students by refusing to take discipline beyond the classroom.  There is a unspoken but strongly encouraged practice by certain LISs that want to hide the real problems in the schools they supervise to make their performance look stronger than it actually is.  Suspensions and SAVE room use count against them and the building principals under the new city guidelines as well as NLRB. The school violence statistics are severely underreported due to these dangerous and hidden practices, to the extent that the UFT has set up their own hot-line for reporting school violence to get a more realistic picture of what is actually happening in the school.Woe to you if, like me, you are lured to a building with an untenured principal under these false pretences!  I have been told fist fights are a "Classroom management issue" and to "call the parents if you feel you can't handle it." Although there is a security officer in the school, calls for help when children are attacking others, using chairs or other movable objects in the room as weapons, are ignored by the office staff because they require a write up and these write-ups reflect on the administrative staff as well. It took me two phone calls to the office, one to security and over fifteen minutes to get help disarming a knife wielding elementary student who was jumping on the desks shouting, "I'm going to slice people in this room!" recently. The five little girls in the class were cowering and crying while I protected them from his rampage as best I could. I was reprimanded for not having control of my classroom and am now being subjected to harassment about my planning since, according to the principal, incidents like this wouldn't happen if my lessons were written out more completely.Disruptive behavior is constant and unless a teacher is willing to browbeat or bribe students into enough docility that teaching can take place, 90% of time is spent correcting constant outbursts rather than instruction. Don't listen to this CD thinking, "How wonderful things have changed since then." It's as bad now, but the disruptive behavior Mr. McCourt describes in the challenging High School settings he taught in has moved down into Kindergarten.
5 Having loved Angela's Ashes, and liked 'Tis, I would have gladly read another book by Frank McCourt, but being a teacher, I did not have any hesitations when I spotted "Teacher Man" on the shelves of a bookstore. It is a very different book from the previous two, shorter but denser and more detailed. It  reaches the completeness and complexity that I found missing from "Tis". It'sa fun, pleasant read by itself, but particularly precious if you work in education. It will give you a splendid view of how teaching can be an illuminating, lively and artistic experience if you go at it with a fresh mind, energy and above all, originality. (and if you manage to break through the web of dullness that dumb bureaucrat try to place on you). I wonder if the author could have managed to write his beautiful books without the rich, warm, creative, crazy experience he had in his many years of teaching.
3 This book was interesting but to me not as good as either of his other two books.  I still enjoyed reading it.
3 So Frank McCourt's agent comes to him and says, "Frankie, you're hot! You must have another book in you!" McCourt says, "Well, I wrote about my childhood and I wrote about my life in America already." And the agent says, "What about teaching? You were a teacher for 30 years." McCourt says, "I don't know. I don't think I was all that great. I moved from school to school and was most comfortable when I shared stories with my students. I screwed up my my doctoral program and my marriage as well." And the agent says, "That's a book!"And that's the book. McCourt brings his smooth, candid, easy-to-read style to a series of anecdotes about teaching high school English in New York City. It's a fun read. The story about taking a class of African-American girls to see a movie is funny, as is the story about using recipes to give students an appreciation for poetry.But as far as observations about education in America, it's pretty much the rank-and-file disdain for management and the search for the one kid in each class he can reach. Nothng deep. Nothing to disturb the Board of Regents. No solutions.You'll have fun. And that's it.
4 I enjoyed the book, I enjoyed Angela's Ashes more then this book though.  I felt that alot of it was a repeat of the end of his first book.
2 I've read and enjoyed Angela's Ashes and 'Tis.  This book was such a disappointment.  I thought it was just a wandering of the mind and not a very interesting wandering at that.
5 Teacher Man is a very funny and touching memoir of Frank McCourt's career as an English teacher at different places in New York.  One of the most funniest parts in the book happened on Frank McCourt's first day as a teacher at a vocational school in Staten Island.  To settle a fight between two students, Frank McCourt ate a bologna sandwich that was thrown on the floor by one of the students.  There is a very touching moment in the book where a student named Phyllis  wrote an essay about the day her father died, and how it happened on the day America put a man on the moon in 1969.Mccourt spent most of his career teaching creative writing at a prestigious college prep high school called Stuyvesant.  I really admire McCourt creative teaching methods. To encourage his students to appreciate writing in all forms, he had them read recipes from cookbooks while other students played music in the background.  To help them be better writers, he had his students write critiques about the food in the school cafeteria and restaurants in New York.  McCourt also had his students write about what they ate for dinner and how they felt about the people around them.McCourt also shares experiences about his life outside of the classroom in Teacher Man.  I enjoyed writing reading how he failed to earn a PHD in English at Trinity College in Ireland.  I also liked reading about how he went to counseling to try to save his marriage.  McCourt's failures in these endeavors are very honest,  and it made me realize that even the best teacher can make mistakes in life.  Teacher Man is a very entertaining, humorous, and heartfelt memoir about a man who dedicated his life to teaching, and I loved it.
5 As a life-long educator (middle school, high school, graduate school, and seminary), I found Frank McCourt's personal account of his thirty-year teaching career to be mesmerizing. He is on target with his philosophy of teaching people to think, not simply teaching them what to think. He's also insightful in his use of "out of the box" methodology that fits his diverse students rather than a "one-size-fits-all" model.Unfortunately, he's also totally correct in his assessment of the bureaucratic fights that a creative teacher must face when teaching in a public educational system that demands conformity and group think.For teachers, "Teacher Man: A Memoir" is a refreshing challenge to fight for your students by fighting against a system that tends to reward mediocrity instead of meritocracy. For all other readers, this memoir will inspire you to adventurous living regardless of your vocational context.Reviewer: Bob Kellemen, Ph.D., is the author of "Beyond the Suffering: Embracing the Legacy of African American Soul Care and Spiritual Direction", "Soul Physicians," and "Spiritual Friends."
3 I previously read Tis' and Angela's Ashes, and loved both of them. Teacher Man was not poorly written, but it is the only book I've ever read that I still didn't know how I felt about it when turned the last page and read the last word. The only thing I did know for certain was, as a parent and having worked with teachers, I would not have wanted Frank McCourt to have been my child teacher in the early days of his career.
4 This is the first McCourt book I have read and I enjoyed quite a bit although admittedly, it is somewhat slow to begin with and then picks up tremendously at the end.  Most know a great deal of McCourt's life till moving to America. After meaningless jobs, he becomes a lifeless student on the GI bill who majors in education and becomes an unmotivated teacher.  For those who think education has deteriorated in the past decade he gives examples of how bad it was in the 50s, admittedly mainly at VoTech schools which are generally not the most motivated students.McCourt rambles from job to job always steps away from being fired.  Sometimes thinking he's reaching students and sometimes just frustrated with them. Having rambled through a marriage and an embarrassing attempt at a doctorate at Trinity College, he finds himself on his last leg only to land the perfect job for him at the prestigious Stuyvesant High School. Here, the years of experience and guidance from a new administrator allow him to reach his potential and teach in a manner that enriches his life, touches almost all his students and provides an inspiring story for the readers.  This part of the book highlights the value of education when families are involved in motivating their children to enhance their life through education.  Overall, I learned a lot from this book and could easily rate it 5 stars but feel sense it took me so long to connect emotionally with the story I'll reserve my rating to 4 stars.
4 I have read all three of Frank McCourt's books and each one leaves me overwhelmed for his deprived and impoverished childhood, his tough journey in coming to America, and his determination to become a successful teacher.  If someone asked me who I would most like to meet and spend an evening with, Frank McCourt would be the man.  His intellect and fascinating life story makes you want to pat the man on the back and say, " A life well lived, a story well told."  Every teacher should read this book.  It makes one understand that few answers to real life come from text books, and all children are not the same - each one is special in some unique way."Angela's Ashes" tore at your heartstrings, "Tis" made you feel his determination to succeed, and "Teacher Man" made you respect the man for his integrity, honesty, intellect and witty sense of humour.  I feel so privileged to have had the experience to share his life's journey through his books.  Keep on writing, Frank, and do the Irish proud!
4 It surprised me to know that kids haven't changed much over the years. They were just as cheeky and know-it-all when McCourt started teaching as they are today (and were in my day). But McCourt accounts at how he manages to prevail, not only over the opinions of the kids, but of himself. A hilarious story about a pompous professor is included; once McCourt gets so tired of the professor's antics, he tells the professor off and then - much to his relief - never hears from the man again. It's a shame McCourt wasted so much time reading things the professor expected him to be familiar with - all to avoid being insulted (which he didn't). Good lesson in not bothering to try to impress others, but do (and read) what you love.
5 It's true what others are saying: every educator should read this book. In my eight years teaching high school I have read dozens of books about education and they all think they have the cure for the ills of society. Going through education classes we smile and nod and act as if whatever it is the professor is talking about that day - multiculturalism, cooperative learning, mainstreaming - is the most important thing since the invention of oxygen. Then you get into the classroom and quickly understand it's all a bunch of nonsense. Frank McCourt's ability simply to be honest about education is enormously refreshing and absolutely should be read by prospective teachers. In fact, as I sat reading the book over the last day or so I thought about parts I would like to read aloud to my honors classes to hear what they have to say.
4 I avoided this book like the plague for as long as I could until my brother-in-law bought it for me last Christmas.  Many people told me I would love it because it was basically my life (without the illicit behavior, of course), which is why I tried to keep away.  However, my loyalty to my wife's brother dictated I make use of his gift, and so read it I did.I've been teaching high school English for about six years now.  Sometimes I love it, sometimes I hate it.  I hoped McCourt's memoir detailing his experiences as an English teacher for thirty years would serve inspirational and motivate me to press on.  It didn't.I think it's because of this that the book rather succeeds.  He doesn't pull any punches.  He talks about how teaching can completely wear you away to a shadow of your former self, but he also talks about those triumphs that occasionally take place in the classroom.  Best of all, he doesn't give a fairy tale version of what teaching is like.  He doesn't pretend he was super-teacher with no personal problems of his own.  In fact, he is quite candid in talking about affairs and other inappropriate behavior, both in and out of the classroom.I know memoirs can be juiced up a bit, but I think this is about as true to life as a memoir can get for a retired teacher looking back over a thirty year career.  I think everyone should read this book to, if nothing else, get some idea of what it's like to be on the other side of the desk.But, prepare yourself-McCourt candy coats nothing.~Scott William Foley, author of Souls Triumphant
4 Being a teacher myself, and having enjoyed McCourt's first book, I decided to pick up  Teacher Man. I suppose there are a number of definitions or opinions of what constitutes an exceptional or effective teacher. Some would ask simply: "Did I learn what I was supposed to learn in this class?" If so, they would give the teacher a high grade. For example, a math teacher is supposed to make sure his students learn math and become proficient at it.This is what happened in some "classroom" movies such as Mr. Holland's Opus (music), Stand and Deliver (math), and Dead Poet's Society (literature). However the draw of these movies was that these teachers were able to take bored,angry, underachieving students and convince them of the value of learning. To some degree, they did this by 1)caring about the students and 2) convincing them the learning would pay off in some important ways.To Sir, With Love, Lean on Me, and Conroy's The Water is Wide may be a little more similar to McCourt's story in that the students learned some "non-intellectual" lessons about life as shared by the teacher directly or indirectly. So I think that McCourt's spat with the school officials was important. He saw a glimmer of potential that some of his life experiences could somehow help, enlighten, or motivate the students in this crazy business of life, and he fought the establishment to some degree to make teaching about the real stuff, the hard stuff of life. In that sense, I think we was successful to some extent and I do applaud him for caring enough to expose his life deeply to his students. My best teachers were ones who showed they cared about me but also knew how to teach. It takes both, and I believe McCourt tried to do both. Good book.
5 I purchased this book because I saw Frank McCourt on a program about Irish pubs. I found him engaging and thought anything he had to say on teaching might be interesting. I was so right! If you like books and movies like &#34;Up the Down Staircase&#34; and &#34;To Sir With Love&#34; you'll enjoy this book because it has even more heart than those two titles. Teacher Man was even more engaging than Frank McCourt talking about Irish pubs! This is a great read for anyone that's been a student or teacher!
3 There is no doubt Mr McCourt is a competent writer; there is no overlooking the fact that he did win the Pulitzer Prize. He has legions of fans and gets glowing reviews, all of which persuaded me to buy this book though I am usually wary of overly popular cultural offerings.So why couldn't I like this book? I plodded dutifully through like a reluctant student reading a required text. Admittedly, his prose has an easy flow and rhythm like a conversation. But, except for the musical recipe interlude, I didn't get much out of it & I was certainly relieved when I reached the end. Perhaps it is because I do not much like the man revealed by his book. I do not find him interesting. If he were my teacher, I'd request a transfer. As that may be as much my fault as his, he is entitled to my passing grade of three stars.I sometimes imagine what it would be like to have a long conversation - say on a transatlantic flight - with the author of a book I have just read.  In Mr McCourt's case, I fear I might just plug in my earphones and close my eyes.
3 I feel downright guilty giving a three-star review to the legendary Frank McCourt; I adored Angela's Ashes and very much liked Tis, the sequel.  McCourt is clearly literary, fascinating, amusing and introspective.Teacher Man is his account of teaching in various high schools in metropolitan New York, from vocational trade schools to conventional, upscale secondary schools.  It starts out strong and funny but quickly deteriorates into a series of anecdotes.McCourt is a master storyteller but one wonders if he has already exhausted his repertoire of tales.  The biggest problem with this book was that he relied for too heavily on stories about individual children and particular challenges that he had breaking into the field rather than framing these incidents within a larger context.In many instances, he sounded quite whiny; it was one thing to complain about his miserable childhood in Ireland in Angela's Ashes since he did indeed suffer outrageously but we suffered with him; we felt keen empathy since the story was told through the eyes of a child and with great humor.Somehow, the same perspective is harder to take from an adult who could have gotten out of the teaching field if he found it so difficult and unrewarding.  Having said that, there's no question that teaching high school kids would be an extremely difficult job and that McCourt is to be admired for his candor about his own insecurities and shortcomings in early years.Unfortunately, after reading Teacher Man, I can't say that I'm going to be first in line for his next book.Sigrid MacAuthor of D'Amour Road
3 Frank McCourt was one of those teachers who fell into the job whilst secretly wishing he could do something else (in his case, a writer - an ambition he has now achieved). As a result this is a curious memoir of a man who has spent many years reluctantly at the chalk face. He conveys something of the workload of a typical classroom teacher: all that lesson planning and marking; and also the difficulties of idealistic teacher battling with technocratic school authorities.McCourt admits he was never the type of teacher who could drill his students to achieve stellar exam results. Nor could he impose discipline on a class as evidenced by the story of taking a class of black Puerto Rican girls to the Cinema.What he does have is a deep seated love of stories, which clearly came out in his classes, and shows why he was loved by some of his students.This is not a great memoir to inspire people to teach, but it is a revealling account of a man's life shackled to a profession he only half commits to, but nevertheless picks up a university's worth of learning on the way.
2 After reading Frank McCourt's first book, I couldn't wait to read this book and learn about how his life as a teacher turned out. I was very disappointed. The book includes little about his personal life as an adult. It is primarily about student interaction and conversations he had as a teacher with  his students. After reading a few of the interactions I lost interest and was more focused on finishing the book than reading it for pleasure.
5 TEACHER MAN, Frank McCourt's third and latest memoir of Irish-American immigrant life, is by all accounts a marvelous summary of thirty years in the teaching profession. At the same time, it is so much more. Possessed of what has to be one of the most massive inferiority complexes in the history of memoir writing, McCourt tells the tale of a rebellious, feisty, anti-authoritarian young man in search of himself. That young man struggles through the blue collar world, enters the teaching world almost as a last resort, battles his lack of self-confidence as much as he battles successive school administrators, and ultimately discovers himself in the mirror of his own students.TEACHER MAN is not just another tale of the "my two years in an inner city school" variety. Mr. McCourt's story ranges far and wide through both his personal and teaching lives, intertwining the two in ways that lend understanding to his development (and, often, failure to develop) in both areas. We follow the author as a dock worker, as a new teacher at a vocational technical high school in Staten Island, as a successful master's student at NYU and a failed doctoral student at Trinity College in Dublin, as a struggling teacher at Fashion Industry and Seward Park high schools in Manhattan, and finally, as a Creative Writing teacher at Stuyvesant High School, arguably the finest public high school in New York. As the years progress, he learns how to "read" and motivate students, respond to troublemakers, and capture their imaginations through non-traditional, frequently offbeat teaching approaches.Mr. McCourt hardly seems discreet in discussing his life and his classroom antics. He is far from saintly - sometimes loose living, always hard drinking. He describes classroom events for which he is lucky not to have been fired or sued or both, such as pulling a student's legs out from under him and causing him to hit his head as he fell to the floor. Yet for all his human frailties, McCourt ultimately comes across as a caring teacher who learns that his greatest strength is challenging his students to think differently. He compels his students to look inside themselves. He encourages them to pay attention to the details of their lives, learn their grandparents' stories, and see the richness in even the most mundane aspects of their family lives. His students don't just read novels and poems, they sing cookbooks and practice writing excuse notes, first from their parents, then from Adam and Eve to God.Throughout this charming and eminently readable book, Mr. McCourt maintains a self-deprecating and irreverent style. His approach is at times humorous, sometimes touching, and often inspiring. While he might not always have stuck to the prescribed lesson plans, he understood how to open young minds and get them to question their assumptions. He captures the essence of the teacher/student relationship with perfect pitch.Ever the iconoclast, McCourt demonstrates through his life's story that, at least for the great teachers, the saying "Those who can, do; those who can't, teach," should be modified to read, "Those who can, teach; those who can't, never experience the joys of those who can." Mr. McCourt proved himself to be a teacher who shaped and changed students, the kind whom students remember their entire lives. He also manages to turn the two words, "I'll try," into an entire chapter, and a profound one at that. He seems to have spent his entire life trying, and succeeding as often as not.TEACHER MAN is a wonderful and compelling story, a captivating read from cover to cover. It may well be the best "teaching memoir" ever written.
4 In fast-paced, conversational prose, "Teacher Man" author Frank McCourt describes his 30-year career as an English educator in New York City's public high schools. Mr. McCourt's humility, brutal honesty, and humor provide sage advice for anyone contemplating a career in teaching.McCourt has a particular gift for story-telling, which is evident in his writing and teaching styles. He often alludes to his miserable childhood in Ireland, a stint in the US Army, and his hardscrabble life on the New York City waterfront, experiences which enrich his classes in creative ways.By way of criticism, Mr. McCourt has an annoying habit of employing colorful but undefined Irish slang--words such as "amadaun" (dunce) and "begorrah" ("by God")--not found in many American dictionaries. In addition, although he extensively relies upon dialogue, McCourt never uses quotation marks. Therefore it is sometimes difficult to follow his train of thought.One of McCourt's great strengths is his humbleness. Early in Teacher Man, he notes that he passed his certification test by only four points, and at the end of the book confides to his last class that he is "a lousy teacher" which he tells readers is "partly true." This self-assessment comes from a man voted "Teacher of the Year" in 1976 at New York City's prestigious Stuyvesant High School.A part of Mr. McCourt's life to which this reader can relate is his extreme difficulty in finding his calling. Over many decades, McCourt  drifts from job to job, school to school. At one point, he  returns to Ireland to enroll in a PhD program, which he then quits. Although McCourt is fond of teaching, his true passion is writing, an occupation in which he did not fully engage until he was well past sixty. To people in search of themselves, Mr. McCourt counsels, "Do what you love."Anyone contemplating a career in teaching--or wanting a firsthand look at life in the classroom--should read Teacher Man. It's an earthy, entertaining eye-opener.
5 I really enjoyed this book. I found Teacher Man, written by Frank McCourt, to be very entertaining, yet touching at the same time. His 3rd installment to his memoirs (the first two being Angela`s Ashes and `Tis), McCourt writes about his experiences as a teacher in the New York school system, where he taught for 30 years at various schools.Frank McCourt began teaching in 1958, at McKee Vocational and Technical, after he barely passed his licensing examination. On his first day in the classroom, a fight broke out, and a sandwich was thrown to the floor in anger - a sandwich which McCourt promptly picked up, noticed its superior quality, and ate....and so began a 30 year stint as a teacher - a teacher who broke almost every rule his supervisors gave him, yet a teacher who managed to get inside the heads of his students and motivate them to succeed.McCourt disregarded the English curriculum given to him, and instead used his own life for his lesson plans. I found McCourt's frank honesty about his insecurities as a teacher to be refreshing. He always strived to appear composed and confident, but more often felt insecure with the responsibility of teaching adolescents. As a teacher myself, his unable ness was something I could personally relate to in my own life.A theme that ran through the entire book was McCourt's deep desire to be well liked. It was apparent that being popular was a huge need for him. To be the student's favorite teacher was his goal, which he accomplished by using unorthodox ways of teaching such as recording grades based solely on attendance and participation, and teaching Creative Writing by having his students compose excuse notes and read cookbooks to music.A negative comment about this book - the writing style at times drove me insane. Most specifically the lack of quotation marks. There was no punctuation whatsoever to indicate who was speaking (no quotes, indentation, `he said/she said', etc.) and at times I was confused as to who was speaking.All in all, this book was an interesting read. I didn't always agree with McCourt's classroom decisions, and found his overwhelming need to be popular with the students to be disturbing at times, but through it all was always looking forward to reading about McCourt's next unusual way to connect to the thousands of students that he taught.
2 He has a wonderful writing style which I admire, however I didn't like this particular book. He wrote very little about his students, and very little about his teaching life. Most of it was about his sad childhood and his extramarital affairs.I had been hoping to read more about his experiences teaching and his thoughts about teaching.No Child Left Behind? The True Story of a Teacher's Quest
5 Teacher Man is a yet another masterful memoir of Pulitzer Prize winner, Frank McCourt.  It is not hyperbole to call McCourt brilliant.  Only a person of considerable talent and good humor could make a childhood of severe poverty, deprivation and misery enjoyable reading material, as he did so adroitly in Angela's Ashes.  McCourt's talent is on full display once again in Teacher Man in which he recalls, in spellbinding fashion, the ups and downs, triumphs and failures, self doubt and accomplishment experienced over 30 years of teaching.One might expect that a memoir of a high school English teacher would be rather boring.  But McCourt's humor and lyricism - the Irish charm that carried him for so many years in his professional career - inject in each story a life that a writer of lesser ability would never be able to capture.  Though he probably had thousands from which to choose, McCourt did a superb job of selecting the most funny, sometimes moving, stories to retell.McCourt's most endearing quality might be his humility.  If you didn't read the book's prologue, you would never get the sense in Teacher Man that McCourt ever won a Pulitzer Prize (or ever accomplished anything in life.)  This self-described "half-assed" teacher, who claims to have bluffed his way through virtually his entire teaching career (which spanned the 1960's through 1980's), really appears to have been something of an innovator in the classroom.  Supposedly because he didn't have the backbone to take control of his classes or the knowledge to teach his students "real" grammar and composition skills, McCourt resorted to unorthodox teaching methods like having his students read, sing and play music to recipes in cookbooks.  Nowadays, "good teachers" are those that, like McCourt, find ways to engage and inspire their students.No doubt, McCourt has his own view of the world at large and makes that view known in various places in this book.  But, unlike his brother Malachy, who comes off in his books as a bitter, arrogant, know-it-all, Frank backs off when he starts getting "preachy".  His tendency to do this keeps his writing entertaining, yet persuasive, and frees the reader of guilt and shame for the state of things (poverty, way in which teachers are viewed in American society, the sins of the Catholic Church in Ireland, etc.).Many critics have said this is a must-read for teachers.  In truth, it's a must-read for the rest of us "half-assed" professionals in the world who have wondered when we will ever find our niche, hit our stride in our careers.
5 Frank McCourt takes us through his tenure as an English teacher in NYC, providing us with details and stories that bring his experiences to life.  He is painfully honest at times; most teachers would never muse aloud at how they disliked the situation or the student, and he piles on the self-guilt for not being the type of teacher he feels he should be.  McCourt peppers his tales with laugh out loud moments and touching ones as well.  This would make excellent required reading for all those considering education as a career; McCourt pulls no punches.  This is an enjoyable read, full of sentiment and self-examination that will draw you in quickly.  Recommended.
4 Frank McCourt has a wonderful way of telling stories, and he does it just as well in this book as he did in "Angela's Ashes" and "'Tis"...I have to admit, however, that this was probably my least favorite of all of Mr. McCourt's books. I was engrossed in the Irish culture depicted in "Angela's Ashes", and Mr. McCourt's personal dilemmas in "'Tis" moved me even more; however, "Teacher Man" seemed a bit empty compared to those, and Mr. McCourt's constantly putting himself down and talking about how he just "fell" into the habits that made him a good teacher frustrated me somewhat. Like I said, though, this book is similar in style to his other two books, and was still one of the best books I've ever read. I recommend it to anyone who is a teacher or who is thinking about becoming one (and I'm neither of those, although I did once consider teaching as a career).
4 Well, I finally try something by the celebrated Mr. McCourt, former New York City public high school teacher, now celebrated and successful writer of best sellers like "Angela's Ashes" and this book here.  One can see why this was a popular book.  McCourt is an engaging raconteur, in the Irish tradition - witty, anecdotal, ironic - and his story is an interesting one.  He never takes himself too seriously, altho the anger occasionally pokes thru.In this book, McCourt tells a the tale of his college years, the time in his twenties he put in working as a longshoreman on the Brooklyn docks, and most importantly, his life as a teacher.  There are tales of romance with a young lady who is also the lover of one of his professors.  There are stories of his first couple of jobs, early years bouncing around from school to school, just getting by.  He seems to have the knack of getting a little too witty with people from time to time.  He teaches at a vocational school in Staten Island, and at a community college, but does not get off to a promising start.  He touches a bit on marriage and fatherhood, but does not get too far into his relations with his family.  Pubs and drinking seem to be a fairly consistent distraction, and one gets the sense that before he began telling his tales to a word processor, he told them in barrooms over pints of Guinness.  At one point, he gets accepted to Trinity College in Dublin for a graduate program, but is unable to pull his dissertation on Irish-American literary relations into a managable form.  McCourt seems to always be the witty outsider, the smart kid from the rough side of the tracks in Limerick who can't quite find his place in the world.  But redemption comes calling in the form of a substitute teaching gig at a top high school, where surprisingly enough, he is asked to stay on and ends up a popular and successful writing teacher.There are numerous recollections of strange and funny encounters with students.  There is the bizarre story of the girl whose sister's husband lost his arms in Korea, and wants sex all the time.  There is Kevin, an imaginative (and probably schizophrenic) young man who takes a liking to the author.  There is the gang of impossible to control Black girls that he takes to a movie in Times Square.  There is the recitation of recipes with musical accompaniment.  There are hilarious excuse notes which he saves and then turns into a lesson.  And there is some good advice for teachers too.This was a colorful, anecdotal read, but not lacking in some real substance and insight.  Still, I am sure there have been more powerful books written about teaching and life in the schools.  This is a likeable one however, and I think therein lies the core of McCourt's success as a writer.
4 another in the series of memoirs by Frank McCourt.  This deals mostly with his life in the various classrooms where he taught.  Not many teachers have taught at so many different levels, and been successful at all.  Not only did he come alive through his words, but his students also have.
5 I'm married to an English teacher, so I had a built-in bias for this book. I am also a fan of ANGELA'S ASHES.McCort delights in this telling of a terrified man trying to manage a group of inner city students in a class they (1) didn't want to take and (2) didn't think they needed.McCourt was all the things a good teacher should be. He was resourceful, funny, daring and creative.  Good for him and good for those kids who fell under his magic spell.Even if you've never heard of McCourt's other work, this is a book to savor. He's that good.
5 "Teacher Man" is an incredible look at teaching, English, literature, and life itself.  McCourt managed to give his students what their other subjects could not: a meaning to their lives, a significance.  He also stands the idea of good writing on its head.  I loved the crazy but inspired assignments and the various adventures (or misadventures) McCourt encounters throughout his career.  "Teacher Man" stands on its own among McCourt's memoirs - it is not the family saga that fills "Angela's Ashes" and "'Tis," but rather its own book, just as McCourt becomes his own person.  The book left me regretting that I was born several decades too late to be McCourt's student.
4 Decent story by Frank McCourt.  I like his writing style and the story he has to tell about how he became a teacher.  Overall, McCourt seems like a good guy yet, at times he is very unsure of his ability to teach.  He was started off teaching when teaching was not really a respected job, add in his Irish/American heritage and a thick accent and his story becomes very unique.
3 Let me say first off that I didn't read Mr. McCourt's first two books, Angela's Ashes and `Tis.  I don't really know why I never got around to it because I heard good things about them.  I guess it's just that I don't read a lot of memoirs as a general rule.  Then came Teacher Man.This time around, I knew I had no excuse to avoid it.  As a fifteen year veteran teacher, I have my own classroom experience to tell which, in some ways, parallels Mr. McCourt's.  I, too, kind of got into teaching by accident and made a go of it after some initial misgivings.  Though I didn't have the kind of personal & economic struggles Mr. McCourt did, I could appreciate very well where he was coming from.  I just wish I could appreciate his book a little more.Mr. McCourt is an excellent prose stylist.  His book is very easy to read, generating the feeling of listening to an Irish storyteller in the finest of traditions.  In many ways, as I was reading, I felt pulled along by Mr. McCourt's river of words & wit.  Clearly, despite his own misgivings, he picked up quite a few literary skills through his years in & out of the classroom.  And any book that can offer the insights into high school and university pretensions that this one does is worth perusing.On the other hand, there was one thing that bothered me as I was reading which I couldn't shake and I don't even really know what to call it.  I guess I can best describe it as a sense that Mr. McCourt didn't care if he did his job well.  I can be sympathetic to how difficult teaching can be and that reaching students can nigh seem impossible and I can even appreciate the clever ways Mr. McCourt found to connect to his students; but his motivations seemed so consistently base that I found myself struggling to admire what he was able to achieve.Maybe I'm the one with the problem.  Maybe I can't see through Mr. McCourt's irony to how much he really cared--and I'm sure he cared about his students.  Maybe caring shouldn't even be a prerequisite for being a good teacher.  Still, in a situation where I expected to find something uplifting that spoke to my experience as a teacher, I was left wanting.  A writer with Mr. McCourt's skills should have done better.
5 I confess,`Tis true:I would blissfully listen to the Brothers McCourt (Frank & Malachey) read any phone book.  So, listening to their lovely lilting lingua leading this listener through many areas in which I find myself in agreement, laughing and crying and oft-times both:  Ireland, Brits in Ireland, Irish in Ireland, Catholics in Ireland, Catholics in Rome who ignore  Catholics in Ireland and America, Irish American Republicans,  Swimming Monks, and  Education &lt;- or the lack thereof, fortified with a tad of the wry, rye, irony and blarney, is bread and candy for my mind and ear.*Teacher Man* is the answer to the Frequently Asked Question posed to the Post-Angela's Ashes, Post Pulitzer Frank:What took you so long to write it?BECAUSE I WAS TEACHING.And this is the grand story of that./TundraVison, Amazon Reviewer.
5 I'm an English teacher myself and having read and loved Frank McCourt's previous two memoirs, ANGELA'S ASHES and `TIS, I was eager to read his latest work, TEACHER MAN.  The book is a companion piece to his previous works, but even if you have never read either one of those two books you can read TEACHER MAN and not fill left out.  Including a short Prologue that describes McCourt's miserable childhood and his striving to account for something in America, TEACHER MAN is divided into four parts.The first major section is entitled "It's a Long Road to Pedagogy" and reflects upon McCourt's journey through school and his first experiences teaching in the New York City Public School System high schools.  McCourt began his teaching career teaching at McKee Vocational and Technical High School.  He explains how he almost was fired on the first day of school for eating a student's sandwich.  The experience began to break through the ice and on the next day of school McCourt causes the entire class to fall into hysterics after one student asked if he dated girls in Ireland and he sarcastically responded by telling him no, they dated sheep.  That comment caused McCourt to meet the principal again the next day.  Funny.  McCourt threw all the rules that his education classes had taught him and kept his students attention by telling those stories.  Well, stories and little writing experiment like writing an excuse note to God from Adam and Eve.The second major section of the book is entitled "Donkey on a Thistle" and looks back upon McCourt's wandering years as an educator.  After having obtained a Masters, McCourt left McKee and taught a year's worth of classes at New York Community College in Brooklyn before being let go because he didn't want to pursue a doctorate.  From there McCourt found a job at Fashion Industries High School.  He only last a semester there, but not before he delivered a brilliant lesson comparing English grammar to the different parts of a ball point pen.  After the Fashion Industries High School, McCourt found himself teaching at Seward Park on the Lower East Side.  That doesn't work out either and McCourt eventually decides to return to Ireland and attend Trinity University in Dublin.  Two years later McCourt wasn't able to finish his dissertation (he kept getting sideline by Irish-American history) and returned to the U.S. as a failed doctoral candidate.  He went back to Seward to teach in place of his wife who went on maternity leave, but was let go at the end of the term.  McCourt then spent a lot of time as an "itinerant substitute teacher."That's where the last section of the book begins, "Coming Alive in Room 205".  McCourt is offered a position at the prestigious Stuyvesant High School.  It's there that McCourt finds his stride.  McCourt used some great techniques from cookbooks to nursery rhymes in order to engage his students, make the material relevant, and teach a lesson.  He spent the rest of his teaching career at Stuyvesant and the book ends with his last day of school.Interspersed throughout the narrative are also stories about his life.  He takes breaks in the overall narrative to recollect events in his own life that happened when he was a boy growing up in Limerick, Ireland or while working on the docks.  His marriage to his first wife, his affairs, the birth of his daughter Maggie; these are just some of the incidents included in McCourt's look at this teaching career.I really enjoyed TEACHER MAN. It's not as long as ANGELA'S ASHES or `TIS, but the book is just as deep and insightful.  I really enjoy McCourt's writing style and find myself re-reading certain passages over and over.  The only thing that I wish McCourt would have spent more time discussing were his experiences as Stuyvesant.  He spent the longest amount of time teaching there, but that part of the book is the shortest.  I really would have liked to read a few more stories about his time there.Recommended for fans of McCourt, English teachers, or anyone who just likes a good set of witty, non-fiction stories.
4 If Up The Down Staircase or To Sir With Love didn't cure you of wanting to teach, then this book might finish the job. McCourt (of Angela's Ashes) writes of his years as a high school English teacher in NYC. He own insecurities and inexperience plus the behavior problems of the teens show teaching as an often hopeless and certainly a thankless task.The book never achieves the intimacy and grit that elevate Angela's Ashes to a stunning memoir. It follows McCourt through his efforts to learn classroom skills, stabilize his marriage, and to further his career with 2 years at Trinity College. Mostly it is less than compelling, possibly due to his own ambivilence about his efforts and his lack of goals.Eventually he falls into a school situation where the students are motivated and his own teaching techniques, although offbeat, are validated.Some of the vignettes of his students might make good fodder for a Chicken Soup of the Student's Soul, but otherwise they serve mostly as fillers.Despite these criticisms, I'm ranking it a four star read due to McCourt's way with words and his willingness to allow us inside his life.
5 Frank McCourt really hit a home run with this memoir Teacher Man of his teaching days in NYC.I enjoyed also his previous memoir of teaching, 'Tis. Besides being entertaining, Teacher Man "tells it like it is" in many a classroom in this country which prides itself on its fine educational systems. To be sure, McCourt is an entertainer, a storyteller, a creative teacher, and then some. His experiences in the classroom, sometimes hilarious, sometimes sad, sometimes poignant will touch the heart of any teacher who has been a teacher for at least five years.Also important is the reality of the teaching bureaucracy  that is present in almost all  public systems: "This is the situation of the public schools of America: The farther you travel from the classroom the greater your financial and professional rewards. Get the license. Teach for two or three years. Take courses in administration, supervision, guidance, and with your new certificates you can move into an office with air-conditioning, private toilets, long lunches, secretaries. You won't have to struggle with large groups of pain-in-the-arse kids. Hide in your office, and you won't even have to see the little buggers."'
5 This is the third in the series of books by this author.  The books are fascinating but also depressing.  I would recommend them to anyone who loves to read.
5 I enjoyed Frank Mc Cord's book, Angelas Ashes, and looked forward to this book to see how it compared with his first book. Maybe not the same class as Angelas was, but a very interesting book none the less. Glad I bought it. Now I'll have to get Alphie's book! I would again buy from this company. The book was everything the ad said it was.
4 Frank McCourt gives an honest report on his 30 years of teaching and he does it with his usual lyrical prose. He's not afraid to report his shortcomings and failures. I cringed a number of times; But his triumphs make you smile and take the edge off the book. Any teacher approaches the field with some trepidation and the same is similarly true with each new class, every new year. Some lessons work, some don't; the same is true of the kids. But how to push them all along to the best of a teacher's ability? McCourt never gives up and the result is some enjoyable reading. While I don't see this book as the equal of &#34;Angela's Ashes&#34; or even &#34;'Tis&#34;, compared to most writers, it's a triumph in itself.
5 What Frank McCourt describes learning from his own teaching experience can be seen just as well by how this book puts this lesson into practice. This is a fun, and real, read. This feels like the real experience. Being as you are instead of faking an image to the students is honest and makes the psychical connection that is otherwise lost. (But beware! Eat no sandwich, befriend no sheep, and neuter no principal!) The opportunity to share so much life experience -- to share the wealth with young people -- this makes teaching so worth while. Miss this and a life time of teaching could be hateful. We might ask, what was the value in trying to fake being a real person instead of just being one? Thank you Frank for sharing this rich experience!
3 Teacher Man is an entertaining, very readable book, but it doesn't have the depth or emotion that made Angela's Ashes and 'Tis so memorable. This story is not only about McCourt's classroom teaching, but also deals with many of the personal issues he faced throughout his professional life, but all the little anecdotes are short and seem relatively insignificant in the grand scheme of his life--it is like the stand-up comic version of the McCourt we knew in his previous books. Teacher Man is still worth reading because it is fun and breezy, but certainly not as good as McCourt's previous works.
5 Frank McCourt is one of America's greatest writers, and his books are nearly impossible to put down. That's quite a statement to make about a book about a teaching career, which might sound like a snoozer if ever there was one. Those of us who read Angela's Ashes are not surprised that he grew up to be haunted by self-doubt, self-defeating, prone to drinking too much, awkward with ladies, in a failed marriage, etc. Those of us who had miserable childhoods, too, but eventually turned out OK, are also not surprised that he managed to have a productive life anyway, even if he undervalued it at times. There is a lot in this book we can relate to, and that is because he is more honest about himself than most of us would ever have the courage to be in public. Those of us who have been teachers appreciate his honesty about how hard it is and admire how he overcame the war of wills to learn to dance with his classes, once he found an environment where he could thrive and be creative. This book shows how much life happens in a classroom and how one decent, imperfect, and brilliant teacher nurtured that life and gave it voice.
4 As an up-and-coming teacher, I thoroughly enjoyed reading "Teacher Man."  I was unable to put it down and finished it in two evenings on the couch.  Some negative reviewers here seem to think that McCourt doesn't like kids... but I didn't get that impression at all.  From my reading, it seemed that McCourt had an easier and more willing relationship with his students than their parents.I think the best part of the book is the insight.  It made me feel not so different when Frank McCourt wrote about his fear of the certification proceedure or about how he felt like a fraud.  "How am I going to pull this off?!"  Perhaps those fears are good.  Maybe trying goes out the window once you're no longer nervous.  Who knows?
3 Picked it up at a B&B in Tuscany - hid it from my husband - put a brown cover on it for the airplane flight - embarrassed but read it to the end.  Characters are terribly cliched, the sex scenes predictable; I guess the fun part was the locations and the view of life at the top of the social heap.
5 Gold Diggers is a fun walk through a world most of us will only ever dream about - that of rich, beautiful & privileged Londoners.The book ranks right up there with some of my favorite British chic lit, such as titles by Jane Green and Marian Keyes, but Perry gives her story a nice Sex & the City-like treatment.It's really the perfect thing to throw in your bag for vacation this summer.
4 Tasmina Perry truly is the new Queen of the Trashy Beach Read. Much like Jackie Collins, you'll find Perry's world(s) peopled by those of the beautiful & rich persuasion, behaving badly in glamourous settings.Chicks dig Adam Gold. Not only is he gorgeous, he's a billionaire to boot-- and single! Thus when he relocates to London, the husbandless ladies who move in the city's high society circles are desperate to snag him for themselves. Widow Karin Cavendish seems to be having some luck getting close to him, but aging model Molly Sinclair also has her eyes on the prize. Her life's ambition has been to Marry Rich and she's puzzled as to why it hasn't happened yet. Getting on in years as she is (43; ancient), if it's ever going to happen it'll have to be soon.Plotlines are pretty standard. Infidelities, manhunting, partygoing, love connections, the business of business, murder. It's the last one, murder-- arguably the most dramatic of the plots-- that was the least successful element. It could just be my personal taste: I find mystery novels in general to be tedious reading. Anyhow, it was all so contrived I was rolling my eyes and saying to myself 'why, Tasmina? Why did you have to go and turn into Agatha Christie on us?'Is it a must-read? No, not really. It won't change your life, but it could change your next few hours into something rather fun & pleasant. And sometimes that's all we're looking for.
5 I loved the book,i loved the characters even thou there were so many of them they could have been confusing
4 I downloaded it for a long flight & it went down a treat with my inflight vintage Dom, caviar & lobster. Lots of London action & landmarks - set in opulent Mayfair & St James's & Chelsea - it distracted me from in flight boredom. If you subscribe to  Oscar Wilde's view of fiction it ticks all boxes in that,  the good end well & the bad end badly.
5 This is quite a pageturner. My wife and I rarely finish the same book within the same day. We live an era of ghost written celebrity biographies written with boring pedantic voices. I have no illusions that Ramsay wrote this book without assistance (whether an editor or overzealous assistant)but the book certainly captures his voice. The result is an honest unapologetic narrative of the life of a remarkable man. There are lessons to be learned, hard work as the solution for overcoming adversity. Readers of food porn may be dissapointed in that the book is less about the food than the man behind the food. Fans of Ramsay will be delighted because of the insight into the method behind his madness.
5 Gordon Ramsey doesn't hold punches in the kitchen or about telling you his life story.  Great read, hoping another comes out that picks up where this one left off.
5 A great look into the life of Gordon Ramsay.  Once you have read this book you will respect the man and understand why he comes across as intolerable in his various TV programmes.
5 I've seen Chef Ramsay on TV on occasion. Enough to get my curiosity up, read about him on Wikipedia, and read this book. Now that I have, my respect for him has increased immensely. The yelling isn't just bullying. He wants to do well and he wants those he is associated with to do well.As he says in the book, the tough childhood and family situation he describes explains some of it. I feel truly heartbroken to read of his struggles with his brother's substance abuse problems. The topsy-turvy path he took to becoming a top chef leaves me dizzy.I didn't want to put this book down until I was done reading. A top review is titled, perhaps jokingly, "Gordon needs a hug." I think he does, and I'd love to give him one.
5 This book is more in-depth and differs slightly on several points about Gordon's life. It is good reading and really lets you get to know the true Gordon Ramsay. If you like him or even if you hate him, you'll leave this book and find out that you really didn't know him.
4 I've watched Hell's Kitchen and Kitchen Nightmares from the beginning. I'm a bit of a foodie, so I find it very interesting. I always saw Ramsey as a huge egotistical butthead, someone who was so full of himself, someone who screamed, etc. He had a few redeeming moments, but... well, not many. I read this book out of morbid curiosity than anything else, but I walked away with a huge change of heart as far as the author goes. Oh, he has a big ego, he'll admit that. But I think you don't have the level of success that he has had without getting a slightly over-inflated ego. Learning about his childhood and how he rose to where he is today really brings the man more into focus. I wasn't expecting to enjoy this one, but I did. Not just fans of the show will enjoy this, anyone that enjoys memoirs will like it as well.
5 Good down to earth read about his life and how hard it really was. Not everybody is born with a silver spoon in their mouth and he was not one of them.
5 I am so impressed! He started out with nothing!  It's inspiring to read about his childhood and it affected him.  A shame his brother wasn't affected the same way!
5 I love, love Gordon Ramsey! Everything he has done I have been in love with and this book is no exception. This is not really a memoir about his life tho. He touches on his life a little but but this is largely about his career. Why he chose cooking and how he got as famous as he is now.This is not going to be for everyone as he talks a lot about Chefs that to be honest with you I have never heard of but then again that does not shock me as the only ones I really know are who I see on TV. If a lot of detail about cooking and Chefs you may or may not know would bore you tho this is not a book you will love.
5 The book itself is a breeze to read on the Kindle. It is fairly short but doesn't come across that way on the Kindle. The pictures that he included in his book were definately a nice touch, 95% of them came out perfectly fine. The remaining 5% either came out pretty horribly or didn't come out at all. I am a big fan of his show and have had to explain to people in the past that he is doing some of the things that he does in part because he is looking out for the participants themselves. The only way to learn sometimes is to have a lesson become implanted because their is an unpleasant memory that is attached to it. His own personal history is so rough that I can see where he gets his drive to succeed in life. Anyone can make it in life we just have to not give up. And that lesson is worth infinetly more then the price of this book.
5 I am useless in the kitchen, but I was addicted to this guy's story for overcoming obstacles and achieving greatness. His drive, competitiveness, intolerance for mediocrity, and relentless pursuit of excellence is an inspiration to any business person! I have told all my friends to read or listen to this and they all loved it.
5 but I ended up reading it for myself.  This book was great!  I thought he did a really good job writing it, and I couldn't put it down.  I love Hell's Kitchen, and now you know why he does what he does.  This book does not disappoint!
5 Ever since I discovered "Kitchen Nightmares", I've been a fan of Gordon Ramsay.  I've never watched "Hell's Kitchen" because I was turned off by the swearing when the trailers are shown.  But in "Kitchen Nightmares", Gordon shows his softer side.  He really wants people to succeed. So when I heard about his autobiography, I just had to read it.I wasn't disappointed.  It is an honest recollection of what happened to him in relation to the important people and events in his life.  It's raw and Gordon Ramsay was unafraid to relate details like how he watched his brother shoot up heroin or how as children they would be dressed up in rags while his father bought Fender guitars in pursuit of his pipe dream of becoming a country singer.I found out why Gordon has a British accent and not because he's ashamed of being from Scotland but because his family moved around so much and they lived on and off in England.  And that he rides motorcycles.But what I really liked about the book is his passion for perfection.  He didn't let obstacles get in his way and it is truly inspiring.  He is also so down-to-earth and makes sure his kids are the same.Gordon doesn't pretend to be some haughty chef who was born to high society but everything that he learned about fine food he learned the hard way.  I didn't know that becoming a chef was like moving in the ranks of the military.What he did with his life is truly amazing and I'm glad he wrote this book.  It's almost like Gordon was sitting down and chatting with me over a cup of tea.
3 I watch most everything that Ramsay does on TV, but this book only offers slightly more than you could get from hearing him talk or reading his Wikipedia entry.
5 I found Humble Pie to be a really interesting read, well written in the same style Gordon speaks when he's on camera, once I started reading, I couldn't put it down.  I knew nothing at all about Ramsay other than what I'd seen on Kitchen Nightmares and other TV programs.  So I was surprised to read he almost made it as a professional footballer, and was raised in a family of domestic violence, where money which should have been spent on the basics of living was instead wasted on the music career of his father.  Granted his father isn't alive to dispute Ramsay's version of events but on assumption that his memories are pretty accurate, you've got to have a huge respect for a man who didn't want to be like his father in wasting his life pursuing a dream on the slight chance he could make it (the football) and take on a less glamorous and fun, much more hard work career to become a top chef. This autobiography takes the reader on a journey into the various kitchens Ramsay learnt his skills, in both the UK and France and the hardships he had to deal with in reaching his dreams of earning his Michelin stars and ultimately owning his own restaurant.  It includes the hardships of losing his best chef who died while robbing a house to feed his drug habit and Ramsay's determination to make sure his brother didn't also end up dead due to following the same path. Although like most autobiographies, self criticism doesn't take up too much of the word count, you can't help but admire the man.  Certainly no one has made Gordon Ramsay eat humble pie, if they've done something wrong, he'll tell you about it in these pages.How Gordon Ramsay's TV career started is also covered as well as behind the scenes on his initial Hell's Kitchen, Kitchen Nightmares and other UK shows is.  The US spinoffs, which were more to Ramsay's liking are also covered but only the initial couple of seasons when this was starting. Humble Pie was published in 2006 so it obviously doesn't include TV shows and other events that have taken place since then.There is a shortened version ofHumble Pie (Quick Reads)which was released two years later in 2008 as part of the Quick Reads short fiction and non fiction story initiative to increase global literacy.  If this full length version nearly three times as long at 284 pages seems a bit much for you, you might want to consider grabbing a copy of that instead, you should be able to get it for much cheaper price as well, it definitely will be a lot cheaper to post.  The full length Humble Pie was also released in North America under the title Roasting in Hell's Kitchen: Temper Tantrums, F Words, and the Pursuit of Perfection.  Under either title, I'd give the full length version a go.
4 No this is not a recipe for making or eating humble pie. Despite the title, there is no reference to the humble pie anywhere in the text!Despite this disconnect "Humble Pie: My Autobiography" offers the reader insights into the cursing, angry, belligerent guy we see on Hells Kitchen and Kitchen Nightmares. Yes - he is all that. But that he has had the drive and ambition to reach the success he has is testament to the fact that hard work does pay and that a difficult childhood with a menacing father isn't an automatic sentence to a life of poverty and hopelessness. I have new respect for the guy, but still dont uderstand the obsession with the Michelin stars which is the holy grail for all chefs and especially for Gordon, the final indication that he has arrived.A little self-congratulatory at times, too defensive of all the run-ins he has had with various other cooking personalities, and laced with the language of his cooking shows, this is still an interesting read.
5 I admit to having a bit of a celebrity crush on Gordon Ramsay.  I've always loved his 'brutish' no-nonsense way of running his kitchens, as it's depicted on TV.  When I saw this autobiography I though it would be a great opportunity to see how much of the bravada we see on screen is real and what is not.  Reading this book showed me that, at the end of the day, Gordon Ramsay is really just like you and me.  I never knew the tough life he had growing up and how he quite literally clawed his way to the top of his field through nothing but hard work and determination.  What we see on TV may seem cruel (albeit entertaining), but what's behind that mean-looking facade is a man who wants his proteges to give 110% because he's never given anything less in his whole life.  I respect Gordon Ramsay even more after reading this book and I would gladly read more of his stories if he ever decides to put them out.
5 I don't have a lot of time to read so I haven't read more than 3 books in the last 5 years. I got this book from the library and read the whole thing in 1 day! Which for me, is unbelievable. I just couldn't put it down. What a story. It is definitely worth a read if you like Ramsay. I love him even more now that I know where he has come from and what has made him the way he is. He has had a very interesting and very hard life. He is an inspiration. I thought I worked hard, I seem lazy compared to his drive and ambition.I highly recommend this book. I would definitely read it again. In fact, I am on Amazon right now looking for more books about him.
1 As a fan or Gordon Ramsey's, I thought this would be an interesting read...NOT!  Extremely boring.  Very little aboout his personal life.  Mostly describes his various restaurants.  I'm halfway thru the book & doubt I will finish it.
4 This is Gordon Ramsay's life story in his own words.  He's had an eventful life and his success has come from hard work and smart decisions.  His father was an unpleasant  man who was often absent from the family home (when he wasn't beating his wife or moving the family across the country) and it is interesting to contrast how very differently his two sons have turned out.  While Gordon is highly driven and has been hugely successful, his brother has become a drop out and a drug addict.Gordon credits much of his success to the advice and support that he has received from his father-in-law and I found it quite moving how he has secured an alternative father figure in his life.This is a well written and involving book which really captures the man behind the image - and he is very different in many ways from the man that you think you know from Hell's Kitchen.  This book could have been a little shorter - it loses some momentum in the second half - but it's still very good.  If you enjoy Hell's Kitchen or just reading about life behind the scenes in the restaurant industry, I recommend this book.
1 This book is just a compilation of stories and excerpts from Gordon Ramsay's other books. It's a total rehash job that made me mad that I wasted money on the same information I'd already read! Very disappointing.
4 I have been a big fan of Gordon Ramsey's televisions shows, "Hell's Kitchen", "Kitchen Nightmare's", and "The F Word". When I saw this book, I knew I wanted to read it to get to know more about my favorite television chef. Well, the amazing thing is that I actually believe that he wrote this book himself, as he sounds just as he does on television. His personality just jumps out at the reader from the pages of this book.That being said, this book is really a brief biography of his life to date. It has definitely been a hardscrabble life until the past few years, when his hard work finally paid off. Brought up in dire poverty in a totally dysfunctional family with an abusive, alcoholic father, it is amazing to see the success he has made of himself. Gordon paints a candid portrait of himself, and what comes across is a somewhat oafish, hardworking, intelligent and driven individual with some very set ideas and exacting standards. He is definitely a control freak, albeit a likeable one.Those readers who enjoy his shows will most definitely enjoy this book, which is a very easy and quick read. The reader will marvel at the obstacles this passionate man has overcome to reach the pinnacle of success that he has. What one sees on television is what one gets in this book. So, be prepared for some coarse language and a somewhat inelegant writing style, as well as a very frank portrait of one of today's premier chefs.
4 Like most, I learned of Gordon Ramsay from his television shows. I was intrigued by his style, and overwhelming passion for perfection. He seems to have a keen eye for detail, and high expectations. As with every television series; the drama is high, as the focus is entertainment. I enjoyed the series "Ramsay's Best Restaurant" most, since it seemed genuine, and had limited drama! In any case, I was interested in learning more about Mr. Ramsay, and bought "Roasting in Hell's Kitchen" to get a more accurate depiction of this internationally renowned chef!The content of the book was what I expected, however, I had some difficultly relating to the vernacular (British English, not American English!), and some of the stories lost me as they jumped forward and backward a bit.However, all-in-all, this was a great book, and revealed what I expected; Mr. Ramsay is a talented guy who's hard work has paid off! I enjoyed learning more about his background and upbringing, as this explains why he is who he is.I'd highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn more about the man who conquered the culinary world.P.S. I'd love to see Mr. Ramsay featured on TED talks; he's got a lot of value to share!
5 Lots of fun to read. You can really &#34;hear&#34; the author's voice in the conversational writing style. I am a big fan of Kitchen Nightmares so it was interesting to get a little background on Gordon. He is not the monster portrayed on Hell's Kitchen.The book moves along briskly and kept my interest.I find the author to be honest and surprisingly forthright on personal subjects, like his brother's drug addiction and his feelings about his father.Gordon is unsurprisingly apologetic in his views and writes about his life in a clear and engaging way.I found this to be a quick and enjoyable read.
5 I always knew there was something behind Chef Ramsay's harsh ways. This book tells it all and tells it like it is. There is an unbridled passion in him about food that is rare. I love that. The content and depth of insight into Chef Ramsay's childhood and rise to fame is astonishing. The only critical thing I have to say about the book is that it definitely needs an astute editor, although it is still reader friendly. Otherwise, a highly recommended read.
5 I love Chef Ramsay but I never imagined what this man has been through and the things he has overcome.  Funny guy, amazing chef, absolute inspiration.  Must read for everyone.
5 Super read, very fast and informative.  He writes exactly like he talks on Hell's Kitchen.  You will not be bored.
4 Hell's Kitchen is one of my guilty TV pleasures and I love Gordon Ramsay.  He wrote this book and he writes like he speaks--I loved it.  The book details his childhood, his relationships, his start as a chef, his ups and downs--very good, quick read.  Fan of his TV shows will not be disappointed.[...]
3 I love Gordon Ramsay to death and watch all of his shows on Fox and BBC America.  He may be one of the top chefs in the world, but when it comes to writing, he is no Anthony Bourdain.  Ramsay tells his story in a no-holds-bar fashion, almost as if he was having a beer with the reader in a pub.  The tone is very conversational, but the tales he tells could have benefitted from some ghost writing.  I enjoyed the stories, but was hoping his writing would be as exquisite as his cooking.
4 I've enjoyed watching Hell's Kitchen and Kitchen Nightmares for a while now, and always found Chef Ramsey a bit fascinating, if not amusing, so I was not sure what to expect when reading an autobiography. Truth is, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this memoir of sorts. He's had an interesting life, and this book shares tidbits from his life, in short, bite-sized nuggets of information, that gave me a completely different perspective on the man behind the chef.More interesting to me than that, though, was learning some of the behind the scene drama in the restaurant world. I guess I'd never really thought about it before, but to learn about what a small world the fine-dining restaurant scene is, not just in England, but apparently, all over. It makes sense that there are only a limited number of brilliant master chefs in the world, those capable of achieving the covered stars and accolades, but I'd never thought of the behind the scenes aspect of it. This book lets the reader in on many of those behind-the-scenes things of some of the most famous establishments.If you're a reader who happens to like the shows Ramsay puts on television, then you're likely to enjoy this book too. It definitely, as the title suggestions, contain some strong language, but if you watch Ramsay, you probably knew to expect that!
4 i dig watching Gordon Ramsey. His shows are full of Knowledge and will seperate your funny bones from laughing so hard. this Book follows him through a whole lot of challenges over the years and it also showcases his driven will at doing what he does best. this Book is very detailed and a must read. the Man is a Hard worker and he covers so much territory.
4 Anyone who knows Ramsay only from Hell's Kitchen commercials will be very surprised at the person that is found in this text.  Rather than being a simple (and rather crude) person, Ramsay's lived quite a life and given up a lot for the simple goal of becoming very good at cookery.  His book gives a great deal of background of the making of the person of today, from his loves to his family issues.  You never get the impression that he's hiding anything, and his stories are well-chosen and often highlight his flaws rather than his successes.Overall, Ramsay's book is a quick, entertaining read that humanizes the televised caricature into a warm and immensely talented person.  Highly recommended.
5 I appreciate him talking about his history and family. It explains a lot of what you see on TV. Just think: he could have been a soccer player instead of a chef, and then where would we be????
5 Imagine if every person on earth put the same level of passion, intensity and energy into their jobs as Gordon does to his.  Imagine a world where half-a%# workmanship and pathetic laziness was unaccepptable, as it is in Ramsay's kitchens.  Just imagine.......An amazing book was this.  I wished it could have gone on and on.  The real story behind a driven man whose ethics of perfection can be easily applied to every work situation in the world, regardless of occupation.  Challenge yourself to accept Ramsay's standards of excellence.  If being the best was easy, everyone would be great.  This book shows why Gordon Ramsay is the very best chef in the world.....
5 I read this book years ago and really enjoyed it. I was reminded of it recently, and so ordered a copy so my girlfriend, who is a fan of Chef Ramsay, could read it. Anyway, this book really takes a look at the life and times of Chef Ramsay, from his childhood until modern day (at least modern day circa 2006/2007). I like the fact that it is written in Chef Ramsay's own voice, seemingly. You really learn to appreciate how his upbringing in a dysfunctional family with an alcoholic musician father and a junkie brother had an impact on his own choices. It really drove him to pursue his dreams regardless of how difficult or unlikely those dreams might be to achieve. It is truly a story of perseverance and dedication, and i consider his story to be an inspirational one. You may love him or hate him, but after reading this book, you will see him as the genuine human being that he is. I highly recommend reading this book.Enjoy!
5 Being a fan of Hells Kitchen, Kitchen Nightmares and Hotel Hell I saw Gordon Ramsay wrote this autobiography and I had to check it out...Definately worth the read if you are a fan of Mr. Ramsay.
4 Gordon Ramsay is of the new generation of TV chefs, a descendant of Julia Fields, and the Galloping Gourmet.  The first generation strove to bring a genteel comfort to housewives looking to improve themselves around their kitchens.  Gordon Ramsay brings little comfort to viewers looking to improve themselves.Whereas his brethren, like Anthony Bourdain and Adam Richman bring humor and a sense that they do not take themselves overly seriously, Ramsay brings a manic intensity to the small screen.  Whereas Bourdain writes books that stirs the reader to laugh with him, Ramsay brings no humor to his.I was drawn to this book from comments made by Bourdain in one of his books praising Gordon Ramsay as a chef and a restaurant operator.  As a writer, he is a pretty good chef.His story is impressive.  He has pulled himself up from an unhappy childhood, overcome a father who was a louse, and fashioned a career in food service after his soccer career fizzled.  But, he tells his story without humor.He spends more time talking about his childhood, and not enough talking about how he has built a dynasty of wonderful restaurants.  Where his television experience are probably interesting, and funny, he glosses over them.His downside as an author is probably what makes him great as a chef.  He takes himself way too seriously.
5 This is an amazing autobiography. If you are a Ramsay fan you get just what you'd expect--some brutal honesty, some settling of old scores, some name dropping, and of course some profanity liberally sprinkled throughout.The first half of the book where Ramsay talks about his childhood, his soccer ambitions, and his apprenticeship into the world of haute cuisine is fascinating.  Once he has "made it" in that world however the stories aren't as interesting to me.  However, the book is very short and thankfully this ends before getting too tiresome.  Still in all it is a pretty good read and taking price into consideration it definitely is 5 stars given the $2.87 I paid for the Kindle version.
4 I was floored when I read this book. I've always been intrigued by Ramsay because of his shows and his management style (and, of course, his mouth). He says what everyone wishes they could say -- not a single filter -- and gets away with it.What you get in this memoir is a deep understanding of how to excel at your job -- be passionate about what you do, commit to what you do and then, simply, do it with conviction.Ramsay is to cooking what Tiger Woods is to golf -- a unique and talented guy who brings unbelievable attention from the non-culinary crowd to his business.
5 As an avid fan of Hell's Kitchen, MasterChef and Kitchen Nightmares, my wife purchased this book for me as a gift for Christmas. What a great book if you want to learn more about Chef Gordon Ramsay. The insight on his childhood, the strained relationship with his father, his love for his mum, and the way he and Tana have created their family and his beliefs. Some may see Mr. Ramsay and think he is a bully or mean spirited individual, but after reading this book, you understand how hard he works, his drive, his desire to be the absolute best at everything. He came from nothing and now has built an empire, he is honest and open in this book, maybe a little bit too revealing at times, but you get to know him more and understand the way he thinks. You simply have to appreciate a man, that is a world known celebrity chef, and he is still making his dishes on a Saturday night in one of his restaurants. Thank you Mr. Ramsay for sharing your story - I am sure the hardest part was sharing the stories about your brother Ronnie and his drug problems and the affects it has on you, your family and the rest of those that play a vital role in your lives.
4 I believe this book demonstrates Gordon Ramsay's perspective of his life in a brilliant way. An interesting read that gives you a better insight on how Gordon Ramsay become who he is today. Great inspiration about how you can come up from the bottom and rise to the top.
5 This is the way like to read autobiographies. Just like I love my steak red and bloody I prefer autobiographies raw and uncensored. One can clearly see Ramsay wrote this book himself and did the editing in his own style.I didn't know Ramsay had such a tough time growing up in poverty. He never gave up though on his dream to become a masterchef and run 3 Michelin star restaurants. In this book you can read his struggle to start his restaurants and how he became the chef he is today. Ramsay openly tells you all the details of his struggle and also his financial problems, his heroine addicted brother, his abusive father, the chefs he worked for who were even more aggressive than him, the legal cases against him, ...I enjoyed reading this autobiography a lot. Before I realised it I finished reading this book within hours. Recommended read.
5 I read this book immediately on the heels of reading Marco Pierre White's &#34;The Devil in the KItchen&#34; and the two made a magnificent pair. You get the gossip from both sides and although I'm very partial due to my giant GR crush, I appreciated Gordon's book so much more. Why? Because he shows his vulnerability as a human being by digging deep into some very serious personal issues. White's book is definitely more about the food except, of course, when he pauses to trash a former colleague or employee or boast he HE was the first of celebrity chefs, not GR or anyone else for that matter. GR devotees see in him the tenderness that comes from being a battered kid hell-bent on escaping his past through food. Yes, the book is ghost-written but it matters not because I can hear Gordon's own voice in my head (swooooon) as I read. The book captures all of his wit and naughty humor and then some. Whether you are a GR fan, a chef or wannabe or just curious about this &#34;squishy-faced&#34; Scotsman we've come to know/love/hate, there is something for you in this book. A quick read with some great photos at end, I was surprised (and a little wistful) when I so quickly reached the last page.
4 This was an ok book most of the stuff I already knew about Gordon and some surprises
5 I was thrilled to read this book, discovering there are writers who feel like me about the moral rottenness of the post-modern left. I supported the war by President Bush and Minister Blair to free the Iraqi people from the genocidal Saddam Hussein's blood-soaked tyranny, a cruel despot who had killed with chemical weapons thousands of Kurds and Shia Marsh Arabs. I was incredulous and angry that millions marched around the world to protect this modern day Hitler claiming they were the custodians of human rights and peace-how are marches in favour of a genocidal Fascist tyrant peace marches? as they called them.Now I am not in my own estimation a conservative and support rather the values of the old social democrats and social liberals of the 50s, 60s and 70s such as Harold Wilson and the old Labour Party and John F Kennedy and Henry Scoop Jackson and the creators of the social market economy such as Ludwig Erhardt in West Germany. I still believe in a more caring economy and reject free market laissez faire libertarian extremism. At the same time I despise the hypocrisy and nihlism of the post modern left which dont care about class equity in it's real sense, or human rights or gender rights. but simply support anyhting nihilistic and anti-Western Cohen explains in this book.The leftists who opposed the Iraq War simply refused to talk to the actual Iraqis as the author illustrates, those who suffered, and were jailed and tortured and saw their friends and family murdered by the Baathist regime. After the war these same leftists refused to help build a new democratic Iraq or to have anything to do with Iraqis building their new country. They refused to speak out against the Baathist and Al Qaeda terrorists who were murdering tens of thousands of Iraqi civilians after the liberation of Iraq. Indeed the likes of the loathsome Noam Chomsky and the vile Michael Moore praised these terrorists , Moore comparing them to America's founding fathers and the minute-men of the American War of Independence. "They didnt think again when thousands of Iraqis were murdered by insurgents from the Baath Party which wanted to re-establish the dictatorship or from Al Qaeda who wanted godly global empire to repress the rights of democrats , the independent minded , women and homosexuals " Cohen points out "They didn't think against when Iraqis defied the death threats and went to vote on new constitutions and governments. Eventually I grew tired of waiting for a change that was never going to come and to find out what had happened to a left whose benevolence I had taken for granted".This book is Nick Cohen's erudite, well researched, witty and penetratingly insightful work and a MUST READ for anyone who wants to understand the anomaly of the modern left and human rights.He asks how the progressive left and liberals can align themselves with a far right Fascist movement , the Islamists who execute thousands of women for 'sexual immorality' as well as homosexuals, who have forced theocratic dictatorships on their people and run their country as massive concentration camps. Who allow no basic freedoms or human rights. And why 'progressives' and leftists enthusiastically and loudly condemn Israel with a passionate hatred , but not of those suffering under the regimes of China, Zimbabwe, North Korea, Iran, Sudan and Syria to name a few.They refer to those who oppose Fascism such as the dissidents against Saddam or against the regimes of Iran or Syria as 'quislings'. The author points out the sick irony in this when quisling collaborated with Fascism but nthose the pro-Islamist left are demonizing are those fighting against Fascism. they cannot bring themselves to recognize that people with brown skins are as capable of people with white skins of forming fascist movements and murdering others.Of course there has always been a double standard on most of the left with regards in the 70s and 80s for example to condemn ApartheidSouth Africa, Pinochet's Chile, Franco's Spain, Salazar's Portugal and the Greece and Argentina ruled by military juntas, while remaining silent about massive atrocities by countries in the Communist bloc and the Third World. but at least the left of yesteryear stood for a system , no matter how flawed and had an alternative society-socialism or Marxism-that they wanted to build. The left of today have no alternative vision they believe in except to destroy Western civilization and everything Judeo-Christian.As a result they will throw their support with enthusiasm behind ANY terrorist organization or mass murdering tyranny that is anti-Western and anti-Israel no matter how ruthless including Hamas, Hezbollah, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist regimes of Iran and Sudan, Red China, North Korea and Mugabe's Zimbabwe with no compassion or even a passing thought for its victims who they demonize and whose suffering they sweep under the carpet. In fact the worse the excesses of these regimes the more vigorously the modern left support them!There is simply no depths to which these regimes can sink which the modern left can bring itself to condemn.51 000 people on both sides (about half of them Israelis) have been killed in the entire Arab-Israeli conflict since 1948, while in two years over 60 000 have been killed by the Assad regime in Syria-why do leftists violently denounce Israel and storm Israeli embassies while remaining silent and equanimous on Syria or on Sudan where 2 million have been butchered by the Khartoum regime.While the old left had some virtues such as supporting economic and gender equality, now their programme is one of total nihilism as Cohen illustrates whereby they 'could break the old taboos that had stopped them supporting the ideas and movements of the extreme right and endorse any foreign force as long as it was an enemy of Western democracy".They oppose the white far right movements of Europe but reject the idea that Fascists with brown skins can exist and therefore embrace the Fascist regimes of Islamic and Third world countries as progressive providing they are anti-Western and anti-Israel.He also completely disproves and deflates the fashionable post-modern theory (one of my personal bugbears) that people's hatred is always greater for the alien other (again the people accused of this prejudice are always Western or Israeli)  More often people hate what they know" he explains "British left-wingers were likely to have a deepr loathing for Conservative politicians or even for Tony Blair than for Saddam Hussein or Kim Jong-Il because they have known them all their lives...""Because of their parochialism however the anti-globalizers could not see large parts of the planet. Communist China should have been a nightmare for the principled left but because it was not a Western power,leftists didnt storm Chinese embassies as the one-party state sent the leaders of free trade unions to be 'reformed' through Labour, while giving corporations the freedom to exploit workers that they could never enjoy in the allegedly 'capitalist' West. nor was the movement's commitment to ending poverty as high minded as it seemed. It's supporters could think only of the 'capitalism' of the World Trade Organization and the 'International Monetary Fund' They sobbed and sighed for Africa and then shamefully refused to demonstrate against the massacres by the Islamist Sudanese government or the rape of Zimbabwe by Robert Mugabe".In fact they object to these people being freed and I was shocked to see the demonic Workers World Party of North America refer to the independence of South Sudan, that has lost over a million of it's people to Arab genocide, as a shameful colonialist plot to 'balkanize Sudan'.He refers to the contempt of the Leftwing elites for Britain's white working class who the middle class left loathe for not having supported their revolution and adopted 'reactionary' values.He quotes Julie Burchill who points out that 'The white English working class is now the only group of people that the chattering classes are happy to hear mocked and attacked'. The privileged left and liberal elite are no longer interested in class equity or the basic rights of the British working class but only in 'non racism' which is a farcical label for favouring the third world exotic brown immigrants and persecuting and demonizing the local white working class who they label as chavs-not worthy in the eyes of the left/liberal toffs of having their suffering, feelings or rights considered. The British working class suffered as much in the Industrial Revolution as the Blacks did under slavery but are still suffering with the privileged elite classes using pc propaganda and favouring of the third world exotic browns against them.Britain's indigenous working classes are put last in line for employment, council housing, health care, education and bank loans in favour of the exotic Third world immigrants (especially Muslims) favoured by the pc left elites.. Those who are flabbergasted at discrimination based on race, gender, sexuality of religion (unless of course you attack Jews for being 'Zionists' or attack Israelis-that is acceptable among the chattering classes) think nothing of attacking the British working class and lumpenproletriat as chavs. This also translates to a politically correct anti-white racism. White British young people who suffer as a result of social problems such as juvenile crime, drug addiction , and teenage pregnancy, as well as child prostitution, and come from broken homes no longer elicit sympathy from the liberal and left elites who consider the white underclass the lowest of the low, not worth saving or empathizing with, whereas they would have the utmost sympathy and support for Third world immigrant youth under the same circumstances.The liberal and left elites now use the race card against he white under classes and point out since the latter are supposedly 'racist' and 'bigoted' they must be punished for this and are the unworthy poor as compared to the impoverished people of colour who are deemed worthy of empathy and upliftment.This amounts to an inverse racism whereby the classes that have so long suffered since the Industrial Revolution and who came under sustained attack under Thatcher are now being made victims again at the hands of the leftist and liberal elites now in charge of Britain, including the media, local councils and the courts. I would have preferred the author to cover this prejudice by the British middle class left in more detail as , in addition to my anger at leftwing racism and genocidal loathing of Israel and everything that that entails, is one of my personal blood boilers. Therefore the author is not quite correct when he says that middle class British leftwing intellectuals would not tolerate the abuses of women they condone by their silence in Islamic countries where the victims white and in the West as today these very people protect Muslims who rape white children in Britain and force them into prostitution.He also discusses the hatred of Israel by the post modern left who because Israel is a Western democracy they join the Islamists in denouncing Israel as the world's worst human rights abuser and responsible for all the problems of the world. He ties this in with insane anti-Jewish conspiracy theories. Israelis are like the British White working class a people the chattering classes believe it is fine to hate in totality - if this is not racism I do not know what is!This book is highly recommended as a penetrating analysis of modern politics, an absolute must read. Other works which expalint eh demonic and seemingly insane support of the left for the Islamic far right areUnholy Alliance: Radical Islam And the American Left,United in Hate: The Left's Romance with Tyranny and TerrorandThe World Turned Upside Down: The Global Battle over God, Truth, and Power
4 Stop to think about it for a minute: an alliance between supposed 'liberals', and those 'Islamofascists' who stand for the murder of homosexuals, raping of women, persecution of opponents, and a state religion. Should be impossible, shouldn't it? Unfortunately, as Cohen's book demonstrates, those people who should be taking a stand have had a very mixed record when it comes to speaking out against such things. 'What's Left?' chronicles the moral (and intellectual) decline of sections of the Left, as its principles have become blinded by knee-jerk anti-West and anti-American sentiments.Essentially, Cohen's thesis reduces to three key points:1) That for sections of the Left, the issue is not really about Iraq, or Afghanistan, or Bosnia, or Sudan.....it is America (and to a lesser extent the West in general). This explains seemingly inconsistent positions such as opposing Saddam through the 80's (when the US supported him), then opposing US-backed attempts to remove him after 1990.2) That 'cultural relativism' trumps every other left-wing concern. Hence the relatively muted opposition to the treatment of women, homosexuals, trade unions, free press and certain religious/racial groups in non-Western countries, while simultaneously railing against 'persecution' of such people in the US and Europe.3) That this mentality is not some sort of "bad but understandable" reaction to the Bush Administraion, or the Iraq War, or 9/11, but has been a consistent theme among sections of the Left for a long time. The same "yes, but.." arguments used in defence of terroists or Saddam are exactly the same as those used to excuse Communism.In the end, the key issue is Consistency. The positions adopted by the Left are not of themselves unreasonable, it is the blatant double standards that anger Cohen. So if you are going to demand we "talk to" and "deal softly with" radical Islamic despots, you cannot then demand an academic boycott of Israel. Or if you express outrage about George W Bush "silencing his opponents" and "crushing dissent", you can't then go all wishy-washy when it comes to regimes that really do silence opponents and crush dissent. If you condemn "atrocities" committed by the West, you must condemn even worse atrocities committed by the West's enemies in harsher tones. The general failure to do this highlights the warped moral relativism that has taken hold among sections of the Left.Cohen lets fly at the usual suspects such as Galloway, Healy, Chomsky and so forth, and with some relish. However, his main contention is that this problem is not just confined to some tiny, extreme fringe, but is in fact encroaching on mainstream left-wing thinking. The fact that Cohen and other prominent left-wingers felt they had to re-state the Left's core values via the Euston Manifesto highlights the level of concern at just how large a part of the Left has drifted badly from its roots.Note that Cohen, along with some other Eustonites, have basically been ex-communicated from the Left and branded rabid neocons in recent years. Ironic, because 'What's Left?' is clearly the product of someone who cares deeply about the Left, and expresses a strong desire to reform the Left from within. Two years later, Cohen might well be thinking "why bother anymore?".
5 Nick Cohen's argument is (in one sense) a simple one.  Once upon a time, the Left championed all the right causes: women's rights, free speech, universal education, human rights, unions, solidarity with the oppressed, amongst others.  And it championed those causes on behalf of the working class which the Left (largely composed of middle-class intellectuals) romanticized on the one hand and despised on the other.  And then the working class got all these rights and all this education and all these opportunities but didn't support all the causes the (middle class liberals) of the Left wanted the working class to support.  And in their disappointment and defeat, the middle class liberals cast about for new heroes to romanticize.  They found them in the fascists of Third World countries who claimed to be revolutionaries (well, they were and are against the established order anyway) and who declared themselves to be for the people (of a certain culture and religion).The privileged of the West, in other words, found solace in identity politics which led them to support of fascism.  And this, in turn, led them to identify those who support fascism with the Left.A simple argument, as I have said.  But this book (which is so rich and so filled with wonderful anecdotes--from professorial mumbo jumbo to Hamas' Charter) is much more than a mere argument.  It is a call to action.  For this wonderful book ends by pointing out that a group of "politically aware citizens" who were not "intellectual celebrities" met at a pub in Euston to draw up a manifesto spelling out what the Left truly is.  And that, by restating what should have been obvious (but wasn't) these men and women found a way to make a difference.  Because they did not abandon the effort, the hope, the principles of the Left.Just as Nick Cohen hopes (and hope is the last word in this book) that he has made a difference with his book.  So now it's your turn and mine.  What do you say?
5 Before 9/11 leftist British journalist Nick Cohen's most pressing concern was attacking the Labor government of Tony Blair.  Indeed since the Blair government was elected, Cohen had been denouncing it for being corrupt and altogether too cozy with big business.  In Cohen's own words, "attacking Tony Blair was what got me out of bed in the morning."  Like the traditional left, Cohen was perputually in opposition to the status quo.However, after 9/11, Cohen's views changed dramatically, he found himself supporting the government.  He identified the new Islamic threat as fascist and much worse than the western democracies led by Tony Blair and George Bush.  This is were his major confrontations with his former leftist comrades began.  He concedes that they were correct in arguing that the many reasons for going to war were either false or exaggerated, and that the invasion was badly mismanaged.  Where he parts company is when they start calling the terrorists "insurgents" against Anglo-American "imperialism."  Cohen wants us to have a good look at the so-called insurgents that his former comrades are now supporting: namely suicide car-bombers, video-executioners, gay-bashers, women-haters, and anti-Semites.The many objects of Cohen's scorn include Harold Pinter, Noam Chomsky, the Guardian, London Review of Books, Roberst Fisk, George Galloway, Edward Said, Tariq Ali, to mention some of the most famous.  Cohen is good at unveiling the twisted mental universe of the left.  Prior to the invasion, both Harold Pinter and Tariq Ali supported the cause of the Kurds, as did many left-wing politicians who voiced their opposition to Saddam Hussein.  Cohen also recounts how the left initially praised Kanan Makiya'sRepublic of Fear: The Politics of Modern Iraq, Updated Editionwhich described the horrendous conditions inside Saddam's Iraq.  After the invasion, when the neocons used this document as a reason for invading, the left practically excommunicated Makiya.According to Cohen, the left suffers from what Bertrand Russell called the syndrome of "the superiour virtue of the oppressed."  The left has become nothing but reflexively anti-American and anti-Isreal.  When  Saddam was in power, they considered America his enabler, so they were against Saddam.  After he was toppled, they supported the insurgents, and consider the Maliki government a version of the Vichy regime.  (Inspite of the fact that the Maliki government is probably one of the most democratically elected in the Arab world.)The British left, under the pretense of multiculturalism, also makes allowances for some of the most extremist Muslim views imaginable.  Not understanding the practices of female genital mutilation, honor killings, wife-beating, suicide-bombing and so forth is succumbing to "Islamophobia."  The left has forgotten that multiculturalism only works when its participants believe in a plurality of opinion, not when there are those who in principle deny others their opinions.Cohen hits some easy targets in this book.  George Galloway and Ken Livingston are the obvious ones, they are almost caricatures of themselves.  But there are also other more serious members of the left who opposed the war.  Cohen asks why they spend so much time excoriating Blair and Bush, and so little time supporting the Iraqi people.  The left's constant maneuvering as the opposition party of Anglo-American policy and Isreal has put it in many akward and untenable positions.  Nick Cohen has left the left.  But he has not joined the right either, he is now somewhere in the more sensible middle.
5 In this excellent work, Nick Cohen examines some of the problems with today's political left.  He reminds us that in the past century, the Left has indeed been quite successful at transforming society.  If one were to look at the goals of the Left from, say, 1907, we'd realize that most of them have been accomplished.Do those on the Left still have similar goals?  No.  As the author points out, in the past, leftist passion tended to show praiseworthy concern for the underdog.  However, "today's upsurge stands in a dishonorable contrast," because it often explicitly ignores the very victims of the far right that it used to support.  Liberals in a free society have an enormous opportunity to use that freedom to a good purpose, and many are simply not doing so.  As Cohen admits, one can always discredit decent people by looking only at the malevolent hangers-on who join them.  But he replies that if one tries to look at the good side of today's Left, there is not much to it.  Yes, there is some concern for the environment, and that's a plus.  But on topics such as civil liberties, international authority, or the ability to overthrow tyrannical regimes, there's very little to praise.One example of the problem that Cohen cites is "Index on Censorship," which was founded by friends of W. H. Auden in 1972 to defend freedom of speech.  Betrayinhg its principles, Index simply gloated over a case of "ultimate censorship," namely the murder of Theo van Gogh!  He also shows how Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, which began as trustworthy fighters for human rights and freedom have become perverted into opposing these same rights and freedoms.  In previous decades, the Left was a consistent opponent of right-wing tyrannies, but that is manifestly no longer the case.We've also seen a resurgence of antisemitic conspiracy theories, and Cohen explains to us that "political antisemitism is not about Jews, it is about power," and would exist even if there were no Jews.We're reminded that terror is not some sort of side effect of totalitarian systems; it is the system.  As Cohen says, "when the pretensions of the workers' state or the thousand year Reich or the glorious union of Arabs are stripped away, when the differences between communism and fascism are forgotten, what remains is the sneer of the psychopathic gangster who knows he's got the cops in his pocket."We see how the Left has abandoned its former principles simply in order to side with those who oppose the United States (or the West in general).  But this places much of the Left in firm opposition to the Enlightenment, and that is quite a change.Cohen does describe some of the atrocities of right-wing tyrannies, especially those of Saddam Hussein.  But to his credit, he reminds us that such anecdotes are just too easy.  He calls them a form of "blackmail" where the writer appears to be telling his readers to agree with him or be guilty by association.  On the other hand, we may need some of the information or else we'll systematically ignore those who are being oppressed and could really use our help.I hope that readers will be interested in the Euston Manifesto, which Cohen participated in generating, and which he discusses briefly in this book.Cohen at one point asks "What's wrong with supporting the overthrow of a theocracy?"  And he quotes a friend as replying, "Well, it may not work, but apart from that, nothing."I'll leave my readers by quoting one more question, a rather blunt one, of Cohen's:"When it comes to burning women, are you for it or against it?"I highly recommend this book.
5 No mystery from that great cover.  This book is a nice easy read, detailing the 20th century and 21st century history of liberals making excuses for fascists, going back to World War 2's appeasers, and to modern Iraq's anti-war pro-jihad dummies.  All told from a left/center guy, without bias or hyperbole.
4 "What's Left" is a crie de coeur from a man of the left who has come to believe that the principles have abandoned his position, and from that perspective it positively zings. Nick Cohen writes well - brutally - but fairly: he is still prepared, as he goes, to confront and acknowledge potential criticisms of his argument, valid alternative perspectives, and I think he realises that with this work he may have cooked his goose with a number of hitherto supportive readers. A valuable document, too, because Cohen still has left-wing credibility (but for how much longer, it remains to be seen) and so is sparking much needed debate in a way that a neo-con screed might not if it came from the pen of a traditional supporter of the moral right (pun intended).That said, I think "What's Left" will find support in all the places, and with all the people, Nick Cohen would least like it to: for the most part, they won't be on the political left.  Though he doesn't say it explicitly, this does represent something of a conversion on the road to Damascus: I think after this work Cohen will be generally considered a neo-conservative: he expresses unqualified support for Paul Wolfowitz and is far less distressed by Margaret Thatcher, Tony Blair or George Bush than one would expect from a child of the far left.What I think it boils down to is the subjectivism/objectivism debate. Cohen is an objectivist: he is prepared to say what he thinks is morally unacceptable, and is prepared to advocate whatever action or force is required to defeat the morally unacceptable.By contrast, many on the left are "under the evil spell" (as Cohen sees it) of cultural relativism and are not prepared to make that judgment about the regime in Iraq, but are perfectly prepared to make it about the political elite in Britain and the United States. Cohen cites Ian McEwen's recent novel,Saturday, which remarks about anti-war protesters:"... people are hugging themselves, it seems, as well as each other. If they think - and they could be right - that continued torture and summary executions, ethnic cleansing and occasional genocide are preferable to an invasion, they should be sombre in their view." (p. 69)While I have a great deal of respect for his book and the passion with which he argues his case, I'm (unusually for me) with the lefties on this one.For a start I don't feel qualified, either in terms of facts at my disposal nor the necessary cultural, social or political understanding, and nor do I consider it my business, to judge the situation in Iraq. On the other hand I *do* feel qualified, as a participant in the political process, to express a view about my own government. Furthermore, the resources of my government, contributed by people like me through taxation, are limited, and I can see more productive uses to which they could be put: before we sort out Iraq's mess, there is plenty of our own we could be fixing. But more to the point - and this is a point that Cohen glosses over entirely - the government's case for war had nothing whatsoever to do with alleviating the Iraqi people from torture or summary execution: this was not a humanitarian intervention at all. It couldn't be - since to take on Iraq would provoke obvious follow on questions: if Saddam, why not Mugabe? How about Kim Jong Il?  The war was sold to the electorate as a pre-emptive measure against a credible military threat to the west (either directly or through the encouragement and cultivation of terrorists). That case was not properly made at the time (hence, in large part, the anti-war demonstrations), and has transpired to have been erroneous.Nor has the war, which was prosecuted in spite of clear opposition in the electorate, been much of a success. Again, Cohen glosses over prescient warnings issued at the time that Iraq risked becoming another Vietnam, bogging the US army down in a close-quartered conflict with no obvious means of resolution. This, it seems to me, is exactly what happened, and the threat of terrorism and level of "Muslim angst" in western communities - which is surely fertile ground for new terrorists - is no lower than it has been since 9/11.For all that I really enjoyed this book, and found it challenging and thought provoking.John Mueller'sOverblown: How Politicians and the Terrorism Industry Inflate National Security Threats, and Why We Believe Themis an interesting counterpoint to "What's Left" - the two do not intersect on subject matter (Mueller restricts himself to terrorist threat; Cohen to the brutal governmental regime, and arguably the two are unrelated), but Mueller's skeptical view presents an interesting prism through which to consider Cohen's arguments.Olly Buxton
3 Nick Cohen's well written book is not quite an Encyclopedia of all things Left, but it's close.  Where else can you read about Ernst Bevin and Jacques Derrida, Celebrity Big Brother and the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, the Protocols of the Elders of Zion and the bloody history of the Baath party?It's hard to argue with Cohen's main thesis:  There are many in the Left for whom the loathing of everything western, particularly everything American, erases any sense of moral perspective.  Thus the Liberals and the Lefts support the worst kind of anti-Westerners: racists, fascists, terrorists - anything goes as long as you're against America.As an Israeli, I'm most attuned the anti-Semitic instances (but there are many others):  As I'm writing this, the British Union of Colleges and Universities has cast another academic boycott of Israel.  That decision is patently anti-Semitic:  It singles out Israel from other nations.  Alan Dershowitz is fond of quoting an exchange with Harvard's racist president in the 1920s, A. Lawrence Lowell:Lowell decided that the number of Jews admitted to Harvard should be reduced because "Jews cheat." When a distinguished alumnus, Judge Learned Hand, pointed out that Protestants also cheat, Lowell responded, "You're changing the subject; we're talking about Jews."Supporters of the Boycott of Israel will happily tell you all about the horrors of Israel's occupation of the West Bank, (while ignoring or excusing Palestinian terrorism), but they won't tell you what kind of criteria exists for boycotting Israel rather then the US, Russia, China or Sudan.  That this sort of blatant racism is now heralded by Leftists and Liberals is symptomatic of a wider spread malady - the Left's crisis of faith.Nick Cohen tracks the roots of the Left's crisis to many sources:  I think he's right that the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of Socialism as a viable option had much to do with it.  I'm less certain that Deconstruction and the Nazi-Soviet pact are really direct causes.  But whatever it's causes are, the left today knows what it is against:  America, the West and Israel, but is far less certain about what it is for - which allows it support the Ayatollah Regime in Iran, murderous Baathists in Iraq, Castro's dictatorship in Cuba and Kaddafi's in Libya:  in short, everyone who is against the West.Nick Cohen rightly lashes against these trends.  But even as he takes us back to 19th century Russia or to the wildest domains of French pseudo-intellectualism, the central point is always Iraq.Cohen supported the Iraq war.  Maybe he supports it still.  He does not like the Bush administration and its lies and deceits.  He acknowledges that there was a good case against the war; but the enthusiasm of the European crowd, their march against Bush became almost a celebration of Saddam's rule.  In Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11, pictures of pre-invasion Iraq are always idealic: the ethnic cleansing, the prison abuses, the rapes, the one-party-rule and Saddam's personality cult go entirely unmentioned.  That the left could be against the war is understandable.  That they could be so oblivious to Saddam Hussein is troubling.The Iraq War raises the question of Cohen's affinity to an earlier generation of disillusioned Lefties: The Neo-Conservatives.  Although the Neo-Conservative alliance is a complex one, at its heart were a group of Lefties who revolted against the moral relativism of the extreme Left in much the same way Cohen does.  They remained committed to Liberal causes such as human rights and the welfare state, but rejected the Left's descent into relativism, anarchism and moral blindness.  (See George Packer'sThe Assassins' Gate: America in Iraqfor an intellectual group biography).It is easy to identify with the Neo-Cons critique and with Cohen's rage.  But when Neo-Conservatives came to power, thirty years after their parting of the ways from the Leftist establishment, a terrible thing happened:  The Iraq War.  The bankruptcy of the Neo-Cons would be the Death of the Cohenesque Left (dare we call it Eustonian Left after the famous Euston manifesto?)There are, currently, three major schools of thoughts about how the West should treat "The Rest", and particularly the Middle East.  According to the Chomskyan approach which Cohen targets, the West is responsible for everything bad that happens anywhere in the world.  The root of Terrorism is in the justified grievances of Palestinians, Saudis, Afghanis, etc, etc.  Once these grievances would be assuaged, the problems in the Middle East:  The Dictatorships, the Terrorist regimes, the extreme fundamentalists would go away.  This is what Cohen goes out against:  It is the main target of his books.The second approach is realism:  the view that the Middle East is dangerous and unstable and the West should seek to stabilize it by negotiating with the dictators in it, supporting client states such as Saudi Arabia against internal and external enemies.  This is a gloomy view, and unlikely to appeal to Leftists.  It calls, explicitly and unshamefully, for the maintenance of the Status Quo, the anathema of anything progressives.The alternative offered by the Neo Conservatives was muscular democracy:  No longer shall the West sit quite while genocide and oppression takes place within other countries.  "No man is an island" said Donne, and the absence of Freedom for Iraqis is a problem for Westerners as well, who should help - militarily if necessary - in the over through of Dictatorships.  This is a grand vision, suitable for the Left.  It has also led to the greatest foreign policy failure in living memory.This is not the place for a post mortem of the Iraq War.  But clearly, its failure has discredited the Neo-Cons, and thus also the prospects of Eustonian Leftists to reverse the Left's trend towards nihilism and Chomskyan accomodationism.  Unless the Neo-Conservative project can be resuscitated - and I see scant hope of that happening anytime soon - or unless some previously unthought-of of policy would emerge, Leftists stand to chose between Noam Chomsky and Henry Kissinger.  And for most Leftists, that is not a hard choice.
5 In this fascinating book, Cohen tries to find answers to why the world is upside down, why liberals and leftists are nowadays more likely than conservatives to excuse fascist movements and governments. With the exception of their native western far-right parties, they embrace all foreign oppressive governments as long as these oppose the West. The author argues that the death of communism has brought a dark liberation to those who consider themselves on the left; they are now free to champion any totalitarian group that is anti-western and anti-American. This mindset is particularly prevalent amongst the intellectuals and the mass media, as also documented inCan We Trust the BBC?by Robin Aitken.Third world democrats, feminists and liberals have been betrayed by those who so style themselves in the West. The fall of communism and the disappearance of a coherent set of principles have liberated Western leftists into a kind of nihilism that is akin to modern consumerism. Now you can pick your issue du jour from an anti-Western smorgasbord. Cohen chronicles the etiology of the disease - how it started with postmodern theorists and obscure fringe groups, entered the mainstream and led to the failure of left-liberals to confront genocide in Bosnia, Kosovo and the Middle East until it grew into an all-consuming fever. He also attempts to salvage the best of the liberal-left's internationalist and democratic traditions. In this regard, please consultA Matter of Principleedited by Thomas Cushman.The author chronicles these developments in part by telling the story of Iraqi human rights campaigner Kanan Makiya who exposed Saddam's atrocities in the bookRepublic of Fearand was later shunned by his former so-called comrades. Makiya was prescient as he foresaw the outcome of these relativist multiculti tendencies in his 1993 bookCruelty and Silence. Many myths and lies are exposed by Cohen, for example those concerning Saddam's arms suppliers. For the record, between 1973 and 2002, 57 per cent of those weapons came from the Soviet Union/Russia, 13 per cent from France and 12 per cent from China. The USA and UK together did not contribute even one per cent.Other revelations concern sinister British groups on the left, like the Workers Revolutionary Party of the thug Gerry Healy, a toxic cult if ever there was one. Some of the juiciest writing is about the obscurantism of postmodern theorists - it makes you laugh out loud. The Sokal Hoax is inter alia covered here, but the very best dissection of this species may be found inExplaining Postmodernism: Skepticism and Socialism from Rousseau to Foucaultby Stephen Hicks.Cohen observes that the utopian, the hate-filled and the irreconcileable do not dissappear with geopolitical changes, so a revived radicalism was inevitable after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But the death of communism gave birth to a nasty nihilism, the breast milk of the Moonbats. Not surprising since one of their intellectual masters, Michel Foucault, already hailed the Khomeinian ayatollocracy back in 1978. Thus his intellectual heirs ended up endorsing anything that was against liberal democracy.The author examines these disturbing trends against the history of the 1930s, the infamous Hitler-Stalin pact and the disgraceful behaviour of some Tories and Leftists at the time. The book provides too much evidence to discuss in one review, but Cohen's analysis of characters like George Galloway and the Hezbollah shillNoam Chomskyis superb. Further information on the sinister marriage of leftism and fascism is available inUnholy Allianceby David Horowitz.The book provides a vivid picture of people so deluded, they have completely abandoned the values that once formed part of the democratic mainstream and swopped them for a nihilistic culture steeped in hedonism and ignorance. That is why they embrace or excuse losers, demagogues and dictators like Mugabe and Chavez. It is not a large leap from marching in support of homicidal terrorists and sadistic Islamist and Baathist regimes to nurturing the loathsome antisemitism which motivates the moral inversion that they need in order to appear the champion of the victim. The eerily erotic quality of the expressions of their hatred has been well documented by writers likeChristopher Hitchensand Julie Burchill.These faux liberals desperately need to have faith of some sort, no matter how evil or psychotic, to persuade themselves that their paranoia about an American "theocracy" or a "Zionist conspiracy" is valid. They cling to their conspiracy theories so fervently that it is impossible for verifiable facts or reality to penetrate the bell jar of lunacy. Their delusions shield them from the implications of the abject failure of their murderous ideology that has brought misery and death to millions.The intensity of their projection derives from the need to believe that  the latest manifestation of their bankrupt collectivist ideology, properly called "transnational progressivism" stands for peace and that the Neocons/Christians/Zionists/Capitalism cause all the world's evil rather than their own utopian grotesqueries. The paranoia and projection of the PoMo liberals and leftists and their newfound friends amongst the wingnut paleocons like Pat Buchanan and "libertarians" like Lew Rockwell anaesthetize the pain and make them feel good about themselves.In their chosen role as the victims of America and Israel, these pampered elites congratulate themselves on their "courageous" and "principled" stand against "Western hegemony." They are thus not to blame for the terrifying emptiness within and the encroaching darkness of terrorism out there. Without Bush, the world would be a paradise. Externalizing the blame for their own unease is essential in order to deny the facts and banish the gnawing of reality. Without their projection - The Perpetual Banishing Ritual of the Progressive Sinisterist - there is nothing left.The book concludes with 19 pages of notes arranged by chapter, plus a thorough index. In order to further investigate the matter and the overall spirit of the times, I highly recommend the following:The Big Lie by David SolwayThe Force of Reason by Orianna FallaciThe New Anti-Semitism by Phyllis CheslerExposing the Real Che Guevara by Humberto FontovaSinisterism - Secular Religion of the Lie by Bruce WalkerThe Death of Right and Wrongby Tammy BruceWhy Truth Mattersby Ophelia Benson and Jeremy Stangroom
5 On what you had to start with.If you had, for example, an elephant, a panda, and three koalas, and the removed (by the least harmful method of your choice) the elephant and two koalas, you would have a panda and one koala.
5 Nicholas Cohen has done one of the most difficult things a writer or journalist can do, truthfully examine the motives and actions of a group with which he intently identifies.  Mr. Cohen was born and raised in the socialist (left) tradition.  And he has found the "left" (Red Ken, Oliver Stone, Vanessa Redgrave and a host of others) corrupting and debasing their own beliefs.Mr. Cohen writes very succinctly, avoids over dramatization and his book is chock full of specific examples.  His tone is a mixture of sadness and surprise that the "left" has reduced itself to supporting military, fascist dictatorships as long as they oppose the U.S. and most specifically President Bush.  Occasionally, to be true to his roots, he descends into polemics of the uncaring "right" or its inability to see injustice.  It's probably too much to expect him to divest himself of such language.  But most importantly, he doesn't lose sight of his subject and takes deadly aim at the "left's" enormous moral failings and that they have turned themselves quite clearly into what they claim they most oppose -- facists.This book is eminently readable.  Anyone who wants to understand, from an insider's point of view, how they found themselves in this moral quagmire would do well to read this book.
3 What's Left is an important book that asks a number of hard, important questions of the actions of the liberal left in response particularly to the invasion of Iraq. Thus it makes compelling reading for anyone of that political persuasion, in fact, for anyone of any political persuasion.But the book focuses mainly on the left's involvement to the protests leading up to the Iraq war - and well it might. I remember that crisp day in London on February 15 2003, those supercilious banners proclaiming 'not in my name'. As if the war was ever being fought for the benefit of affluent metropolitan Londoners enjoying the benefits of liberty and democracy in a wealthy Western country.But this is not the whole story.Cohen is quite right to point out many of the despicable acts of critics on the left. They are the types of views that stem from those people who condemned Salman Rushdie instead of the Fatwa imposed on him by the Ayatollah Kohmeni. Liberals have tended to get in such a tizz about the effects of global capitalism, Bush and his corporations, the odious figure of Donald Rumsfeld, that they have on occasion acted as apologists for the most evil and pernicious forces in the world - the Islamo-fascists in the Middle East and elsewhere. The people that blow up  skyscrapers, trains, kill innocent civilians in the name of glorifying Allah, death, and a totalitarian Islamic world government that would obliterate human rights, liberty, in fact pretty much everything achieved since the enlightenment.Stopping these people from their murderous campaigns of terror is not a simple case of sorting out the Palestinian question. As Cohen says, is it plausible that they will say 'fair enough, we realize that now you've addressed our root cause, we don't want a theocratic empire after all'.It is also not a case of curbing the worst excesses of Western Capitalism. Cohen points out, importantly, that after September 11 Osama Bin Laden said that 'those awsome symbolic towers that speak of liberty, human rights and humanity have been destroyed.' So Osama is against nothing less than HUMANITY. Remove US troops from his precious Saudi homeland and he'll give all this up? The hell he will.Like I said, Cohen forces those on the left who tried to explain Islamic terrorism as a reaction to US imperialism to take a good hard look at themselves.He also includes another, always welcome, airing of the pernicious motives of George Gallaway, one of the most odious figures in British politics.However Nick. All these things could have been said 2003, which is almost the point at which your book ends. Look at what has happened since:An invasion of Iraq led not by a US Government passionate about Thomas Paine's ideals of democracy and liberty, and spreading them to those parts of the world where citizens do not currently enjoy them, but a government and military who has (and this is by no means a complete list):Supported systematic torture in Iraq and elsewhereImprisoned civilians in Fallujah and fired chemical weapons at them.Guantanamo Bay - say no more.Admitted, pretty much, that the invasion was about controlling Iraqi oil supplies.Bungled pretty much every aspect of the invasion anyway.Killed, and been responsible for killing, far more civilians than were being killed when Saddam was President.Effectively acted as a recruiting agent for Al Qaeda (according to US intelligence reports)I could go on, but it's too depressing. I am not saying Cohen's polemic is wrong. Far from it. He writes powerfully, convincingly, wittily and learnedly. But he only addresses one half of the story. How do you account for what followed the cloying self regard of those anti-war protests in early 2003 Mr Cohen?
4 I had bought the trilogy together, so when I finished with the less than stellar Wideacre, I debated about reading The Favored Child. However, I must admit that I am glad that I decided to give this one a shot.Unlike the first book which picks up fast and lags near the end, this book is quite the opposite. This book lags somewhat in the beginning, and the end is quite hurried and rushed. I really felt myself wanting to read more about Julia's life, and even Ralph.Beatrice may have been a villian, but her child Julia is not at all. In fact, she is a well-liked and well-developed character. In this installment, it is the boy child, Richard, who seems to be the villian. Julia develops into warm-hearted, compassionate, smart, and brave woman who is torn between her love of her land and the love for her people. Making a huge (if somewhat unbelievable) sacrifice, she decides that her responsibility and commitment to the people of Acre matters more than anything in the world - including her flesh and blood.I would be doing a diservice to you, if I did not mention that there are times where Julia is extremely annoying, and her poor, and hasty choices, will leave you incredibly infuriated. However, even still, there is a sense of admiration in what she is trying to do, and eventually, the biggest choices she has to make.I was disappointed that the book did not explore more of James, Julia's love. However, truthfully, this story was not about James, or James and Julia, and it is probably best that the character of James be explored at length.I was also disappointed with Celia's and John's relationship, but again, the book wasn't intended to be a story about their relationship. I did feel though, at times, that John's character was not the same throughout the two books. I think he deserved a little more continuity.
2 The first two hundred pages seem alright...then things go downhill. The lead character, Julia Lacey, otherwise a likeable girl, appears so spineless that you barely keep yourself from gagging. Whatever her handsome cousine, Richard, does to torment her (rape, incepting her lover's letters, and yes, killing her best friend next to his constant bullying) the only thing she can do is "putting out her hands to Richard imploringly with hot tears filling her eyes" and the only words she can say "I am sorry, Richard..." or "It is not like that..." whatever it is like...At around page 400 I was at a point that I would applaud Richard for his terrible actions due to the simple fact that Julia deserved it thoroughly and imagine that she thinks she is the favoured child and yearns to be squire!!! I put down the book twice not to pick up again but alas I am one of those silly people who feels missing something in life if he quits a book or movie in the middle..so towards the end it was a thorough suffering for me just like the village people in the book.At around page 500 the things start to go real absurd; Richard eliminating anyone that stands against him but it is still "not like that, oh, not like that..."There is some subplot dealing with witchcraft and sights, truly reminiscent of a bad Stephen King imitation; it could nevertheless give some heat to the sleeply storyline (which appears to be too looooooong at 600 odd pages) but it is tidily shelved out in the second half of the book so it goes nowhere.The only redeeming thing is the beautiful and descriptive writing of the land; scenes, houses, gardens, village and terrain are lovingly told and you can blissfully imagine those colors that wrap the land when it is autumn or spring. There are some endearing characters like Julia's poor Mama, her village friends... Pity that they do not make up this long story a good book and are not worth to buy it or other books of this author unless the price is that low (1.99).If you have too much spare time in your hands and the price is that cheap, you can give a try...otherwise don't bother
3 This is a really well writen book, but the main character is completely and totally spineless and brings a lot of her misery onto herself. Her cousin was so hateful throughout the whole book that I could never see what either she or anyone else saw in him.  His supposed charm was much talked of but never actually made an appearance in the book. Plus :::SPOILER ALERT::: her final illness didn't match her solid good health and connection with the land that the author emphasized through the whole rest of the book. It was really overly melodramatic. The Other Boleyn Girl was a much better book.
3 I was excited to see how this would play out, but the whole time I kept tossing it down in disgust at the main character. She was too stupid for my taste.
3 Yery yery yetrry good. I did lik ethis one br favordrf child ends up i took laot of medication right now but thats cuz i had a migraine and my neck hurt and i hurt
1 Unfortunately I bought the trilogy after reading The Other Boleyn Girl thinking that all of this authors works would be good.  I was wrong.  I read this book and the start of the next, The Favored Child, and it is all disgusting.  Honestly, I don't know who would enjoy this kind of rag.
3 Unlike many of the other reviewers I did like this book. I think all the 1 star reviews from people who didn't read the first book in the trilogy are unfair. This is a continuation of Wideacre and not at all a stand alone novel. That being said I hated that the daughter of the deliciously evil Beatrice Lacey was such a gullible wimp. I don't think I am giving anything away by saying that since so many reviewers before me have said pretty much the same thing. Although there were many times when I wanted to pull Julia out of the novel and smack her upside the head I think that was something Philippa Gregory wanted us to feel. It made for an interesting nature vs. nurture conflict since Julia was raised by the ever kind and good Celia. Richard came off to me as being very much a mixture of the evil that was Beatrice and the weakness that was Harry.Although this novel is glaringly just a bridge to get you from Wideacre to Meridon, bridges are important after all! If you loved Wideacre, you will like this book as well I think. I say like not love because Wideacre was a better book. Still, I know this review seems conflicted but I did truly enjoy reading this book and look forward to Meridon.Oh yes I also want to add do not believe the reviews that say this is "the same book as Wideacre". That is a ridiculous claim. Even though the place may be the same the two books are very very different animals and I am flabbergasted that anyone would think otherwise.
2 Interesting story and good writing, but so depressing.  Spoiler alert - almost everyone dies by the end of the book.  It seems like it had a lot of potential and I wish the author would have taken it in a different direction.
3 Whilst Wide acre was captivating and exciting the favoured child makes a more pleasent and enjoyable read. With Beatrice Lacey one couldnt put the book down and she was capable of anything!!! julia is more subtle, the quality lady of the times and better reared by celia and outgrows her inborn passion for wideacre. I think the story would have been better if said through Richard.
1 Sequel to Wideacre, following the exploits of the wee baby children introduced at the end of that book. It continues fully in the train wreck fashion of its predecessor in a "Dear God, can they get anymore inbred? DON'T ANSWER THAT!" fashion. Seriously. I thought Wideacre was twisted. This is worse because you see the hope and an actual, plausible way out of the madness, AND IT GETS THROWN AWAY! And I gape and shriek and wail and gnash my teeth because, seriously, how stupid can you be?!
3 Another great one by Philipa Gregory. Enjoyed this book. There were two issues I had. 1st, I did't realize it was #2 in a series and didn't get the 1st one in before reading it. It did give enough background to follow, though. A tragic outcome in the line of the old style Gothic novels that did keep you on your toes.Secondly, although I enjoyed it, and the one to follow, I was a little weary of the "sight".... it seems to be a theme with many of her books but after a while, it can be a bit bothersome.Would reccomend... but be sure and read second.
3 There were a lot of things that i found lacking in this book. Firstly i felt like The Favored child was a Wideacre reversed, in Wideacre Beatrice was evil and Harry was manipulated, here Richard is evil and Julia is manipulated. But what made Wideacre so facinating was that it was told from Beatrice's perspective, and we therefor got to see what made Beatrice be so evil, also it was facinating to read about a strong women, at a time when women had no power, and watch her control everyone around her.We dont get this insight into Richard, because the story is told by Julia. Julia is a very weak character, and it is painfully annoying to watch her constantly  manipulated by Richard, and worst of all, not realizing she's being manipulated!!! She doesnt even try to stop him as he ruins her life, she just resigns herself to her fate. I wanted to slap her! By the end of the book i felt like anyone as stupid as she was deserves what happened to her. Richard was a big let down after Beatrice. Whereas Beatrice's motives were stemmed from her obsessive love of the land,  Richard is simply powerhungry and psychopathic.I do feel that Wideacre should have been a stand alone book. If i had read this book before wideacre maybe i would have liked it, as it is i was disapointed.
2 Having read and enjoyed the very dark Wideacre, I looked forward to the second part of this interesting trilogy.  Though The Favored Child is full of the dark, gothic feel of its predecessor, it nevertheless is a weak effort in comparison to Wideacre.  Set in late 18th Century, Julia Lacey becomes the new owner of the tarnished Wideacre estate.  She is an excellent agriculturalist and is confident that she will bring Wideacre back to its once prosperous glory.  However, villagers have called Julia the "Favored Child," named after Beatrice's prediction before her demise.  The villagers feel that the estate is cursed and that Julia will suffer a fate similar to the one Beatrice went through due to her many sins, which included incest.  There are various twists throughout the novel.I love the 18th Century setting and the backdrop of Sussex, England.  I also like that the characters in this offering aren't cardboard cutouts of the ones in Wideacre.  The dark language and gothic feel are as enjoyable here as it was in the previous novel.  However, The Favored Child did not hook me in the same way the first novel had.  And while the characters in Wideacre were unlikable and despicable, the ones here are somewhat caricatured.  They are not unlikeable in the good sense -- they are just unlikeable.  And all of the shocking scenes were meant to be, well, shocking, instead of just moving the story forward as I had expected, the aforementioned scenes were written for no other purpose than to supply shock value.  Julia is an anti-heroine in her own right, but she is nowhere near as complex or as compelling as Beatrice.  All in all, Philippa Gregory did not succeed in delivering the same darkness and eery feeling of Wideacre.  The novel is beautifully written and historically rich, but it lacked the unique voice I thought I would get from such a promising series.  I will give Meridon a whirl.  I hope it'll be better than this one.
5 This novel is the second book in this trilogy.I loved all three of the books. I strongly recommend this book.
5 I couldn't wait to read this second book in the Wildacre Trilogy - many twists and turns to really keep me interested.
3 While I had to finish it, this book was just not up to par with either the "Other Boleyn Girl" trilogy, or Wideacre. Its just not believable in places. The characters cannot be reacting the way they do, which makes the  story hard to swallow. Slow in the beginning, picks up around page 300. And thats too late for me.  Now, I am not sure I want to read the third in this trilogy
4 I thought Wideacre was great, and I am now on the third -- Meridon -- really enjoying it.  She has a great feel for the countryside.  It is an area of England that I am familiar with.  Great story.
3 I love Philippa Gregory and thoroughly enjoyed Wideacre, the first book in this trilogy.  The Favored Child, which "continues" the story, is actually more of the same.  As is typical of Gregory's works, the book is well-written and the characters interesting - at least the first time you meet them.  However, because the plot line mirrors Wideacre quite closely and is not sufficiently different, one feels a bit like they are rereading Wideacre.  Nevertheless, if you like Philippa Gregory, you will read and finish this book.  However, if you are looking for fresh material and a surprise in the story line, you will be disappointed in this book.Again, there are ugly and disturbing scenes in this book.  If you are sensitive to writing that is not "pretty" you may want to skip reading this book and the others in the series.
2 It's bad.It's painful to read.I think Gregory enjoys torturing her characters a little TOO much.I read pretty well until about page 450 or so, but I just couldn't take it anymore. I skimmed the rest. I HAD to see what happened but I didn't want to actually READ it.
4 The Favored Child starts fifteen years after Wide acre left off. Julia Lacey and her cousin Richard MacAndrew are growing up together, raised by Celia. The estate of Wideacre was left in ruins years before be Beatrice Lacey, and the three live in a small cottage at the edge of the grounds. They are not popular in the village of Acre, where Beatrice Lacey's memory lives on. Beatrice's ghost also lives on in her niece, Julia. Julia has dreams in which she actually is Beatrice. In addition, the physical resemblance is extremely close.Julia grows up with her cousin, Richard. They are betrothed, but cannot marry because, as we learned in the first book of the trilogy, they are not only cousins but brother and sister as well. However, the cousins will inherit Wideacre jointly when they come of age.It is at the beginning of the novel that John MacAndrew comes home from India, a wealthy man. He plans to restore Wideacre to its former greatness--without the corruption. He hires a man named Ralph Megson to be the bailiff--the same man who became such a terror to Beatrice. However, his character is drawn here nore sympathetically, and he became one of my most favorite from this book. Julia's love for Wideacre grows into an obsession, and she and her mother go to Bath, where Julia will learn to become a proper lady.It is there that she meets James Fortescue, one of the most eligible bachelors in Bath. Betrothed, Julia returns once more to Wideacre to await her upcoming wedding. But a series of tragic happenings occur, and she is powerless to stop it. Soon Julia finds herself pregnant and forced to marry her cousin. What startled me about this was that Julia never tried to do anything to stop her cousin.It is not until it is too late that Julia sees Richard for he really is. Desperate to have whole custody over Wideacre, he makes Julia completely powerless in her own home. There are some shocking deaths in the book, especially those of two of the most liked chararacters. The character of Julia Lacey is more sympathetic than that of Beatrice--but only by a little bit. Everyone loves to hate Richard, who terrorizes everyone around him. In all, this was a spectacular book.
5 A great second chapter with a spellbounding storyline. Julia's helplessness is evident from the beginning as is her growing strength by book's end. Richard's deceitful madness  definite throughout the book. Celia's quiet agony and Ralph's constant guidance and final revenge a plus.Ms gregory does a wonderful job capturing details of the era.Very anxious to read the third and final chapter.
5 I read Wideacre and could not put it down.  This second book was as good, or better.  I can't wait to buy Meridon and finish the triology.  I have read most of this author's other books and I find her gifted.  She writes in such an impelling way and I can't get enough of her.
5 After reading Wideacre, I quickly purchased the second book of this trilogy.  This was better than Wideacre, the characters were very well developed.  Interesting struggles between the roles of women during that time.  Be prepared to be disgusted at some of the events, but it makes the book move quickly and at the end you will be so happy to know that there is still a book left to read in the trilogy.
5 PHILLIPA GREGORY IS A GOOD STORY TELLER. I HAVE READ SOME OF HER BOOKS, AND WILL MOST LIKELY READ MORE OF HER STORIES.
4 I was eager to read the second book in the Wideacre trilogy, and I found it just as well written and excellent as the first book. The heroine, Julia, is a tragic figure and any reader would easily feel sympathy for her and her life. In the wake of Beatrice's destructive path, Julia and her cousin/brother Richard grow up in the ruins of Wideacre. Both are determined that the estate should be restored to its former glory, but Julia is the 'favored child', the one with Beatrice's gift for healing the land. Being the favored child is a blessing and a curse. The people of the village love her, but Richard, her cousin/brother is consumed with jealousy and ruins their lives by destroying everything Julia loves. The ending is riddled with mystery as Julia gives her only daughter to the gypsy's so that she may grow up to escape the Wideacre curse.  I cannot wait to read the third book!!
3 I look forward to reading this book. I love the author. I have a fair stack of books yet to read, so have not gotten to this one yet, but I am sure I will enjoy it!
1 I'll be perfectly honest. I didn't finish this book. I made it about a hundred pages in (of about 600 pages) and decided I just couldn't go on. Also, I did not read the first book in the trilogy. Maybe if I had the background of the first novel in the series, I would have liked this one better, but I really don't think so. Also, the library didn't have the first book, so this is the one I grabbed.I really enjoyed a few other Gregory novels, so I picked this one up hoping for a book as solid as "The Other Boleyn Girl" or even "The Queen's Fool", which was not a brilliant book, but still really enjoyable. I was so disappointed. The two main characters are so unlikable, that this is the ultimate reason I couldn't go on. The unconditional love for such a horrid boy, Richard, is not nearly as bad as the other main character, Julia, who is so stupid and weak that she takes his abuse with a "thank you sir, may I have another" every time!I didn't finish it, but I skimmed to the end and also read other reviews to see what others thought about it (I was trying to decide if I should finish it or not). So, I feel like I pretty much know how the story goes. Allow me to sum it up for you and save hours of your time. Richard rages out like an overgrown spoiled child and abuses Julia. Julia may or may not have a brief moment of clarity where she realizes what a tool she's being, and stands up for herself. For some unexplainable reason, she quickly gets over it and goes back to being Richard's doormat. Repeat about twenty or so times. Apparently at the end of the novel she finally figures Richard out, but it's too late. Sorry Philippa, you've already lost me. By this point I just don't care what happens to Julia.The really annoying thing about their relationship is that there is never really a solid reason why Julia loves Richard so much. We're given the excuse that is basically "we loved each other since childhood". That's not a reason. I really don't believe this kind of love would actually take place, at any time period, between a brother and sister (or cousin, or whatever it is they are), unless there is some prior abusive behavior in a child's home. This novel is not a believable representation of a sibling-like relationship, even at that time period. That kind of love is unnatural for two people who have grown up like brother and sister. I too have a younger brother who I love dearly, but I would never take crap from him. We're expected to believe that Richard and Julia grew up together and never had an ounce of sibling rivalry until that horse came along? I'm not buying it. This novel is thoroughly unbelievable, and belongs on a very short list of books so bad I couldn't even finish them.Now that I think of it, Philippa Gregory's female characters have a tendency to be suffering from a touch of Stockholm Syndrome. Are we supposed to believe that there are no strong women in historical times who are capable of healthy relationships? In "The Queen's Fool" we get a character who is supposedly independent with a load of shallow "ra-ra girl power" drilled into the book, but she too allowed herself to be pushed around by the men she supposedly loved, and ended up with a guy who cheated on her and insulted dignity her several times over.
3 I am a huge fan of Phillipa Gregory, but I am also very disappointed that many of her books are missing from the electronic version.  Particularly, the Wideacre Trilogy has the first and the last books in the Kindle version, but where is The Favoured Child?  I'm not sure is this is an issue with the publisher or with amazon... but seriously, guys, get it together.  You don't publish a trilogy in the wrong order... even if it is electronic.
4 I have become a fast fan of Philippa Gregory, starting first with The Other Boleyn Girl before beginning the Wideacre trilogy.  I cannot put them down.  In this second work I find myself sad for Julia Lacey but infuriated with her at the same time.  I want to jump into the book and strangle her for her stupidity and weakness but then check myself on the time which her character lives.  You cannot help but pity little Julia and hope that she will summon the strength of her mama/aunt Beatrice, the Wideacre witch, and break from the intolerably cruel rule of her cousin/brother/husband Richard and give him his just desserts.  I cannot wait to learn how it all ends.  This trilogy makes great summer reading.  A MUST READ!!!
4 The first book captures your attention, this one is a little tedious, but you need it for the third one. The story of the Favored Child bogs down in places but still has a good story. You really want to cheer for the villain in this story when he murders on of the principal characters.
4 This story is full of emotional ups & downs.  Julie is a more likable character than Beatrice (Wideacre) so that was a nice change.  Though her innocence and gullibility are frustrating & irritating at times at least you are rooting for her.  The ending is satisfying although extremely sad.  I couldn't wait to get the third one in the mail.
5 A continuation of this intriguing story of how Quality ran the country and some trying to make it good again but failing yet again.  Greed, obsession and incest continues on with the Laceys.  This book keeps you reading and interested in how the lives of the Laceys continue to unfold in an interesting way that Philippa writes.  Will it ever be good again?
1 I've read a lot of Philippa Gregory and always wonder afterward why I do. "The Favored Child" is just awful! It's dark, depressing, incestual, demeaning, violent, abusive to animals as well as people, and just plain terrible. Do NOT waste your time or money. Luckily I got this at our library, but plan to put the same review on their website. Read Karen Harper for really GOOD historical fiction.
5 After reading the first book of the trilogy, &#34;Wideacre&#34;, &#34;The Favored Child&#34; does an exceptional job of following through and making you want to get to the 3rd book to see how it finally all ends.  Once again you see the feelings of the cousins, which are in fact siblings, going in an incestuous entanglement. I have only used a Kindle since just prior to Christmas 2012.  I love to read therefore I love the ease of reading a Kindle. I enjoy reading books by Phillipa Gregorry
4 This is the second book in the Wideacre series and follows Beatrice's daughter, Julia.  Out of Beatrice's two incestuous children, Julia inherits her 'good' side (in tune with the land and a natural with animals) whereas her son Richard encompasses Beatrice's worst traits.  The Favored Child lacks the eery, shocking, almost disturbing quality of Wideacre, and the more lively (and likable) characters of Meridon.  However, I didn't regret reading it- it still has the typical Gregory descriptions and historical traits, and is not a boring story.
4 I am sorry to see so many negative reviews, for this is such a unique story. This trilogy is not for the narrow-minded reader (I don't mean to offend anyone) for the subject matter may be difficult to stomach. Young Julia and Richard are brought up as cousins, both heirs to the legacy of Widacre. Although they are not fully aware of their incestuous family history, it seems that it runs through their veins.Get ready for more scandal, deceit and murder folks! Because the Lacey Legacy lives on!
3 It's the sign of an extraordinary writer when we find ourselves as readers so affected by the characters that we want to yell at them, slap or shake them, or cry with frustration--and Gregory is an extraordinary writer, as she demonstrates in all three of the Wideacre books. It took me two tries to finish this story; Julia's emotional journey is truly heart-breaking. This is after all the tragic second act, when things are left in a state that seems beyond repair. But her devastated world is held together by the heroic strength of Ralph, the winning charm of James Fortescue, the courage of John and Celia, and the beautiful descriptions of the setting: of plant life, city life, landscape, and the spunky, endearing residents of Acre whose fates touch us as deeply as if they were our friends. I had to finish the story simply to discover how Gregory manages to make everything seem so real. There's an emotional power to these books that seems to be missing in the later Boleyn books, but the evocative description is Gregory's trademark, and is in great evidence here.
5 I couldn't wait to begin this book after finishing Wideacre.  Iwas not disappointed.  This book was as enjoyable and engrossingas the first book in the triology.
3 I LOVED the Wideacre book - I was prepared to love this one. I enjoyed the interesting story, but I hated all the characters except Ralph and James (secondary at the most). My biggest issue with this book, however, is the glaring discrepancy that we are told on the first line of the first paragraph of the first chapter that Julia lives to be an old woman and is telling this story as an old woman far removed from these memories. We find at the end of the book *spoiler alert* and in the middle of Meridon that Julia dies soon after giving birth. At the ripe old age of - 17 or 18?I do not like sloppy writing such as this. If this was meant figuratively - it should have been clearly stated. I read the entire book "knowing" that Julia would live long. I was frankly angry to find her killed off. "I am an old woman." That was unfair to readers.
2 A trilogy of books which follows the Wideacre estate near Chichester and the bold and forward-thinnking Lacey women who love it - starting with the fierce charcter of Beatrice. Story starts in 1780s and ends in 1810s I imagine. The basics of the story are excellent - good general plot with strong foundation in the love of the estate. Excellent outline of characters. However, the author fails in many areas.The first book is absolutely full of sex - sex between a brother and sister involving S&M;! It just felt wrong. The incest and violence in the story make me - the reader - feel betrayed by the author. Unless I'm reading science fiction - in which an entirely different world has been create - I want a story grounded in reality. Sure, it can be an extraordinary story with a bit of drama but no magic and no actions which are hard to believe please. Thankfully, the second and third book have much less sex.The writing is also too obvious - no trust has been left to the reader to understand the subtext of an action or thought. Also, predictable and repetitive story lines. Too much going on and on and on about each corner of the estate in every season. I certainly skipped large sections and bits and pieces of story to jump ahead to dialogue.The beginning of the first book is fun - easy to read. The third book is also interesting as it follows Meridon/Sarah, who was abandoned to the gypsies. She grows up on the wago and then is sold by her Da and becomes part of a circus-like act. Eventually she finds her way to Wideacre to find out she is the lost heir. She disdainfully struggles to become a lady and have a season. I enjoyed the details of gypsy and gentry life.I would not recommend these novels. They're okay and once I started I figured I might as well finish - but there is much better material out there. Luckily, Philippa Gregory redeems herself years later with her Tudor series which I would highly recommend.
4 I am about 3/4 through this book and can't wait for that SOB to get his due.  I hope it's really painful.  This author doesn't like to see people happy.  But, then again, I guess that makes for a boring story.
4 Julia and Richard grow up in the ruins of the Wideacre estate, believing themselves to be cousins.  In reality, they are brother and sister, the incestuous results of Beatrice Lacey's ill fated attempts to rule the land with her brother, Harry Lacey, in Wideacre.  Julia and Richard are taken care of by Celia and John, widows of Harry and Beatrice who wish to hide the horrifying legacy from the children.When Julia reaches her teenage years, she learns of a village legend that states one of the two children will be the favoured child, the one to rule Wideacre and bring magic back to the land.  At the same time, Julia begins experiencing odd dreams and exhibiting signs that she has the Sight while she grows to resemble Beatrice more and more, unnerving Celia and John.Julia is torn between being the proper young lady Celia wishes her to be and giving into her inherited wild nature and obsession with the land.While I enjoyed reading this book, I didn't find it as good as Wideacre.  While Julia and Beatrice are both unlikeable central characters, I felt more drawn to Beatrice's plight as she was strong and chose her own paths where Julia was weak and let others make decisions for her.  On the few occasions where it seemed she would stand up for herself, she would always back down and I kind of wanted to slap her in the face for most of the novel.  I cannot recall characters I've liked less than Julia and Richard, but the writing is excellent.  I just felt that without caring for any of the characters I found myself less involved in the story; for all Beatrice's evilness there was just something about her in Wideacre that had me cheering for her; this was not present in Julia.  The Favoured Child ends strongly however, and I can't wait to see what Meridon will bring!
5 Wow! Another shocking and powerful story of the madness that is the love of power and wealth. This family seems utterly controlled by secrets and lies that effect everything and everyone around them! This story is one of light and darkness, love and hate, sickness and health. Very well written.Phillips has prepared and given us another great read!
2 The book is called The Favored Child, due to a legend that has sprung up around the village of Acre that Beatrice's true heir will return and the land will be happy again.That's the only interesting thing about this book. Julia is an extremly weak character, due mostly to the fact that she is raised by Celia, the late Harry Laceys wife. But her real mother, Beatrice, is hardly in evidence in her daugther. Other then her love of the land and it's people,Julia is very different. She was raised as an indoor girl, and was taught to know her place. But i still can't believe how she puts up with Richards abuse. From almost the first chapter, when see her cavng in time and again, simply because he's the boy!Her only attempt to escape Richard, a betrothal to James,a man she meets in Bath, is thwarted by Richard.Richard is himself a very unlikable character. i never felt sympathy for any of the charcters. Well, a little bit for Julia at the end. Thats why the book got two stars. She finally starts tro prove herself towards the end.Read it as the middle part to the wideacre trilogy.
4 In this second book in the Wideacre trilogy, Julia and her cousin Richard have grown up together among the ruins of their family estate and have always planned to marry, despite their guardians' disapproval. When, as a teenager, Julia begins to demonstrate a talent for working with the land and its inhabitants, Richard grows resentful. After all, only one of them can be the rumored favored child, the true heir to Wideacre.Gregory's early works are starting to remind me of V.C. Andrews' style of near-horror stories, only with richer detail and better writing. I really wanted to strangle Julia for her stupidity at times. Yes, she was confined within the role of women in her time, but had she told someone - anyone! - what was happening, at least some of the tragedy might have been avoided.
4 12 year old Julia Lacey is haunted by dreams of the past and premonitions of the future.  All she wants is to see the town of Wideacre flourish again and put food in the mouths of the hungry.She is named as joint heir for Wideacre, along with her cousin, Richard.  Because he is the boy, he gets the education and the freedom.  He indeed seems to be the favoured child.  Meanwhile, Julia has to be content with becoming friends with the townfolk, learning the history of Wideacre and the Laceys and unravelling why she seems to have 'the sight'.  Why she seems to have the power of her predecessor, Beatrice to make the crops grow.I really enjoyed the return of Ralph in this sequel, and the struggle that Julia had to fight as a woman with virtually no rights in a man's world.  Philippa Gregory is very talented at writing a story of nasty people with bad intentions.
3 I cant say it was a great read, was entertaining up to a point. Not one of her best books. Very predictable and the story plot was to depressing for me.
1 You've been warned, but I'll say it again...***SPOILERS***...and great big ones.Got that? *There.* *Are.* Spoilers.*Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers.**************************************All right, then. Where do I even begin?I love Philippa Gregory. I do. Normally.This series? Oh, Philippa. I was able to forgive her for Wildacre, as it was, after all, her first published novel. So all the melodrama, the strange changes in tenses, the weak switching of people's personalities (too lazy to work it all into the plot, it seems), and the endless repetition of ideas she apparently felt her readers were too stupid to understand the second, third and twentieth time? All forgiven.The second time around? Good God. Things only got worse.The boring storyline of having Beatrice "inhabit" Julia's body and mind didn't truly cover for the fact that Julia didn't actually own a personality (or any interesting traits) herself. The predictable writing? The first time around (with Wideacre), I'm sure the publishers were all caught up in all the grotesque incest, S&M; (and I'm no prude, but...really) and weird on-the-spot murders without much rhyme or reason, and they assumed the readers would be, too. And to a point, it was interesting. (When one skimmed past the repetition, anyway.)The Favored Child tried to again shock the reader into overlooking a weak, very boring and rather predictable storyline, but what shock is there? Okay, so a brother and sister diddled. We got that the first time around, no big revelation. With Favored Child, another brother and sister were going to diddle, and yes, Philippa, we, the readers, got that...somewhere along the first chapter. We also got that you switched Beatrice's sociopathic, homicidal and incestuous tendencies directly onto Richard, 'round about the first chapter or so. Therefore, there was no shock to cover all the failings of this story.I literally skimmed the last third of the book. We KNEW Julia wasn't going to have James. We KNEW Richard maimed the horse. We KNEW Richard killed Clary. We KNEW Richard was going to rape Julia. We KNEW Julia was going to have her brother's cross-cross-bred child (also in the first chapter...why give that repeated dream? It killed the last bit of mystery there might actually have been in the story).Yes, we readers knew all this...as we slogged painfully through sometimes silly, usually repetitive, very predictable, and very borrowed writing. So what was left? I literally read a sentence or two on each page as I flipped through to find the last scene when I knew Julia was going to try to kill her "incestuous rape bastard" (I'm still giggling) daughter, and that she was going to give the child to the gypsies.The only plus: I borrowed the book from the library. No waste of $2.75 on half.com.*Don't bother, readers. There is nothing exciting, sexy, entrancing, magical, interesting, cathartic, revelatory or remotely interesting about this book.* Even the pastoral scenes were lame and one-dimensional as compared to Wideacre. I do not plan on reading the third book, about the gypsy changeling child (who saw THAT coming)?It's sad that I felt I had to write this review. I have to say I cut my Gregory teeth on Wise Woman and was more impressed than I'd been in years with any novel. But this series -- at least the first two novels of it -- is simply a "shock fest" with strange and often silly scenes literally thrown at the reader in an attempt to get her to somehow keep dragging herself through it, much like the slut in junior high who showed one of her boobs, got a big "oooh" from the crowd of boys, but then they walked off, so the next time...she showed BOTH boobs. So what? It was really just the same boob twice. Even the most hard-up boys would walk off at that point.And so, gentle reader, should you.Revelatory-novel fail.
2 This book did not live up to Gregory's later book, Meridon. I don't know about Wideacre because I haven't read it yet but reading The Favored Child made me not want to go back to the first book.Julia is just an idiot. I felt really bad for her but she kind of just screwed herself over throughout the entire story. And nothing good ever came out of all of her struggles.It left me with a really disturbed, and unsatisfied feeling. I do not recommend this novel.
5 The author is amazing as always.  The story line is harsh but so is life.  If you want a happily ever after, this is not it.
5 The second book of the Wideacre Trilogy. Julia is Beatrice's daughter, but doesn't know it. She suffers many of the same problems as Beatrice. Wicked men abound in Wideacre, which Julia finally understands. I enjoy Gregory's style and descriptive detail, woven into a wonderful historical fiction.
1 I swear, I just can't stand it. I read "The Other Boleyn Girl" and really liked it a lot -- I was so pleased to find Philippa Gregory and looked forward to reading all her books.But I just tried to read "The Little House: A Novel" (read 1/3 of it) and then THIS stinker (read the first 30 pages) and I have decided that P. Gregory just got lucky when she wrote her historical fiction about Anne Boleyn.The plot of "The Favored Child" is unbelievably trite and ridiculous. The characters seem to have been kidnapped from a Victoria Holt novel (gag). The dialogue is stilted and goofy. My only wish is that I could give this zero stars.
4 The Wideacre series is unlike anything Philippa Gregory has ever written, and not all people will find this a good thing. Personally, after initially finishing WIDEACRE, I had mixed feelings. Beatrice Lacey is one of the most fascinating characters I have ever read, and the story was riveting, but undoubtedly a downer. I was so depressed afterwards that I did not even attempt to read the second novel for quite a while. But I was dying to know what happened in Wideacre after Beatrice, and so I purchased THE FAVORED CHILD even though school was about to start again and I wasn't even sure I would have time to read it.I'm glad I did. It has turned me into a Wideacre fan. Beatrice's presence weighs heavily in THE FAVORED CHILD, though the character herself met a timely end at the close of the previous installment. And she is possibly more fascinating. References to events from WIDEACRE were often mentioned, and I felt a chill running down my spine every time one of the characters referred to Miss Beatrice's Corner. Beatrice haunts not only the readers of THE FAVORED CHILD, but also its protagonist: the likable, intelligent, and irritatingly weak Julia Lacey. For she was all three of these things at once. I am not a fan of weak women in novels, but I truly liked the character of Julia Lacey. Yes, she was annoyingly spineless, especially when it came to standing up to her "cousin" Richard. But she also had rare moments of true strength, and a hidden inner courage that was there nevertheless. Strong, cruel Beatrice might still be my favorite Lacey, but I found good-hearted Julia to be a very sympathetic character.It should be mentioned that the writing in the novel was absolutely breathtaking. Possibly the best Philippa has ever done. When it was happy, you felt your heart warm for the characters' fleeting happiness. When it was sad, it was heartbreaking... and I really mean heartbreaking. As I said before, the Wideacre series may be the most depressing thing out there, but in some ways, that's the beauty of it. It isn't escapism. The characters suffer, especially the innocent ones, but their suffering bonds you to them. I found I could no more set THE FAVORED CHILD down than I could walk away from a friend in need when she was telling me of her troubles. If there was ever a series that hurt to read, Wideacre is it. Those looking for a little read to take their minds off reality for a second should look elsewhere. But if you can get past the lump the Wideacre series will put in your throat, you will appreciate the masterful way it was written. You cannot appreciate Gregory as a writer until you have finished one of the Wideacre books. THE FAVORED CHILD will stay with you long after you have read the last page.The characters and the world of Wideacre are, I think, some of its main attractions and also the main reason why some people just can't stand this series. I understand where those people are coming from. The Wideacre series was  meant, and I only say this half-jokingly, for a certain type of reader-- the kind of reader who will willingly sacrifice their peace of mind for a good novel. So if that's not you, then nothing I say in this review will convince you to even read past the first few lines. But if it is, then you will become caught up in the Lacey magic and the Lacey madness, and you won't be able to free yourself from the mix of light and dark that is THE FAVORED CHILD.Ralph, Beatrice's lover and murderer from WIDEACRE, is back and he is the undoubted survivor-hero. Having disliked him in the first book, I was surprised when he became one of my favorites in this book. And you really cannot help but liking him. Nor can you help liking James Fortescue, a new character, who is the true love of Julia. I warn you, it's not a happy tale for them, but he is such a wonderful character and I hope to read more of him in MERIDON. If there was one point in the story where I was really angry at Julia, it was when she did nothing, even though she knew she was being separated from him. She realizes her mistake too late. In fact, the most tragic part of THE FAVORED CHILD is that Julia becomes everything she always should have been, but it's just too late.THE FAVORED CHILD ends on an ambiguous note, neither happy nor completely sad. It promises the reemergence of my favorite characters in the next book, MERIDON, which I will read as soon as I get the chance for I've heard the ending is absolutely wonderful. This is good news. Once you start the Wideacre series in earnest, you are in for the whole ride, and nothing but the most perfect of closures will put my mind at rest now. If this sounds like a laborious process, it might be that Wideacre is a labor of literary love.
1 I've loved so many of her novels, but this one is truly terrible.  The main character , Julia, is so stupid it is almost unbearable to read.  Total waste of money and time.
5 Just got this book today.  I am truly enjoying this book.  Yet another must read by Philippa Gregory.  I have a lot of her other books,
1 I realize This book is the middle book of a trilogy, and I did not (nor will I) read the first or third books, but I couldn't even feel empathy for the main character, Julia, when everything bad that could happen to her did happen--mostly because she allowed it. I have to say that she was the wimpiest protagonist I have ever come across. Her cousin Richard was the stereotypical bad boy who victimized her in every way possible, and she just bowed her head and accepted it.Part of my dislike of this book was the vacillation of Julia's voice. It drove me crazy how in one paragraph she loved her cousin so much and he could never do any wrong, and in the next paragraph she could clearly see his true character. Ugg. The only reason I finished this book is because someone gave it to me and it was the only book I had on a small cruise I was on--and the author had been recommended.Story Summary:It's the end of the 18th century. Richard and Julia are cousins raised by the same woman and joint heirs to the Lacey estate, Wideacre, which has not been thriving for 15 years. Richard's mother, Beatrice, went mad fifteen years before and ruined the estate. Julia's father died in the same riot that Beatrice died when the peasants revolted against them. Fourteen years later, Richard's father returns from India where his business ventures have been successful, and he begins to make changes including bringing the village of Acre, part of the estate, back to life and profit. During this time we see Richard's character deteriorating, and Julia becoming beloved in the village but more submissive to Richard.*******SPOILER ALERT*******After years of Richard brutalizing Julia mentally, emotionally and finally, physically in a violent rape which she believes is her fault of course, and she's pregnant from that rape, she learns that he's not her cousin--he's her brother. Not only is he her brother, their parents were brother and sister!!! So nine months later, (after their marriage so she won't be ruined socially,) on a stormy night, this 17 year old naive girl gives birth to her baby alone while all the servants and her husband Richard, (her brother!) are all downstairs boiling water and preparing for the baby's birth. She (with newborn in tow) manages to leave the house undetected (except for her bloody footprints on the carpet). She wants to drown the baby in the raging river and end the Lacey line but instead gives her to a gypsy woman. When she returns to the house, all are out searching for her except her husband, Richard. He is killed, and end of story. (Really!) Except for a letter she writes to the man she loved, a gentleman who loved her also. She tells him she is dying of a fever and asks him to find her baby and raise her.No sympathy here. Just so happy this sorry tale is over! I assume the third book in this trilogy is about that baby and everything turns out right in the end. But I'm not going to find out.
4 Having read every Philippa Gregory book that I could get my hands on, I decided to turn from the early 16th Century (all those &#8220;royal&#8221; books) to the 18th .  The Favored Child, copyrighted in 1989, is the second book of a trilogy. Enough information is given about what happened in the first book that I did not miss it. The ending is obviously left open for another book, though the story line of the principle characters in this volume is finished.The story is set in a bucolic village not far from London. The main characters, Julia and Richard, are followed from childhood to young adulthood. They are the joint squires, by entailment, of Wideacre, and thus are responsible for farming the land and caring for the workers from the village of Acre. The farm is not farmed at all in the start of the story because Beatrice, mother of Richard and aunt of Julia, basically destroyed it in the first book. Perhaps she was bi-polar, though the villagers seemed to see her as a witch. The children have been raised in relative poverty by Julia&#8217;s mom, and the village of Acre has been ignored and has lived in much greater poverty.Then Richard&#8217;s father returns from abroad much wealthier, and decides to start farming again and to share profits with the villagers as an incentive to get them involved in the farm again. The children are about 16 and 17 years old and they also get involved in the farm, each in his or her own way.It seems that Julia has the &#8220;Sight,&#8221; though she denies it much of the book. That is, until she has a series of dreams that the church tower in Acre will fall and destroy much of the village, killing several villagers. She insists on a rainy morning that the cottages be evacuated, and saves those lives. Now she is seen as the mythical &#8220;Favored Child&#8221; who will save the village. Richard is quite jealous of this. And the tale develops from here.It is plain that even this early in her career, Gregory is capable of developing a complicated plotline with a number of well-rounded characters. I find in this book some of the &#8220;breathlessness&#8221; that carries her later books: where Gregory inhabits a character, and lays out thought after thought, speculating about what could happen and what it would mean to the character and how this would affect life as we know it!I find this a bit annoying in the more recent books, and though there isn&#8217;t as much of it here, it was noticeable.But I enjoyed reading the book overall. It was a bit of a commitment, with almost 600 pages. Even though we are not at Court in this book, the story is an example of good historical fiction, and worth reading.
1 How this book ever won the Man Booker prize is a mystery to me. It cannot have been due to the quality of the writing. The pronoun "he" is used so liberally that it is ridiculously confusing and nearly impossible to determine to whom the author is referring: Cromwell, Wolsey, the king, Norfolk, Bonvisi, Monmouth, Thomas More, etc. If only I had gotten a sample before I purchased the book! Then I might have noticed the very poor quality of the writing. I am most upset because I, foolishly, purchased "Bringing Up the Bodies" also. I will not purchase another book by her, no matter how many prizes or awards it might receive. Can one give away a kindle book? Or donate it to a library? This is not one that I care to keep.
2 My Book Club had chosen this as the September choice.  It was voted by everyone as a good choice. We were wrong.  It opens well, with Master Thomas getting beaten by his father.  I think that was the last action scene that I found worth reading.  With the book being told from the view of Thomas Cromwell, you would expect to "hear" some scheming and planning.  You never do.  The only thinking is about ghosts from his past.I kept expecting more intrigue.  This book makes the court of Henry VIII seem like a walk in the park.  I never quite figured out how Thomas Cromwell became so powerful and placed so well.  Henry VIII is presented as a "whipped", little boy.  Even the scenes with Cromwell's enemies come across more as school yard taunts then deadly enmity.I truly wanted to enjoy this book.  Sad to say I cannot recommend it.  I do recommend if you want to read about Henry and his wives to try another book.
2 Two obstacles that make this thing unreadable:1. Heavy paragraphs that use the pronoun 'he' when two or more people are in conversation leave you wondering 'who?!' more than half the time. So much for flow.2. If you ever wondered if writing a book in first person present tense is a good idea let me save you some time and headaches: No it isn't.Now this happens; now that happens; now the other thing happens. Now I pick up a spork and dig my own eyes out to end the suffering.Clearly the author intended to make long ago history more immediate by the present tense gimmick. Good intentions and roads that lead to hotter climes, et al.There are other ways to ratchet up tension and make the reader feel like they are in the room. In a short story perhaps it would have been less irritating.The mystery is- how did this get published, let alone win an award?What the literary agent should have written with the returned submission: "It could have been a good book. It wasn't. Note the use of past tense and take it to heart."
2 I feel I really gave this book a try.  I felt I needed to, since it was an award winner.  I forced myself through 150 pages.  At times, there would be an interesting story, which would stop abruptly and never return.  Very frustrating.  If it is possible to sample pages on line, I urge you to do so.  Maybe you will like it.  I found it tedious and unrewarding.
1 I tossed this book aside after about three chapters. The writing is unbearable. Apparently (from reading other reviews) the silly, sophomoric business of using the present tense continues through the entire book. The reader is constantly confused by tin-ear sentence fragments and vague, breezy phrases. I constantly found myself backtracking to try to figure out who was talking or who was doing what. There may have been a story in there, but I'll be darned if I'll try to mine it out of such miserable prose.To heck with &#34;style.&#34; How does such hack writing get to be so popular?
2 I am obsessed w/King Henry VIII & everything that happened during his reign. I love the non-fiction & most of the historical fiction written around that time. I liked that Wolf Hall gave the perspective of Cromwell, & put his actions in a slightly better light. Although many people get outraged over the liberties authors take with history for the sake of stories, I like it for entertainment value. I know if I want strict history and facts, I will pick up non-fiction. If I want more entertainment, I go for the historical fiction. Wolf Hall was entertaining. However, the reason I had to give it only two stars was that the "he" through the entire book was maddening. With 80% of the characters in the book being male, it was aggravating to try to guess which "he" the author meant. I realize that this was probably a tactic to impress Cromwell's character on the reader, but it was just annoying & confusing. That's one of the "no-nos" that I learned in grammar school English. It took a lot away from the story.
3 I love books from this era and was anxious to read this. What a disappointment.  I think this is one of the most difficult to read books I have ever read. It is written so different that half the time I don't even know who she is talking about and what is going on. I read all the time and always have so it can't be me at least I don't think it's me. I really can't explain her writing style and don't even know what to compare it too. I am 3/4 through it and had to put it down. As soon as I finish what I am reading now I will go back and finish it. I never leave a book partially read
1 I love historical fiction and was intrigued when I read about the story this book tells. Unfortunately, it's as if the author deliberately set out to make the book as difficult to read as possible. I found the story impossible to follow. Trying to read it was such a frustrating ordeal that I simply gave up and moved on to the next book in my reading list.
5 It's the story we've all heard before, told in such a way that it actually feels new again. Rich with characterization, period detail, and historical "inside jokes," Wolf Hall is sure to be an instant classic. Not only does Mantel present us with an entirely unique version of Henry VIII's court and the English Reformation, injecting wit and historical jests into an easily over-told storyline, but she also tells it through the eyes of an unlikely protagonist, one whose insights and particular situation gives the reader new views into the lives of his contemporaries.This version of Henry VIII's saga is told from Thomas Cromwell's perspective, yet it's in the third person, so how can that be? Mantel achieves a mammoth feat here that transcends genre; she presents a story so thoroughly detailed and clearly from her protagonist's point of view, without its being written from his actual voice or his once using the word "I," unless in dialogue. It's almost as if the narrator is inside Cromwell's head, embodying his thoughts and feelings without being Cromwell himself. Although I do agree with some of the critics who have mentioned that the third person narrative makes this book somewhat confusing (it can be difficult to distinguish to which "he" Mantel is referring), if anything, the authors' doing so only made me pay even closer attention to the minute details of her writing. I did have to go back and reread a couple of passages just to make sure that I knew exactly who the subject of the sentence was, but I don't consider that to be a bad thing. This book required a lot of reading between the lines, and there were so many nuances and details to pick up on that I was glad to go back and discover anything I had missed the first time around, anytime I was thrown off by a seemingly mysterious "he" reference.Usually portrayed in an unsympathetic light, the Cromwell of Wolf Hall is not the untouchable "bad guy" of novels past, but rather a well-intentioned human being with equally human flaws. Here, he is the glue that holds everybody's sanity together. He's a father, a friend, a mentor, a teacher, a counselor. Mantel's Cromwell is a paradox, an agent provocateur when he needs to be, yet a peacemaker when called for. He is everyone's man and yet nobody's man but his own.I was glad to read a novel that vilified Thomas More. Saint or not, I've never been a big fan of More's and I loved reading how Mantel made More a foil for Cromwell. Their back and forth debates about theology left me endlessly entertained. Where Cromwell was a family man who respected his wife and children, More did not permit his string of wives the luxury of literacy, nor did he demonstrate much affection towards the rest of his family. Where Cromwell enjoyed lively debates with heretics, burning their minds through intelligent conversation, More preferred a more literal type of burning. Where Cromwell was borderline-heretical himself, More was staunchly Catholic, even to the point of flagellating himself regularly. A great statesman who learned from the master of the art, Cardinal Wolsey, Thomas Cromwell was a fascinating choice of protagonist.I very much applaud Mantel's descriptions of members of the main cast of characters surrounding Henry VIII's court. Characterization is clearly her strong point, as I felt I absolutely grasped all the main characters' motives and mindsets throughout the entire novel. Mantel's Cardinal Wolsey is excellent (you can read an excerpt about Wolsey that I especially enjoyed by clicking here). I also loved how she portrayed social issues and class structure, something of particular import to the protagonist, as he was born a "nobody"----or as the Duke of Norfolk refers to him, a "person" ("Damn it all, Cromwell, why are you such a...person?!"). Were this novel told from any other "person"'s point of view, the significance of commoner vs. aristocracy so prevalent during the time would not have resonated as strongly as it did. It was brilliant of Mantel to key in and illustrate this fact decidedly so, as it is a main source of conflict in King Henry's choice of Anne Boleyn as his second wife, which essentially caused the Reformation and his separation from the Catholic Church, bringing about the creation of the Church of England.Wolf Hall was no light read. It was definitely dense, and even challenging at times. At 560 pages, it's no quickie, either. It's every bit as much literary fiction as it is historical. I had to really pay attention to every single word while I was reading this book, and I actually read a couple of lighter books along side it. But I enjoyed every single bit of it, sopping up every last drop like a piece of bread to the bottom of a soup bowl. I was initially hesitant to read yet another novel on Tudor England, but my background knowledge on the period actually made me enjoy this one that much more, rather than making me bored, as most Tudor hist-fic tends to do for me these days. Tudor fans and those new to the historical fiction genre alike will find that this spellbinding novel will leave them begging for more. Hilary Mantel is currently working on a sequel to this Booker Prize-winner, and if it's anything as amazing as its predecessor, you can bet your bottom dollar that I will drop everything to read it the moment it becomes available.FTC Disclosure: This book was sent to me by the publisher for review.
2 I really wanted to like this book. But have struggled since I started reading it. Wolf Hall is a prize winner - the Booker Prize nonetheless. I have always liked Booker Prize winners. But try as hard as I might, I just cannot seem to go beyond 130 pages. I have struggled and struggled and have finally given up. Unlike previous winners, Wolf Hall for me, remains beyond reach. I completed 'The Finkler Question', which in retrospect, was not a good book. I managed to complete 'The Gathering', which was the most abstruse Booker winner in my opinion. But with Wolf Hall, with its multitude of characters, with the utterly frustating use of the pronoun 'He'( 7 times out of 10, I had to struggle to work out who he was. But in most instances, it did turn out to be Cromwell, who is the main protagonist, I am stumped.  While I am frustated, I have not given it up totally. May come back to it. But for now, I need a break.
2 Was looking forward to this book, written from the point of view of Cromwell rather than the King plus it was an award winner. Despite my best efforts I lost the will to live half way through and moved on.The writing style was confusing and the story that should and is a tumultuous one became stale and slow. On the other hand the author did put forward some interesting ideas and certainly moved away from the stereotypical characterization of Cromwell and some other major characters.Overall not a satisfying reading experience for me but I know others who loved it! Each to his own!
5 The story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn is about as well-known as any in English history, the subject of countless mini-series, movies, novels and bodice-rippers (notably the Other Boleyn Girl). Mantel succeeds in breathing new life into it by taking as the protagonist the rather grim figure of Thomas Cromwell, usually seen as the villain of the piece. Of course, the other thing that differentiates this work from most of the others is the wealth of historical research that has gone into it and a true effort to see the characters from the vantage point of the age in which they lived, rather than trying to graft 20th or 21 century characteristics into them.The cast is enormous and there's sometimes confusion between so many characters sharing the same name -- the Marys, Annes, and others. This is but a small problem. The attentive reader soon learns to distinguish between them, not least due to the author's ability to paint characters with small but telling brush strokes.There are so many larger-than-life characters -- Cardinal Wolsey, Henry himself, Anne, her sister Mary, the Princess Mary, Sir Thomas More and his family -- and on and on.Henry is a spoiled child who never had to grow up, imbued with the certainty, shared by all around him, that he is God's chosen on earth. Even after death, he and they believed, there is a special part of heaven for kings.Anne Boleyn, clever and calculating, proud, insecure, vain, cruel.Sir Thomas More, sanctimonious saint, in love with his own rectitude, who doesn't hesitate to whip his children and servants and torture and execute anyone he suspects of doctrinal impurity -- a kind of Kenneth Starr of his day. In its portrayal of More and his silly quest for martyrdom, the author asks us to consider what exactly is the nature of sainthood. Who should we canonize -- the extremist unable to compromise or the realist who accepts that he is working with imperfect humans and yet gets things done.Most of all, we grow to love and respect Cromwell, who is supremely intelligent and resourceful, who has the courage to tell the king that wars are bad because they bankrupt the country. Cromwell is loyal to a fault. He doesn't abandon Wolsey, his patron, when all others do. He is also compassionate. He was beaten as a child and will not beat his own children. He is fluent in many languages and understands that a new age is coming based on commerce and technology. He is impatient with the Catholic Church and its machinations. He is also highly ambitious and vengeful to those who wrong him -- though he will hardly admit this even to himself.In that way, this book is a rejoinder to Robert Bolt's "Man for All Seasons" which beatifies More while casting Cromwell as the evil genius determined to kill him. Bolt's talky play, with its endless speechifying, seems dated today. In Mantel's version, it's unclear which principle More is standing on.This book is subtle. Not everything is stated directly. One can't always trust the narrator. But its chief virtue is that it creates an entire world peopled with convincing characters. The court of Henry VIII was not a very easy place in which to live and thrive. Thomas Cromwell manages to do both better than anyone else because he is a pragmatic man who plays on the strengths and weaknesses of others. Ultimately of course, he makes a fatal mistake which brings him down. But that is not within the scope of this book. It happens presumably in the sequel, which I for one hope the author is working on right now.
5 Wolf Hall's biggest weakness is actually a reason why it's such a delightful book to read. Mantel decided to narrate the story on the third person, with inner dialogue, and ended up with a confusing work in which sometimes the reader does not know who is &#34;he&#34;. Is it Thomas Cromwell? Or is someone else he's speaking to?  In addition, its hard for the reader to know if the paragraph being read refers to events that happened one hour, one day, one week or one month after the preceeding one.However, once the reader gets used to it, the effect of Mantel's distinctive writing style is delicious. The way in which Wolf Hall transports the reader to the time, to Cromwell's thoughts and feelings, is pretty amazing.For me, I felt like if it was a dream. Like if I was getting glimpses, clouded by the passage of time, of Cromwell's life.Wolf Hall is cleary an acquired taste. It takes a while to understand how it works, how it flows. To understand what to expect from it and, most importantly, what not. If you pass the first couple of hundred pages, you'll probably enjoy it.For its distinctiveness, for its power, I give Wolf Hall 5 stars.
5 The characters are witty, even eloquent, and the prose is grand.  This plays off the brutality of the era.  Judging from Wikipedia, the historical accuracy is not always the highest:  apparently, there is no evidence Ann Boleyn is the selfish shrew she is portrayed as.  Henry VIII is portrayed in the best light possible given his deeds.  It is interesting that the book ends where it does in Cromwell's life, when he is at the top of his career.
5 This is a fascinating masterpiece in historical fiction.  The author gives us a portrait of a complex, intelligent, no-nonsense man, a man with great foresight and vision, and who loved his family and friends. Wolf Hall is the story of Thomas Cromwell, lawyer and diplomat, who spent many years in the service of Henry VIII, helping the king. This complex story is told from Cromwell's vantage point through Cromwell's eyes, through his thoughts and feelings. There's a great sense of intimacy between reader and character. Even though this book is over 600 pages, it goes quickly as the reader gets drawn into the world the author so powerfully creates. The characters are rich and the story is filled with intrigue.  Wolf Hall breaks the mold that most of us are accustomed to by not being another bodice-ripping romance, and telling Henry's serious perspective of the story. It's a slow read but in the end the effort will be worth it. INTENSE! I recommend!
1 As a dedicated historical fiction reader who doesn't blink at 600 pages, I bought Wolf Hall based on the Booker Prize and reader raves.However, Ms. Mantel's overuse of the pronoun "HE" made reading it such an onerous task that I gave up.  I NEVER give up on books. I'm very forgiving.  I slog through books I'm not enjoying, hopeful to the end that they will capture my imagination, or out of respect for the author's hard work.But Ms. Mantel, did you not have a fifth grade English teacher?  Or an editor?  The instances in  which you use "he" without having a decipherable reference to a particular person were far too numerous.  Stopping to figure out to whom "he" referenced utterly destroyed the flow of the reading.  Nor was this made easier by your preference for writing quotations without attribution.Of course this book is far superior to and more serious than the popular Phillipa Gregory series. However, even well-researched and depicted period and characters require grammar that doesn't annoy the reader.  If you fix this when the new edition comes out, I'd appreciate a free copy.
4 The writing is intense and dramatic.  The beginning involves the reader immediately in Thomas Cromwell's life.  There is a little distance, however, placing the man as the narrator always uses the &#34;he&#34; as opposed to the &#34;I&#34; perspective.  It is third person limited, and includes such laborious detail, that the reader feels inclined to read the description of the passing players in each scene, which makes the reading of the text even longer.  Thus, it becomes a little tedious.  Perhaps 200 pages less would do.
2 I feel decidedly artless for not having appreciated this famous tome from highly acclaimed author Mantel, Hilary.It was extremely difficult to read: first, because of the innumerable, intricately-related characters, many referred to with several names/titles, who weave themselves unannounced in and out of the action; and second, because of the frequent partial or off-stage remarks, only comprehensible to 'insiders'.One does gain a uniquely colourful impression of the main characters and events (Cromwell, Wolsey, Henry, Mary, Anne, More, the threat of war, the appeal to the Pope, the trials of the &#8216;heretics&#8217;, the schism in the Church, etc.), but it&#8217;s all rather bitty.And the book has no ending.
5 Does not need me to say how well written, intelligent and gripping this novel is. An &#34;antidote&#34; to &#34;Man for All Seasons&#34;. Looking forward to reading the sequel.
3 It is my current middle of the night read....probably should concentrate with this book more.  Won't read the next one
4 I usually like the Booker Award choices and the book was mentioned repeatedly in the NPR, Guardian, PBS media loop that I frequent so when the price dropped, I picked up a copy. I am glad that I read it. I do not read much historical fiction and this was definitely a cut above the usual dreck. Stylistically, the book is interesting. The reader hears what the character hears and that one character's thoughts, but there is no omniscient narrator to explicitly explain the history or culture of the time. Catching the rhythm took a little getting used to and required more concentration than usual, but was rewarding. It reminded me a bit of early John LeCarre. I have not watched the Tudors and the period is not one with which I am overly familiar so I had to do a little simultaneous Wikipedia research, but as a character study of a historical figure, the book succeeds. Having developed some affection for the character, I am reluctant to read the sequel, knowing how it ends, but I did enjoy this book.
3 This book is too matter of fact, lots of facts etc. just not much heart. I only got halfway before losing interest.
